Management consultant and business expert Peter Cohan does not plan on investing in Facebook stock any time soon. The author of 10 business books, includingCapital RisingandExport Now, took a look at the social media network's filings for its coming share sale, which could value it as high as $100bn, and knew he would take a pass. "Everything is so hyped. They are tapping a bubble," he said. Nor does Cohan intend even to join Facebook. "I hope that I can outlast it," he said.That sort of scepticism has not been the dominant tone of what must rank as one of the most remarkable weeks in the history of the internet. It saw Facebook complete its journey from its birth in a Harvard dorm room to going public, in a move that will create hundreds of new millionaires among its employees and turn its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, into one of the richest and most powerful people in the world – on paper, at least.Documents filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) claimed that it had a staggering 845 million active monthly users, half of whom sign in every day, $3.7bn in annual revenue and a rocketing growth rate. It also has a very healthy profit margin of 27%, just above fellow internet giant Google. This is a company that seems to give the final lie to the image of tech firms as coming prematurely to market with more in the way of wild dreams than a solid balance sheet.No wonder Facebook has achieved the almost impossible for a modern American corporation in being not only the subject of a Hollywood movie, but the subject of one that was exciting and critically acclaimed. Yet amid all the merited praise of Facebook's astonishing rise, it is possible to find sceptics about the future.Facebook is entering a very different world from the one in which it grew up as a brash Silicon Valley startup. It will face different pressures now it has come of age. Even among those who reacted positively to Facebook's move last week it was possible to detect a change of mood. "It is a very valuable company. But there will be bumps on the road ahead," said David Sherman, professor of accounting at Northeastern University in Boston.Facebook is unusual in that its biggest asset is not really something it makes. It is not a product in the traditional sense of the word and there is not a single service that it provides. Instead Facebook's true value lies with its vast user base and the myriad, ever-shifting ways in which its members use the website.That mother lode of personal profiles is what advertisers prize above all. The information that Facebook harvests and stores on its users is a goldmine for marketers and any company serious about selling its products in the 21st century.But one problem Facebook faces is how to expand that already enormous user base. What started out as a networking site for Harvard students now encompasses almost one in eight people on the planet. Thus the sort of massive exponential growth that has marked Facebook's astonishing rise is simply not going to be possible for much longer.Coupled with that are problems in areas of the world where Facebook has yet to make its mark, notably parts of Asia where local social media websites have a strong market share, and most particularly China. In its filing to the SEC last week, Facebook mentioned China no fewer than nine times. It is not hard to see why. There are more than half a billion Chinese online, representing a tempting last hunting ground.China's government is less keen on being infiltrated by a western social media giant. Beijing is notorious for its desire to control the information to which its citizens have access. Facebook has been blocked there for the last three years and, though Facebook's internal culture is less politically opposed to censorship than other internet firms, like Google, it might not be possible to negotiate a way in. The company admitted as much: "We do not know if we will be able to find an approach to manage content and information that will be acceptable to us and to the Chinese government," it said last week.But Facebook has to find growth somewhere. Now that it plans to go public, it will gain shareholders who will demand nothing less than ever-rising profits each three months. So if broadening its user base might not be easy, another tack would be to deepen it. It could improve the value of its user base by extracting more intimate information from users that is valuable to advertisers, who could deploy it in ever more targeted and sophisticated ways.Part of that value is Facebook's existence as a place for networks of friends. Advertisers are discovering that people are far more likely to pay attention to ads for products that their friends like, or have been recommended to them by friends, rather than by just clicking on a seemingly random internet advert that appears on their screen. Catherine Tucker, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan school of management, has published a recent paper on such "social advertising" and believes Facebook could unlock huge value with it. "Facebook knows who people's friends are, which can be hugely valuable to marketers. Feeding that social network into the Facebook algorithm creates huge and under-exploited profit potential," Tucker said.But it may not be that easy. Firstly, the advertising cannot be intrusive. Many experts – as well as ordinary users of Facebook – believe that the more obvious the advertising on the website, the more people will be put off from using Facebook. There is another concern too. It is a common complaint of many Facebook users that the company is too keen to override their worries about privacy.They resent the idea that Facebook is not simply a useful service that helps them stay in touch with people, but is in fact a gigantic, profit-making company that sees them as a valuable resource to sell to advertisers. Collecting too much data on users and allowing advertisers access to it too obviously could cause them to seek an alternative service. It is a delicate tightrope to walk.The man most responsible for walking that fine line is Zuckerberg, who  who has steered the firm this far. But now that it is coming to the market, Zuckerberg's role is set to come under increasing scrutiny. The needs of a startup – even a huge one – are very different from those of a fully grown corporate behemoth with a floating stock price and outside investors clamouring for returns at all costs.Some see Zuckerberg as less well equipped to tackle those demands as chief executive than current chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, who has a strong business background and is the company's highest-paid employee. They see Zuckerberg as more of a visionary and a creative force, while Sandberg as the real business brain.Not that Zuckerberg seems to be stepping away from the frontline of Facebook's development any time soon. He owns about a quarter of the company and agreements with other shareholders mean he holds about 60% of the shares that carry voting powers: effectively, a controlling stake. That is far more than Bill Gates had when Microsoft went public and also more than Google's co-founders had when that firm followed suit. Even in its SEC papers, Zuckerberg showed his individualistic streak by telling potential investors he might make decisions that put Facebook users ahead of Facebook shareholders.In a letter to investors describing the company's mission, Zuckerberg praised "hacker culture" and said the firm was more interested in its social mission than just making money. "Simply put: we don't build services to make money; we make money to build better services. And we think this is a good way to build something. These days I think more and more people want to use services from companies that believe in something beyond simply maximising profits," Zuckerberg wrote. Some experts welcomed that view. "In the long term that could be a good thing," said Sherman.Yet Zuckerberg's sentiment will be news to most Wall Street investors, as Facebook is likely to discover soon after its first shares hit the open market. If profits or sales disappoint at any stage, then Facebook's shares will plummet just like those of any other company. "Wall Street will beat your stock down if you don't beat your profits every quarter," said Cohan.Then there is Google+, the rival social networking website set up by Google. Other potential "Facebook killers" will almost certainly emerge from some starry-eyed student's laptop, just as Facebook itself once did. Another possible problem is the explosive growth of social networks on mobile phones, which currently do not carry much effective advertising and thus blow a hole in Facebook's existing business model.The brutal fact is that Facebook's future is unknowable. For every pundit wowed by its possible applications and the supposedly infinite numbers of future services, there is another seeing little scope for growth. For every admirer of Zuckerberg who believes in his genius, there is another who thinks pride becomes before a fall. For every investor agog at the prospect of buying a chunk of Facebook's bright future, there is another calling the whole thing a gigantic bubble.
These days Mike Daisey is run off his feet. "I don't even have time to listen to my voicemail now. That's a phenomenon I have not experienced before," he told theObserverwith an amazed laugh. Perhaps he shouldn't be so surprised. In the past fortnight, Daisey has gone from being a gifted but obscure solo act in the US theatre to the public face of a backlash against one of the iconic corporations of the 21st century.Daisey's latest work,The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs, has triggered off a spasm of soul-searching about the sometimes appalling labour conditions in China under which many of America's most cherished products are made. Specifically, the shiny, sleek iPhones, iPods and iPads produced by Apple.The Agony and the Ecstasywas devised after exhaustive research talking toexploited and abused workers in China, for almost 18 months. Daisey played to small but appreciative crowds across the US, winning critical praise but stirring little trouble, not even with the target of his ire: Apple itself.But everything changed in January when a discussion and partial performance of Daisey's monologue appeared on the National Public Radio showThis American Life. It rapidly became the most downloaded episode of the show's history and an online petition calling for Apple to reform its practices began. Within 48 hours it attracted 140,000 names. Then theNew York Timesran an exhaustive investigation of Apple's supplier network in China that revealed industrial accidents, brutal working conditions and child labour. Daisey had briefed the newspaper's reporters and they had watched his show last year. Suddenly, Apple's Chinese supplier network was huge news.That has turned him into an unlikely nemesis, sending tremors of fear through one of the largest and most powerful companies in the world. It is an amazing shift. After all, for 15 years the New York-based Daisey has crafted his art as a gifted monologuist, winning praise but little mass appeal on a variety of topics from his first job at Amazon to his views on Oprah Winfrey, or recounting a trip to the South Pacific.But now, arriving apologetically late and harried in a trendy Brooklyn restaurant near his home in New York, Daisey is a man in intense demand. He has appearances lined up on CNN and other TV shows. On his blog he has been updating the story regularly andfending off criticism from Apple's defenders, including comedian Stephen FryandForbes columnist Tim Worstall.Daisey is delighted but exhausted, having been up until 5am composing a response to a public attack from Worstall. "I am tired but I am encouraged to see traction. The only way you can fight for a thing like this is when you know the truth is on your side," he told theObserver.Daisey's sudden catapult on to the world stage as the public face of criticism against Apple  is an astonishing development, especially for such a rarely practised art as the theatrical monologue. It has also likely made his Steve Jobs piece one of the most remarkable performances  of recent years, not least because of its leap from the stage to real world activism. "It's the first time maybe in a generation that the American theatre has affected change."The play's premise is simple enough. It blends Daisey's own backstory as a nerdy geek who loved – and continues to love – Apple products, with the story of how Jobs ran the company with a mix of tyranny and genius before he died last year. But then it heads into dark territory as Daisey recounts how he became obsessed with photographs that emerged from inside the giant Foxconn factory in which many Apple products are made.Workers on the assembly line at Foxconn's factory in Shenzhen, China. Photograph: AFP/Getty ImagesHis fascination with how his beloved gadgets were built ends up with a subversive trip to southern China and interviews with ordinary workers who describe the physically and mentally crippling conditions in which many toil. On the trip Daisey was stunned that he, as a playwright, was the one digging up the truth. "I wanted journalists to tell the story. I am a monologuist and it's not the same thing. But I had to act as a journalist," he said.Daisey is scathing about many of the journalists who cover Apple. He claimed they were often cowed by the firm, given strictly controlled access to the latest product launches but subject to intimidation over writing about anything that might hurt Apple's public image. He recites the story of one tech journalist who agreed to appear on a panel with him, only to be contacted by Apple and warned off doing so. "Apple has built an incredible institution of secrecy and people understand that when Apple threaten them they mean it. Everyone knows that," Daisey said.As a performer, though, Daisey is immune. Yet he confesses he still has a complex emotional relationship with the company. He still uses an iPhone and does not tell people to boycott the company, just spread the word about Chinese labour practices in the hope that they change. When people email him to ask what phone they should buy – and they do in large numbers – he tells them to make an "ethical" choice they are comfortable with. He himself no longer upgrades his devices and is considering buying secondhand in the future.Apple for its part says many of the stories emerging from China are not true and that it already is acting to monitor its suppliers' behaviour and bring in greater transparency. Other defenders of the firm point out that many other electrical goods firms are equally as culpable as Apple, if not more so.For Daisey, perhaps because he loved Apple's caring and cool public image so much, that is not good enough. "It is like watching a friend lose his way. It is hard to imagine the Apple of a generation ago making this ham-fisted error." He believes the firm could have acted years earlier to improve its supplier network in China and would have reaped a PR bonanza, rather than the current global whirlwind of bad publicity."Now all they have to do is clean up the mess, but if they had got ahead of it they could have looked fantastic," he said.Daisey himself is not stopping his charge. His monologue is still on stage and will remain so for at least the rest of the year. He may take it to bigger venues for one-off shows, aiming at 2,000-3,000-seat venues so the ticket prices can be driven down. He is also seeking to turn the monologue into a film. As a final way of spreading the word, he is soon to release a transcript of it and allow anyone in the world to adapt his show or put it on in as their own live performance. "People can tell this story to other people. This is exactly how the environmental movement really took hold. People realised these values mattered and they began to tell the story from person to person and that's what caused change," he said.Though Daisey has other ideas for future monologues he knows the success of the Jobs show and the issue of Chinese labour practices that it illustrates is going to dominate his life for the foreseeable future. As he got up to leave the restaurant he left behind a half-eaten sandwich. He was headed to a car that would whisk him to a TV studio for another interview.  "It's like that feeling you get when you climb a mountain and you get to the top and it turns out you are in the Alps, and there's a whole series of mountains ahead of you. Then you sharpen your stick and keep walking," he said.
Final Fantasy XIII-2PlayStation 3, Xbox 360If Final Fantasy XIII-2 were a film, it would be the worst you've ever seen, featuring an absurdly convoluted plot and sub-James Cameron dialogue.But it's the game's mechanics that create interest, with fast moving, tactical battles and satisfying character customisation. Clearly stung by criticism that the last instalment was essentially one long beautifully illustrated corridor, this time you can hop among levels at will, exploring not only new areas but different timelines in your search for heroine Serah's missing sister and fiance. Get past the weird stylisation and you'll find a big, absorbing game underneath.Square Enix, £49.99Soul Calibur VPlayStation 3, Xbox 360Ezio of Assassin's Creed, special guest in Soul Calibur V.Part of a beat 'em-up lineage stretching back two decades, Soul Calibur's biggest point of difference is that all its characters are armed with swords, knives, a serrated metal whip and even the hidden blade of Ezio Auditore, hero of Assassin's Creed and this instalment's crossover guest star. Welcoming to newcomers, its new Street Fighter IV-style critical edge combos are powerful and easy to pull off, while further practice yields rich, balanced battles. Story mode may be a half-baked add-on, but everything else works beautifully.Namco Bandai, £49.99Resident Evil: RevelationsNintendo 3DSResident Evil: Revelations.Pacing itself somewhere between the all-out mutant assault of Resident Evil 5 and the more atmospheric tension of its distant forebears, Revelations jumps among the stories of teams of agents investigating an outbreak of bio-organic weapons and the lurching beasts who supply both scares and cannon fodder. The claustrophobic feeling of its interiors is greatly enhanced on the small screen, although it's still impossible to induce any real sense of foreboding without using headphones. With its music, ominous creaks and protagonists' banal utterances piped directly into your skull it's a different matter, producing a decent sensation of dread.Capcom, £34.99Games newsWith its time travelling and the fabulous complexity of battle options, few games benefit from a strategy guide as sincerely asFinal Fantasy XIII-2, so it's handy that Piggyback's wonderfully completebookis published this week …Also out areMetal Gear Solid HD Collection, which generously packages together five games from the venerable franchise; charmingly offbeat organic action gamePixelJunk Edenmakes its way to PC after a warm reception on consoles andGabrielle's Ghostly Groove 3Dbrings lightly spooky rhythm action to the 3DS …Meanwhile players of new Xbox Live Arcade word gameQuarrelare starting to discover that in online mode there are some parts of the English language it just refuses to countenance. Along with double-entendre friendly standards "shaft" and "balls" are some inexplicable censorships such as "dice", "help" and "start", which even the most sensitive soul would be pressed to find offensive.
Regular readers of this column (hello, Mum) will know I haven't always got on brilliantly with Audis. Driving an A1 along the motorway during a heavy rainstorm, my driver's side wiper whooshed right off the windscreen and suddenly I couldn't see a thing. It "tried to kill me" I wrote, perhaps a little melodramatically. Another time, in an A6, the satnav tried to send me the wrong way round a&nbsp;major roundabout (on the A1 as it happens, confusingly). "This car is trying to kill me," I wrote again. Vorsprung durch bloody murder.Perhaps you'll understand, then, why I approached this one with some trepidation. Is it going to try to finish what the others didn't quite manage? A high-speed blowout? Death by injector seat, perhaps?I'm afraid not – no near-death experiences to relate. So here's the dull bit about what this car is&nbsp;actually like. The Q3 is a baby SUV, sometimes known as a "soft-roader". You've got the higher-up position but without the screw-you-all-and-screw-the-planet hatefulness of an SUV proper. A happy compromise perhaps, or neither one thing nor the other, depending on where you stand on soft-roaders (I&nbsp;mean no&nbsp;one's really going to go off-road in one are they?).It's nice to drive, refined and quiet, without being especially engaging or exciting. Not a car for someone who loves driving. I&nbsp;think it's pretty to look at, but it's not going to be turning any heads. Inside, as you'd expect, it's all very classy without being too flash. An&nbsp;Audi then, basically.There are two natural rivals to this car and I'm putting the Q3 in the middle, in terms of desirability. It's certainly nicer than the BMW Dog's Dinner (also known as the X1). But I'd rather have the new small Range Rover, the Evoque. It's cuter, more Gucci, more Footballers' Wives. And that's a good thing, because footballers' wives, and wannabe footballers' wives, are exactly who these baby SUVs are for.Perhaps they can even be compared to footballers' wives, hopefully without being too sexist. So the Evoque is… well, it doesn't matter who she is, but she's got the heels, the hair, the make-up, the tan, the nails. And she's giving you the eye. The Q3, meanwhile, has been caught nipping out to the corner shop in a grey tracksuit and slippers. I mean, she's clearly gorgeous, but she's not how footballers' wives are supposed to be.OK, so on the plus side, she didn't try to kill me. In fact, we got along pretty well. But it was always just a successful, professional working relationship; there was never a hint of anything more.Audi Q3 2.0 TDI (177PS) QuattroPricefrom £27,650Top speed132mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.2 secondsAverage consumption47.9mpgCO2 emissions156g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating7/10
Stick a fork in it: the netbook is done, with sales falling by 25% in the past year while smartphones and tablets are invading the computing space, according to new figures from the research company Canalys.In 2011, tablets overtook netbooks in total sales while smartphone shipments exceeded those of tablets and PCs combined, at 487.7m against 414.6m.Netbook shipments in particular fell from 39.4m in 2010 to 29.4m in 2011, a 25% fall, as the total number of tablets shipped rose almost threefold from 23m to 63m by Canalys's calculations.Excluding tablets, the PC market barely grew overall, with 351.4m, or just 2% more, machines shipped. Even as shipments of notebooks, the largest segment, grew by 8% and desktops, the next biggest, by 2%, the drop in netbooks took the wind out of the business.It was a different story in September 2009, when Canalysreportedthat "netbooks reshape the PC industry" after saying that 13.5m had been sold in the first half of 2009 as mobile phone and other companies began selling them. Sales grew substantially in the second half of that year to 33.3m in 2009,accordingto another research company, DisplaySearch.Netbooks' brief lifespan, which began in late 2007 and peaked in 2010 with the 39.4m figure -  about 11% of the total PC market that year - included a brief period early on when it looked as though they would mark the advent of desktop Linux. But Microsoft instead began offering Windows XP and then Windows 7, heading off the threat to its business.By contrast shipments of media tablets such as the iPad are already equivalent to 18% of the PC market, and the share is expected to grow with the release in the autumn of Microsoft's Windows 8 for both desktop and tablets.Smartphone sales have been booming, and grew by 63% in the year, with a slight slowdown in the fourth quarter when the sales of 158.5m were up 56% on the same period in 2010.The figures for PC shipments excluding tablets agree closely with those from rival research companies Gartner and IDC, which put the total number of PCs shipped excluding tablets in 2011 at 353.5m and 349.6m, compared to Canalys's 351.4m.Smartphones first outsold PCs (excluding tablets) in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to IDC and Gartner.
The hacking collective Anonymous has struck deep into the heart of one of its sworn enemies – the police – with the release of the recording of a conference call between the Metropolitan police and the FBI. In it, they discuss ongoing investigations and court cases against alleged British hackers; and now, courtesy of Anonymous, the world can listen in too.For Anonymous, the posting on YouTube of the 18-minute audio from the call was a particular triumph, indicating that it can worm its way even into the most powerful organisations in the land. "The FBI might be curious how we're able to continuously read their internal comms for some time now," said one account controlled by the group on Twitter.The call reveals British police and the FBI discussing the delay of court proceedings against two alleged members of the LulzSec hacking group, which attacked a number of sites in 2011 including the US Congress and UK Serious Organised Crime Agency.It's worrying for anyone to discover that their email has been hacked – but when it happens to the police in not one but two countries, and to the two most sensitive arms of those forces, dealing with hackers, it becomes a source for deep concern.For Anonymous, though, it is a return to prominence after it burst into worldwide attention with its attacks on PayPal and Visa in January 2011 after those sites stopped allowing payments to WikiLeaks. Anonymous has no leaders and no clear membership, and forms decisions collectively. Its general ethos is to defend what members see as the "free" internet from repression and restriction of freedom of speech.After a series of arrests in spring 2011, and a number of arrests relating to other hacking attacks through the year, the group seemed to have lost direction. But the rise of the "Occupy Wall Street" movement, and now its attacks on far-right and authority figures, appears to have revitalised it.The police call, recorded on 17 January ahead of arraignment hearings for two Britons accused of a number of offences related to hacking, includes two British and two FBI police officers discussing the members of the groups and another British hacker who they describe as a "wannabe", and who is alleged to have leaked details of 32,000 users of the online game platform Steam."He's doing it for attention," one of the Met officers says. "He got arrested for DDOSing [knocking out the computers at] his school and then he hacked a credit union in Jamaica." The hacker, whose identity is known to the Guardian, denies having been arrested, and says he attended a police interview voluntarily.For Anonymous, though, it is the latest in a run of triumphs over those it sees as its enemies. Early in January, the group targeted the leader of Gemany's far-right NPD party. Then they hit websites belonging to the US Department of Justice, Universal Music and the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) as part of a protest over the closure on criminal charges of the MegaUpload filesharing site.The latest embarrassment for the authorities was recorded after someone hacked the email of at least one of the 44 recipients on an email headed "Anon-Lulz International Coordination Call" sent on 13 January by Timothy Lauster of the FBI. It detailed the conference call number and dial-in code to "discuss the on-going [sic] investigation related to Anonymous, LulzSec, Antisec and other associated splinter groups".With the message having gone to police forces in the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Sweden and the US, tracking down the hacked account – or accounts – will be a serious headache. Security experts said the interception is unlikely to have required a highly complex operation."Clearly looks like someone on that list has had their email compromised. It's very serious," a security expert, Graham Cluley, told the Guardian. "It is one thing taking down a website but to actually be listening in on the conference call where police are discussing charges ... there must be a lot of questions being asked right now."Cluley said it was unlikely that the hacker collective had interfered with the systems of the company that hosted the conference call. The FBI said that its computer systems were not breached as part of the incident.The solicitor for Ryan Cleary, who is charged with five offences of hacking websites, told the Guardian that the recording raises concerns that US authorities are seeking to extradite the Essex teenager. "My concern is whether the co-operation between officers [in the US and UK] was to assist them in an extradition request," said Karen Todner, the managing director of solicitors' firm Kaim Todner.She warned that future breaches of security on this scale have the potential to "blow apart" criminal charges against those arrested in connection with previous hacks. "This is the FBI and the Met's e-crime unit [that have been breached] and the Crown Prosecution Service are in April about to go completely digital and the whole cases could be blown apart on it."In the call the detectives can be heard discussing various members of the LulzSec group, and the progress of cases against Ryan Cleary, who has beencharged with five offences relating to hacking websites, and Jake Davis, who has been charged over the hacking of the Soca website. Two people who are alleged to be members of LulzSec, who have previously been arrested and bailed by UK police, are also discussed in the call. Their names have been bleeped out by the person who uploaded the call to YouTube.
Hackers from the group Anonymous have broadcast a private conference call between the FBI and Scotland Yard exposing details of an international cybercrime investigation, the FBI has confirmed.The FBI and Scotland Yard admitted  that the security of the call had been breached.Investigators can be heard discussing their joint inquiry into a cybercrime investigation going through the British courts, and linked to investigations in New York, Baltimore, Los Angeles and Ireland.It is understood the breach occurred at the US end of the call. As the news broke, Anonymous began taunting the FBI, asking if it was curious about how the group could keep reading the bureau's internal communications.Investigators can be heard on the broadcast talking about named individuals who have been charged in the UK with hacking into the website of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca).In one lengthy exchange, the British contingent can be heard discussing a 15-year-old hacker as a "wannabe" and a "pain in the bum". The 15-minute call has been broadcast on the internet, but the names of some of the individuals being sought have been bleeped out by the hackers.Scotland Yard said: "We are aware of the video which relates to an FBI conference call involving a PCeU [member of the e-crime unit] representative. The matter is being investigated by the FBI."At this stage no operational risks to the MPS have been identified; however, we continue to carry out a full assessment. We are not prepared to discuss [it] further."The conference call was one that appears to be held weekly between officers from the Metropolitan police's e-crime unit and the FBI in New York and Los Angeles.The law enforcement agencies are working together on a cybercrime investigation involving teenagers and young people from the UK, Ireland, Germany and the US, it is understood.Six people are going through the British courts charged in connection with hacking into computers belonging to Soca. They include Ryan Cleary, a British teenager who is charged with five offences of hacking websites. Cleary, 19, from Wickford, Essex, was arrested in June last year. His arrest was linked to a series of cyber-attacks by a group called LulzSec.Cleary was charged over cyber-attacks against British-based targets. He is due to appear at Southwark crown court with his co-accused, Jake Davis, on 11 May. Four other individuals, are due to appear at the same court in March as part of the same investigation. Cleary has been charged with three attacks – on the London-based International Federation of the Phonographic Industry in November 2010, the British Phonographic Industry in October 2010, and on Soca.The method he is alleged to have used is a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against all three websites. He was also charged with constructing a botnet, a network of infected computers that can be used remotely to direct attacks.On the intercepted call, the British police officers joke with their FBI counterparts early in the conversation while they wait for others to join, and are heard making fun of Sheffield - where the Acpo cybercrime conference is being held next week. "It's a khazi - not exactly a jewel in England's crown," says the British detective. The call, which took place nearly a fortnight ago – it is understood – includes a conversation about the appearance of Cleary and Davis at Southwark crown court last Friday.The FBI official expresses his gratitude to the British officers for "being flexible" and co-ordinating with them. "New York appreciates it," the FBI operative says.In response, the British detective says: "We have cocked things up in the past."The British detective then gives the FBI details of a 15-year-old who was arrested in the UK before Christmas. He calls the 15-year-old a "wannabe" and is connected with two other teenagers who are known as CSL sec "Cant Stop Laughing Security"."He is just a pain in the bum,"  the officer says. The call ends with all parties agreeing to talk again the following Monday.The events leading to the arrest of Cleary involved an investigation by British police and the FBI. The bureau's involvement, plus the nature of the targets, raised the prospect of Washington seeking the teenager's extradition to the US.The conference call reveals that two other individuals are to be arrested in the future. It makes clear that the investigation is complex, stretching across international boundaries and focusing on teenage hackers in many different cases.Karen Todner, a lawyer for Cleary, said the recording could be "incredibly sensitive" and warned  such data breaches had the potential to derail the police's work. If they haven't secured their email it could potentially prejudice the investigation," she told Associated Press.Anonymous is a collection of internet enthusiasts, pranksters and activists whose targets have included the Church of Scientology, the music industry, and financial companies such as Visa and MasterCard.
Played Plants vs. Zombie yet? It's available for iPhone and iPad for £1.99 – a snip, given its promise of "proffessional characters and levels design. Fun and colorful animation. Full retina display support. Very intuitive and addictive game with simple touch control. Many bonuses and extra points!"It's strange to see a company as experienced as PopCap Games mis-spelling the word professional in an App Store listing, though. And hang on, isn't it Plants vs. Zombies? What happened to the rest of the undead?As you may have guessed, this game has nothing to do with PopCap. Plants vs. Zombie is the work of a developer called Anton Sinelnikov.He's also the man behindan array of other familiar-sounding iOS games, including Angry Ninja Birds, Temple Jump, Numbers With Friends, Tiny Birds and Zombie Air Highway. Not to mention non-game apps with alluring titles like Lovely Girls, Sexual Offenders HD, The Horse Woman ("Warning: Adults 21_ ONLY!") and Victorian Sexy.It's the games that are causing a stir among mobile developers though, especially those whose games Sinelnikov's titles and icons have been clearly inspired by.He's not the only iOS developer playing this game. Another firm,Top Best Adult Entertainment, boasts a portfolio including MoonCRAFT, Little Pet Pony, Bens 10 BattleTime and Talking Bunny Bugs.Links to both these developers' portfolios have been doing the rounds among iOS developers in recent days, often accompanied by suggestions that Apple should be doing more to stop them.There is evidence that the company is. Imangi Studios founder Keith Shepherd – it makes Temple Run, which is the game that seemingly inspired Temple Jump – hastweetedthat "Apple has pulled 'Plants vs Zombie', 'Angry Ninja Birds', and 'Zombie Air Highway' from the same seller but not 'Temple Jump' yet."In earlier tweets, Shepherd had pointed to reviews of the latter indicating that some people have bought it expecting Temple Run – currently one of the most popular and lucrative games on iOS – and posted one-star reviews on the App Store to express their disgust.The existence of these kinds of apps is provoking an important debate about how Apple moderates its App Store, and by extension its rivals with their stores too.Apple may have the reputation of being pretty hands-on with its approval process, but it has tended to leave IP infringement to be policed by developers. They make a complaint, and Apple removes the infringing apps from its store if that complaint is upheld.The process has seen Atari criticised in recent months forforcing the removal of games like Vector Tanks, which it sees as too similar to its classic title Battlezone. Yet this is the same process that Imangi and other developers will need to use to petition for the removal of so-called "scam-apps".There are safeguards built into the App Store – chief among them its rating system. Temple Jump's average rating here in the UK is 1.5 stars from 18 ratings, while Temple Run's is five stars from more than 86,000 ratings. It doesn't seem that hard to spot which is the kosher title.Should Apple be playing copyright cop before apps are released onto its store? It's a can of worms, especially when such moderation would pre-empt any legal process.Far better to ensure that its takedown process is fair and speedy: although judging by our interview with P2 Games in December 2011 about itsstruggles with apps ripping off brands like Peppa Pig, there is still work to do on this front.Plagiarism is a hot topic in the iOS development community at the moment, with a separate debate around Zynga's new game Dream Heights, and its perceived similarities to independent developer NimbleBit's Tiny Tower.Rather than sue or demand a takedown in that case, NimbleBit chose tocall Zynga out on Twitterwith some side-by-side screenshots, sparking a return volley from Zynga chief executive Mark Pincus, who compared Tiny Tower to older (non-mobile) game SimTower.That debate is ongoing, as is alawsuit between Spry Fox and 6waves Lolappsover similarities between the former's Triple Town and the latter's Yeti Town.Here's why apps like Temple Jump, Angry Ninja Birds and the rest are different, though. For developers, the Zynga/NimbleBit row is about harm that may be caused to the smaller developer, if it loses players (or potential players) to Zynga's new game. The players will likely have a good experience whichever one they play.In the case of Temple Jump, it's not just Temple Run developer Imangi that is losing business. Apple's customers are being harmed if they pay for an app that isn't what they think it is from developers like Top Best Adult Entertainment or Anton Sinelnikov.If, as Shepherd tweeted, these apps are disappearing from the App Store, that is likely to be the main reason: harm to consumers, rather than to developers.With so much money swashing around the iOS ecosystem though – $700m paid out to developers in the final quarter of 2011 alone – Apple will need to keep its big red takedown button to hand for the forseeable future.
Apple briefly pulled several models of the iPhone and iPad from its online store in Germany after Android handset maker Motorola Mobility (MMI) won a court injunction over the phones in Germany. A separate ruling over its "iCloud" service means it might be forced to turn off "push" email for users in the country.Apple has appealed the rulings. But the phones and tablets were removed fromApple's German online storeafter Motorola, which is due to be acquired by search giant and Android owner Google, won a court ruling in December relating to an alleged infringement of wireless patents for 3G connections by Apple handsets including the iPhone 4 and the 3G version of the iPad 2.MMI won a separate court injunction against Apple on Friday that could force the US electronics giant to block a key function of its iCloud email system for users in Germany. That would require MMI first to post a €100m (£83m) bondto cover potential outcomes.The court injunctions are the latest in a string of patent disputes between Apple and MMI, which Google is buying for $12.5bn.The German court's ruling on Friday means that Apple must switch off the so-called "push" email service for users of iCloud and MobileMe in that country. German iPhone owners will still be able to access email, but the BlackBerry-like function that sends new messages automatically to the phone will be unavailable. Apple said in a statement that the patent was "invalid" and said it would appeal against the ruling.The independent patent expert Florian Mueller, who first reported the rulings, told the Guardian that Apple would be forced to comply with the injunction if Motorola Mobility posts a €100m bond. "They will have to deactivate the feature if and when [Motorola Mobility] seeks enforcement," he said. "The ruling per se doesn't force them to do anything, but if [Motorola Mobility] posts another €100millioneuro bond and demands that Apple comply with the injunction, then they'll have to do that."Apple said that the separate removal of iPhones and iPads from its German website would not affect buyers from retail stores and other authorised outlets in the country.A spokesman for Apple said: "All iPad and iPhone models will be back on sale through Apple's online store in Germany shortly. Apple appealed this ruling because Motorola repeatedly refuses to license this patent to Apple on reasonable terms, despite having declared it an industry standard patent seven years ago."Updated to show that MMI needs to post a €100m bond, not €100
During a conference call to investors and analysts on Wednesday, Electronic Arts revealed some rather impressive – and telling – figures. Apparently, the company's revenue from digital games exceeded $1bn in 2011.Its controversial download service Origin generated $100m through the year, its social and casual games performed well, and its online multiplayer release – Star Wars: the Old Republic – managed to attracted 1.7 million paid subscribers barely a month after its launch.Of course, the publisher's boxed big-hitters – Fifa 12 and Battlefield 3 – did good business too, selling 10m units each, but the thrust of the company's attempts to claw back into profit are coming from the digital sector.Meanwhile, fellow publishing veteran THQ isreportedto be in dire straights, cutting staff and facing a Nasdaq delisting.Although the company was one of the first publishers to recognise the rise of mobile gaming with its THQ Wireless arm, it has not succeeded in transferring major brands such as Saints Row and Darksiders to mobile and social platforms. In fact, it sold its Wireless division in February 2011, while a lacklustre Facebook version of Saints Row did little to take on the likes of Mafia Wars at its own game.THQ's problems no doubt run deeper than failing to exploit the rise of digital downloading, but it seems as though the future of traditional publishers is going to rest on how well they're able to explore the online, mobile and downloadable possibilities of their brands.Physical media, though beloved of hardcore gamers, is generally suffering. The high street chain Game is facing its own major difficulties – financing problems haveled to rumoursthat its stores would be unable to stock the week's new releases; though the company has since confirmed that the likes of Metal Gear Solid HD and Final Fantasy XIII-2 will be on sale this weekend, andthat it has secured new deals with lenders.Meawhile, digital newcomers are flourishing. Freemium publisher BigPoint announced on Tuesday that it now has 250 million users of its free-to-play online games; on the same day, web gaming company Spil Games,revealedthat it now boasted 170 million unique users, with many of its customers spending up to £38 a month on virtual goods. A recent report by Juniper Research claimed that in-game purchasers would be spending $4.8 billion by 2016."My basic argument for digital generally is that, first, it allows the publisher to reach a massive audience at no marginal cost, by going free," says games industry analystNicholas Lovell."Secondly, it allows you to let the people who love what you do to spend lots of money – for example, the Bigpoint usersspending €1,000 on a drone.".Unsurprisingly then, smaller developers are increasingly adopting digital-only agendas. On Monday, the UK game developer trade body, Tiga,released a reportshowing the impact of digital downloads on British studios.Apparently, 102 British games companies are currently developing browser and download-based casual online PC games. These studios released more than 600 titles in 2011 and employed nearly 700 development staff, contributing £70m to the UK's GDP."We are fast approaching the tipping point," says Tiga managing director Dr Richard Wilson. "UK retail sales figures for video games have been in decline for several years now, but all the indications are that digital consumption of games is increasing."Tiga research from 2011 shows that 50% of UK developers regard retail as the largest monetisation mechanic for their games. However, 47% say their games are also sold via online stores such as XBLA and the Apple App Store. 13% generate money from subscriptions, 26% via micro transactions and 29% use free-to-play mechanics."Additionally, almost half of UK developers are now self-publishing online or on mobile. The shift towards digital distribution is enabling developers to become self-publishers and reduce their dependency on publishers. It should also allow more innovation and choice for consumers."But more telling than new titles and fresh ideas are the possibilities for older brands in the digital space.Earlier this week, the veteran MMORPG Everquest became a free-to-play title after 15 years as a subscription service. Long past its incredible peak as a massively multiplayer phenomenon, profit can still be made via a freemium model that will make the game more attractive to casual users.Meanwhile, publishers such as Ubisoft, Konami and Capcom are busy filling the online stores of the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Wii consoles with spruced up versions of classic titles, as well as fresh additions to nostalgic lines such as Rayman.While the ability to sell DLC and create free-to-play titles is enticing, it might be that the real driver into a digital-first business is the ability to exploit that old internet chestnut, the long tail.In packaged-goods retail, games have a very short shelf life and need to make all their money in the space of a couple of weeks. After that, titles get shoved into the back catalogue. Years ago, there was another opportunity to make money here via special cheaper editions of old games – the PlayStation Platinum range, for example.However, that market has been all but destroyed for publishers by the rise of the pre-owned sector. Go into any branch of HMV or Game and you'll usually only see a chart display of new titles, and then a huge area dedicated to second-hand titles.That's because retailers make 100% of the revenue from these second purchases – there's little benefit for them in providing shelf space to first-hand copies of older titles.In the digital space, though, publishers can keep flogging old titles indefinitely. When the title is out of the charts, it can be kept alive with DLC; after this, there are price reductions on digitally distributed versions of the original games. And then, on titles like Everquest and Lord of the Rings Online, there's the option to convert to a freemium model.For new titles, the digital arena is more complex. As Lovell points out: "Chris Anderson's original definition of the long tail is that in a world of infinite space, everyone can get on the shelf. But the App Store shows that just being on the shelf is no guarantee of sales."The App Store has hundreds of thousands of apps, and the long tail players are not making much money." Indeed,research released last autumn by developer Owen Gossshowed that 50% of game apps on the App Store make less than $3,000 (£1,900).And over in the social and casual gaming spaces, it's not old brands that are being regurgitated, it's old ideas. Zynga's release of Dream Heights on iOS has prompteda furious responsefrom bloggers who feel it is effectively a rip off of NimbleBit's hugely successful iphone game Tiny Tower, merely adding a social layer.The cloning of games has becomea huge issuein the sector, but with little in the way of legal recourse, it is running amok.And really, the digital gaming princples behind continually re-inventing old brands for new business models and continually "borrowing" other studios' successful ideas are the same.It's all about mining proven concepts for all they're worth in a marketplace that allows swift development, easy distribution and lightening fast iteration based on rapid customer feedback.Those who imagine that the tipping point from physical media to digital distribution will herald a new era of fresh innovative gaming experiences could well be hugely mistaken.We may be about to enter a new epoch in which the digital sector transmogrifies into one giant thirft store – your favourite game ideas served back to you in different forms on different platforms by different publishers, forever.
Betfair has relaunched its iPad app in response to what it says is strong demand from its customers for more tablet-focused features and interface.The app, which is nowlive in Apple's App Store, makes it faster for customers to place bets on currently-popular sporting events, while also drilling down into other sports, and quickly depositing and withdrawing funds from their accounts.The update comes after a strong year of mobile growth for the betting exchange. In its last set of interim financial results, covering the six months to 31 October 2011, Betfair said that more than £800m was traded through its mobile service, up 96% year-on-year.That resulted in £9.1m of revenues for Betfair itself – 7.3% of its overall exchange revenue. The company now has more than 160,000 active mobile users, who placed 16.2m bets in that six-month period from within its apps and mobile site.Betfair now has a 60-person team working specifically on mobile, up from 5-10 two years ago according to head of product Anil Bhagchandani. The investment appears to be paying off."Not only are people moving over from website to mobile, but there is incremental value from that," he says. "Customers who were purely website and who then start using mobile almost always stay longer, bet more and have a higher ARPU."Betfair's mobile ambitions started with an app for J2ME handsets, but it has since launched apps for iOS, Android and BlackBerry, as well as the HTML5 site."For most of the last year, we were trying to get apps across each of the platforms roughly as functional as each other and the website," says director of technology Phil Dixon.""We may now take one or two of the platforms and begin to experiment and explore. iPad might explore different usage paradigms, for example, and on Android we may have a bit more flexibility to try different navigation."The new iPad app is a good example, developed in response to detailed feedback from Betfair's tablet-owning customers – Apps Blog sat behind the one-way glass at the company's focus-testing room in its London headquarters to watch one "VIP" user say in no uncertain terms what was lacking in its previous tablet apps, and how he'd like to use the updated version.Dixon says Betfair is firm about not taking sides in the native apps versus HTML5 debate – it's investing in both – and adds that the company's API is likely to play an important role in future growth.Developers can build their own apps using the API that tie into the Betfair exchange, with a handful available by the end of 2011, with more on the way. Android app ZoomBet is one prominent example, with its focus on speedy betting."Because we don't have an adversarial relationship with our punters, it's in our interests to broaden the ecosystem as much as we can with the API," says director of technology Phil Dixon."We figured people are going to have niche ideas that we would never have or never pursue. The more apps out there that are very specifically relevant to consumers, the better."Betfair is also considering how it can make more use of mobile-specific features in its apps in 2012 and beyond, with location and social aspects to the fore in its thinking."My view is that the mobile is similar to what the exchange did to the web in 2000: there is going to be this game-changing way of betting which no one has figured out yet," says Bhagchandani.Outside the gambling industry, the key game-changer right now appears to be social: witness how Facebook is encouraging several industries to adopt its idea of frictionless sharing.However, making more of social is a thornier task for companies like Betfair. It's an inherently social service, in that it matches strangers with opposing views on the same sporting event, but its customers may not all be champing at the bit to share their activity with friends and family."There is a powerful angle there, but I don't know what it is yet," says Dixon. "It's probably not streaming all my bets out to my Facebook feed! There are too many reasons why that's wrong. And Facebook has not really engaged with gambling, although that's changing."However, he adds that splicing social and location features could have great potential for a sports-betting service in particular, possibly inspired by the check-in mechanic popularised by Foursquare and Facebook in recent times."Think if you were in a stadium, and you knew that 2,000 people there were having a punt on Chelsea right now. Or if you walk past a pub and you're an Arsenal fan, and 14 people are there having a punt on the match, would you like to join them?" he says, by way of illustration how this might work for Betfair.
Acta is the latest copyright enforcement scheme tocause alarmamong digital activists. Given its reach, this is understandable.Theanti-counterfeiting trade agreementis, despite its name, effectively an international treaty that forces signatories to criminalise "commercial-scale" copyright and trademark infringement. Some of it covers knock-off merchandise, but most applies to the digital world as well. Many of Acta's provisions already exist in countries such the US and the UK – for example, it makes sure courts can block or take down infringing websites – and the idea is ostensibly to bring the rest of the world in line.However, some elements would go further than existing laws in most of the countries that sign up. Acta criminalises activities such as breaking the digital locks on rights-protected files, or even distributing tools to help people do so. Stripping the artist information from a music file becomes a crime, as does decrypting content that has been scrambled for copyright protection. Acta also codifies the flawed idea, in calculating damages from so-called piracy, that every unlawful download represents a lost sale.One reason for the heightened attention being paid to Acta is the recent derailing of theStop Online Piracy Act (Sopa)and theProtect IP Act (Pipa)in the US. These bills were, in many ways, more dangerous than Acta – Sopa wanted to alter theDNS, the core of the internet – but the spirit is the same. After winning a round against the US bills, citizens and activists are raring to take on a new challenge.Acta was the brainchild of the US and Japan. Its formulation began in 2007, outside the frameworks of the World Trade Organisation and without the involvement of China, India and other countries that are major sources of pirated goods. Because it was technically a trade agreement, negotiations took place behind closed doors, with the only look-in afforded to citizens' groups or even elected representatives coming via a series of leaks.Through conduits such asWikiLeaks, it became clear that the US in particular was pushing for signatories to create "three-strikes" laws that could be used to kick repeat file-sharers off the internet. The EU pushed back and this provision was removed, along with a requirement that ISPs and other online service providers snoop on their customers. The criminalisation of camcorder use in cinemas is also no longer mandated in Acta.But what remains is troubling on several counts. Acta ostensibly targets big players, but, when it comes to its application on the internet, its definition of "commercial-scale" infringement is loose enough to also cause trouble for individuals. According to Acta, criminal and civil enforcement procedures "shall apply to infringement of copyright or related rights over digital networks, which may include the unlawful use of means of widespread distribution for infringing purposes".Given that "widespread distribution" is the essence of the internet, this could be interpreted as a go-ahead for cracking down on small-scale infringers, or even people who post a copyrighted image or parody of it on their blogs. Sites and blogs that carry Google Ads could arguably also be seen as "commercial activities for direct or indirect economic or commercial advantage", another way in which Acta defines commercial scale.Those defending Acta maintain that it would not bypass free speech and privacy safeguards in places such as the US and EU. The document itself regularly refers to a need for "freedom of expression, fair process, and privacy" in the way enforcement is carried out, but only in accordance with the laws of the signatory country. Some of those countries, such as Morocco, are not noted for providing a strong right to free expression. Even if Acta's apologists are to be taken at their word, the implications could be unpleasant for free-thinking citizens in many parts of the world.It is no longer possible to change the contents of Acta, as it has been finalised. However, Acta is now, for the first time, in its democratic phase. Although 30 countries, including the US and UK, have signed Acta, no one has yet ratified it. The treaty may have been negotiated by governments and bureaucrats, but most of the signatories now have to get Acta through their legislatures. The process varies from country to country, but the document is finally in the hands of elected representatives.Those who want to see Acta defeated need to go to their MPs, MEPs and congresspeople and ask them, facts in hand, to vote against its ratification. Even though elements of Acta may be needed to combat large-scale copyright and trademark infringement, it can be argued that the risks associated with the whole are too great. Elected representatives may be receptive – they themselves were shut out of the Acta negotiations and, after the Sopa protests, they are well aware that voters dislike heavy-handed copyright enforcement.Agreements such as Acta are entirely driven by one side: the rights-holders. These players have a genuine grievance, in that the internet poses an overwhelming threat to their old business model. The copyright-versus-technology debate is worth having, and soon. But resolution has to come through genuine discussion between the content industry, lawmakers and the public.The structures to allow this open debate will hopefully come, but not before the debate is reset. Right now, citizens have a rare and possibly brief opportunity to call for that to happen.• If there's a subject you'd like to see covered on Comment is free, please visit ourYou tell uspage
BT Group took just over half of the UK's new broadband subscribers in the last three months of 2011 and cheered the City by indicating it would review its fibre broadband investment, with a focus on getting businesses to pay for installation.The company won a 56% share of new retail broadband subscribers, adding 146,000 customers in the company's third quarter and taking its UK total to 6.1 million. The announcement came as BT chief executive Ian Livingston announced upbeat forecasts for the full year and a rise in third quarter earnings, prompting a 6% share price rise in morning trading.A spokesman indicated BT would maintain its promised £2.5bn investment in rolling out fibre. But the commitment to running fibre cables to the doorstep of 25% of UK premises by 2014 is likely to be cut, with BT instead offering speeds of up to 330 megabits per second for businesses on demand, so long as they are willing to pay to be connected.The new 330Mbps service will be available from spring 2013 and is likely to involve installation costs of up to £1,000. It will deliver fibre to workplaces on request in areas where BT already runs fibre to street cabinets.It is expected to appeal to small businesses rather than residential customers, and is likely to be available to more than 10m premises from launch and about two thirds of UK premises from 2014."Fibre to the premises is a significant development for broadband Britain," said Olivia Garfield, chief executive of BT's Openreach division, which resells the BT network to other telecoms companies and BT Retail."This will be welcome news for small businesses who may wish to benefit from the competitive advantage that such speeds provide."A spokesman for BT said of the original commitment to building fibre to 25% of UK premises: "That was only an estimate which we gave some years ago before we knew we could offer fibre on demand. We will have to sit back and review that following these developments."BT is also doubling the speed of its standard fibre broadband product, from 40Mbps to 80Mbps, from this spring. This will as previously promised be available to two-thirds of the UK by 2014.The take-up of super-fast broadband increased to 400,000 of BT's retail customers, with 95,000 added in the three months to 31 December.Elsewhere, Ian Livingston brought forward his target of generating £6bn in annual underlying earnings by 2013 to the end of this financial year. However, BT said its pension deficit ballooned to £4.1bn due to high inflation and the knock-on impact of the government's quantitative easing measures.Group revenue was £4.8bn for the quarter. Excluding the impact of cuts to mobile termination rates, revenue was down 1.8% in the first nine months, in line to reach BT's target of –2% to flat for the full year, and halting years of revenue slides by the end of next financial year.Profit before tax was up 18% to £628m for the quarter, while earnings (before interest, tax, depreceiation and amortisation) rose by 3% to £1.5bn in the quarter. Net debt fell 11% to £7.7bn, in line with previous quarters which have seen BT reduce its borrowings by £3.3bn over three years.There was no news from BT about the early payment some analysts had expected to reduce its yawning pension deficit, which has risen from £1.4bn in March 2011.The company blamed inflation, saying: "The deficit includes the impact of particularly low real corporate bond yields partly reflecting the impact of quantitative easing and recent inflation being higher than the long term assumptions. This higher inflation will be applied to the annual pension increase in April and has contributed to increased liabilities."Openreach helped boost BT's overall earnings by increasing revenues by 5% to £1.3bn and earnings by 7% o £591m. Capital expenditure reduced 1% thanks to lower investment in copper broadband as the focus switched to fibre.BT Global Services, which provides networks to multinational, saw revenues fall 4% to £1.9bn for the quarter, with earnings up 2% to £144m.Total order intake for the quarter was £1.6bn, after contract wins from Sainsbury's and Standard Life in the UK and Bristol-Myers Squibb and the European Parliament abroad. Orders were up 50% so far this year in Asia Pacific and Latin America.BT Retail revenue decreased 5% reflecting a decline in calls and lines revenue and lower IT hardware sales. TV service BT Vision added 39,000 to BT Vision net customers in the quarter. Business revenue fell 6% because of lower IT hardware sales "reflecting tougher market conditions".BT Wholesale revenue fell 8% due to a £64m reduction in transit revenue mainly driven by mobile termination rate cuts. Total order intake was £340m, including a three year extension to a calls contract with Virgin Media and a renewed six year outside broadcasting contract with Sky Sports.David Molony, analyst at research company Ovum, said: "Openreach is delivering good results on the back of the company's fibre investment. However, the main focus must remain on BT Retail and BT Global Services."BT must keep innovating to deliver faster broadband speeds and more enticing bundles for consumers, as well as developing Global Services' capabilities through cloud services, professional services and further regional investment."
BT plans to roll out "ultra-fast" broadband to homes and businesses next year, offering one of the fastest speeds in Europe and the world.The telecoms giant said on Friday that more than 7m premises now have access to fibre-based broadband, and it expects to start doubling standard broadband speeds from up-to-40Mbps (megabits per second) to up-to-80Mbps this spring, earlier than planned. Two thirds of homes and offices supplied by BT will benefit from these faster speeds by the end of 2014.This compares withVirgin Media's planned new top speed of 120Mbps, up from 100Mbps, as part of an upgrade that begins this month.The majority of BT's fibre connection is to so-called "cabinets" or junction boxes at the end of the road, with a copper line running to the office or house.The company is also about to launch an up-to-330Mbps ultra-fast Fibre to the Premises (FTTP) service on demand. After running a successful trial in St Agnes in Cornwall, it will conduct further trials this summer and intends to roll out direct fibre-optic connections to offices and homes in the spring of 2013. BT believes ultra-fast broadband will appeal mainly to small and medium sized businesses that need to send and receive large amounts of data. It could also benefit local authorities, a BT spokesman said.It is unclear at the moment how much ultra-fast broadband would cost. "Some internet service providers may choose to pass on the charge whereas others might absorb it in return for a long-term contract. It may also be the case that local authorities wish to assist with installation costs if they deem FTTP to be a priority," the spokesman said.BT Openreach chief executive Olivia Garfield said: "FTTP on demand is a significant development for Broadband Britain. Essentially, it could make our fastest speeds available wherever we deploy fibre. This will be welcome news for small businesses who may wish to benefit from the competitive advantage that such speeds provide."We are also doubling the speed of our standard fibre broadband this spring giving internet service providers the chance to offer speeds of up to 80Mbps. This will ensure that residential customers have world-class speeds for all their family's needs."The Cornwall trial showed that additional fibre can be run on demand to a home or office in a Fibre to the Cabinet (FTTC) enabled area. Previously FTTP speeds were not possible in FTTC enabled areas but BT has come up with a solution that takes advantage of the fibre it has already deployed between the exchange and the street cabinet.The news came as BT, Britain's biggest broadband retailer with over 6 million customers, reported an 18% rise in adjusted profits before tax to £628m between October and December, its third quarter. Revenues were down 5% to £4.8bn, however.
As long as there have been video games, there have been weird video games. In the burgeoning days of the arcade scene we had the likes of Q*bert and Joust, but then weirdness really took off with the home computer era. Bedroom coders, locked away for months at a time, with no genres to work from, no sense of a development 'community'... no wonder they came up with titles like Deus Ex Machina, Sentinel and Jet Set Willy.Weirdness persisted into the PlayStation era with the likes of Polaroid Pete, Mr. Moskeeto and No One Can Stop Mr. Domino, and we do get glimpses today thanks mostly to Suda 51, Tetsuya Mizuguchi and a million indie devs.But what strange games have entertained you the longest? Which have you played beyond the initial 'wow, this is really strange' moment? Are there any truly odd titles that make it into your favourite games of all time list?Really?For this Friday, let's think about the offbeat titles that we genuinelydolove, rather than just sort of pretend to love so that people think we're weird, too.I'll get us started...Gribbly's Day Out (Andrew Braybrook, 1985)This seminal Commodore 64 title involves a character named Gribbly Grobbly navigating a surreal 2D world attempting to track down his missing children – or 'gribblets'. The controls are wonderful, the landscapes richly detailed for the era, and the Defender-like gameplay thoroughly compelling. Braybrook would go on to write two bona fide C64 classics, Paradroid and Uridium, butthiswas a game I just played and played.Incredible Crisis (Polygon Magic, 1999)An early progenitor of the mini-game collection, this PlayStation oddity followed a Japanese family though a disasterous day, with each complication captured by a strange mini-challenge. It's a sort of Japanese game show, rendered into eccentric interactive life complete with office dances, stressful supermarket shopping and hellish elevator rides. But all of them worked well, tied together with a decent family-in-crisis plot – and you just had to keep playing to find out which bizarre flight of gameplay fancy you'd be steered down next.Rez (United Game Artists, 2001)Tetsuya Mizugushi's masterpiece has been accepted into the canon of truly great games, but back in 2001 it was very odd to be controlling a hacker's avatar through a super computer while crafting techno tunes out of defeated enemies. Odd, but also astonishing. I'm not really sure if any other game has ever captured quite so well Mihály Csíkszentmihályi's theory of the flow state – that sense of utterly focused immersion. Hypnotic and compelling, and still wonderful.The Rub Rabbits (Sega, 2006)Okay, it's another mini-game collection, but I played this freaky take on the dating sim for hours and hours when my first son Zac was a (particularly demanding) baby – it got me through many sleepless nights. Like its predecessor, Project Rub, this crazed game uses every input facet of the Nintendo DS in a range of teeny tasks designed to get you together with the girl of your dreams. Stylish, strange yet utterly intuitive and fun. Iwasderanged with lack of sleep though.
Super Bowl XLVI GuideThe NFL has launched an official Super Bowl app just in time for its season finale, as the New York Giants take on the New England Patriots. It includes a guide to host venue Indianapolis and an NFL Huddle feature to keep tabs on social media buzz around the event. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadRBS 6 Nations Live ChallengeIn a big day for fans of chasing odd-shaped balls round a field, rugby's 6 Nations tournament also has an official app. Here, the focus is more on testing your knowledge: answering trivia questions before matches, then predicting the results of conversions and penalty kicks during games. Facebook is integrated to see how you compare to your friends' scores.Android / iPhone / iPadAvid StudioAvid's tools have been used by professional film and TV editors for a long time, but now the company wants to take on Apple's iMovie on iPad. Avid Studio is aimed at regular users looking to edit their home movies and share them on YouTube and Facebook. However, it can also export to the PC version of Avid Studio.iPadMarie Claire Runway Spring/Summer 2012IPC has launched a new offshoot from its Marie Claire magazine – Marie Claire Runway – focused on fashion. It's a standalone print mag, but also an iPad app that costs £2.99 versus the print issue's £6. Expect footage from fashion shows and editors' verdicts on the key trends.iPadCamden CrawlGoing to London's Camden Crawl festival in May? There's an app for that, with schedules, artist info, maps, social features and "money saving offers". The latter will have to be good to convince people to pay £2.99 for the app, we sense.iPhoneRemarks – Write notes and Annotate PDFsReaddle's latest iPad app does what it says on the tin, enabling you to take a PDF file and add annotations, highlighting, underlining and scribbles. Social features mean you can also collaborate with other Remarks users.iPadGameloft Live!Mobile games publisher Gameloft has launched a standalone Android app for its Gameloft Live! community, with mesaging, discounts and other social features built in. It's fair to say Microsoft is an inspiration: there are 3D avatars and a "gamer score".AndroidDoodlecast ProDoodlecast was a fun app for children that let them draw while recording their voice, turning the results into a video to be shared with family. Now the idea has evolved into a professional tool for presentations: "Perfect for teachers, students, business people and anyone needing an elegant way to share ideas..."iPadTallyTotsiOS kid-app TallyTots has made the leap onto Android, offering 20 mini-games to teach children the numbers one to 20. Chipmunks, apples and racing cars are all promised, along with a song.AndroidGuess Who? for iPadSadly nothing to do with the famous boardgame, but still a very interesting app. Based on Kyoung Kook Lee's print book of the same name, this gets children to guess which characters are coming up on the next page, while listening to music and recording their own voices.iPadDespicable Me: StorybookMore iPad fun for kids comes with this book-app based on the animated movie Despicable Me. The core storyline is augmented with a soundboard, interactive blueprints and other playful features.iPadSir Benfro's Brilliant BalloonLovely-looking iOS game Sir Benfro's Brilliant Balloon sees you flying the "naturalist, scientist and explorer" through forests, oceans and down into the depths of the Earth in search of bizarre beasts.iPhone / iPadBlipSnips Social VideoAndroid's equivalent to SocialCam on iOS makes its debut. BlipSnips claims to be an easy way to shoot, tag and share video footage, including pushing it out to Facebook and Twitter while tagging friends on those social networks within the video itself.AndroidBabylon TranslatorText-translation firm Babylon has taken its app to Windows Phone, translating words between more than 75 languages, with a currency converter thrown in for good measure.Windows PhoneSector 33The latest game to follow in the wingtips of Firemint's Flight Control is Sector 33, which gets you merging arriving planes into a single traffic stream over California. The developer knows a thing or two about airspace, as well. Who are they? Oh, NASA...iPhone / iPad
Catherine is two puzzles games, really: one of the heart and one of the mind.In the first, shabby protagonist Vincent – a 32-year-old who is aimlessly stumbling through life – must choose between two women. His long-term girlfriend Katherine is career-minded, focussed, and eager to formalise their commitment in marriage. She mothers Vincent but with an edge of despair that sometimes cuts into disdain and resentment.By contrast, Catherine – a girl he meets at the local bar one evening – is flirtatious, vivacious and, following a drunken tussle in Vincent's claustrophobic apartment, teasingly jealous.Vincent feigns horror at his actions the morning after, confiding his indiscretion in his three drinking buddies before expressing hand-wringing regret. But at the same time, he refuses to give Catherine's contact details to a friend who expresses an interest at this mysterious, uninhibited siren.Likewise, night after night Vincent returns to his local, the Stray Sheep, where he inevitably runs into his so-called mistake late at night – actions that call his declarations of regret into question.We play as Vincent and, while the broad strokes of the story are laid out for us, there is some flexibility to fill in the details. In particular, an elegant – if inevitably imperfect – system allows you to reply to the text messages that Catherine and Katherine try to grab your attention with, selecting sentences one by one to establish the tone  as you either play with their hearts, or try to negotiate your way out of the problem as honourably as possible.Most actions in the game are assigned a moral value, tipping a needle on a pop-up meter towards good or evil – eventually dictating which of the game's eight endings you secure.This narrative layer puzzle is counterbalanced by a more traditional series of game-like cerebral puzzles that play out at night, while Vincent is sleeping.Here, in Vincent's nightmares, he must climb a tower of sinking blocks, attempting to reach the summit in order to escape to the next level of the tower before being sucked into oblivion.Tower blocks can be pushed and pulled in order to create rudimentary stairways upward, with complexity introduced via blocks of different properties – such as being breakable, laced with spikes or plain immovable. Special items collected en route  offer the ability to create a block where there is none, or to climb levels two at a time instead of one.The logic tricks required to create pathways where there are none must be learned till they become second nature as the pressure to keep moving at speed is intense.Likewise, you must climb a new ledge every 10 seconds or so in order to keep a score combo meter rising, a necessary requirement if you're hoping to score a gold trophy for each stage.Despite the ingenious design of these nighttime sections, the learning curve is as steep as the tower you are asked to climb, and it's easy to set the blocks in such a way as to make progress impossible.As a result, the game at the core of the wider Catherine game is too punitive to be truly enjoyable, reflecting the stressful sense of pressure to make snap-decisions that infuses the rest of the experience.Some of the most interesting moments in the game come when the heart puzzles and the mind puzzles intersect.In between each section of the tower-climbing stages, Vincent is invited to sit in a Lynchian confessional booth where you're posed yes/no moral dilemmas.Some of these are childish and straightforward ("Is it OK to lie if nobody will find out?") but others – such as whether you believe life begins or ends with marriage, or whether your ideal marriage partner is younger or older than you – can be harder to answer, especially if you're playing the game within earshot of a curious real-life partner.After you answer, a dynamic pie chart shows the split between players' responses, drawing data from the servers to reveal how firmly you sit within the minority or majority.Interesting and gently innovative, nevertheless when judged purely on the quality of its interactions, Catherine is a mediocre game. But the strength of its narrative drapery elevates the experience to something that's both compelling and enduring.Video games rarely explore the complexities of human love, lust and the decisions that are made in the tug of war between heart, mind and base desire.Catherine is a Japanese curio that sidesteps black-and-white moralising, and thanks to its weird, dream-like qualities, sidesteps neat pigeonholing to boot.It's rarely an enjoyable experience, but within that, Catherine perhaps poses its greatest puzzle of all: does a video game always need to be enjoyable to be worthwhile?• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSymantec recants Android malware claims &gt;&gt; ComputerworldFollowing from last week...Symantec has backtracked from assertions last week that 13 Android apps distributed by Google's Android Market were malicious, and now says that the code in question comes from an aggressive ad network that provides revenue to the smartphone programs.Except it won't call them "adware". And adware has the potential to be extremely sleazy, as many PC users can attest. Still, chalk one up to Lookout Mobile Security on this.Windows Phone 8: What's on the feature list &gt;&gt; ZDNetMulti-core processor support, new screen resolutions, removable storage, NFC support, data tracking, proxy server support, BitLocker, Skype and more. Might be very tempting for business in particular.Facebook's ad business Is a $3bn mystery &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHere's a question:how exactly does Facebook's ad business work? We still don't know a lot about that part. The S-1 mentions "advertising" 123 times, and "advertisers" another 117 times. But when it comes to describing how the company actually sells advertising, it is vague. We know that some of Facebook's ads are sold via an automated self-serve system, and some are sold via sales teams working in 30 offices around the world. And we know that Facebook uses an auction system to price some of its inventory, and that it lets advertisers target users to some degree, based on their demographics and interests. But Facebook doesn't break any of that out in its filing. It simply has one big bucket labeled "advertising." There's no discussion of click-through rates, or the size of the average ad buy, or what percentage of ad buys come from repeat customers, or how "lumpy" its sales are.Expect this to be gone into over the coming weeks and months.Some 10.7.3 users encounter nasty bug; fix available &gt;&gt; PC AdvisorIf you're unable to read this because every app you launch crashes, this is the fix. A real bootstrapping problem.HTC admits some phones leak Wi-Fi details &gt;&gt; The Next WebComplicated: you'd need an HTC handset connected to the Wi-Fi network. And then:The issue would require the user to install an application that had been specifically designed to harvest details or was uploaded to the Android Market with the specific aim of collecting information. The impact may have been small in the fact that such an app will not see the reach as a more popular app but the security risk does exist.Minimal but possible risk. Affects the Desire HD, Droid Incredible and more.If you own one of the affected handsets, you may have already received the fix. If you do not, keep checking the HTC Support site for more information.Five ways Microsoft can rescue Windows Phone &gt;&gt; The RegisterAndrew Orlowski:Many markets only have room for two leading players - and in the technology platform world, many have only one. On the margins the niche players are little islands. No matter how impressive WP is, if the needle doesn't move, then it too becomes a marginal player. Ecosystems can perish more rapidly than they arise. If Windows Phone is to avoid the same fate as WebOS then the dynamic has to change. But what might this be?There's only one key problem from a user's point of view, and it's fixable.Well, now we know what Facebook's worth - and it's not $100bn &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget's analysis pretty much defines the word "trenchant".ChangeWave survey shows momentum for Amazon &gt;&gt; ChangeWaveSurvey time:ChangeWave asked 254 new Kindle Fire owners a series of questions regarding their overall satisfaction and key likes and dislikes, to gauge their reaction to the new tablet device. Customer Satisfaction. When asked how satisfied they are with their new tablet device, better than one-in-two Kindle Fire owners (54%) say they are Very Satisfied. Another 38% say they are Somewhat Satisfied. In previous ChangeWave surveys we've found that the percentage of tablet owners who say they are Very Satisfied with a particular device is highly predictive of future demand for that device. So how does the Amazon tablet rating match up against other tablet devices? While the 54% Very Satisfied rating for the Kindle Fire is considerably below the 74% rating of the industry leading Apple iPad*, it is higher than the 49% average rating for all of the other tablet devices combined.The 254 sample is probably large enough to be representative of 4m owners. The satisfaction for "other" tablets was 39% in a November survey by ChangeWave. That's pretty low.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A French commercial court has found Google guilty of abusing its dominant position through its Google Maps application, and ordered it to pay a fine and damages to a French mapping company.In a ruling this week, the Paris court upheld an unfair competition complaint lodged by Bottin Cartographes against Google France and its parent company, Google Inc, for providing free web mapping services to some businesses.The court ordered Google to pay €500,000 (£415,000) in damages and interest to the plaintiff and a €15,000 fine.A Google spokesman said the company would appeal against the decision."We remain convinced that a free high-quality mapping tool is beneficial for both internet users and websites," he said. There remains competition in this sector for us, both in France and internationally."We have reviewed the French court's decision and have decided to appeal. We're confident that a free, high-quality map product is a great for websites and consumers and we continue to face strong competition in this field."The French company provides the same services as Google Maps for a fee, and claimed that Google's strategy aimed to undercut competitors by temporarily swallowing the full cost until it gains control of the market."This is the end of a two-year battle, a decision without precedent," said the lawyer for Bottin Cartographes, Jean-David Scemmama."We proved the illegality of [Google's] strategy to remove its competitors ... the court recognised the unfair and abusive character of the methods used and allocated Bottin Cartographes all it claimed."This is the first time Google has been convicted for its Google Maps application."Google has a dominant position in search in Europe, with more than 90% of search traffic. That means that it can fall foul of national laws over the use of that dominance if it is seen to exploit it in other areas.Google Maps are not free for unlimited use. Earlier this year, Googleannounced that it would introduce charging for heavy use of the service. That in turn has led a number of sites to seek out alternatives such as the free OpenStreetMap, which hasbegun a campaign to encourage switching.Google has previously faced other difficulties in France. Last March, the country's data privacy regulator imposed a record fine of €100,000 on it for collecting private information while compiling its Street View service.
Phew, it's Friday. What are your weekend gaming plans?
I have a longstanding attachment to Silicon Valley, a place of innovation that often represents the best of free-market system. The tech industry's rallying on behalf of free speech in January, as it joined theStop Sopa campaignto block legislation that would have censored the internet and thwarted innovation, was a proud moment.Yet, the valley often undermines itself with actions that demonstrate ethical shortcomings, and sometimes betray honest capitalism. Such has been the case in recent months with accusations and evidence – not new, in most cases – of shameful activities. They include the way US companies work with Asian manufacturers that arebecoming better-known for shabby treatment of workers; anticompetitive behavior, including collusion against their own employees; and a longstanding willingness to create and sell tools of surveillance and repression.Apple, one of the most profitable and valuable companies in the world, is taking special heat based on several deeply reported stories in the New York Times and other media, on several grounds. Most notably, the company's offshoring of manufacturing has embroiled it in controversy over theworking conditions at the Chinese-owned and -operated companiesthat actually make Apple products, especially its mobile devices. Apple says these arrangements are essential for it to remain competitive.The stories are grim, they don't implicate Apple alone. Indeed, virtually the entire tech industry now uses Asian manufacturing arms, and there's every reason to assume that this is an industry-wide situation.Meanwhile,documents filed in a 2011 civil lawsuit (pdf)– itself theresult of an earlier settlementwith the US Department of Justice – implicated Apple, Google and other Silicon Valley stalwarts in personnel practices that reeked of anticompetitive behavior. It seems that their leaders, including Apple's Steve Jobs and Google's Eric Schmidt, had a "gentlemen's agreement" to not poach each others' employees – that is, recruiters from one company were barred from approaching workers at the others.The companies continue to deny any improper behavior, saying that their arrangements were about not "cold calling" other companies, and that employees were free – as if the companies could stop them – to solicit new jobs. But even heavily redacted material from the Justice Department case tells a damning story.One such document posted by TechCrunchquotes an email from Adobe, saying that Adobe CEO Bruce Chizen and Apple's Jobs "have an agreement that we are not to solicit ANY Apple employees, and vice versa."There is an ethical exemplar in this case. He's Ed Colligan, the former CEO of Palm Inc, who was allegedly approached by Apple to join the gentlemen's agreement.Colligan replied, according to the court document, "Your proposal that we agree that neither company will hire the other's employees, regardless of the individual's desires, is not only wrong; it is likely illegal."Defense attorneys contend such emails are being distorted by the plaintiffs in the class action suit brought by five software engineers, but Colligan's word "wrong" shouts out from this note. How could these otherwise brilliant and normally sensible business people think they could get away with such behavior?Perhaps, it simply never occurred to them that they were doing anything improper – that if it was good for business, it was good, period. And the hell with the workers. Silicon Valley's top engineers are well-compensated, to be sure, but the way they were treated in this case speaks volumes about the attitudes of their bosses.Through all this, the tech industry has persisted in selling the tools of repression to the world's dictators. Companies note, fairly, that tools can be used for good or evil. But they could do much more to prevent their own products from being used for the latter.With these same technologies, they're also enabling increasingly pervasive surveillance societies, even in democracies. Tracking of internet users by government and corporate interests (often working hand in glove) has become part of everyone's expectations – a sad state of affairs, if you believe in privacy.The root of all these problems is the same: money. The technology industry is fiercely competitive. When survival and the bottom line rule all, the result is fairly predictable.I remain a big fan, in most ways, of the Silicon Valley and its global counterparts. In its role as a leading economic sector, the tech industry has an opportunity to help set standards of many kinds, not just technological or financial ones. I continue to hope that its leaders will think harder about the world they are helping to create.
The covers are off at Facebook. On Wednesday, the social network finallyconfirmed that it intends to sellshares in aninitial public offering (IPO), and gave outsiders the first real insight into its business practices. Now that the dust has settled, what have we learned?Mark Zuckerberg is in controlIf you thoughtRupert Murdoch had a tight grip on News Corp,spare a thought for anyone at Facebook who disagrees with its founder. Mark Zuckerberg owns 28% of the company's shares, but has struck an agreement with 56.9% of shareholders that gives him control over their votes. "Mr Zuckerberg has the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets," the filings to the SEC revealed.Even if Zuckerberg dies, he's in control. "Additionally, in the event that Mr Zuckerberg controls our company at the time of his death, control maybe transferred to a person or entity that he designates as his successor."Expect the corporate governance people to lose it over this at some stage.A lot of people are going to get very richNo price has been set for the company yet, but estimates are ranging between $75bn and $100bn. At the top end of that range, Zuckerberg's stake is worth $28bn, equivalent to the gross domestic product of North Korea.James Breyer, a Facebook board member and a partner at Accel Partner, Facebook's largest investors, stands to make a fortune. Accel owns 11.4%. Dustin Moskovitz, Facebook's co-founder and former chief technology officer, has 7.6%. Yuri Milner, the Russian tycoon behind investor DST Global, will also increase his billions, since DST owns a 5.5% stake.Peter Thiel, legendary Silicon Valley investor and co-founder of PayPal, owns a 2.5% stake, and since he reportedly paid $500,000 for it in 2004, it's now potentially worth $2.5bn. Bono's Elevation Partners has a 1.5% stake. Chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg has less than 1%, so she may get less than $1bn. But she did earn $300m last year in shares and salary.Graffiti artist David Choe, who chose to take shares in Facebook over cash for painting the social network's Palo Alto headquarters in 2005, walked away with stock that is likely to be worth about $200m.Even the losers are winnersEduardo Saverin, Zuckerberg's early partner at Harvard who was depicted as having been cheated out of his share of the company in the film The Social Network, does not own more than 5% of Facebook – his holding was not listed in yesterday's documents – but he is still likely walk away with a fortune."What a ride," he tweeted on Wednesday.Eventhe Winklevoss twins, Zuckerberg's mortal enemies, come away winners. They hold 1.2m shares from a court settlement over their claims that Zuckerberg stole their idea. Those shares are now potentially worth $300m.But you won't make any money any time soonFor one thing, Facebook shares won't begin publicly trading for several months, because the SEC needs to assess the validity of a potential IPO. But even once trading begins, getting in on the action is a long shot, and for retail investors (ie the man in the street) odds are you will have to buy when the price has already spiked.It's the cash, stupidThe biggest reason for any IPO. Facebook only has $3.9bn in cash right now, a paltry sum if it's looking to strong-arm competitors like Google, which has cash and short term investments of close to $45bn. The documents talk a lot about mobile – a fast growing area for Facebook.Analysts expect that Facebookwill use the cash to improve its mobile site, make acquisitions, and roll out new features.Then there's the fact that Facebook's investor base is growing. Federal law mandates companies with more than 500 investors and $10m in assets to disclose quarterly financial results and certain other information.So, basically, they had no choice. Poor dears.
DesignerKen Rolstonmakes epics and little else. They won't know the name but even the most casual RPG players will be familiar with his work. We have Rolston and his team to thank for two of the best – and by far the biggest – role-playing games of the past decade: 2002's colossal Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind and its titanic big brother Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the forebears of last year's utterly gargantuanSkyrim.It was Rolston who led the design team behind the vast volcanic wastes of Morrowind's Vardenfell and the sprawling, panoramic province of Cyrodiil in Oblivion. Each, for the uninitiated, was a playground for adventurers so enormous you could wander its hills and dales for months, exploring every damp cave, quiet village and ancient ruin and still, six months later, stumble upon a hidden dungeon that only one player in 100 or more would ever find.Neither was a mere rambler's paradise, either: each overflowed with quests, cultures and characters. In Morrowind, the player could lose days pursuing the life of a blacksmith or an alchemist, a slaver or freedom fighter, religious zealot or masked assassin. Whole weekends could vanish in the service of a noble house of conniving giant-mushroom-dwelling mages. One estimate puts Morrowind's in-game literature at six novels' worth of reading. In real-world terms, creating a game such as Morrowind or Oblivion is an achievement roughly akin to building the county of Lincolnshire from scratch. And he's just done it again.Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning(PS3/Xbox 360/PC) – out in Europe on 10 February – takes place in the brave new fantasy world ofAmalur, created specifically for the game by author RA&nbsp;Salvatore and Spawn creatorTodd McFarlane, and entrusted to Rolston to bring to kicking, screaming, three-dimensional life. Having managed to get my hands on the game, albeit briefly, I&nbsp;can safely say he hasn't lost his touch.Reckoning occupies a space somewhere between the Elder Scrolls games and Fable, leaning perhaps a little more towards the latter. The former's trademark open-ended adventuring has been artfully combined with Fable's fast-paced, action-gamer-friendly combat, full of acrobatic leaps, evasive rolls and special attacks. The opening sequence even culminates in a good old-fashioned boss battle, of the learn-the-pattern, exploit, rinse, repeat style.In more ways than one, in fact,Reckoningis steadfastly traditional. The setting is high fantasy, in essence, with a spiritual tint, but peopled by familiar friends and foes: the Dokkalfar and Ljosalfar races are elves by any other name, and the gnomes and kobolds haven't even been rechristened. Not that I'm complaining: with elves that sound like Icelandic volcanos I'd argue sticking to "gnome" is probably a step in the right direction.In its story too, Reckoning looks to be a fairly standard hero's saga: you begin the game dead, only to awake in a pile of corpses, having somehow been returned to life by the influence of a gnome's green fountain – not a euphemism. Naturally, before you can ask all the obvious questions, the fountain is&nbsp;attacked by an army of fiends. Unperturbed, you hoist a sword that some idiot has left lying about and carve a path through your foes to daylight, where some wise old guy who will probably die in a bit informs you you are now the Fateless One – a hero who has cast off the bonds of destiny, and holds the power to shape the future of the world. So far, soliterallyanyRPG.But the story is allowed to be generic, of course. Supposed to be, even, and if,&nbsp;like me, you are a vicarious gaming narcissist, it's the character creation screen that matters more than the adventure that awaits. Reckoning is simple but effective. Gone arethe sliders for "chin depth", "ear height" and "left nostril size"of Mass Effect and Fallout 3. Instead, after selecting their race and gender, the player chooses from just a handful of basic faces, augmented with facial hair, tattoos and piercings.It is in its in-game character development that Reckoning looks likely to excel, with a real freedom to pick and choose your skills as you advance, rather than – as in, say, Dragon Age – locking in to fighter, mage or rogue from day one. The game can be played as a robe-wearing swordsman, a clanking armoured wizard or a stealthy magic chakram-hurling killer, and the many and varied weapons and armours ensure your hero looks satisfyingly bad-ass from the moment you lift a blade. It is, after all, about playing a role; costume helps.
So is Facebook worth it? After a fevered day and evening reading the S-1 document filed with the US securities and exchange commission (SEC) – an event that proved so popular online that the SEC had to devote an extra server to handling demand – the answer seems to be that it's not worth $100bn (£63bn), but it might be worth $75bn.The other message from the filing was that it is a robust business. Facebook hit its stride in 2009, when revenues grew from $272m to $777m, and a $56m net loss was flipped into a $229m net profit. Since then it has roared ahead, gathering users rapidly, and the number of people on Facebook rose 39% to 845m worldwide at the end of 2011.For some, the idea that Facebook could be worth even $75bn is laughable. People are "going to probably be overpaying by a third because of the optimism related to just the name," said Michael Yoshikami, chief executive of YCMNET Advisors, a California-based wealth management firm."The numbers justify maybe $50bn," he said. The company's revenue growth rate – up roughly 88% over 2011, though it slowed between the first quarter and the fourth – would justify a $65bn valuation, Yoshikami noted, far short of the $75bn-$100bn the company is said to be looking for.Facebook revealed a host of data, as it is obliged to, as it seeks to raise about $5bn on the stock market. Its members use more than 70 languages. An almost incredible 57% of users – 480m people – log in every day.Analysts say it can't continue: "The hypergrowth is probably over," said Michael Pachter, head of research in the private shares group at Wedbush Securities. "The low-hanging fruit of the western developed world" has already been grabbed, he said. "It's just kind of obvious that they're not going to ever get every single person that lives on the planet."But if Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder and chief executive, does harbour ambitions to reach everyone, then he will need to get them via mobile phones and that presents both an opportunity and a threat – because Facebook does not yet have a means of carrying advertising to those people. If it can start making money off mobile users, through its targeted advertising, it could grow very quickly.Advertising is key to Facebook's business, accounting for about 85% of revenues, with almost all the rest coming from Zynga, the maker of games such as Farmville.The price of Facebook shares has not yet been set – that will emerge from talks with bankers keen to underwrite its offering – but some facts have become clear.Mark Zuckerberg will become a multi-billionaire, with his 28% stake worth up to $28bn. But he will control 57% of the voting stock through a two-tier system which UK investors would never allow.The former Wall Street internet stock analyst Henry Blodget, now running his own news site Business Insider, calculates  thatFacebook – which he calls "an awesome business" – is worth $75bn.Blodget compares it to Google (which was about the same size, in revenue terms, when it filed its S-1 in 2004) and Apple. He notes it is growing "much faster than Google and a little bit faster than Apple – which is an extraordinary comment on Apple. So Facebook should trade at a significantly higher price/earnings ratio than either."Some analysts believe that Facebook's reliance on advertising is a weakness. "I worry that the billions of dollars of revenue that they generated last year aren't as solid as they need to be, because the advertisers who spent the money aren't as thrilled with the results they got for it," said Nate Elliott, an analyst with Forrester Research.And Facebook is now wandering among giants – with one in particular eager to crush it. Google's annual revenues in 2010 were $38bn, ten times larger than Facebook's, and almost all of that comes from advertising. Google is setting up its own social network, Google+, and trying to tempt people away from Facebook through come-ons in its search results in the US which have pushed Facebook results down.Google is also trying to formulate a coherent mobile strategy that will make as much money from mobile as the desktop PC. So far it hasn't achieved it, but the struggle between Facebook and Google may be one of the defining issues of the next few years.
Shares in the social games firm Zynga have soaredafter Facebook revealed in its $5bn initial public offering filingthat the Farmville maker accounts for up to 12% of its total revenue.Investor appetite in Zynga peaked in early trading on Thursday, sending the company's shares price soaring 16% to $12.60 – the highest it has been since it went public in December.Virtual goods, bought through hugely popular Zynga games such as CityVille or Mafia Wars, accounted for 12% ($445m) of Facebook's $3.71bn revenue for 2011, according todocumentsfiled by the social network with the US financial regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission, late on Wednesday.FarmVille, one of the most popular games on Facebook, allows users to harvest a virtual farm by planting and growing crops, trees and livestock. New gamers are given virtual coins to set up their farm, and revenue from matured crops can be used to maintain it. But gamers who are eager to progress can buy extra virtual coins using real cash.Zynga made its New York stock market debut in December, but expectations failed to live up the hype as the shares enjoyed a brief rise before dropping below their initial pricing of $10 a share.The company, which claims 60 million people a day play its games, has a market cap of $8.59bn – a fraction of the potential $100bn valuation on Mark Zuckerberg's social network.Although Zynga has enjoyed huge success on the back of its Facebook games – the four-year-old company reported a net income of $31m in the first nine months of last year – little had been known about its importance to Facebook's fortunes. Facebook revealed on Wednesday that 97% of its total revenue is generated by Zynga or advertising."If the use of Zynga games on our Platform declines, if Zynga launches games on or migrates games to competing platforms, or if we fail to maintain good relations with Zynga, we may lose Zynga as a significant Platform developer and our financial results may be adversely affected," Facebook said in its SEC filing.Facebook said that less than 10% of its total revenue in 2010 and 2009 came from Zynga. Facebook keeps 30% of user payment made through Zynga.The social network said that social gaming apps built by developers – "particularly Zynga" – generate "substantially all" of its revenue from its payments platform.
Brooding psychological horror adventure Alan Wake is coming to PC. Swedish publisher Nordic Games has bought the platform rights to the title, and is launching it on Steam on 16 February with other digital download platforms to follow.Developed by Max Payne creator Remedy Entertainment and originally released on the Xbox 360 in 2010, the game follows the eponymous author as he arrives in a remote Washington village to get over a vicious bout of writer's block. However, it soon becomes clear that the town is under the influence of an evil presence and Wake must fight to save himself and his wife from the encroaching darkess.The title was a critical success on its original release and gained a stong cult following. While initial sales were modest, a successful digital release for the game on Xbox has earned it a larger audience. The new PC version has been enhanced in key areas, with higher resolution visuals, mouse and keyboard support, the ability to hide the HUD and compatability with the AMD Eyefinity and Nvidia Nvision 3D modes."We've done our best to do justice to the PC version and do things the way they should be done for PC," said Markus Mäki, CTO at Remedy. "The PC version looks absolutely beautiful. We're bringing the game to life in a whole new way."And this isn't the only good news for Wake fans. The Xbox Live Arcade spin-off, Alan Wake's American Nightmare, will be launched on 15 February. This side-story to the original game sees the character seemingly stuck in one of his earlier crime scripts.
The Winklevoss twins have been blasted by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, portrayed as pompous sore losers by Hollywood, and described as "assholes" by a former US Treasury secretary. But it looks like they are about to have the last laugh; a laugh perhaps worth $300m.Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, former Olympic rowers and identical twins, have consistently claimed that Zuckerberg stole the idea for Facebook from them. But thanks to a 2008 settlement, they are now in line for a share in the company's fortunes.Facebook on Wednesday announced that it plans to go publicin an initial public offering (IPO) that could value the company at $100bn. The twins are believed to have been given 1.2m shares to settle their claim, which could now be worth $300m.Quite whether it will be compensation enough is difficult to tell. Last year the Winklevosses disputed the settlement and asked for more money, but their claim was dismissed. The fiercely competitive twins' share in the Facebook fortune is a tiny fraction compared to the potential $28bn Zuckerberg could be worth thanks to his 28% stake in the firm.Nor will it expunge their portrayal in David Fincher's hit movie The Social Network. The twins originally hired Zuckerberg to work on a dating site for them while at Harvard. When they fell out with him over the creation of Facebook, the twins tried to get former US Treasury secretary Larry Summers, then Harvard president, to intervene.Asked about the dispute last year, Summers said: "One of the things you learn as a college president is that if an undergraduate is wearing a tie and jacket on Thursday afternoon at three o'clock, there are two possibilities. One is that they're looking for a job and have an interview; the other is that they are an asshole. This was the latter case."
Mobile advertising networkMojivahas published some startling numbers about its growth, claiming that its network reaches more than 1bn devices a month, notching up 45bn monthly ad requests between them.The company is one of the independent firms challenging the in-house ad networks of Apple and Google. Mojiva says it now has more than 8,000 publishers and apps on its network, which is reaching well beyond its US homeland.In fact, Mojiva says 224m of its unique monthly devices are in the US, but Europe is growing fast with more than 64m – with 33m of those in the UK. These figures are from December 2011, incidentally."We've worked extremely hard to grow our footprint for marketers in the UK and Europe in the last year," chief executive Dave Gwozdz tells The Guardian."The tens of millions of unique devices reached per month in the region is indicative of the our commitment to being a global leader."We talked to Gwozdz to find out more about Mojiva's business, and the mobile advertising trends that it has identified as important to its current growth."We see a ton of growth in the app environment, particularly Android and iPhone," he said. "We keep hearing about some of the others doing better, but not necessarily gaining ground in market share. All the app environments seem to be growing at a good clip though."Mojiva is currently investing significantly in analytics tools for its developer and app partners, to help them understand not just how people are clicking on ads in their apps, but how they are using the apps themselves.The company is also continuing its global expansion beyond Europe to Asia, where it's opening an office in Singapore and mulling a joint venture in China. The latter is a fascinating market for apps and mobile advertising."Fascinating, but scary," says Gwozdz. "There are hundreds of millions of feature phones, but Chinese consumers are quick adopters. And the size of the three main mobile operators there dwarfs the operators anywhere else. There's a lot going on."While mobile phones currently account for most of Mojiva's business on the ad network side – it also has an ad serving business with customers including Skype, Microsoft and Flirtomatic - Gwozdz says tablets are an increasingly interesting market for the company."You can't underestimate the energy around tablets, it's incredible, and we have a lot of demand for reaching tablet users through advertising," he says."Tablet sales continue to explode, and hopefully Samsung or one of these other guys will come out with some competitive tablets to make this more than just an iPad race."
Nokia retained its title as the world's biggest mobile phone vendor in both the fourth quarter and the whole of 2011, according to preliminary figures from research company, which puts Samsung and Apple second and third behind it.Overall, the world mobile phone market grew by 6.1% year-on-year in the fourth quarter, faster than analysts had expected but not as fast as in the third quarter - and less quickly than overall growth for the year, which was 11.1%, IDC said. Overall market growth fell to its lowest point since the third quarter of 2009, when the global economic recession was deepest. But IDC expects that double-digit growth will return in future years.Featurephone shipments still make up the majority of world shipments, but cheap smartphones - such as sub-$200 Android handsets - are beginning to make inroads in areas such as South America, said Ramon Llamas, IDC's senior research analyst for mobile phones.China saw particular competition in the smartphone market, with midrange vendors such as Coolpad, Lenovo and Huawei competing for the market.Western Europe declined as a market as featurephone sales dropped while smartphones didn't make up the difference - marking lower economic demand overall.North America saw strong growth in smartphones, as did Latin America - although in the latter, cheap featurephones still rule the market, IDC said.Nokia and Samsung retained their positions as the No.1 and No.2 handset vendors, but Samsung narrowed the gap substantially, increasing handset sales by 17.6% while Nokia's fell 7.9%.World mobile phone sales by vendor 2009-2011. Source: IDCApple rose from fifth to third in the world rankings, despite only selling smartphones, as it almost doubled the number of handsets shipped. LG Electronics, a Korean rival to Samsung, dropped precipitately by 24.5%, the largest fall among the big manufacturers, from third to fourth place. China's ZTE showed solid growth of 30.9% to ship 66.1m handsets, but slipped from fourth to fifth place.Q4 2011 mobile handset vendor revenue share: units sold v average selling price. Bubble size indicates revenue. Source: Benedict Evans. Used with permission.But while the absolute numbers indicate growth in the market, sheer numbers do not necessarily indicate who is making the money. Benedict Evans, an analyst with the research company Enders Analysis, suggests that despite selling far fewer handsets than Nokia or Samsung, Apple generated far more revenue than either during the fourth quarter by virtue of its handsets' high average selling price (ASP). While Samsung does not release detailed figures for its mobile division, the information can be inferred from its results. He comments that there is a "very striking polarisation between Apple on one hand and Nokia/Samsung on the other. It is equally clear that most of the other smartphone/Android players [such as HTC and ZTE] are pretty sub-scale."
One of the drives in my Dell Studio laptop has been determined to be faulty (although it seems to work fine, it will not pass a maintenance test). Dell has sent me a replacement drive, under warranty. How can I replace this drive and keep Windows 7 and all my operating programs as an image so that I can remove the faulty drive and replace it with the new one? I already have a 149GB external drive, but I would have to reformat it to copy the laptop data to the drive. What is the safest way for a novice such as myself? Should I take my PC to a computer repair tech and spend 100 bucks or so?Dennis FornesThis is a relatively simple process with Microsoft Windows 7 because it already includes Windows Backup to do the job. Also, as you appreciate, you can do it by storing the original disk image on your 149GB external hard drive (EHD). However, I'd guess this is a few years old now, so you might prefer to invest in a new terabyte drive instead. You don't say how big your laptop's drives are, but they could be 320GB or 500GB each, so you'll eventually need a 1TB or larger drive for backups.Either way, you will need something with enough space to back up your original drive. An EHD is probably the simplest option, though I'll suggest a couple of cheaper alternatives below. You will also need a blank DVD or CD to create a System Repair disc.To begin, plug in the EHD and use Windows 7's search to find "Backup or restore your files" in the Control Panel utility. All you have to do is click the top left menu item – "Create a system image" – and a wizard will take you through the process. The wizard should find the EHD, so you just have to click Next.The wizard will now tell you what it is going to back up. Usually it will only back up the system drive (C:), which is the point of the exercise. I suspect that your Dell laptop also has a hidden partition to enable you to return the machine to its factory condition (ie by overwriting the C: drive with a fresh copy of the operating system). If so, the wizard should show that it is backing up both partitions. If it doesn't, follow Dell's instructions to make recovery discs, if you have not done this already. After that, click the button labelled "Start Backup" and wait an hour or probably more for it to finish.Once the backup is complete, the wizard will prompt you to "Create a system repair disc" on a DVD. This is the disc that you will use to restart your PC.The next step is to remove the old hard disk drive and replace it with the new one. This involves unplugging the laptop, removing the battery, then unscrewing and lifting off the bottom of the case. The drive that you need to replace should be the one in the corner in a Dell Studio, not the one in the middle, but I hope Dell has included the location in its fitting instructions. (Most laptops only have one drive so it's rarely a problem.)Assuming Dell has provided a raw drive, you will need to remove old drive from its caddy and replace it with the new one. You will also need to pull the SATA connector from the front of the old drive and push it into the opening in the front of the new one. (It only goes one way.)Electronic parts are susceptible to damage from electrostatic shocks, so you must make sure you are not carrying a charge. Technicians are expected to wear anantistatic wrist strap, and it is a good idea, though I've never bothered.When you have re-assembled your laptop and plugged in your EHD, start it using the system repair disc. Select the option that says: "Restore your computer using a system image you created earlier" and click Next. Again, the wizard should find the disk image and copy it to the empty drive. When it has finished, your laptop will reboot and everything should be exactly as it was before, except on a new drive.Presumably, your new C: drive has the same capacity as the old drive. If you were swapping, say, a 350GB drive for a 500GB drive then you would find Windows 7 had created another 350GB drive. You would have to run Windows' Disk Management utility, select C: and choose Extend Volume to make C: take up the unallocated space (roughly 150GB in this case).At the beginning, I suggested buying a new terabyte EHD. There are two alternatives. The first is to buy a cheaphard drive enclosurefor a 2.5in SATA drive. An external hard drive is basically just an ordinary internal hard drive inside a small box. You already have a 2.5in hard drive from Dell, so you would just be buying a box to put it in. In this case, you'd simply clone the internal drive to the external one (in the enclosure) then swap the drives over.The second alternative is to replace the second drive in your laptop (probably D:) with the new drive, then clone the C: drive to your new D: drive. Once that's done, you can move the D: drive to C:, then put the old D: drive back in the second slot. This is what we used to do in desktop PCs, where it was just a matter of swapping ribbon cable connections. I have not tried this with Windows 7 but I assume it will automatically recognise the drives and not throw the kind of hissy fit that sometimes happened with DOS-based versions of Windows.If you don't have to return the old (faulty) drive to Dell, then wrap it in the new drive's packaging and keep it as an extra back up. If you do have to send it to Dell, then you can load it into the external enclosure and securely erase it usingHeidi's Eraser. This will help prevent your personal information from getting into someone else's hands.Incidentally, before you start the cloning procedure, it might be worth running the freeCCleanerto clear out Temporary Internet Files, cookies and other unwanted files. Just make sure you have all the IDs and passwords that you need for any websites that use cookies for identification. Using CCleaner can avoid backing up and restoring loads of junk files.The procedure for people still stuck on Windows XP is much the same, but the "ghost" utility is not built in. Instead, use one of the programs that can create a disk image, such asAcronis True Image Home 2012(which makes a bootable image, offers continuous backup, and can synchronise data on different computers). Free alternatives includeRuntime's DriveImage XML(free for personal use),Easeus Todo Backup FreeandParagon Backup &amp; Recovery 2012.
The Science Museum has launched a suite of online games designed to raise questions about the future of medicine, robotics and technology. Developed as part of theTalk Scienceprogramme, which was initiated to encourage discussion of science in schools, the 'Futurecade' features four titles exploring areas such as geo-engineering and synthetic biology.In Batco-Lab, players must engineer E.coli bacteria to make useful products, while ensuring that no harmful mutant bacteria are accidentally unleashed on the world. Cloud Control, meanwhile, allows participants to guide Flettner ships which brighten clouds so they reflect sunlight and lower the Earth's temperature.The titles have been designed by Bafta-winning studioPreloaded, which has previously worked on educational games for Channel 4 and the Wellcome Trust. The design team worked with scientists and specialists in order to ensure the games raised relevant questions about the technologies and how they may impact on humanity, allowing students to form their own opinions on emerging scientific issues."Experts were involved from the outset of the project," says creative director, Phil Stuart. "Our discussions were handled by the Talk Science team at the Science Museum, many of whom are scientists in their own right. They led the content and Preloaded led the game design, which is pretty common on many of our educationally-motivated games."There is always a healthy tension between maintaining the scientific accuracy and letting the game design evolve naturally. Game design is extremely hard. Balancing fun, jeopardy, score systems, and controls is a challenge in itself. Add the hard 'n' fast educational objectives – the unchangeable rules in your game system – and it can get very tricky. But the process went very smoothly."According to Stuart, another key aim has been to highlight both the potential of new scientific endeavoursandthe risks. "The idea of engineering cells to make stuff for us or to combat diseases and epidemics has huge potential, but it's an untested and experimental technique with unknown consequences. Batco-Lab attempts to capture this sense of excitement but also highlight the possible dangers to provoke further debate."The games can be played at the dedicatedFuturecade site.
Facebook's$5bn IPO filinghas set the internet alight with analysis and speculation about the social network's business, not least because there are finally some hard, official facts to work with. That includes the company's mobile success so far, and possible plans for the future.The topline figures are impressive. In December 2011, Facebook had more than 425m monthly active mobile users – people logging in from the company's apps and mobile website. That is just over half of its 845m monthly active users overall.Mobile is fuelling Facebook's growth in users and usage, but this presents a challenge for the company, as theS-1 filing makes clear: "We are actively seeking to grow mobile usage, although such usage does not currently directly generate any meaningful revenue," it explains.Why not? No ads. 85% of Facebook's $3.7bn revenues in 2011 came from advertising, and those ads were all on its website. Facebook's advertising strategy has, as yet, not made the leap from web to mobile.The company outlines the risk that this poses to its business in the S-1 document. "Growth in use of Facebook through our mobile products, where we do not currently display ads, as a substitute for use on personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and financial results," explains the filing.There are direct and indirect revenues here, of course. If mobile helps Facebook sign up more users who then also access the social network on their computers, then it is still making money from them. The risk comes if more of them stay mobile-only."Although the substantial majority of our mobile users also access and engage with Facebook on personal computers where we display advertising, our users could decide to increasingly access our products primarily through mobile devices."Facebook hints at its plans in a section of the S-1 filing that outlines the growth of the mobile advertising market, citing an "industry source" as predicting that global mobile ad revenues will grow from $1.5bn in 2010 to $17.6bn in 2015."We currently do not show ads or directly generate any meaningful revenue from users accessing Facebook through our mobile products, but we believe that we may have potential future monetization opportunities such as the inclusion of sponsored stories in users' mobile News Feeds."Facebook's problem is that its 425m active mobile users have got used to life without ads on the company's apps and mobile site. Introducing sponsored stories will have to be done sensitively. Pencil that user backlash in for later in 2012 or early 2013, then.The S-1 filing outlines another way in which mobile provides a risk factor for Facebook's future growth – its ability to maintain good relations with OS platform owners like Apple and Google."We are dependent on the interoperability of Facebook with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android and iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade our products' functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect Facebook usage on mobile devices," notes the filing.Facebook will be watching Google's strategy with Android and its Google+ social network like a hawk, then, as well as any further moves by Apple into the social networking space, beyond its agreement to integrate Twitter into its iOS 5 software.
A selection of 21 new apps for you today:LongformiPad app Longform is a bit like a Flipboard for longer articles. It aggregates longform journalism from magazines and websites around the world, then slaps them into a tablet-friendly interface, complete with offline mode.iPadEverpixThe latest hotly-tipped cloud service is Everpix, which focuses on photos. It automatically uploads shots from your iPhone Camera Roll, while also fetching others from Facebook, Instagram and Flickr. "View, rediscover, and share your best photos all in one place, effortlessly," promises the App Store listing.iPhoneNorton Safety MinderThe rush of security firms onto Android continues, with Norton launching Safety Minder, which encourages parents to "know your kids' smartphone habits and help protect them from threats". It sounds frankly a little creepy in places though. "See whom your kids text with and what they say, choose whom they can exchange messages with, view all the apps installed on their smartphone, and more..."AndroidChopsticks NovelPenguin's latest book-app describes itself as "a breathtaking cohesion of images, songs, videos, letters, love and loss", offering the tale of a romance between piano prodigy Glory and her neighbour Frank.iPhone / iPadDream PetHouseZynga's latest iOS social game focuses on animals, as you build a treehouse to keep an array of digital pets happy. Warning, includes in-app chipmunks.iPhone / iPadVimeoVideo site Vimeo has launched an official app for Windows Phone, redesigned for Microsoft's Metro interface. Users can watch videos, add them to their queue, and upload their own footage from their smartphone.Windows PhonePocketstockThis is interesting: a stock photo agency allowing people to shoot and upload photographs directly from their iPhone, via it's app. Users need an account with the Pocketstock website first, though.iPhoneCornered! App EditionHorror film Cornered! has been launched as an iOS app, offering five minutes of footage for free, and an in-app purchase option to unlock the full movie as a stream or a download. Extras include posters, film-set blueprints and production photos.iPhone / iPadTunnel for iPadAn iPad book-app all about tunnels? Why not? It's the work of Japanese engineering photographer Hoichi Nishiyama, based on a print book published in 2005. 56 hi-res shots of tunnels and related machinery, soundtracked by dub-techno artist Mystica Tribe.iPadFly With MeEA makes its bid for the Tiny Wings crowd with new title Fly With Me, which was apparently dreamt up by a team of four people in its EALA studio.iPhoneSaboriman: The Lazy SalarymanMore fun from Japan with this English language-learning app, with its cartoon hero an idle office-worker. The idea: Saboriman's daily life teaches key English vocabulary and phrases, with plenty of humour along the way.iPhoneDr. Seuss Beginner Book Collection #1Oceanhouse Media's latest Dr. Seuss book-app bundles five stories together, including The Cat in the Hat, One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish, and Mr. Brown can MOO! Can You?iPhone / iPadMagic: The Gathering ToolboxCard game Magic: The Gathering has oodles of unofficial apps on iPhone, but this one comes from the game's publisher Wizards of the Coast. It's a companion app for the main game, not a standalone title or conversion. "Track game state, search cards, build decks, read articles, learn about events, and more..."iPhoneWalking HeadsAudio tour startup Walking Heads has launched an iPhone and Android app providing a guide to Glasgow's musical history. Radio DJ Jim Gellatly provides the voice narration for a tour of the city's venues and musical hotspots.Android / iPhoneLimahl 198380s popster Limahl has a new iPhone app, although it's harking back to his glory days. Limahl 1983 is based on his new single of the same name.iPhone / iPadCyworld (Global)Social network Cyworld is hugely popular in its native South Korea. Now it has a global Android app so the rest of the world can get a peek, with a news feed, club and photo-sharing features.AndroidGhost Trick: Phantom DetectivePopular Nintendo DS game Ghost Trick makes the leap to iOS, with Capcom's conversion continuing the original's ghoulish action. It's a free download initially, but the game is split into chapters, with some available as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadJigsaw Mansion 2Social games publisher Mindjolt SGN has launched its latest iOS game, a sequel to Jigsaw Mansion. It offers traditional-puzzle solving action, including the ability to turn your own photos into digital jigsaws to be shared with friends.iPhone / iPadReckless Racing 2Well-received iOS driving game Reckless Racing gets a sequel, with a top-down perspective and detailed career mode complementing online multiplayer races.iPhone / iPadInstaCamThis unofficial Instagram client for Windows Phones lets you sign in and view photos from your Instagram buddies, although as far as we can tell, you can't upload your own. However, there are Instagram-style filters to apply to your pics and then share them on Twitter and Facebook separately.Windows PhoneKimi Raikkonen ICEONE RacingF1 driver Kimi Raikkonen? There's an app for him: a 3D racing game by 24MAS that sees you driving in a bunch of different vehicles on tracks around the world.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUse Kinect to teach anatomy? It's a 'Mirracle'! &gt;&gt; CNET Health TechSimply brilliant:"Kinect hacks have been used for many a grand feat, from a tool that helps the blind navigate more easily to hands-free questing in World of Warcraft and virtual cat brushing. The Mirracle system projects a CT image onto the user's reflection to give the illusion of seeing inside one's own body. So why not integrate the powers of Microsoft Kinect with a mirror to teach such subjects as basic anatomy?Maybe they could make it into a revision game for the Xbox 360?Google to give closed-door briefing on user policy changes &gt;&gt; USA TodayTo the US Congress. And Larry Page, the chief executive, can't make it. We await his first public appearance in front of Congress, or a similar public forum. And - behind closed doors? For the public privacy policy?The Register Comments Guidelines, 2012 &gt;&gt; The RegisterWe never knew that El Reg had a moderation team. The policy there looks pretty much exactly like the one here, except that new commenters get put in a "might sin" bin before being allowed to play with the big kids.Why Android will gain HUGE tablet marketshare later this year &gt;&gt; ScobleizerNo, not 2012. This is from June 2011:I finally had someone explain to me why Android will gain huge marketshare this year in the large-screen tablet wars (aka where iPad is dominant). It took USA's #1 TV manufacturer, Vizio, to do it. Why didn't Google have them on stage to show this off a few weeks back at Google IO?Vizio didn't figure in Android tablet sales for 2011 in any research we have seen.The World's first computer password? It was useless too &gt;&gt; Wired.comThis may not come as a surprise. But it goes back a long way.Windows Phone switchers try a week away from iOS, Android and BlackBerry &gt;&gt; Laptop MagThree people who usually use those bigger (in terms of sales) platforms try a week on Windows Phones devices. As it's the US, none is a Nokia one. The common response from the iOS and Android user: the apps don't match up. The BlackBerry user seemed impressed, though.First Look: Final Cut Pro X 10.0.3 restores professional features; adds notable new ones &gt;&gt; MacworldThe latest update adds functionality:Videographers were promised from the introduction of FCP X that in the near future we would once again be able to edit a multi-camera project, and Apple has delivered. With up to 64 active camera angles available, FCP X may actually shake the industry to its core with that level of multicam facility in the basic editing package. This means that you can actively edit more cameras than I have ever heard of being used for any multicam project, with the possible exception of the Super Bowl or, perhaps the bullet-time for The Matrix.However, what's completely mystifying is why Apple released a not-good-enough initial version in June 2011, rather than waiting until it had everything it needed. It has lost clients - will this really get them back? (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Facebook's S-1 fillingis a huge document consisting of thousands and thousands of words - many of them just standard regulatory warnings to anyone who might be thinking about putting their money into the company. But it also contains many hints about how Facebook is going to be organised, how smoothly (or not) it runs, who will be in charge, and what its future looks like. In no particular order, here are the things to know about Facebook.•It isextremelyprofitable.In 2011, it brought in revenues of $3.7bn and had an operating income (the profit after you subtract day-to-day costs, but before taxes) of $1.7bn. Its net income for that year was $1bn - giving it a 27% net margin. For comparison, most physical businesses have net margins of between 5% - 10%.•The Like button - and user growth - turned loss into profit.In 2009 Facebook flipped from loss to profit, and the introduction of the Like button that February helped to target advertising.•Mark Zuckerberg will remain in charge.The shares will be split into "A" and "B" shares, in which the latter get 10 votes per share, and the former get one. Zuckerberg presently owns around 28.2% of the share capital, so that will (on conversion) give him majority control of the votes.•Active user numbers are still growing fast:at the end of 2011 had 845 million active users, up 39% from the same time in 2010.•Facebook depends on advertising, but less of its revenue comes from that. The proportion of revenue from advertising in 2009, 2010 and 2011 was, respectively, 98%, 95% and 85% of revenue. The rest comes from in-app purchases such as in games like Zynga's Farmville. Speaking of which…•Zynga is an important partner.In 2011, 12% of Facebook's revenue came from it (so between advertising and Zynga, that's 97% of revenues.) So much so that Zynga gets a special mention: "If the use of Zynga games on our Platform declines, if Zynga launches games on or migrates games to competing platforms, or if we fail to maintain good relations with Zynga, we may lose Zynga as a significant Platform developer and our financial results may be adversely affected."•The rate of growth is expected to decline.That's not surprising given how rapidly it has grown - 154% from 2009 to 2010, but only 88% from 2010 to 2011.•2009 is the year when everything clicked into place.In the years up to that point, as recorded on the S-1, revenues were small compared to costs (which aren't broken down, but consist of activities such as running the site and getting advertising sales). But in 2009, it broke through: from 2008 to 2009, revenues grew from $272m to $777m, almost tripling, but other costs only doubled. Result, profit.•Facebook's revenues for 2011 are about the same as Google's were in 2004, when it filed its S-1. But its profitability is much higher.•Mobile is, potentially, the Achilles heel.Right now there aren't any adverts in the mobile version of the site, but more and more people are accessing the site via mobile - 425 million monthly active users in December 2011. As the filing notes, "our revenue may be negatively affected unless and until we include ads or sponsored stories on our mobile apps and mobile website. We believe that people around the world will continue to increase their use of Facebook from mobile devices, and that some of this mobile usage has been and will continue to be a substitute for use of Facebook through personal computers."•Privacy only gets passing mentions.It doesn't have its own section with any warnings about what might happen if people get itchy.•There are lots of rivals, especially in China.Facebook wants to get into that country, but notes there are already rivals such as Renren, Sina and Tencent established there. Russia and Korea and Japan also have entrenched social networking rivals.•We don't know exactly what the offer share price is going to be yet.That has yet to be worked out with banks.•It has started building its own data centres.The amount of investment isn't detailed, but it does say that "In 2011, we began serving our products from data centers owned by Facebook using servers specifically designed for us." We would like to know more about who's building the servers - does Facebook roll its own, like Google?•The only "key personnel" named are Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer.•Lots of Facebook employees who have been there a while are going to be very rich. This isn't surprising, but there are 138m shares that have been issued to them for $0.83. At an expected price of around $45, that's almost $6.2bn of pure profit for all those staff.What else have we missed? Let us know in the comments.
It's Thursday. How are things going?
MPs have urged the UK government to launch a major publicity campaign to help people protect themselves from online crime.Simple security precautions could thwart around 80% of cyber attacks, but advice on preventing them was often too full of jargon for people to understand, the MPs said.They called on ministers to raise awareness of online security through a sustained media campaign, television adverts and revamped websites that provide information in plain English.Ina report by the Commons science and technology committee, Malware and Cyber Crime, MPs also called for police officers to be better trained to help victims of online attacks.The Cost of Cyber Crimereport published by the Cabinet Office last year put the costs to private computer users at £1.7bn for identity theft, £1.4bn for online scams and £30m for "scareware", where criminals mislead people into downloading harmful software onto their computers."The overwhelming message from those who gave evidence to us was that there is a need for computer users to be better informed. Those using the internet need to be aware of the potential risk and have a trusted source of authoritative advice and up to date information about malware and internet scams," the new report states.The government already sponsors a website calledGet Safe Online, but MPs said too few people knew about it and that the site required substantial investment and improvement. The site should include information that covers all devices that can connect to the internet, and have dedicated pages for the police to give advice to the public, and gather information on cybercrimes."Government departments need to realise that better public information about computer safety could save huge numbers of people the hassle of having their personal details stolen," saidAndrew Miller, who chairs the committee."Knowledge is the best defence against fear, so the government should focus on raising awareness of how to stay safe online, rather than scaring people about the dangers of cybercrime," Miller added.The MPs said that computer users should learn how to be safe online rather than become reliant on anti-virus software to protect them from cybercrimes.Richard Clayton, a computer security expert at Cambridge University, told the inquiry of a case where 24 hours after criminals finished deploying a virus, only 11 anti-virus products on the market recognised it as malicious.The report adds that government should consider imposing statutory safety standards on software if the industry proves unable to introduce tight enough regulations of its own.
Status update: going public. Valuation up to $100bn.It started in a single Harvard dorm room as a way to connect often lonely students, then spread rapidly across Ivy League universities from a house in Palo Alto, before becoming the subject of a Hollywood hit film. Now the social network believes it has become so important to so many that it describes itself as a "social utility" without which, it is hoping, its worldwide total of 845 million users cannot function.Facebook, created in 2004 by the then teenage Mark Zuckerberg, is now planning to float on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq. It hopes it is worth $100bn – easily more than Barclays Bank or BAE Systems – an extraordinary sum of money for a business that was founded so few years ago. Its revenues may be an impressive-sounding $3.7bn in 2011, but the impending share offering demands that willing investors accept it is worth a stratospheric 27 times that revenue, a figure Rupert Murdoch has reckoned would make Apple "look really cheap".The assumption is that Facebook will one day generate revenues to reach the $100bn mark, and in this game there can be only one comparison: Google. The world's favourite search engine went public in 2004, and delivered on the promise. In the year before its flotation, its revenues were just $961m, and its valuation demanded at the time was $23bn – at 24 times, similar to Facebook now. Today Google generates nearly $10bn a quarter, and its shares priced at $85 at issue are now $583.If Facebook can repeat Google's trick it will demonstrate that for all the talk about the rise of India and China, it is still Silicon Valley that creates the most lucrative and innovative companies on the planet. And, while Facebook may exist only on desktops, tablets and mobile phones, the internet is the frontier of our times, the place where fortunes of the size of Zuckerberg's paper $28bn can be made in the time it once may have taken to travel to and from the New World. Assuming, that is, Zuckerberg can meet the expectations placed upon him.Brent Hoberman, who floated Lastminute.com in 2000, knows a little about the pressures of a highly priced float. When asked at the time if he was happy to get his company on to the London stock market, Hoberman was equivocal. "It was quite stressful really," he said. "We were valued for perfection, which put an incredible pressure on us." Lastminute's shares fell by as much 95% at the worst point, a reminder that the buzz of the moment is never enough if the underlying financial model does not convince.Facebook starts with some advantages that a company like Lastminute did not have. It is already profitable, making $1bn after tax last year, and has amassed a cash pile of about $3.9bn. It has long won the battle to be the world's leading social network, and continues to grow financially, with revenues expected by some to hit $7bn in 2012. But while Google is the dominant player in a new advertising category, internet search, Facebook is competing in a melee for display advertising in which newspapers, broadcasters and a range of other popular websites chase revenue.Its advocates argue that Facebook has the potential to become a force for change, developing in directions not immediately foreseen. The social network had developed its own currency, Facebook credits, and has become the host environment for other media, for Farmville and other games (which provide at least 12% of revenues), for Spotify in music and even the Guardian in news media.It has the capacity, Hoberman argues, to be a "disruptive force" in industries ranging from games to payments, new areas such as telecommunications, and advertising, where the company is only beginning to exploit some of the possibilities of selling personally targeted ads. The challenge is whether it can do so without infringing users' privacy, although Hoberman argues that "people who think young people worry about that are out of touch".More importantly, arguably, are the key personalities. Its success will depend a great deal on Zuckerberg. His letter to investors eulogised the importance of the "hacker way", a corporate republic based on coders who get things done, and his partnership with chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, the former Clinton era junior politico who handles the speaking, political and regulatory issues that the shy, geeky Zuckerberg does not. Success in the US technology industry depends to a surprising degree on the energy and vision of the founders – from the late Steve Jobs to Larry Page at Google demonstrating what can be achieved to the failure of Jerry Yang, who recently quit the long struggling Yahoo.Popular knowledge of Zuckerberg – whose 28% personal stake plus control of votes from associates gives him control of his own destiny – derives largely from a script by Aaron Sorkin, whose Social Network film grossed $225m, rather modest by Facebook standards. It portrays a driven and somewhat ruthless executive whose masterwork is a response to being jilted by his girlfriend and who is prepared to drop his closest friend, Eduardo Saverin, as he gets ahead. It is not until the end do we learn that Zuckerberg and Saverin settled their dispute, with the Facebook founder helping ensure that he was left with a lucrative near-$5bn stake in yesterday's money. Not everybody can reward former friends so well.The real Zuckerberg will have his own part to play. His success or otherwise in matching the $100bn of expectations will set the overall narrative for the next internet generation. In other words, the next five years.
Block 19.06pm:Facebook's listing promises to be the float of the century.Well, other than Google back in 2004. Facebook has announced it plans to go public, filing its intentions with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. We'll gut the document and follow initital reaction here to a process that will be keenly scrutinised by anybody with the slightest interest in the future of the internet.Can Facebook meet the inflated expectations? Can it prosper as a public company when every quarter's progress will be monitored? And will the notoriously stage shy Mark Zuckerberg become more comfortable with the even higher public profile?The loose talk pre-announcement is that Facebook will be valued at anywhere between $75bn and $100bn. Revenues in 2011 have been estimated at just short of $4bn, with further growth expected in 2012.Gawker last December, said that it had a leak of Facebook's financials for the first nine months of 2011, which showed that the company was sitting on a cash pile of $3.5bn. Revenues for the period were $2.5bn, with operating profit of $1.2bn and net income of $714m. Let's see if any of those figures are correct.We are also expecting a clear fix as to who owns the shares – pre-flotation. Here's the best breakdown circulating before the float. We'll see if that's accurate too.Employees 30%Mark Zuckerberg 24% (founder and CEO)Digital Sky Technologies 10% (Russian VC)Accel Partners 8% (Silicon Valley VC)Dustin Moskowitz 6% (actual co-founder)Eduardo Saverin 5% (sort of co-founder)Sean Parker 4% (Justin Timberlake in the film)Goldman Sachs clients 3%Microsoft 1.3%Block 29.52pm:Facebook has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to raise $5bn in an initial public offering of stock in the US.On Comment is Free,Michael Wolff considers how the phenomenally successful enterprise now faces hard business facts.I don't think that Facebook, with its messianic ambitions and squirrelly zeal, is actually ready for the harsh light of public company life. Even though it comes to market with the weight and hegemonic feel of the biggest brands, it has grown up in such a bubble of cultishness and doctrine, that primetime scrutiny could shortly become very uncomfortable.This is the $100bn-and-climbing vision, which now, in the public glare, will have to walk past cagey regulators, grumpy media, issue-hungry politicians, impatient shareholders and irritated customers.It's a speculative dream and breathtaking power grab, which, in the end, I don't think they'll get away with. Granted, so far they have.Block 39.57pm:Facebook's revenue in 2011 was $3.1bn, with net profit of $1bn.Block 410.03pm:Facebook revenues a bit lower than the widely rumoured $3.8bn, but the net profit at $1bn is higher than the numbers leaked.Block 510.04pm:Pre-tax income shows just how high Facebook's profit margin already is. Pre-tax for 2011 is $1.695bn, a margin of 45.6% of salesBlock 610.05pm:Facebook revenues over the last five years. Impressive growth by any measure.2008 - $153m2009 - $272m2010 - $777m2010 - $1,974m2011 - $3,711mBlock 710.08pm:Net income for the past five years - you can see the rapid movement into profit.2007 - $ -138m2008 - $ -56m2009 - $ 229m2010 - $ 606m2011 - $ 1,000mBlock 810.09pm:Facebook has $3.9bn of cash on its balance sheet. Handy amount of money to make since it was set up from a Harvard dorm in 2004.Block 910.11pm:Compared to 2010, Revenue in 2011 increased $1,737 million, or 88% compared to 2010. The increase was due primarily to a 69% increase in advertising revenue to $3,154 million - advertising the major component of Facebook revenue.Block 1010.12pm:Very interesting: 12% of all Facebook revenue in 2011 came from Farmville games company Zynga. No wonder FB is so hot on media partnerships.Block 1110.13pm:Facebook, 2011 quarterly revenue growth. No shortage of momentum.Q1 2011 - $731mQ2 2011 - $895mQ3 2011 - $954mQ4 2011 - $1,131mBlock 1210.16pm:Here'sthe full text of Facebook's statement of intent– it's described as a letter from Mark Zuckerberg.Here's some of the highlights of his letter:Facebook was not originally created to be a company. It was built to accomplish a social mission — to make the world more open and connected.Facebook aspires to build the services that give people the power to share and help them once again transform many of our core institutions and industries.People sharing more — even if just with their close friends or families — creates a more open culture and leads to a better understanding of the lives and perspectives of others. We believe that this creates a greater number of stronger relationships between people, and that it helps people get exposed to a greater number of diverse perspectives.By helping people form these connections, we hope to rewire the way people spread and consume information. We think the world's information infrastructure should resemble the social graph — a network built from the bottom up or peer-to-peer, rather than the monolithic, top-down structure that has existed to date. We also believe that giving people control over what they share is a fundamental principle of this rewiring.We have already helped more than 800 million people map out more than 100 billion connections so far, and our goal is to help this rewiring accelerate.Zuckerberg goes on to set out how Facebook hopes "to improve how people connect to businesses and the economy."We think a more open and connected world will help create a stronger economy with more authentic businesses that build better products and services.As people share more, they have access to more opinions from the people they trust about the products and services they use. This makes it easier to discover the best products and improve the quality and efficiency of their lives.One result of making it easier to find better products is that businesses will be rewarded for building better products — ones that are personalized and designed around people. We have found that products that are "social by design" tend to be more engaging than their traditional counterparts, and we look forward to seeing more of the world's products move in this direction.In addition to building better products, a more open world will also encourage businesses to engage with their customers directly and authentically. More than four million businesses have Pages on Facebook that they use to have a dialogue with their customers. We expect this trend to grow as well.He also sets out how Facebook hopes "to change how people relate to their governments and social institutions."By giving people the power to share, we are starting to see people make their voices heard on a different scale from what has historically been possible. These voices will increase in number and volume. They cannot be ignored. Over time, we expect governments will become more responsive to issues and concerns raised directly by all their people rather than through intermediaries controlled by a select few.Through this process, we believe that leaders will emerge across all countries who are pro-internet and fight for the rights of their people, including the right to share what they want and the right to access all information that people want to share with them.And here's a link toZuckerberg's crappy signature.Block 1310.20pm:You just got all of Zuckerberg's IPO letter, but what stands out on first reading is his emphasis on the "The Hacker Way" as his company philosophy. He says that "hacking just means building something quickly or testing the boundaries of what can be done". He describes hackers as "idealistic" and says this approach is how Facebook can develop so fast.Here's more:The Hacker Way is an approach to building that involves continuous improvement and iteration. Hackers believe that something can always be better, and that nothing is ever complete. They just have to go fix it — often in the face of people who say it's impossible or are content with the status quo.Hackers try to build the best services over the long term by quickly releasing and learning from smaller iterations rather than trying to get everything right all at once. To support this, we have built a testing framework that at any given time can try out thousands of versions of Facebook. We have the words "Done is better than perfect" painted on our walls to remind ourselves to always keep shipping.Block 1410.23pm:Facebook has 845 million active users as of December 31, 2011, an increase of 39% as compared to 608 million as of December 31, 2010. Still growing.Block 1510.24pm:Here's a nod to British culture. "Examples of popular Pages on Facebook include Lady Gaga, Disney, and Manchester United, each of which has more than 20 million Likes."Block 1610.25pm:Mark Zuckerberg salary is $500,000 (check that Stephen Hester). His bonus for the first half of 2011 was $220,500. But of course his shareholding is huge.Block 1710.26pm:This just in from Josh Halliday, who has been reading the Facebook filing.Beyond the headline numbers, two figures really stood out for me. Where does Facebook generate revenue? Last year 85% of its $3.7bn revenue from advertising. More interestingly, 12% of the social network's turnover came through Zynga, the maker of hugely popular games such as Farmville, Cityville and Mafia Wars. The social game maker Zynga, itself moving towards an IPO, began to make its first moves away from Facebook towards the end of last year.Block 1810.27pm:Mark Zuck also received perks worth $692,679 for costs related to personal use of aircraft chartered in connection and  $90,850 for costs related to estate and financial planning during 2011.So his total pay and perks were $1,487,362 in 2011.Block 1910.34pm:It's the kind of structure that was used by media companies, such as Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, to entrench the control of founders. It is also used by old British media companies, such as the company that owns the Daily Mail. The theory was that it was becoming unfashionable, but Facebook (and Google) has brought it back.Block 2010.36pm:Here's an alternative link to the SEC data: http://www.scribd.com/doc/80165730/Facebook-IPO-Registration-Statement-on-Form-S-1Block 2110.36pm:Reuters has been crunching the numbers alongside us.Check out their analysis here.Block 2210.38pm:Eduardo Saverin – the press-shy founder of Facebook, famously ousted from the company in its early days,has posted about the IPO on Facebook: "Here it is, what a ride! Site first launched February 4, 2004."Block 2310.38pm:OK. Share ownership time.Mark Zuckerberg owns 28.2% of the pre IPO share capital. Slightly more than we thought.Block 2410.42pm:Other share owners who hold more than 5% of the supervoting Class B shares are listed as follows.Accel Partners, US venture capital - 11.4%DST Global, Russian venture capital - 5.5%Dustin Moskovitz - 7.6%Block 2510.46pm:You will no doubt be asking - how much is Facebook worth then. We don't know yet. The company hasn't yet put a price on its shares, because that only happens after a negotiation between the Wall Street banks floating the business and prospective buyers. The document that has been released today is the basis of that negotiation.So - $75bn to $100bn is all we have to go on still. Which makes Mark Zuckerberg's 28% stake worth...well you can do it...potentially $28bn.Here's theGuardian's story on the filing of the IPO.Block 2610.48pm:More from Josh Halliday:'It may surprise some that China is mentioned more often than Twitter in Facebook's S-1. Zuckerberg makes a couple of fleeting references to the microblogging site as a competitor, but Facebook has not ruled out a controversial expansion into China. "We continue to evaluate entering China," the Facebook S-1 says. It adds later: "There are more than two billion global Internet users[…] and we aim to connect all of them"Block 2710.49pm:Banks leading the float are Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan. Their fee is typically 7% of the amount of money raised, seeing as you asked. Assisting them are Banc of America - Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital [hurrah for Britain], and Allen and CompanyBlock 2810.54pm:Bloomberglooks at who are set to be the biggest winners from the IPO. It repeats the point, Mark Zuckerberg could be worth $28.4bn.Bloomberg also makes a comparison with Google:Assuming the California-based company is valued at the top end of the range, Zuckerberg will own stock worth $28.4 billion. By comparison, Google Inc. co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page are each worth more than $15 billion based on their ownership of that company's shares.Larry Ellison owns stock worth about $31 billion in Oracle Corp., the software company he founded in 1977.Block 2910.55pm:Facebook is only selling the class A shares that have one vote per share in the flotation. The company has so little need for cash that Facebook will not generate any money in the flotation.Block 30Jeff Jarvis Photograph: Lisa Carpenter for the Guardian10.57pm:US technology and media commentator Jeff Jarvis has written a piece onZuckerberg's masterplan for the 'sharing economy'.Here's an extract from his piece:Mark Zuckerberg believes he is not changing human nature but enabling it. If you buy that—and I do—then I'd suggest buying his stock, for he has created the platform for the sharing economy.Zuckerberg sees Facebook as an evolutionary step beyond Google and other net services. "They crawl the web," he told me in an interview for my book, Public Parts. "But there's nothing you can crawl to get information about people. It's all in our minds. So in order to have that service, you need to build the tools that let people share."The two giants of the net are at war now over what I call signal generation: the ability to get us to generate data about ourselves—who we are, where we are, what we like, whom we like, what we buy, what we want, what we know, what we want to know—so they can serve us more relevant and valuable content, services, and advertising.Facebook's IPO filing says it is bringing in $3.7 billion in annual revenue, most from advertising. Last year, Google brought in ten times that. But Facebook has 845 million members, more than half of whom use it daily—an engagement number every newspaper and media organization should shoot for and would die for.Block 3111.00pm:Mark Zuckerberg will be selling some of his shares, but only so he can satisfy taxes that he will incur upon the exercise of an outstanding stock option to purchase 120m shares of the supervoting Class B common stock.That means - although this conclusion is tentative - that Zuckerberg won't be netting any cash directly from the float. But then he won't need to. That day will come soon enough - and Wall Street doesn't like to see a selling founder at this point in the company life cycle.Block 3211.02pm:Viewers of The Social Network will wonder where Eduardo Saverin is. Saverin was Zuckerberg's best friend at Harvard. He is not listed as a shareholder, but Facebook is only listing people and institutions with more than 5%. So he holds less than that, but we don't know how much less.Block 3311.11pm:This is David Batty, I'm taking over the live blog for the rest of the evening. You can follow me on Twitter @David_Batty.My colleague Charles Arthur has been examining the details of the IPO on hisTwitter account:Zuckerberg will have majority vote of stock - A shares 1 vote, B shares 10 votes. He gets lots of B shares.138m Class B stock with employees issued since 2005 at $0.83. That's going to be some millionaires there when those flip.FB revenue growth 2007-2011: 153m, 272m, 777m, 1974m, 3711m.FB net income 2007-2011: -138m, -56m, 229m, 606m, 1000m (all in $). 2009 was the magic year.Block 3411.19pm:Facebook's claim to be in the  same "peer group" as Google is examined by the Wall Street Journal'sDeal Journal blog:Facebook lists Google as a "significant competitor" in its S1 filing and as a member of its "peer group." But looking at the numbers, Google is still a giant compared to the infant Facebook, bringing in more than 10 times the revenue. But the internet search giant better look out, because Facebook's growing more than twice as fast.Block 3511.25pm:Tech analyst Benedict Evans has been looking at what Facebook's IPO says about its business model on hisTwitter account:At the end of December, 50% of Facebook's users were mobile and 38% were using smartphone apps.Very clear from FB's filing that the lack of ads on their mobile products is hitting revenue, both indirectly andw through substitution.He then notes:"We may have potential future monetization opportunities such as the inclusion of sponsored stories in users' mobile News Feeds."Of 845m monthly users, 360m used FB 6 out of 7 days in December. SO, FB is regular and 'essential' for about 30% of the base.Block 3611.40pm:Blogger Philip Bump says he is "perplexed" by Facebook's decision to go public, and questions whether the move is down toworries about their reliance on advertising revenue.Here's what Facebook articulates as the toplines for its strategy for growth - the reasons, in other words, for people to invest:• Expand Our Global User Community.• Build Great Social Products to Increase Engagement.• Provide Users with the Most Compelling Experience.• Build Engaging Mobile Experiences.• Enable Developers to Build Great Social Products Using the Facebook Platform.• Improve Ad Products for Advertisers and Users.The first one is first for a reason. International growth, as I mentioned above, is key. ... But the others? Most appear to be about refinement.I have a lot of confidence in Facebook's ability to innovate in the social space. ... It's not clear to me, though, that this infrastructure syncs nicely with a revenue model predicated mostly on advertising.Isn't the traditional value in going public to generate capital for planned expansion? If so - why does Facebook need this infusion of money? ... Over 40% of the company's profit can be accounted for by a partnership with the game manufacturer Zynga. That's a very tenuous position to be in. Their reliance on advertising exceeds traditional media outlets handily.I'd ask then - is this IPO a necessary hedge, rather than a golden opportunity?Block 3712.17am:This article from Dan Randall of Reuters exploresthe options for investors who want a stake in Facebook on the first day of trading.Investors won't get the full benefit unless they are among the few privileged clients of underwriters, Morgan Stanley the lead among them, who can buy at the offer price.Still, investors who want a stake in the dominant social media company will have options. It is easier to buy funds that own stakes in Facebook than to hope an order for individual shares will be filled early on the IPO day.Block 3812.22am:The Associated Press notes how the IPO filing casts a spotlight on some of Facebook's inner workings for the first time. Interestingly, it also raises questions as to where the company sees its growth coming from.The documents show, as expected, that Facebook is thriving. The company earned $668 million on revenue of $3.7 billion last year, according to the filing. Both figures nearly doubled from 2010."The company is a lot more profitable than we thought," said Kathleen Smith, principal of IPO investment advisory firm Renaissance Capital.Although she considered Facebook's numbers "very impressive," she said Facebook needs to talk more about where it sees its growth coming from."What new areas of business is it expecting to pursue beyond display ads?"Block 3912.38am:Wiredquestions whetherFacebook's IPO will perform as well as Google's or be a disappointment like Groupon's.This could mean Facebook's IPO will meet a fate similar to that of this year's other high-profile tech IPOs. Both Zynga and Groupon actually sank below their IPO share price — right out of the gate — a sign of failure on Wall Street. "The tech class of 2011 has underperformed," said Paul Kedrosky, a prominent financial blogger and senior fellow at the Kauffman Foundation, in an interview. "Because of secondary markets, that post-IPO balance happened pre-IPO. My expectation is, Facebook will see a very similar phenomenon."Facebook will have to reveal its privacy investigationsnow it is going public, Wired also notes:When it comes to information privacy concerns, Facebook already has a bullseye on its back. That won't change now that Facebook is going public in its highly anticipated Initial Public Offering (IPO). But disclosure rules affecting publicly traded companies may force Facebook to reveal privacy-related investigations that it otherwise might have kept secret.Facebook won't face any new regulations or government oversight specifically related to privacy, according to the experts who spoke to Ars. But in the cases of inquiries from the Federal Trade Commission or attorneys general, investigations that might otherwise remain private would become public because Facebook will be forced to disclose events that could have a material impact on earnings.Block 4012.50am:Reuters' social media editor Anthony De Rosa has noticed another interesting fact in the IPO filing:IPO filing states that "Facebook has been or is currently restricted in whole or in part in China, Iran, North Korea, and Syria".Block 4112.52am:We're wrapping up this live blog now but we'll have more coverage, reaction and analysis to Facebook's IPO tomorrow.In the meantime, here's a recap of the main points:• Facebook has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to raise $5bn in an initial public offering of stock in the US.• Its revenue in 2011 was $3.1bn, with net profit of $1bn.• Last year 85% of its $3.7bn revenue from advertising. 12% came through Zynga, the maker of hugely popular games such as Farmville and Mafia Wars.• Facebook has $3.9bn of cash on its balance sheet.• Mark Zuckerberg salary is $500,000. His bonus for the first half of 2011 was $220,500.• But if Facebook is valued at $100bn as anticipated, Zuckerberg will own stock worth $28.4bnThanks for reading and for your comments below.
Mark Zuckerberg believes he is not changing human nature but enabling it. If you buy that – and I do – then I'd suggest buying his stock, for he has created the platform for the sharing economy.With its own new social network, even Google recognises the power of people now. At the DLD conference in Munich last week, Nikesh Arora, Google's revenue chief, said that we are passing from an information age to a people age. This is our John Henry moment: human over algorithm.Mark Zuckerberg sees Facebook as an evolutionary step beyond Google and other net services. "They crawl the web," he told me in an interview for my book, Public Parts. "But there's nothing you can crawl to get information about people. It's all in our minds. So in order to have that service, you need to build the tools that let people share."The two giants of the net are at war over what I call signal generation: the ability to get us to generate data about ourselves – who we are, where we are, what we like, whom we like, what we buy, what we want, what we know, what we want to know – so they can serve us more relevant and valuable content, services, and advertising.Facebook's IPO filing says it is bringing in $3.7bn in annual revenue, most from advertising. Last year, Google brought in ten times that. But Facebook has 845 million members, more than half of whom use it daily – an engagement number every newspaper and media organisation should shoot for and would die for.And Zuck's Law decrees that every year, we will share twice as much as we shared the year before, because we want to and because we now can. "In the world before the internet and things like Facebook," he told me, "there was a huge amount of privacy through obscurity." Now, he believes, the net gives us choice."The default in society today still is, OK, I should not share it. The by‑far default today is that everything's anonymous," Zuckerberg laments. "In the future, things should be tied to your identity, and they'll be more valuable that way." There is the master plan.
Facebook was not originally created to be a company. It was built to accomplish a social mission — to make the world more open and connected.We think it's important that everyone who invests in Facebook understands what this mission means to us, how we make decisions and why we do the things we do. I will try to outline our approach in this letter.At Facebook, we're inspired by technologies that have revolutionized how people spread and consume information. We often talk about inventions like the printing press and the television — by simply making communication more efficient, they led to a complete transformation of many important parts of society. They gave more people a voice. They encouraged progress. They changed the way society was organized. They brought us closer together.Today, our society has reached another tipping point. We live at a moment when the majority of people in the world have access to the internet or mobile phones — the raw tools necessary to start sharing what they're thinking, feeling and doing with whomever they want. Facebook aspires to build the services that give people the power to share and help them once again transform many of our core institutions and industries.There is a huge need and a huge opportunity to get everyone in the world connected, to give everyone a voice and to help transform society for the future. The scale of the technology and infrastructure that must be built is unprecedented, and we believe this is the most important problem we can focus on.We hope to strengthen how people relate to each other.Even if our mission sounds big, it starts small — with the relationship between two people.Personal relationships are the fundamental unit of our society. Relationships are how we discover new ideas, understand our world and ultimately derive long-term happiness.At Facebook, we build tools to help people connect with the people they want and share what they want, and by doing this we are extending people's capacity to build and maintain relationships.People sharing more — even if just with their close friends or families — creates a more open culture and leads to a better understanding of the lives and perspectives of others. We believe that this creates a greater number of stronger relationships between people, and that it helps people get exposed to a greater number of diverse perspectives.By helping people form these connections, we hope to rewire the way people spread and consume information. We think the world's information infrastructure should resemble the social graph — a network built from the bottom up or peer-to-peer, rather than the monolithic, top-down structure that has existed to date. We also believe that giving people control over what they share is a fundamental principle of this rewiring.We have already helped more than 800 million people map out more than 100 billion connections so far, and our goal is to help this rewiring accelerate.We hope to improve how people connect to businesses and the economy.We think a more open and connected world will help create a stronger economy with more authentic businesses that build better products and services.As people share more, they have access to more opinions from the people they trust about the products and services they use. This makes it easier to discover the best products and improve the quality and efficiency of their lives.One result of making it easier to find better products is that businesses will be rewarded for building better products — ones that are personalized and designed around people. We have found that products that are "social by design" tend to be more engaging than their traditional counterparts, and we look forward to seeing more of the world's products move in this direction.Our developer platform has already enabled hundreds of thousands of businesses to build higher-quality and more social products. We have seen disruptive new approaches in industries like games, music and news, and we expect to see similar disruption in more industries by new approaches that are social by design.In addition to building better products, a more open world will also encourage businesses to engage with their customers directly and authentically. More than four million businesses have Pages on Facebook that they use to have a dialogue with their customers. We expect this trend to grow as well.We hope to change how people relate to their governments and social institutions.We believe building tools to help people share can bring a more honest and transparent dialogue around government that could lead to more direct empowerment of people, more accountability for officials and better solutions to some of the biggest problems of our time.By giving people the power to share, we are starting to see people make their voices heard on a different scale from what has historically been possible. These voices will increase in number and volume. They cannot be ignored. Over time, we expect governments will become more responsive to issues and concerns raised directly by all their people rather than through intermediaries controlled by a select few.Through this process, we believe that leaders will emerge across all countries who are pro-internet and fight for the rights of their people, including the right to share what they want and the right to access all information that people want to share with them.Finally, as more of the economy moves towards higher-quality products that are personalized, we also expect to see the emergence of new services that are social by design to address the large worldwide problems we face in job creation, education and health care. We look forward to doing what we can to help this progress.Our Mission and Our BusinessAs I said above, Facebook was not originally founded to be a company. We've always cared primarily about our social mission, the services we're building and the people who use them. This is a different approach for a public company to take, so I want to explain why I think it works.I started off by writing the first version of Facebook myself because it was something I wanted to exist. Since then, most of the ideas and code that have gone into Facebook have come from the great people we've attracted to our team.Most great people care primarily about building and being a part of great things, but they also want to make money. Through the process of building a team — and also building a developer community, advertising market and investor base — I've developed a deep appreciation for how building a strong company with a strong economic engine and strong growth can be the best way to align many people to solve important problems.Simply put: we don't build services to make money; we make money to build better services.And we think this is a good way to build something. These days I think more and more people want to use services from companies that believe in something beyond simply maximizing profits.By focusing on our mission and building great services, we believe we will create the most value for our shareholders and partners over the long term — and this in turn will enable us to keep attracting the best people and building more great services. We don't wake up in the morning with the primary goal of making money, but we understand that the best way to achieve our mission is to build a strong and valuable company.This is how we think about our IPO as well. We're going public for our employees and our investors. We made a commitment to them when we gave them equity that we'd work hard to make it worth a lot and make it liquid, and this IPO is fulfilling our commitment. As we become a public company, we're making a similar commitment to our new investors and we will work just as hard to fulfill it.The Hacker WayAs part of building a strong company, we work hard at making Facebook the best place for great people to have a big impact on the world and learn from other great people. We have cultivated a unique culture and management approach that we call the Hacker Way.The word "hacker" has an unfairly negative connotation from being portrayed in the media as people who break into computers. In reality, hacking just means building something quickly or testing the boundaries of what can be done. Like most things, it can be used for good or bad, but the vast majority of hackers I've met tend to be idealistic people who want to have a positive impact on the world.The Hacker Way is an approach to building that involves continuous improvement and iteration. Hackers believe that something can always be better, and that nothing is ever complete. They just have to go fix it — often in the face of people who say it's impossible or are content with the status quo.Hackers try to build the best services over the long term by quickly releasing and learning from smaller iterations rather than trying to get everything right all at once. To support this, we have built a testing framework that at any given time can try out thousands of versions of Facebook. We have the words "Done is better than perfect" painted on our walls to remind ourselves to always keep shipping.Hacking is also an inherently hands-on and active discipline. Instead of debating for days whether a new idea is possible or what the best way to build something is, hackers would rather just prototype something and see what works. There's a hacker mantra that you'll hear a lot around Facebook offices: "Code wins arguments."Hacker culture is also extremely open and meritocratic. Hackers believe that the best idea and implementation should always win — not the person who is best at lobbying for an idea or the person who manages the most people.To encourage this approach, every few months we have a hackathon, where everyone builds prototypes for new ideas they have. At the end, the whole team gets together and looks at everything that has been built. Many of our most successful products came out of hackathons, including Timeline, chat, video, our mobile development framework and some of our most important infrastructure like the HipHop compiler.To make sure all our engineers share this approach, we require all new engineers — even managers whose primary job will not be to write code — to go through a program called Bootcamp where they learn our codebase, our tools and our approach. There are a lot of folks in the industry who manage engineers and don't want to code themselves, but the type of hands-on people we're looking for are willing and able to go through Bootcamp.The examples above all relate to engineering, but we have distilled these principles into five core values for how we run Facebook:Focus on ImpactIf we want to have the biggest impact, the best way to do this is to make sure we always focus on solving the most important problems. It sounds simple, but we think most companies do this poorly and waste a lot of time. We expect everyone at Facebook to be good at finding the biggest problems to work on.Move FastMoving fast enables us to build more things and learn faster. However, as most companies grow, they slow down too much because they're more afraid of making mistakes than they are of losing opportunities by moving too slowly. We have a saying: "Move fast and break things." The idea is that if you never break anything, you're probably not moving fast enough.Be BoldBuilding great things means taking risks. This can be scary and prevents most companies from doing the bold things they should. However, in a world that's changing so quickly, you're guaranteed to fail if you don't take any risks. We have another saying: "The riskiest thing is to take no risks." We encourage everyone to make bold decisions, even if that means being wrong some of the time.Be OpenWe believe that a more open world is a better world because people with more information can make better decisions and have a greater impact. That goes for running our company as well. We work hard to make sure everyone at Facebook has access to as much information as possible about every part of the company so they can make the best decisions and have the greatest impact.Build Social ValueOnce again, Facebook exists to make the world more open and connected, and not just to build a company. We expect everyone at Facebook to focus every day on how to build real value for the world in everything they do.Thanks for taking the time to read this letter. We believe that we have an opportunity to have an important impact on the world and build a lasting company in the process. I look forward to building something great together.
Eight years after Mark Zuckerberg launched Facebook from his Harvard dorm room, the 27-year-old on Wednesday announced he is selling shares in the social network at a price that values his creation at up to $100bn – and values his stake in the business at $28bn.Facebook's initial public offering (IPO) will be the biggest technology IPO since Google's in 2004. There have been estimates that 1,000 current and former employees could become paper millionaires when the company goes public. The sale will be the defining moment – and the biggest test yet – for the new wave of social media firms now joining the US stock exchanges.In a regulatory filing, the company gave the most detailed look yetat Facebook's business. Facebook had 845 million users at the end of December and 483 million people were using it every day. The company had revenues of $3.7bn in 2011, up from $1.97bn in 2010, and made a profit of $1bn, up from $606m in 2010.In a letter to potential shareholders, Zuckerberg said: "We don't build services to make money; we make money to build better services," he said. "These days I think more and more people want to use services from companies that believe in something beyond simply maximizing profits."Zuckerberg wrote: "Facebook was not originally created to be a company. It was built to accomplish a social mission — to make the world more open and connected."The filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission revealed that:• Facebook now has 845 million users, of which 483 million use Facebook daily.• Revenues in 2011 were $3.71bn – 88% higher than revenues in 2010.• Facebook made $1bn in profit last year – equivalent to $1.10 per user.• Mark Zuckerberg owns 28% of the company, which could be worth $28bn if the firm fetches $100bn.• Zuckerberg will be paid $1 in salary starting 1 January 2013.The success of Facebook has spawned new verbs such as "to friend", and a hit  Hollywood movie, The Social Network, that chronicled the company's origins, and was dismissed as inaccurate by some of the firm's real players.The sale will create a new generation of paper billionaires. Dustin Moskovitz, who co-founded Facebook, owns a 7.6% stake in Facebook.Last year, Forbes ranked Moskovitz as the world's youngest billionaire. He is Zuckerberg's junior by eight days. There will be another fortune for Sean Parker, Zuckerberg's early mentor, Facebook's founding president and portrayed as a party boy by Justin Timberlake in The Social Network.Parker, who also created Napster, the controversial early music sharing site, is believed to own 4%.Facebook's sale looks set to prove lucrative for Bono. The U2 frontman is an investor in Elevation Partners, which bought $120m worth of Facebook shares in 2010.The company will remain tightly under Zuckerberg's control, according to the filing. The Facebook founder has struck an "irrevocable proxy" with many of his major shareholders that will give him the right to vote on their behalf.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, is likely to become the public face of Facebook on Wall Street.Sandberg, 42, is a former Google executiveand once served as chief of staff at the US Treasury. She is seen as the adult supervision at Facebook, and has been selling the firm to conservative big-brand advertisers. According to the filing she was paid $30.8m in 2011, most of that in stock awards. Her salary was $295,833.The consequences of going public on their own will be one of  the biggest problems Facebook will have to deal with in the next six to twelve months, said Nate Elliott, analyst at Forrester. The company will come under massive regulatory and investor scrutiny and "early employees may now be spending more time on their jet skis than on their computers," he said.Chicago securities attorney Andrew Stoltmann said Facebook's growth seemed to be slower than many analysts had expected. "But I think people will gloss over that," he said. "On the plus side, this is a tech company that is profitable, but it's in an extremely competitive business with deep-pocketed competition like Google," he said.Many of the other recent social media IPOs, such as the one from Groupon, the online discount company, have proved disappointing. Peter Cohan, author and founder of management consultants Cohan Associates, said he expects Facebook will prove a success at the IPO although the longer haul is far less certain."Quite simply, there is no other company out there that could pull off this valuation. People are dying to get into this company because they are on Facebook, it's irrational if you look at the numbers.Cohan said Facebook has three months to prove him wrong. "Three months after the IPO, the first earnings report will be the key."If Facebook beats expectations, it will be fine, Cohan said. If it doesn't, "it will get trashed."
Tech clusters are springing up all over London as international heavyweights including Google, Groupon and Facebook expand and scores of startups try to establish themselves.Three weeks ago Spanish telecoms group Telefónica, which owns O2, chose Regent Street, central London, as the headquarters of its new global digital business. Telefónica Digital will take the fourth and fifth floors, totalling 51,000 sq ft, in the Crown Estate's Quadrant 3 development near Piccadilly Circus, which also contains a Whole Foods store and two restored 1930s Art Deco restaurants.Matthew Key, chief executive of Telefónica Digital, said: "London is undoubtedly at the forefront of the current digital revolution and was a natural choice for us to establish our new headquarters in."London is arguably the biggest hub for technology startups outside Silicon Valley and a global centre for the media and advertising industries. It attracts the best talent and, for an international business such as ours, acts as a unique bridge between Europe and the Americas."While overall demand for office space in central London fell by 27% last year, take-up from IT and telecoms firms more than doubled between 2010 and 2011, according to a report called Silicon London by property consultancy Knight Frank.Tech firms acquired 1.3 million sq ft of office space, compared with 640,000 sq ft in 2010 – despite a slowdown in demand from other industries, in particular finance. Major technology firms acquiring offices in London included Apple, Expedia, Facebook, Google, Groupon, Nokia, O2 and Lastminute.com. At the same time, the office space available fell by 1.5m sq ft in 2011 to 16.8m sq ft – supply peaked in 2009 at 23m sq ft.According to Knight Frank there were almost as many tech sector deals last year in W1 as in EC1, though East London is a booming tech area. Aside from the creative hub in Shoreditch, near to Old Street,  known as the Silicon Round about,home to more than 300 startups,tech clusters have sprung up in Clerkenwell, Covent Garden, Fitzrovia and the South Bank.Chris Lewis, Deloitte's head of technology, media and telecommunications (TMT) real estate, said: "There is an unstoppable move east within the tech super sector. Slowly it will have tentacles reaching across all of central London."He added: "15 years ago the TMT sector didn't really exist, most of the brand names we recognise today didn't even exist five years ago. Their requirements for space are pretty extraordinary." Lewis said that, over the past four years, tech and media companies had become the second-most important sector in central London in terms of take-up of new office space, after financial services. Last year, it accounted for the biggest share of new take-up.However, he pointed out that most of the big tech company office moves were to traditional locations, rather than venturing out to the East End.In the biggest letting in the West End last year, Google agreed in May to a 10-year lease for 160,000 sq ft of space atCentral Saint Giles, the brightly-coloured building designed by Renzo Piano, the Italian architect responsible for the Shard. The US internet search giant has taken three floors and parts of two others in the 12-storey building, which also comprises apartments and shops, on the edge of Covent Garden.Google, which also has two offices near Victoria and is hiring rapidly, can exit the Central Saint Giles lease in 2017 and there is talk that it might build a new campus at King's Cross Central.Expedia has moved to Angel in north east London where it is taking 81,000 sq ft over two floors at the Angel Building, while Facebook has taken over the online travel firm's old building at Seven Dials in Covent Garden, four years after it opened its first office off Carnaby Street.Tech companies are attracted by London's young population, with 45% of Londoners aged between 20 and 44. Nokia recently moved from Hampshire to Paddington, citing an inability to recruit quality staff.Despite appeals from David Cameron and London mayor Boris Johnson,Twitter opted for Dublin, where corporation tax is lower, rather than London as its European base, but the microblogging site still wants to beef up its advertising sales office in London's West End.
All right, maybe the great recession and near financial apocalypsecancompete for significance on a world-historical basis over the last few years with the rise of Facebook. But I'd still vote for Facebook as the big one in its transformative effects on business and culture and human behavior.And now comes the payoff:a second-quarter IPO.Never before in the history of breathless internet public offeringshas one been so anticipated and so stage-managed. All other major internet IPO's have been relatively rushed affairs: entrepreneurs have needed the money, and investors have been rightly scared that the market might change or close. Not Facebook's. In addition to altering the nature of public and private selves, it's also changed the way young aggressive companies can raise dough: creating a secondary market for buying and selling much-sought-after shares, which acts a lot like the public market (defying the logic, if not rules, of the SEC). As for investor skittishness and market vagaries, Facebook has come to believe – or act like it believes – that the market waits for Facebook. And it seems to.Facebook, in its eighth year of operation, will be looking for a valuation of $100bn – a number that it may well exceed by another great leap of staging and euphoria.The seismic nature of the Facebook IPO can hardly be oversold. The IPO creates a currency that will allow the company to buy whatever it needs to vertically integrate all the elements of its massive appetites – to be your wallet, your phone, your search engine, your company's cash register, your entertainment portal, and your publishing platform, as well as your social life. And to do this all in a closed world of protocol enforcement, behavior monitoring and data gathering.The technology business is an ever-expanding effort at monopoly and control: Microsoft sped past Apple to grab the desktop; Google sped past Microsoft to control the internet itself; Apple reappeared to control mobile devices. Now Facebook seeks to control pretty much … well, you.I will let someone else take up the moral issues and I will stick to the business point: I don't think that Facebook, with its messianic ambitions and squirrelly zeal, is actually ready for the harsh light of public company life. Even though it comes to market with the weight and hegemonic feel of the biggest brands, it has grown up in such a bubble of cultishness and doctrine, that primetime scrutiny could shortly become very uncomfortable.For one thing, there is CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Facebook's rapid growth with private capital has allowed Zuckerberg to maintain a vaunted level of control without having to expose himself very much. He exists now only as his movie double, with the reports of him as an odd, nonverbal baby-Jesus figure remaining just low murmurs. (Many technology companies are run by odd people, but Zuckerberg could be the oddest.) He, in turn, is surrounded by robotic executives: the air quickly leaves the room when Facebook President Sheryl Sandberg starts to talk; long-time tech reporterKara Swisher could think of nothing else to call the company's CFO, David Ebersman, other than the "quiet man"– whose job is to protect him and interpret for Zuckerberg. (The tech world is full of testy PR people, but Facebook's top flack, Elliot Schrage, is a particularly gruesome attack dog.)Public exposure, rather than fictional movie exposure, could be cruel – even though Zuckerberg is said to be practicing up for earnings calls. Indeed, it is hard to overstate how truly public Facebook is about to become, and how much more difficult it will be to contain the controversies – about its provenance, its financing, its privacy polices and its data thirst – that have always dogged it, and which, in the past, it has largely just gone tightlipped about.It is now, too, on a world stage: in order to speedily reach its billion-user target, it has to grow internationally. But the company has so often and so ingenuously called itself a utility that, almost everywhere outside the US, it is looking at being regulated as one. This past summer, in an effort at business diplomacy, thecompany trotted Zuckerberg out to speak before the G8(hosted by the French, among the most eager regulators) – both in a conference before the formal meeting and, then, in front of the assembled leaders. His performance, at least the public one, might be described as either charming and naive or, if you're keen on a professional approach, other-planetary.And advertising. It's actually been a rather awkward conversation between Facebook and Madison Avenue. Facebook's trillions of pages views have created something of a speculative frenzy, with every ad agency in the world bragging about its social marketing capabilities, but with almost every big brand being tepid in its response. (WPP's Martin Sorrell suggested this fall that social media might not besuch a gripping advertising medium.) As soon as the company is public, real ad numbers – instead of hundreds of millions of consumers who might, one day, pay attention to you – start to count.On the other hand, as part of the private company "story", they talk at Facebook about advertising in a transitional sense, of it being something they might need now, but which can be left behind as they integrate a further and deeper relationship with users and figure out new and more crafty ways to monetize what they, and only they, understand about individual behavior.That's, of course, the ultimate Facebook sell: Mark Zuckerberg, a true American savant – Steve Jobs, but better even (and not so nasty) – has created a wholly-owned internet, which can not only monitor behavior but can encourage it, and regulate it, and dominate so much of it that Facebook inevitably becomestheplatform for modern life. Spotify, and the infuriating feature that shares all songs you play with god knows who else, is just a recent example of the Facebook plan for universal integration. This is the $100bn-and-climbing vision, which now, in the public glare, will have to walk past cagey regulators, grumpy media, issue-hungry politicians, impatient shareholders and irritated customers.It's a speculative dream and breathtaking power grab, which, in the end, I don't think they'll get away with. Granted, so far they have.• Follow Michael Wolff on Twitter@MichaelWolffNYC
New forms of digital technology and social networking sites such as Facebook are increasingly putting people at risk of stalking, according to a report published on Wednesday.The study, fromWomen's Aidand theNetwork for Surviving Stalking, warns that mobile phones, particularly smartphones, are increasingly being targeted. Spyware could be installed on the phone in "less than five minutes", allowing a stalker to listen remotely to the phone's surroundings, intercept calls, track text messages and the location of a device if it has GPS hardware.Computer spyware could be installed remotely, via an email attachment, and then remain hidden on the computer, warned the report. "It's cheap, easy to use and very powerful," it said.Other methods of tracking can be more simple. One woman detailed in the report failed to change her eBay password after separating from an abusive partner. He tracked her use of the site online and when she bought something he contacted the seller claiming the item had not arrived and asking the seller to verify the address. Armed with his ex-partner's new address, he found her and targeted her in an attack that left her blind in one eye."Online stalking is definitely happening more often because there is such an array of powerful tools at stalkers' disposal making it easier to do," said Jennifer Perry, author of Digital Stalking: A Guide to Technology Risks for Victims. Technology firms and social networking sites needed to do "much more" to protect potential victims, she added. "Software companies are absolutely not doing enough to mitigate this risk. The only way we will change things is by making the public aware of the dangers."Alexis Bowater, chief executive of the Network for Surviving Stalking, who was followed online for four years before her stalker was jailed, said the rapid rise of mobile phone and internet use meant cyberstalking was on the increase. "It is an old crime in a new, technological world," she said."The internet gives stalkers a new weapon in their armoury, a new way to find people, to follow them, to research them, sometimes to be them."The extent of internet users' "digital footprint" – their use of social networks, work websites, forums and directories, could all leave clues that could enable a stalker to track their victim.Social networks are particularly risky, according to the report. "You can never make social networks 'safe' for victims to use, you can only make them 'safer'," it said. "Their commercial success depends upon encouraging users to exchange information with the widest network possible, which compromises the privacy and security of their users. Indeed, you could argue that it is in their interest not to encourage good privacy practices."Perry, an internet safety expert and consumer advocate, said the advice Facebook provided to victims of domestic violence was "wholly inadequate and was putting victims at risk". She called on the site to change their abuse and help pages and provide a privacy setting specifically for vulnerable people. "The problem is social networking sites like Facebook make money the more data people expose. For the majority of people that does not put them at risk, but in the case of domestic violence or stalking victims it can be very dangerous."She added that new features, such as a location button that let users inform their friends on Facebook of their exact whereabouts, were often presented entirely positively, with not enough emphasis given to the risks involved.A spokeswoman for Facebook said choosing to share a location was always "entirely optional" and that privacy setting enabled users to share what they wanted and block unwanted attention. Users could report abuse via links on the site or through the contact forms in its help centre. She added that the site had "systems to prioritise" the most serious reports and acted on most within 24 hours. "The safety of our users is our top priority. Facebook works with a diverse set of experts and organisations devoted to online safety in order to bring the best safety resources, including the National Network to End Domestic Violence, who also sit on our safety advisory board," she said.Perry said she advised stalking victims to assume their computer had been infected. "It is safer to assume that everything you do or say online, all your emails, contacts photos and instant messages as well as passwords and contacts can be seen," she said. Stalkers could use this information to lock victims out of their accounts, buy goods or transfer money, go online and pretend to be the victim, add or delete files and block websites so victims were unable to access support sites.Bowater called for more awareness of the dangers of new technology. "We are calling for better police training on all types of stalking and particularly digital stalking. We are asking the internet industry to engage with us to make their customers' lives safer," she said.
Is RIM really the UK's top-selling smartphone vendor? That was the message the company put out earlier this week, announcing that "the latest results from data firm GfK show that BlackBerry was the No.1 selling smartphone in the British market for the second year running. It continues to dominate the market, grabbing 26.3% of December sales and averaging 27.7% through 2011."This seemed a remarkable set of statistics for a company which has (meanwhile) been seeing US share drooping, according to another research company, Nielsen, which said thatits share of the US smartphone market there dropped below 6%in December.It's even more remarkable because GfK is famously protective about its figures; companies aren't meant to hand them out, and especially not to use them for public competitive comparisons. The company reckons that it covers about 80% of the consumer space - but doesn't try to measure sales in the enterprise or business space.But there's more from RIM's good news department: "The BlackBerry global subscriber base grew 35% year on year in December to 75 million. The UK customer base is going from strength to strength with over eight and a half million active subscribers by the end of 2011."Last bit first: the global subscriber base of 75m. That's what Jim Balsillie said in the results on 15 December, so no surprise there. The 8.5m UK subscribers: in November itsaid that it had 8m, so clearly things are still heading upwards. Adding 500,000 subscribers in, what, 45 days is good business. That is, if it really was 8m in mid-November, and 8.5m at the end of December. Assume it was.Now we come to the trickier detail. Did RIM really dominate the UK market in 2011? There's also the implication that it dominated the market in December, though that's not explicit; you could read this as being just about its performance in 2011. (As one analyst who saw the statement commented, "Whoever drafted that either wrote it very poorly or extremely cleverly - it's so ambiguous." We lean towards the "clever" interpretation.)On the face of it, December dominance seems unlikely: Android has, as we know, been making inroads into the smartphone space, and Apple had a remarkable Christmas, where it sold a record 37m iPhones worldwide. Certainly you'd expect a few million of those to have been sold in the UK. Quite a few, in fact.What's more, theBBC recently ran a piecein which it quoted UK-specific figures from research company Gartner suggesting that BlackBerry sales were on the slide throughout 2011 - from 1.5m in the January-March quarter, to 1.4m in the next, and 1.31m in the July-September period. (The October-December period wasn't available.) It opened with the arresting statement that "There's evidence that growing numbers of BlackBerry users are ready to switch brands."So - RIM itself on one side, BBC on the other. I asked some research companies to give their perspective on which side tallied with their information. They spoke on condition I didn't name their companies."We don't have the Q4 final numbers yet, but RIM's market share is definitely slowing down," said one. "It's almost clear that they lost the leadership in the UK to Apple. Our first numbers suggest they were also overtaken by Samsung too, to become the third biggest player… The success of the new iPhone 4S and the Samsung Galaxy S II and the negative impact from the outage are some of the main reasons for RIM's decline."Another said: "They were No.1 in Q1 and Q2, but Samsung was ahead of them in Q3. I know they put out a press release in Q2 to say they were over Apple [then] and they were."Another said, when I suggested that Android might have dominated the year, and Apple the October-December period, "I can follow the logic that would lead you to that conclusion." And would they disagree with it? No.Meanwhile RIM may have annoyed GfK just a bit by its public breast-beating. We hear that it has led to more than raised eyebrows - perhaps raised voices? - through the selective quotation of figures.Even so, RIMmayindeed have been the top dog in smartphones in the UK for the second successive year: Apple may not have done enough over the whole 12 months despite a strong Christmas (because of its relatively weaker Q2). And Samsung similarly hasn't managed enough on its own to outdistance that early start. The only way we'll know is if some analysts start coughing up the raw numbers. Or if the companies do.So RIM may well have been the biggest smartphone brand in the UK in 2011 - although without a doubt Android will have beaten it as a platform. Apple, meanwhile, seems to have zoomed past it in the fourth quarter, and - given how well it did elsewhere - might even have challenged Android.The question now is, what does 2012 hold for RIM? It's now entering the third month of its latest financial quarter. It's got a new chief executive and new chairman and everything to play for. Being big in 2011 doesn't matter any more. Being big in 2012 does.
Sony has confirmed that PlayStation boss Kazuo Hirai will be the company's next chief executive. He will take over from current CEO Howard Stringer in April, with Stringer assuming the role as chairman of the board of directors.The move comes after weeks of speculation – and following a challenging business period for the consumer electronics veteran. The company is facing its fourth consecutive annual loss, and stock value has dropped by more than 50% since Stringer became the company's first non-Japanese CEO in 2005.The strong yen and the effects of last year's devestating earthquake have made for difficult business conditions, but Sony has also lost out to key rivals including Samsung in the television sector and Apple in computing and digital media."The path we must take is clear," Hirai said in a statement. "To drive the growth of our core electronics businesses – primarily digital imaging, smart mobile and game; to turn around the television business; and to accelerate the innovation that enables us to create new business domains."The foundations are now firmly in place for the new management team and me to fully leverage Sony's diverse electronics product portfolio, in conjunction with our rich entertainment assets and growing array of networked services, to engage with our customers around the world in new and exciting ways."If the future of Sony is about converged media platforms and digital services, Hirai would seem to have the experience to turn things around. As head of the PlayStation business, he has overseen a period in which the PS3 console recovered from the dominance of the Nintendo Wii to reach a global installed user base of more than 60 million.The machine has also become a media hub offering on-demand music and video content from Sony services as well as various partnerships with other content providers. Hirai also navigated a major controversy last spring when hackers broke into the back-end servers of the PlayStation Network and attained the details of millions of customers.The television manufacturing business could well be the toughest nut to crack, though – it hasn't been profitable for more than seven years. Last year, Sony sold its stake in a joint LCD panel manufacturing venture to partner Samsung for £600m.Hirai may well decide that the future is about innovating in digital services rather than screen technology. With the rise of internet connected smart TVs, Sony could concentrate on developing interactive services, while outsourcing screen manufacture to countries such as Taiwan, where producton costs are lower.Meanwhile, in the mobile sector, Sony has spent £920m buying its handset partner Ericsson out of their decade-long deal. The idea is that it will now be able to react faster to the innovations of rivals like Apple.However, Sony's attempts to profit in the growing tablet market, with the launch of its Tablet S and Tablet P devices, have not been hugely successful: the devices failed to impress critics and the Tablet S was subject to a $100 (£63) price cut in January.Sony, once a leader in consumer electronics innovation with its Walkman and PlayStation brands, has a lot of work to do to figure out its place in a rapidly evolving market. Hirai, with experience in the expensive, dynamic and complex video games sector, may be best placed to oversee the transition.
The French MEP who resigned his position in charge of negotiating the international Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (Acta) has said it "goes too far" by potentially cutting access to lifesaving generic drugs and restricting internet freedom.In an exclusive interview with the Guardian, Kader Arif – a member of the European parliament's international trade group, who was the lead negotiator over Acta – said that despite talks over the agreement having begun in 2007, "the European parliament, which represents the rights of the people, had no access to this mandate, neither had it information of the position defended by the commission or the demands of the other parties to the agreement".Arif resigned in protest on 26 January as the EU signed the treaty, saying that he wished to "denounce in the strongest manner the process that led to the signing of this agreement: no association of civil society [and] lack of transparency from the beginning".He said that it now threatens online freedom, access to the use of generic versions of drugs for treating illnesses, and could potentially mean that someone crossing a border who has a single song or film on their computer could face criminal charges.Asked what he thought European citizens should do, Mr Arif said: "Showing that there is interest and concern about this agreement is the best way of creating a real public debate, which was never possible until now because of the lack of transparency on this dossier. Especially if the timeframe is short, raising awareness of members of parliament will be crucial. And because Acta is a mixed agreement, it will have to be ratified both by the European parliament and by every member state of the union, so there is also an opportunity to organise debates at the national level."He says that it is now impossible to renegotiate the agreement because the 11 key parties to it concluded their discussions on 1 October 2011: "the European commission negotiated it on behalf of the EU, on the basis of a mandate given by the member states in 2007."That means, he says, that "at this stage one can only accept or reject the agreement – no change of the text is possible. If the right wing of the European parliament had not imposed such a tight calendar, the members of the European parliament could have drafted an interim report, which would have put conditionalities to the ratification of the agreement, by giving recommendations to the commission and member states on how to implement it. But this is no longer a feasible option.""The title of this agreement is misleading, because it's not only about counterfeiting, it's about the violation of intellectual property rights," he told the Guardian. "There is a major difference between these two concepts."Actahas triggered public protests in a number of European and other countries, as well as online attacks by the hacking collective Anonymous. The US, EU member states, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan and a number of other countries have signed it, although none has yet ratified it in national legislation.The agreement would create an international framework and set of standards for a voluntary legal regime to enforce intellectual property rights across national boundaries.Arif said one example illustrates this difference particularly well – the case of generic medicines. "Generic medicines are not counterfeited medicines; they are not the fake version of a drug; they are a generic version of a drug, produced either because the patent on the original drug has expired, or because a country has to put in place public health policies," he said.A number of countries such as India and African nations have sought to use generic versions of drugs for infections such as HIV, which has often been resisted by pharmaceutical companies. Under Acta, Arif fears such countries would not have the same freedom to determine their own actions."There are international agreements,such as the Trips agreement, which foresees this last possibility," he said. "They're particularly important for developing countries which cannot afford to pay for patented HIV drugs, for example."The problem with Acta is that, by focusing on the fight against violation of intellectual property rights in general, it treats a generic drug just as a counterfeited drug. This means the patent holder can stop the shipping of the drugs to a developing country, seize the cargo and even order the destruction of the drugs as a preventive measure."He thinks that is a key flaw: "Acta also limits the flexibilities listed in the Trips agreements to support developing countries in need of generic drugs. When the question of finding the right equilibrium between protection of intellectual property rights and protection of final users is so crucial, Acta  appears to be very unbalanced in favour of patent holders. This is one of the major problems with the agreement."Internet freedoms could also be under threat if Acta is ratified in its present form, he says. "The chapter on internet is particularly worrying as some experts consider it reintroduces the concept of liability of internet providers, which is clearly excluded in the European legislation." That could make ISPs, who provide internet access, liable for users' illicit file-sharing.Arif also expressed concern that there could be more intrusive checks at borders to fight counterfeiting."I see a great risk concerning checks at borders, and the agreement foresees criminal sanctions against people using counterfeited products as a commercial activity," he said."This is relevant for the trade of fake shoes or bags for example, but what about data downloaded from the internet? If a customs officer considers that you may set up a commercial activity just by having one movie or one song on your computer, which is true in theory, you could face criminal sanctions."I don't want people to have their laptops or MP3 players searched at borders, there needs to be a clearer distinction between normal citizens and counterfeiters which trade fake products as a commercial activity. Acta goes too far."Thetext of the finalised treaty (PDF)has now been made public, and the European commission has begun to try to explain how Acta would work. It has also published a document called10 Myths about Acta, asserting that the public was informed "since the launch of the negotiations"; that it is drafted "in very flexible terms" and that "safeguards and exceptions under EU law or under the Trips agreement remain fully preserved".It also insists that "Acta is about tackling large-scale illegal activity … there is a provision on Acta specifically exempting travellers from checks if the infringing goods are of a non-commercial nature and not part of large-scale trafficking".
