YouTube has launched a dedicated service for gamers,YouTube Gaming, in an attempt to compete with Twitch, the live streaming company it tried to buy last year.The move sees Google, which owns YouTube, going head to head with rival tech giant Amazon, which bought Twitch for almost $1bn, as the companies fight for dominance of the fast-growing games streaming market.YouTube Gaming will be available as a website globally and will also have iOS and Android apps in the US and UK.Announced in June, the new portal includes a directory of more than 25,000 games each with their own profile page collecting related YouTube videos.YouTube Gaming makes games the third entertainment category to get special attention from Google’s online video service, following music and children’s videos. Music-streaming serviceYouTube Music Keyremains in beta testing, while theYouTube Kids applaunched in the US in February 2015.Ryan Wyatt, YouTube’s head of gaming, said: “Gaming is so big now. We’re doing billions of hours of watch-time a month, with hundreds of millions of users. It’s astonishing.”Related:YouTube trains its sights on traditional TV: 'It's a no-growth business'Games are certainly popular on YouTube: the 10 most popular games channels on the service generate more than 2.2bn monthly video views between them, according to online-video analytics firm OpenSlate.Gamers including Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg and Dan “The Diamond Minecart” Middleton are among YouTube’s biggest stars, withKjellberg earning $7.4m in 2014from his channel and related sponsorship deals.Wyatt said he hopes the addition of live broadcasting will spawn new games-focused show formats to sit alongside the “Let’s Play” walkthroughs with commentary that are already hugely popular on YouTube.Professional gaming tournaments – eSports – and gaming talk-shows are two areas in which he expects growth. “Maybe some YouTube creators who aren’t currently streaming anywhere else will start,” he said. “You’ll start to see some of your favourite creators start to do live shows.”YouTube Gaming’s website is available globally, with live streams prominent.The “anywhere else” is mainly Twitch, which launched in 2011 as a spin-off from video-streaming service Justin.tv, and quickly became a popular way to watch live gaming streams online.It wasbought by Amazon for $970m in August 2014, and more than doubled its monthly viewers from 45 million at the end of 2013 to100 million by the end of 2014– by which point it had 1.5 million broadcasters, with 10,000 of them earning money from advertising on their channels.YouTube may be an online-video giant with a billion monthly viewers, including hundreds of millions watching gaming videos, but for live gaming streams it’s playing catchup to Twitch, which already has a number of prominent YouTube gamers on its service.Two key challenges for YouTube Gaming will be hardware partnerships and moderation. Twitch is integrated into the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One games consoles to make it easier for players to broadcast, for example, as well asSony’s Live Screen Streaming appfor Android devices.Related:Zombies, creepers and kids all flock to Minecraft’s block partyYouTube is making its own moves in mobile: it also works with the Sony app, and has a partnership with Samsung forbroadcasting video from its Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge smartphones– albeit with a feed from their cameras rather than from games running on the devices.“We want to make live simple. We’ll definitely explore other opportunities to see how we can make live easier for people on consoles and phones, both for streaming and capturing content,” said Wyatt, pointing toimprovements in May to YouTube’s technology for live streams.Moderation is already a controversial subject for YouTube, with PewDiePie famouslyswitching off the comments on his channel in September 2014, complaining that “it’s mainly spam, it’s people self-advertising, it’s people trying to provoke”.Toxic commenting culture is a problem that goes beyond games on YouTube, and the company’s head of content and business operations Robert Kyncltold the Guardian in Junethat YouTube’s product group was “working on a whole bunch of solutions that would make it more pleasurable” engaging with comments.Wyatt said that YouTube Gaming is grappling with the same challenge. “We are focused on the comment system at YouTube as a whole. In the gaming portion, we rebuilt the live-streaming platform and and built out chat moderation, the ability to ban users, time-out users, ban filtered words and so forth,” he said.“It’s important to maintain the integrity of chat while having a live stream, and indicate who the broadcaster is, who the moderators are and so on. It’s a good first step, but there’s a lot more we can do with chat in the future.”Better moderation tools will be welcomed by PewDiePie and his fellow creators, even if they sometimes ruffle the feathers of their more-opinionated viewers. Wyatt said that YouTube Gaming should send out a different, more positive message to gamers, however.“It acknowledges the focus on gaming as an important part of YouTube, and that sends a message out to a lot of different people. You can’t ignore how big the hardcore gaming segment is: you’ve got to build an experience for them,” he said.“Gaming is unique, and some of the products we want to create are unique to gaming.”The Diamond Minecart is the biggest games channel on YouTube.Top 10 YouTube games channels (by monthly views)The Diamond Minecart379m monthly views and 7.7m subscribersPewDiePie291m monthly views and 38.9m subscribersMarkiplier252m monthly views and 9.1m subscribersPopularMMOs248m monthly views and 5.5m subscribersJack Septic Eye248m monthly views and 6.2m subscribersVanoss Gaming224m monthly views and 13.8m subscribersVegetta Gaymer164m monthly views and 10.8m subscribersStampy152m monthly views and 6.3m subscribersFernanFloo141m monthly views and 5.8m subscribersRezendeevil124m monthly views and 3.4m subscribersSource:OpenSlate
Treyarch, the LA-based studio behind Call of Duty: Black Ops, first revealed its plans for the third game in the series back in April. At the time, the setup looked like an intriguing extension of the tech-focused Advanced Warfare, with its exoskeletons, directed energy weapons and jet pack manoeuvres. However, Treyarch was promising an even more fluid experience, complete with wall running, underwater fights, and the ability to string together moves into Tony Hawk-like environmental combos.The studio also introduced the idea of Specialist classes, a selection of nine super-powered combat archetypes offering online players access to a range of devastating attacks as well as interesting defensive options. These effects can be earned during a match and then triggered at key moments – just like the eponymous mech suits in Titanfall.But how does it all work in practise? Treyarch has just completed a PlayStation 4 beta test featuring four maps: Combine, Evac, Hunted and Stronghold. Participants also got to test the new chained movement mechanics and eight of the specialist classes.Here’s what I learned as a professional Call of Duty player.The key weapons have already emergedOne of the most important elements of any Call of Duty beta is to find out which weapons are the most effective. There are 18 Primary options in Black Ops 3 but I and many other professional players quickly settled on the Razorback submachine gun and the M8A7 assault rifle as our go-to choices.The Razorback is the perfect SMG, with very little recoil, a clean iron sight so you can easily see enemies while aiming, and a steady fire rate. I quickly paired it with the Quickdraw, Stock, Long Barrel and Fast Mags attachments.The M8A7 is a four-burst assault rifle that will be familiar to Black Ops 2 players as it’s very similar to that game’s M8A1. It’s incredibly accurate at range, and boasts one of the fastest time-to-kill rates in the game if you land all four shots on your opponent.The wall runs and water routes are worth masteringThe key lesson from the four Beta maps was that Black Ops 3 seems to have reverted to a traditional three-lane system, where each layout essentially has three main channels to run through. This is in contrast to last year’s Advanced Warfare, which used a more freeform approach.The consequence is that players have to continually decide whether to go left, straight or right, meaning there are a lot more head-to-head gunfights. It’s all about choosing the correct moment to flank, as well as using the wall run shortcuts that are built into all the maps. These could easily have been a pointless gimmick, but their implementation is smooth, and the controls are intuitive so that vertical running feels really natural within the flow of the game. Playing Team Domination on the Evac map for example, you can run on the outside of the main building all the way to behind the C domination flag, which could help you pick up some extra kills for your side before taking the objective.Another new map feature is swimming – and with it, underwater combat. It’s another subtle but successful addition, which truly comes into effect on Hunted where you’re able to use the water to escape enemies when you’re losing a gun battle, or as an alternate route into the main building to take control of the hardpoint.Specialists may become critical for big scorestreaksIt’s already clear that Specialists will greatly effect how players perform, providing game-changing moments that can easily turn a match.After experimenting with all of the available options, it looks like two have emerged as favourites for skilled players. Those who prioritise scorestreaks are using Nomad’s Rejack ability, which provides a death-defying injection of nanoparticle serum: if an opponent manages to kill you, you can bring yourself back from the dead and continue your current streak. It’s perhaps going to prove a controversial option, but you won’t worry about that if you’re one kill away from unlocking the mothership.The second Specialist I’d recommend for higher skilled and accurate players, especially those using an assault rifle, is Prophet’s Tempest. This charge shot weapon fires an arc of electricity, lethally shocking targets and chaining to nearby enemies. Although very difficult to use, it’s clearly one of the most devastating specialist options in the game, helping to rack up many additional kills.There are already definite load-out necessitiesBlack Ops 3 uses the now familiar “pick ten” system, allowing players to opt for any combination of 10 weapons, items and perks. Throughout the beta, I tended to add as many gun attachments as possible by using the Primary Gunfighter wildcard. It means you can only use two perks, but having a more powerful weapon is worth it. I also used Overclock in my Perk One slot so I could get my devastating Specialist ability quicker. Elsewhere, Fast Hands already looks to be one of the game’s few compulsory perks.The scorestreak system is back to its bestIt’s early days, but it already looks like scorestreaks (the special attacks and items unlocked through gaining kills and objectives during a match) are a strong element in Black Ops 3. For players looking to assist their teammates, the non-lethal setup of UAV, Counter UAV and H.A.T.R is one of the strongest scorestreak combinations in the game, as it constantly reveals all enemy locations on the minimap. It’s very similar to the Blackbird and VSAT from previous titles.For a more lethal approach, a combination of Hellstorm, Lightning Strike and Wraith proved devastating for me during the beta, especially on smaller maps, such as Combine. However, a piece of equipment called the Blackhat can be used to hijack enemy scorestreaks like the Wraith and H.A.T.R, redirecting their firepower against the user. An important lesson is to be very watchful of opponents using that one.
It’s Wednesday.
Google’s 3D-mapping tablet, Project Tango, is going on sale in the UK for the first time as the company widens availability of the new technology’s developer kit.Originally announced back in 2014, Project Tango relies on a combination of a number of cutting-edge technologies to develop a device that can understand its location in the physical world in the same way a human does.At the heart of the Tango development kit (the second generation of the device, and the first after it switched from phone-sized to tablet-sized hardware) is a cutting-edge suite of sensors. The tablet includes a 4 megapixel camera at the back, which works with a motion-tracking camera and 3D depth sensing to give the tablet the ability to “see” in three dimensions.Those visual sensors are complimented by a highly accurate accelerometer, gyroscope and barometer, which between them work to give the tablet a sense of its own position and movement: the accelerometer measures movement, the gyroscope rotation, and the barometer height. On top of those, the device also has GPS, an ambient light sensor, and a compass.The array of sensors is paired with a software library which puts all the information together to build an understanding of the area the device is in. Potential applications demonstrated by Google include scanning software, which can build a 3D model of an area simply by waving the device around the room; augmented reality apps, which can place a 3D model of, for example, a car or a piece of furniture in the room and have the user physically walk around it; and the ability to make precise measurements simply by tapping two locations on a screen.Larry Yang, Tango’s product manager, says that the most impressive use of the device, which goes on sale in the UK on Wednesday, so far has been to build indoor mapping functionality. “We’ve seen developers build products where you can say ‘find me the Oreos’, and the device will give you an accurate map through a store to where they are kept – even with no GPS or signal at all”, he said.The Project Tango development kit currently sells for $512, and lets developers who want to get a head-start with the technology explore its potential. But Yang says it will likely be the last example of its kind, as independent hardware firms move into the market. Intel recently announced its own support for the Tango software.Although the hardware is currently associated with Android, he adds that there’s no reason to expect it to stay on the platform forever. He cites the example of a drone equipped with the Tango technology, which would be able to navigate far more successfully through a built-up area than if it relied on GPS alone.
Silicon Valley startups basking in billion-dollar valuations may face a long-overdue reckoning as a result of the global panic set off by roiling Chinese markets, investors and analysts have warned.The number of technology companies with so-called “unicorn” designations of $1bn or more reachedat least 131on Monday, as healthcare websites, big-data firms and even Buzzfeed joined the kings of a new digital economy like Uber ($51bn) and Fitbit ($3.7bn).Related:Why is China's stock market falling and how might it affect the global economy?But Silicon Valley watchers examining the ripple effects of a selloff across sectors from Beijing to the Nasdaq, which continued in Asian trading on Tuesday althoughEuropean markets bounced back, insist those valuations have been too generous for too long – and may have consequences for both the startup scene and the market at large.Whether the recalibration represents a market adjustment or a bursting tech bubble, investors say this week’s global stock rollercoaster is a sign of weakening confidence in the startup sector’s bigger bets – especially in what one venture capitalist called the increasingly difficult prospects “for some very high-end stuff to go public”.Related:Stock markets surge after China cuts interest rates - live updatesVenture capitalists tend to lead the way in seed funding for glitzy startups, but they may be left without more risk-averse investors to bankroll the homestretch toward an IPO in a volatile environment.“I could see mutual funds pulling out of the market, leaving traditional VCs – and the VCs are going to be more aggressive on valuation,” said Maarten Hooft, managing partner at Quest Venture Partners, which focuses on early-stage investment.Such seed-stage investments and so-called “Series A” funding were likely to continue, VC backers and analysts agreed. But the ability of startups to rapidly snatch millions upon millions – particularly in the absence of profitability – could begin to fade away, with buyouts likely to rise.Bill Gurley, general partner at Benchmark,wrote on Twitterthat he thought tech investors had become too fond of growth and had failed to pay enough attention to “names” that didn’t turn enough profit. The decline of technology stocks, which he said had been “getting crushed” since mid-July, could represent “an inflection point”.On Monday, the technology sector of the S&amp;P 500 fared better than the index’s average, but prominent public tech stocks still suffered:In China,where inflation concerns led to the christening of “Black Monday”, the e-commerce behemoth Alibaba fell 3.4% to $65.86 – well below its IPO price of $68 per share. (It was still down before the NYSE opened on Tuesday.)In the US, Apple, Google and Microsoftwere all down.The social network Twitterhad a similar collapse last weekbut rallied; it was back down again on Monday, while Facebook stock plunged 3.45%.Among more recent IPOs, Box – the online storage provider that reaped huge rewards for risky VC backers earlier this year – was down more than 1%.“I think this is probably a correction rather than the start of the end of the bull market,” said Hooft. “People are trying to take into account the news coming out of China and Europe and emerging markets, and then trying to figure out how that plays back into the US tech sector. For me, what I was thinking about doing this morning when I saw Facebook was down was buying more Facebook.”Uncertainty in the startup world may mean good news for media giants large enough to weather a market correction – and perhaps even the smaller startups that could get swallowed up by them.“We’re at a point where both kind of core supports of the media ecosystem are shaking – advertising and the subscription business,” said analyst Rich Greenfield of the research firm BTIG. “Every one of these companies has ‘missed’ mobile.”Companies attracting upwards of $1bn in funding were “relatively small acquisitions” for giants like Disney, Greenfield noted.“You’ve got massive companies like Snapchat sitting out there,” he said, referring to the social network reported to be raising some $650m in its latest round – ahead of a valuation that could be worth $16bn.Hooft said for tech companies that have managed to acquire hundred-million-dollar stakes in the last year and a half, it is a buyer’s market and mergers-and-acquisition activity is very likely as soon as cash-rich techies “see an opportunity to do some talent acquisition or to buy cheaply into a space so they can give it a go”.And the larger tech firms themselves might get in on the action: “A lot of the tech companies have a lot of cash and they have to do something with it,” said Hooft.Regardless of who ends up acquired and who gets forced to IPO in an uncertain market, “valuations will probably be toned down a bit”, said the other venture capitalist, who asked not to be named.“The focus is on how hard it is going to be for some very high-end stuff to go public,” he said. “How does Pinterest go public now? Dropbox? Square?”
Sony has unveiled its latest camera drone prototype which is capable of taking off vertically and flying like an aeroplane.The drone, which resembles the short takeoff and landing variant ofthe Lockheed Martin F35 fighter jetmade famous by a brief appearance in the filmDie Hard 4.0, is the product of Sony’s joint venture with robotics startup ZMP.The joint venture,called Aerosense, uses Sony’s imaging, sensing and networking technology from its smartphone range while ZMP provides the robotics expertise to make them fly.The camera drones are capable of flying further and faster than traditional quad- or hexacopters and they will be leased to businesses for aerial surveillance and reconnaissance purposes, for “measuring, surveying, observing, and inspecting” according to the company.Hisashi Taniguchi, chief executive of Aerosense and ZMP, said: “By making them automated, drones will be considerably safer because many of accidents today are caused by human error.”Drones are expected to be one of the growth areas in electronics, as the sensors and technologies needed to sustain stable flight have become cheaper, making them a viable device for both business and consumer products.The television and film industries have adopted large civil drones capable of carrying high-powered photography and video equipment to produce aerial and floating action shots within their controlled environments.But drone use within construction and other industries for surveying dangerous or difficult to reach areas is in its infancy. Sony’s drone-as-a-service hopes to crack the market, competing with Japanese rivals Yamaha and companies such as Australian firm Flirtey on the global stage.•Drone firing handgun appears in video•First successful drone delivery made in the US
Hacked extramarital dating site Ashley Madison discussed hacking a competitor, according to emails released as part of the massive leak of the site’s data.The leaked emails show that in November 2012, the site’s chief technology officer, Raja Bhatia, emailed chief executive Noel Biderman after apparently examining the security of the new dating section of online sex and relationships magazineNerve.comand finding a security hole in the site.“They did a very lousy job building their platform. I got their entire user base,” Bhatia wrote. “Also, I can turn any non-paying user into a paying user, vice versa, compose messages between users, check unread stats, etc.”The email also contained a link to a Github archive with a sample of the database, suggesting that Bhatia had acquired some data.Ashley Madison did not deny the emails were accurate, but said that they were taken out of context. The company says that Bhatia’s discovery of security holes in the website was part of “due diligence” performed in the runup to a proposed partnership between the two firms.Six months after the first emails and in advance of a meeting between Biderman and Nerve.com, Bhatia again emailed the chief executive, asking whether he should “tell them of their security hole”. Biderman did not reply.The emails are contained in the second of the two major document dumps from Ashley Madison, which was hacked in late July by attackers calling themselves Impact Team. The first dump, released last Tuesday, contained the full database of Ashley Madison’s members. But a second database, released on Thursday night, contained a number of internal documents from the company itself – including the full email spool of chief executive Biderman.Identity protection analyst Adam Levin says Ashley Madison members should come clean instead of waiting to be discovered or risking becoming the victim of extortionIn a statement given to Vice, Ashley Madison’s parent company Avid Life Media said that the emails were “taken out of context” and that the interpretation that Bhatia had hacked Nerve was “incorrect and unfortunate”. The statement continued: “Nerve was exploring strategic partnerships in May of 2012 and reached out to Noel to determine Avid Life Media’s interest in the property. At the time Noel did not act on that opportunity.”“In September PTC Advisors, representing Nerve, contacted Noel and provided a more detailed brief on the opportunity. This communique was followed by a number of conversations. Subsequently Noel contacted Raja Bhatia and asked for his assistance in conducting technical due diligence on the opportunity. This activity, while clumsily conducted, uncovered certain technology shortcomings which Noel attempted to understand and confirm.“At no point was there an effort made to hack, steal or use Nerve.com’s proprietary data.”Ashley Madison has refused to confirm the legitimacy of the dump overall, and, short of confirming that the hack is being investigated, haslargely failed to answer questions surrounding the hack at all. The Guardian has asked Bhatia, who no longer works for the firm, for comment.Five people on getting caught up in the Ashley Madison data breachAshley Madison database suggests paid-delete option left identifiable data intact
It’s Tuesday and it’s raining.
The Pebble Time Steel is an all-metal version of the crowdfunded iPhone and Android compatible smartwatch – and it lasts for an astounding 150 hours per charge.If the best smartwatches are all about notifications and controlling a few things that make sense on an always-in-reach screen, the Pebble is the purest embodiment of that idea.Stainless steelA metal case and leather strap sets the Steel apart from the Time, shown here on a female wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe big differencebetween the Time, which launched early this year, and the Time Steel is the watch’s body. A small piece of black matt plastic is sandwiched between a “marine grade” stainless steel back and bezel with a hardened curved glass screen.The four buttons are also textured metal and have a quality feel to them that makes them satisfying to push.The back is curved, fitting to the wrist and with relatively small dimensions of 47mm by 37.5mm. That means it’s comfortable to wear compared to most other much larger smartwatches. The Steel is actually bigger than the original Time, which measured 40.5mm by 37.5mm, and is 1mm thicker at 10.5mm instead of 9.5mm.That increased size makes the screen look slightly smaller with larger bezels, but the watch looks and feels more premium, and weighs 62.3g making it 19.8g heavier than the non-metal Time, but lighter than most other smartwatches.The Pebble Time Steel simply feels like a normal digital watch on the wrist, which most smartwatches do not.150 hours per chargeThe magnetic charger attaches to the back, but is only needed every six days.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Time Steel has a larger battery and lasted 150 hours during my testing with hundreds of notifications, lots of fiddling with and use of music controls, apps and timers, and fitness tracking using the Misfit app. That equates to six days and six hours of use, day and night, including fitness and sleep tracking – or just over nine days if turned off overnight.The Steel also has a low-power mode, which kicks in when the battery hits 0% charge and just displays the time. As of publication this low-power mode has lasted over 24 hours and is still going.The low-power mode means even when the battery runs out you can still tell the time, with the backlight operational too.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIt is the longest lasting smartwatch by far, and the standard to which all smartwatches should aim for. For comparison, theSony Smartwatch 3lasts up to two days per charge and is the longest lasting of the Android Wear smartwatches, while theApple Watchonly lasts a day.The watch comes with a magnetic charging cable and charges in just over two hours.The screen is the same as the standard Time – a colour e-paper display that’s always on and readable in direct sunlight. A backlight, ambient light sensor and motion sensing make sure that it’s readable at night too.The Time Steel comes with a nubuck strap, which feels great, but will take any 22mm wide standard watch strap, including metal ones. The watch is also waterproof to 30m.Android and iPhone supportNotifications are displayed from your smartphone on the wrist. Android users will be able to reply to messages, favourite tweets and perform other actions. Shown here on a female wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe rest of the watch behaves precisely the same as the Pebble Time. Pairing, setup, navigation, apps and music controls are the same.For more information on setting up and using the Pebble Time on either an iPhone or an Android smartphone see:Pebble Time with an iPhone: the simple but effective answer to Apple WatchPebble Time with Android: better on Android than iPhonePriceThe Pebble Time Steel is available in black, silver or gold for £230, which is £50 more than the ordinary Pebble Time. It is also available with a metal strap for £270.For comparison, theApple Watch Sportcosts upwards of £300, while Google’s Android Wear watches such as theSony Smartwatch 3orLG Urbanecost between £100 and £300.VerdictA variety of apps and watchfaces are available from the Pebble store. The Steel shown here on a male wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Pebble Time Steel takes an already good smartwatch and adds longer battery life, a larger case and premium feel. It looks great in the same way metal Casio watches do, which is personal taste of course, and is easy to live with.It does notifications, music controls and watch functions well, is always readable and doesn’t try too hard to be a jack of all trades and end up a master of none.Whether the Steel is worth £50 more than the Time, which has a metal bezel but plastic body, is debatable. Other decent smartwatches are available in the £200 to £250 range with more features. But like theordinary Time, the Pebble Time Steel is arguably one of the best smartwatches currently available and one of very few that work with both Android and iPhones.Pros:150-hour battery life, comfortable, metal body, always-readable screen, waterproof to 30m, cross-platform, lightweightCons:cannot mute the phone, small screen, large bezels, more expensive than Time, less capable than Android Wear or the Apple WatchOther reviews•Pebble Time with an iPhone: the simple but effective answer to Apple Watch•Pebble Time with Android: better on Android than iPhone•Which was the best smartwatch of 2014?•Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated software•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery•LG Watch Urbane review: big, bold and a bit gaudy
Labor has fired up the negative rhetoric about the communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, after yetanother poor Newspollfor Tony Abbott and confirmation on Monday of a blowout in the cost of the national broadband network that may amount to as much as $15bn.Given the sustained negative poll trend, continuing nervousness in Coalition ranks andopen brawling by cabinet ministerson key issues, Labor is positioning for any leadership change by going after the Liberal party’s most popular alternative candidate, Turnbull.Turnbullconfirmed on Mondaythe cost of building Australia’s largest infrastructure project, the national broadband network, could rise by as much as $15bn.Related:NBN costs balloon as Malcolm Turnbull says further $15bn may be neededThe Labor leader, Bill Shorten, grabbed at that on Tuesday morning, arguing the communications minister was spending too much time preening and not enough time working.“Malcolm Turnbull, quite bluntly, has been spending too much time doing interviews offering himself up for Tony Abbott’s job,” Shorten said. “Malcolm Turnbull hasn’t been doing his own day job properly.”Shorten said a $15bn cost blowout on a major infrastructure project was “a black mark against that minister”, and Labor’s communications spokesman, Jason Clare, took aim at Turnbull’s competence.“This is no one else’s fault but Malcolm Turnbull,” Clare told reporters. “This is Malcolm Turnbull’s mess. No wonder support for this government is falling.”Turnbull is a divisive figure within the Coalition, and is not the first choice of the party’s base, but is nonetheless consistently popular with the public. A number of public opinion pollsrecord Turnbullas the people’s choice for Liberal leader.The social services minister, Scott Morrison, whoasserted influence internallyduring the last sitting fortnight over the election of the new Speaker, Tony Smith, and in the government’s same-sex marriage fight,had lunchwith Rupert Murdoch during the media mogul’s recent visit to Australia.On breakfast television the treasurer, Joe Hockey, attempted to shrug off the government’s poor standing in the polls by arguing the Coalition had been marked down by voters before and gone on to win elections.“You know, Karl, I saw this in 2004, I saw it in 1998,” Hockey said on Tuesday.John Howard prevailed in the GST election of 1998 against Kim Beazley, and again against Mark Latham in 2004.“I have seen it previously, where we have gone on to win an election, even weeks and months just after those sort of polls,” Hockey said. “You can always come back but what you have got to focus on is jobs, growth, economic growth, and obviously national security.”
California lawmakers have sided with privacy advocates to pass a bill that bans drones from flying lower than 350ft (106m) over private property.If the bill is signed by Governor Jerry Brown it will create a no-fly zone and make it a trespass violation for someone to fly an unmanned aircraft or drone over private property below 350ft without the consent of the owner or tenant.SB 142 passed a third reading on Monday in the California State Assembly despite pressure from drone users and manufactures who say the new law will stifle innovation in the growing industry.“People should be able to sit in their backyards and be in their homes without worrying about drones flying right above them or peering in their windows,” said state senator Hannah-Beth Jackson, who authored the bill. “We need to balance innovation with personal and societal expectations.”According to the National Conference on State Legislatures (NCSL), in 2015, 45 states considered 156 bills related to drones, and 18 states have passed legislation.In May, Florida passed SB 766, prohibiting a person, state agency or political subdivision from using a drone to photograph people on their private property without their consent.Related:Google is testing drones in US airspace by piggybacking on Nasa exemptionJackson was inspired to propose the bill when she was vacationing in Hawaii in December and sitting on a friend’s private balcony.“A neighbor’s drone flew right onto the balcony and was recording our conversation. It was very unsettling and so I started researching this issue,” said Jackson, a former prosecutor and the chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee.The bill doesn’t affect the “lawful activities of law enforcement personnel, employees of governmental agencies, or other public or private entities that may have the right to enter land by operating” a drone within someone’s private property.But drone industry advocates say the bill is too broad and lumps together hobbyists and commercial drone users.“There is a growing commercial drone industry and companies are developing legitimate uses for drones. This law leaves very little room for a commercial drone corridor in the sky,” said Mario Mairena, senior government relations manager for the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI), a drone and robotics advocacy organization based in Washington DC.The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 requires the governmental agency to establish a regulatory framework for safely integrating drones into the national airspace by 30 September, 2015.Currently the FAA allows small aircraft, weighing less than 55lb, to be flown for recreational purposes without a permit, below 400ft and at least five miles from an airport.Related:Amazon proposes drones-only airspace to facilitate high-speed deliveryThe federal law doesn’t differentiate between flying over private and public property. This means that under SB 142 hobbyists in California would only have 50ft – from 350ft to 400ft – to fly their drones.In February, the FAA proposed a new framework of regulations to allow the use of drones at up to 500ft for non-recreational use. The flights have to be during daylight and require the UAS pilot to maintain a visual line of site with the drone at all times.This framework affects Amazon and Google, whose officials have announced that they are in the process of developing drone delivery systems. Under the new law small commercial drones that don’t need permits will be able fly between 350 and 500ft in California.While the FAA continues to work on the Small UAS policy, according to its website, it has granted 1,277 certificates authorizing certain drones to perform commercial operations like aerial photography or agricultural crop surveying.“States should not be regulating airspace. That is the FAA’s job,” said Mairena.But a slew of drone-related state bills have come up this year, including SB 168 by California senator Ted Gaines, which proposes to give immunity to firefighters and other emergency responders who take down or damage a drone that is intruding into areas where there is a fire or other type of emergency. The legislation came after drones interfered with firefighting activities in various parts of California this summer.On Friday, the FAA released a new list of pilot, air traffic and citizen reports of possible encounters with drones. According to the data there were 765 possible encounters between 13 November, 2014 and 20 August, 2015. 171 of those occurred in California. Additionally, more than 275 pilots reported seeing drones at altitudes of up to 10,000ft.“Because pilot reports of unmanned aircraft have increased dramatically over the past year, the FAA wants to send a clear message that operating drones around airplanes and helicopters is dangerous and illegal,” said the FAA report.SB 142 would allow drone users to fly in public spaces like parks and roads below 350ft.“Companies can still deliver packages to someone’s front door using a drone as long as they are allowed by the FAA and fly along public roads. They must enter your property the way a delivery person would,” said Jackson.According to a May 2015 report by CB Insights, a New York city-based research firm that tracks venture capital and start-ups, six of the top 10 drone manufacturers that have raised the most venture capital funding are based in California.CB Insights reports that Berkeley-based drone manufacturer 3D Robotics leads the top 10 and has raised $99 m in disclosed venture funding.San Francisco-based drone software maker Airware has raised more than $40 m and Skycatch $21 m.“We should be looking at if a drone flies over someone’s private property, is it actually invading someone’s privacy by looking into their backyard, taking pictures or recording video. This shouldn’t be just about flying over private property,” said Nancy Egan, 3D Robotics general counsel.3D Robotics recently came out with the Solo, a sleek black drone built to hold a GoPro camera and features a wireless high-definition video feed.Egan says the Solo, which costs about $1,900 for the drone, controller, gimbal, and camera, is largely used by hobbyist drone users who take photos of extreme sports or landscapes like mountains or beaches.“With drone and camera technologies rapidly advancing, safeguarding the right to privacy is more critical than ever,” Jackson said.
The first UN privacy chief has said the world needs a Geneva convention style law for the internet to safeguard data and combat the threat of massive clandestine digital surveillance.Speaking to the Guardian weeks after his appointment as the UN special rapporteur on privacy, Joseph Cannataci described British surveillance oversight as being “a joke”, and said the situation is worse than anything George Orwell could have foreseen.He added that he doesn’t use Facebook or Twitter, and said it was regrettable that vast numbers of people sign away their digital rights without thinking about it.One thing that is certainly going to come up in my mandate  is the business model that large corporations are using“Some people were complaining because they couldn’t find me on Facebook. They couldn’t find me on Twitter. But since I believe in privacy, I’ve never felt the need for it,” Cannataci, a professor of technology law at University of Groningen in the Netherlands and head of the department of Information Policy &amp; Governance at the University of Malta, said.Appointed after concern about surveillance and privacy followingthe Edward Snowden revelations, Cannataci agreed that his notion of a new universal law on surveillance could embarrass those who may not sign up to it. “Some people may not want to buy into it,” he acknowledged. “But you know, if one takes the attitude that some countries will not play ball, then, for example, the chemical weapons agreement would never have come about.”Cannataci came into his new post in July after a controversial spatinvolving the first-choice candidate, Katrin Nyman-Metcalf, who the Germans in particular thought might not be tough enough on the Americans.But for Cannataci – well-known for having a mind of his own – it is not America but Britain that he singles out as having the weakest oversight in the western world: “That is precisely one of the problems we have to tackle. That if your oversight mechanism’s a joke, and a rather bad joke at its citizens’ expense, for how long can you laugh it off as a joke?”He said proper oversight is the only way of progressing, and hopes more people will think about and vote for privacy in the UK. “And that is where the political process comes in,” he said, “because can you laugh off the economy and the National Health Service? Not in the UK election, if you want to survive.”The appointment of a UN special rapporteur on privacy is seen as hugely important because it elevates the right to privacy in the digital age to that of other human rights. As the first person in the job, the investigator will be able to set the standard for the digital right to privacy, deciding how far to push governments that want to conduct surveillance for security reasons, and corporations who mine us for our personal data.Cannataci’s mandate is extensive. He is empowered to:Systematically review government policies and laws on interception of digital communications and collection of personal data.Identify actions that intrude on privacy without compelling justification.Assist governments in developing best practices to bring global surveillance under the rule of law.Further articulate private sector responsibilities to respect human rights.Help ensure national procedures and laws are consistent with international human rights obligations.Although Cannataci admits his job is a complex one that is not going to be solved with a magic bullet, he says he is far from starting from scratch and believes there are at least four main areas – including a universal law on surveillance, tackling the business models of the big tech corporations, defining privacy and raising awareness among the public.“I would say it’s impossible to achieve in three years. And it’s probably impossible to achieve even if the mandate is renewed to six years, if you’re trying to do too much. But I do think that – at least my view of things in a field like human rights – is the longer term view, right? The impact must be felt in the long term.”However, Cannataci says we are dealing with a world even worse that anything Orwell could have foreseen. “It’s worse,” he said. “Because if you look at CCTV alone, at least Winston [Winston Smith in Orwell’s novel 1984] was able to go out in the countryside and go under a tree and expect there wouldn’t be any screen, as it was called. Whereas today there are many parts of the English countryside where there are more cameras than George Orwell could ever have imagined. So the situation in some cases is far worse already.“The way we handle it is going to be the difference. But Orwell foresaw a technology that was controlling. In our case we are looking at a technology that is ever-developing, and ever-developing possibly more sinister capabilities.” Because of this, the Snowden revelations were very important, he said.“They were very important. Snowden will continue to be looked upon as a traitor by some and a hero by others. But in actual fact his revelations confirmed to many of us who have been working in this field for a long time what has been going on, and the extent to which it has gone out of control.”Cannataci, who works between his offices in Malta and the Netherlands, has set his sights on challenging the business model of companies that are “very often taking the data that you never even knew they were taking”. “This is one thing that is certainly going to come up in my mandate, which is the business model that large corporations are using,” he said.“We have a number of corporations that have set up a business model that is bringing in hundreds of thousands of millions of euros and dollars every year and they didn’t ask anybody’s permission. They didn’t go out and say: ‘Oh, we’d like to have a licensing law.’ No, they just went out and created a model where people’s data has become the new currency. And unfortunately, the vast bulk of people sign their rights away without knowing or thinking too much about it,” he said.This article has been amended to correct an error introduced in editing.
‘Spotify seems to think I want to hear a 1972 live album by Yes’Alexis PetridisThere are many things I love about Spotify – its convenience, the way it allows me to spy on what my friends are listening to or check their “best of the year so far” playlists for music I might have missed –but the Discover featureis not one of them. I can’t help finding it a bit creepy, partly because it just is – a musical recommendation from a friend whose taste you trust is patently not the same thing as a computer trying to predict what you’re going to do next – and partly because I read enough science fiction as a kid to know that this kind of thing is invariably the thin end of the wedge. One minute the computer is all nicey-nicey and “Can I help you with that?” and “You just listened to Fleet Foxes, perhaps you’d like to hear the new Sufjan Stevens album?” then the next thing you know, humanity has been condemned to live in vast subterranean slave camps and forced to mine uranium for our new robot overlords.And besides, it doesn’t work – at least, not for me. This morning, its lists of recommendations and new releases consist of music I’ve either already heard and don’t like, or stuff I’ve no intention of listening to; it seems to think I want to hear a collection of 1972 live recordings by Yes, which I can assure you is not the case. I like to think this is because my music taste is so brilliantly eclectic that no program can hope to work it out, but in reality it’s probably got more to do with two other factors.Related:The Spotify privacy backlash: what is my personal data really worth? | Paul MasonFirstly, when I’m writing, I use Spotify as a research tool, listening to all sorts of things I wouldn’t ordinarily listen to. Spotify is currently resolute in the belief that I want to hear novelty ska tracks, because I recently listened to 80s novelty ska band Bad Manners in order to make a joke involving Bad Manners in something I was writing.Secondly, my Spotify account is linked to the Sonos system downstairs, which means my kids have access to it. And what my kids listen to is insane, as is the frequency with which they listen to it. You can never underestimate my daughters’ capacity to play the same song over and over again, way past any normal human being’s tolerance, up to the point where playing it again constitutes a violation of the 1984 UN Convention Against Torture. So my kids are effectively feeding the Spotify algorithm bad data – while I have nothing against the jolly one-woman Showaddywaddy that is Meghan Trainor, I can tell you for a fact that I really don’t like Dear Future Husband anywhere near as much as Spotify thinks I do, or indeed at all. And despite what my laptop seems to believe, I really, really don’t want to hear anything even remotely like it.‘I think the guys from MatchesFashion.com have got inside my head’Jess Cartner-MorleyAlgorithms are theuncanny valleyof online shopping, but fashion is the spookiest nook of all. If I log on to Amazon right now, it suggests that I might want to buy theLorrie Moore book of short stories, a hard-to-find interdental brush and a geometry set. All of which is accurate, but would also be easy for anyone who had had a snoop in my handbag and knew the ages of my children to find out.Silk Bandeau top by Raey.But the emails I get from fashion websites: man, these guys are inside my head. Matchesfashion.com, for instance, emailed the other day asking if I wanted to check out the newsilk bandeau top by Raey, which, when I clicked on it, was the exact top I have been looking for – structured underneath with a loose top layer, a Raf Simons-Dior style straight line across the top. I was taken aback, in the same way that I used to be long ago about Amazon knowing my reading predelictions, before I came to accept that the tastes I once believed were individual are, in fact, cattle-prodded by the same stimuli as every other broadsheet reader out there. But this is different: I don’t have any strapless tops, because fashion being fashion I never wanted one, except now I suddenly do. And these people have read my mind.The you-might-like emails I get about clothes aren’t based on the clothes I’ve got in my wardrobe, they are based on the clothes I’ve got in my head. (See also: aChloe braid-detail denim dress, £235, which popped up just after I’d seen a woman wearing something very similar in the street, and started yearning for one.) Sometimes, this makes me realise to what degree I have been conditioned to want new trends for the sake of it. The really idiotic part of which is that it is arguably me, as a fashion editor, doing the conditioning on myself. Which is a bit like mis-selling a pension, or a packaged bank account, to yourself. Doh.Another hey-there-Jess-we-thought-you-might-like email, which popped up, all innocent, recently: a pair ofNina Runsdorf emerald-slice drop earrings, suspended from a pave diamond chain. Full disclosure: I am obsessed with emerald earrings. But these are £7,830, and I have never once in my life spent anything approaching that kind of money on jewellery. Just occasionally, in my weaker moments, it is possible that I find myself looking at this kind of thing online. But I know it’s stupid, which is why if anyone looked over my shoulder, I would snap the window shut. And if you’re ready to snap the window shut, surely, that’s not even window shopping – it’s secret. Except there are no secrets in your browser history. Come to think of it, I’m a little spooked. Maybe it’s time for some retail therapy.‘You can’t let it get to you. Netflix doesn’t know you’Stuart HeritageNetflix doesn’t email me often. Usually, its recommendations are reserved for its menu screen, where it will inform me that, since I recently watched Daredevil, it only stands to reason that I’d also be interested watching a documentary about meat.So, when Netflix emails, it’s a big deal. It means that it has sifted through the labyrinthine intricacies of my viewing habits and determined that its big, new release is something I’ll stop in my tracks to watch.It’s usually right. I likedHouse of Cards. I lovedKimmy Schmidt. So, earlier this year, I was thrilled to receive another email entitled: “Stuart, we’ve just added a film you might like”. I’d come to trust Netflix, so without a second thought, I rushed out and bought popcorn. I switched off my phone. I dimmed the lights and sat in front of my TV, frantically trying to calm my breathing. Then I opened my email.The film was the2011 Nicolas Cage vehicle Season of the Witch. The unloved Nicolas Cage film Season of the Witch. The one with a9% freshness rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The one with the reputation for being so dull that not even ironic Nicolas Cage fans can appreciate it. The one that was on Channel 5 all the time anyway.Notflix ... Nicolas Cage in Season of the Witch.Photograph: Allstar/Momentum Pictures/SportsphotoAt a certain point, you take these wayward recommendations to heart. “Do I really look like the sort of person who’d enjoy Season of the Witch?” you ask yourself. “Is that really what these people think of me?” But you can’t let it get to you. Netflix doesn’t know you. Netflix is an automated system governed by a crude algorithm. It doesn’t know that you like long, contemplative walks in the park. It doesn’t know that you regularly donate to charity. It can’t see into your soul.Obviously, I didn’t watch Season of the Witch. I watched Hancock instead.‘Facebook’s closely guarded algorithm gives me the heebie jeebies’Archie BlandI don’t want any new friends, if I’m honest. I don’t see enough of the ones I already have, and I can’t necessarily always exactly remember their names or their marital status or what they do for a living. Relax the definition of “friend” to include the prefix “Facebook” and my doubts grow. I do not consider the fact that Herman and I were once at the same primary school a strong enough reason to be confronted with his opinions on Calais.Facebook is not having it, though. No matter how exhaustively you think you’ve compiled a list of the friends and “friends” you’ve accumulated over the years, there is always a bottomless list of “people you may know”. (Twitter does the same thing, but much less worryingly, because it’s always fine to be offered the chance to see more footballers uploading selfies, if that’s what you’re into.) Nor are they necessarily people you wish to be reminded of. Home-town nemeses, lunatic exes, friends of your parents:Mark Zuckerberg would like you to reconnect with them all.Weirder still are the times Facebook is actually right. Oh, yes, you think, I remember her from that thing, I’d love to see a picture of her cat at a party with other cats. And then you think: hang on, how do they know?Related:Telepathy technology is coming – are you scared? | Rhodri MarsdenWhat you realise is that your online life is far more integrated with your offline one than you thought, and that it has happened without you noticing. A glance at my current list brings up at least four people who are entirely outside of my regular circle, and I can’t quite see how Facebook has worked them out. (Also, inevitably, an ex and a bigot.) One of them, a long-ago interview subject who I’ve never emailed from my private email address, and with whom I have no friends in common nor have ever been tagged with in a photo – the obvious means forFacebook’s closely guarded algorithm to do its work– gives me the heebie jeebies. I’m about ready to call the information commissioner when I remember that I, er, did have a look at his account when I was working on that piece. Who knows? Maybe he’s since done the same, and that’s how we’ve been connected.Even with this explanation available, my heebie jeebies haven’t dissipated. Still, I guess I can live with it. Invasive though it is, it’s also the price of the free internet – and the price of that sense of connection that I still, despite myself, find pleasant. Plus, I’m glad I got to see that cat party.
Name:Unicorns.Age:About two.Appearance:Hipsterish, dressed in black T-shirts, usually found in California, though also increasingly visible in cities in India and China.Pointy thing on the forehead, I seem to recall:Er, no, you are thinking of the mythical white horse that features in the literature of the ancient world. The modern unicorns – privately owned high-tech companies valued at $1bn or more – are resolutely modern.So why are they called unicorns?Because when American venture capitalistAileen Lee coined the term two years ago, she could find only 39 in the US. Since she reckoned 60,000 software and internet companies had been “seeded” in the previous decade, that meant only 0.07 had grown into billion-dollar companies – hence they were as rare as unicorns.And are they still?Apparently not.At the last count, there were 131, and they are growing by at least 50 a year. “Unicorns are becoming so common, maybe we should just call them horses,” is one Silicon Valley joke.How droll.There is even a new terminology springing up to describe the market: “narwhals” are companies valued at more than $500m; “decacorns” are companies valued at more than $10bn. No one has yet come up witha word for Uber, which is valued at more than $50bn.Who cares? This is boring.True, but it matters because it could have the makings of anotherdotcom bubble. “We may be nearing the end of a cycle where growth is valued more than profitability,” investment guruBill Gurley tweeted last week. “It could be at an inflection point.”An inflection point?I think it means everything is about to go belly-up.Maybe the stock market collapse in China could be another indicator.I see you’ve been reading the FT after all.What is this growth v profitability thing?Unicorns usually pursue market share rather than profit – for a digital startup, dominating your sector is everything. As a result, you can be valued at billions without ever making a cent. But eventually, investors might start fretting about the bottom line.And then?Gurley reckons there are going to be lots of “dead unicorns” and “zombie unicorns” – and quite a few burnt investors.Not to be confused with:The real world.Do say:“It’s a dangerous spike.”Don’t say:“Isn’t this a bit recherché for Pass notes? Perhaps we should have done Usain Bolt instead.”
Uber has been blocked on China’s most popular messaging app WeChat, as the battle between taxi-apps in the country heats up.The blocking comes shortly after the leading Chinese minicab app, and Uber competitor, Didi Kuaidi, raised $2bn of private equity funding from a raft of investors including e-commerce websiteAlibaba and the state development corporation CDC.Also among Didi Kuaidi’s investors is Tencent, a holding company that has billions of yuans’ worth of investments including in the messaging app WeChat.Uber doesn’t think that is a coincidence, and has begun to take the wars public. In an interview with Bloomberg,Emil Michael, Uber’s head of business, said that the company first experienced problems back in March, with profiles disappearing from the messaging service. By August, WeChat had banned or frozen all of Uber’s accounts, according to Michael.WeChat integration is more important than simply allowing Uber to communicate with customers. As Connie Chan, of Uber investor Andreessen Horowitz,explains, being blocked from WeChat is somewhere between being kicked off Facebook and being banned from the entire internet. The app offers a payments infrastructure, a location-based services platform, and even the ability to build whole apps inside WeChat itself – none of which Uber can use without being on the platform.In early August, Uber’s Hong Kong offices were raided as part of an investigation into the company’s operations in the territory. Three staff members were arrested, as well as five drivers, over the “illegal use of vehicles for hire” after undercover police used the Uber app to hail cars.
Whining about cab drivers transcends national boundaries. From New York to Sydney, the complaints are indistinguishable. Sitting among 450 of the world’s leading labour law scholars at the University of Amsterdam in June, I met a young Belgian scholar who confided that he only used Uber because it provided a superior service. “I never use Belgian cab drivers,” he said. “They are fucking pigs.”As I journeyed on the fast train from Paris to Amsterdam that week, French newspapers were running hard on protest action and a subsequent strike by French taxi drivers against Uber.Violent attackson Uber drivers and clients had prompted a public outcry.Related:Uber bookings more than treble in a year to nearly $11bn, says reportWeeks earlier, a California court hadruledagainst Uber in deciding that its drivers were employees, and thereby entitled to important legal protections. Uber promptly announced an appeal, maintaining that its drivers were independent contractors in business for themselves. A new breed of entrepreneur, no less.For decades now, hapless judges in different parts of the globe have been wrestling with the task of correctly classifying workers, dutifully trying to apply old employment laws to often complex and elaborate new work arrangements.The results are a mess, often producing farcical decisions. A low-paid factory worker can go home on Friday only to turn up to the same workplace the following Monday as a contractor – with a pay cut and fewer benefits. Is this the entrepreneurial risk-taking spirit at play? Only in the sense that the unlucky worker assumes the risk of getting sick and not being paid when she is too sick to work.Uber is merely the latest battle ground for the same debate.Businesses have been shedding their identity as employers for at least 30 years. For example, back in 1991, the Federal Court of Australia decided that carpenters and labourers supplied by the labour hire company Troubleshooters Available to their client, Odco, were not employees of either company but were in fact independent contractors. The triangular structure (business – labour hire company – independent contractors) meant that these workers assumed a new identity: as self-employed entrepreneurs in business for themselves.The decision cleared the way for labour hire companies to provide labour to businesses at attractive rates. Pre-existing wage rates, annual leave, sick leave and other employee entitlements were quickly eliminated from the workplace.Related:Uber denies misleading passengers with 'phantom cars' on appIn the decades since, there has been a steady growth in these precarious work structures. Hotels have fired their cleaners and housekeepers, replacing them with “contractors” supplied by intermediaries. Low-paid migrant women have suddenly found themselves in business – for themselves, but with fewer rights.This is how the way we work is being radically transformed: through a combination of restructuring, globalisation and the formidable power of the internet. Businesses are deploying an array of structures by which they can profit from the work performed by others without the cost, risk or aggravation of actually dealing with them.Academic David Weil has coined the term the “fissured workplace” to describe the phenomenon of business delegating their employing function to other entities, creating intermediaries between the workers and the business profiting from that work.The intent behind the fissured workplace is to avoid employment laws and thereby cut the cost of labour – usually by about one third. Standard wage rates and other employee entitlements that have been achieved by employees and their unions over decades can be eliminated with remarkable ease, rendering employment laws increasingly irrelevant.In essence, people formerly known as “employees” have lost that identity to schemes drafted by lawyers and top-tier accountants involving labour hire agencies, dependent and independent contracting, franchising, supply chains and digitalised labour.The same lawyers and accountants using the same logic are also behind the elaborate tax structures adopted by multinational corporations. Instead of subverting employment laws, those schemes subvert tax laws. Avoiding tax and cutting the cost of labour continue to be key drivers of profitability for demanding shareholders.Global labour supply chains are de rigeur for many of the world’s most prominent brands, including Apple and Nike. Instead of one intermediary between a company and the workers who make its product, there can be many. This in turn triggers a loss of quality control, by which I mean control over the quality of conditions under which people work. Periodically, big brands find themselves having to engage in damage control: sometimes the workers die, sometimes they work in grossly exploitative environments. Sometimes, they’re children.As for Uber? Its revolution is actually a reversion to the same triangular labour supply configuration, but with a twist. By dint of the internet, labour hire companies are no longer required. Now what stands between a corporation and the workers who generate its profit is an app.The implications are profound. If bargaining with a labour hire company is almost impossible, how do you bargain with an app? You’re interested in a career structure? Go tell your iPhone. You preferred being a paid employee with some security of tenure? You’re in the wrong job. Get hip to the gig economy, sister.Badly paid Uber drivers have replaced badly paid cab drivers, but this will not endure. Driverless cars will eventually mow down Uber. But behind Uber is an army of other tech companies seeking to apply the same methodology to other services and products – cleaners, business consultants, administrators, personal assistants, nurses, lawyers and couriers are all being Uberised. Many more employees will lose their jobs and current remuneration.Relying on the odd legal challenge or media shaming campaign may be all there is, but it’s about as effective as trying to put out a bushfire with a water pistol. The Economist has correctly identified that current laws are hopelessly inadequate:“The fundamental problem is that in America, as in many other rich countries, employment law has failed to keep up with the changing realities of modern work.”Existing employment laws, like current tax laws, in many developed countries are no longer fit for purpose. Employment law needs to be replaced by work law.Let the debate about its content and how it should operate begin.Josh Bornstein is an employment lawyer and writer
Adobe’s Flash, hated the world over for slowing down computers, containing more holes in security than swiss cheese and stubbornly being the video carrier of choice until recently, is dying.Video players are migrating to other systems, even if Microsoft’s Silverlight isn’t much better. HTML5-based video and animations are becoming mainstream, and uploaders and other more advanced web-based features can now be replaced with code that doesn’t rely on Flash.And it’s happening for a good reason. As other components of a web browser and operating system have become more secure, Flash is one of the biggest sources of security vulnerabilities. Hackers love it.Hacking Team’s commercially available government-supplied tools relied onholes in Flashto hack individuals and companies, for instance, just by users browsing sites unknowingly being digitally broken into.Even Adobe, Flash’s developer, doesn’t seem to love the much maligned system. Like Microsoft with Windows XP, Adobe’s been trying to migrate companies away from using its own tools while putting out fires left, right and centre.The one major hold out for dumping Flash wholesale has been advertisers. In June, over 100m adverts were displayed to users globally with Flash, while 84% of banner ads are still Flash,according to Ad Age.Google took the first step by announcing that come September its Chrome browser will not run Flash adverts by default, meaning that the user has to click to enable the advert. Something virtually no one is likely to do. Firefox also blocked Flashover security concerns.Now Amazon has banned Flash ads from appearing on its ad platform across its sites. Amazon is not the biggest advertising platform, but it is one of the first big name ones to adopt such a policy.It marks the beginning of the end for Flash (Occupy Flashwill be happy). More advertising platforms are likely to follow. When Chrome and its 51% of global browsers, according to data from Statcounter, start to “intelligently pause” Flash ads in September advertisers will be forced to switch wholesale.The reasons for Flash to exist will then, hopefully, peter out to embedded tools and systems built within Flash, such as administrative tools. Most home users will no longer be burdened with Flash, which will be good for your computer, your battery, your security and your sanity.For those that want to experience a Flash-free world right now, it is possible to disable Flash entirely within your browser or set it to require a click to enable it each time something wants to use Flash.Mobile devices such as iOS and Android smartphones and tablets have mostly been Flash-free for years and they work just fine for the most part. Soon everything will have that speedy, Flash-free existence and humanity will be all the better for it.•Warning over Adobe Flash vulnerability revealed by Hacking Team leak•Adobe issues urgent Flash patch to prevent hacking attacks
The chief executive of watchmaking corporation Swatch has dismissed the Apple Watch as an “interesting toy”, as he set out the company’s smartwatch plans.Nick Hayek Jr said that later this year Swatch will sell smartwatches that last nine months per battery. The company launched its first smartwatch in 2003 in partnership with Microsoft, and have sold connected watches since 1996.In an interview withSwiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger, Hayek Jr said: “The Apple watch is an interesting toy, but not a revolution.”“These devices, which all eat so much power that they last no longer than 24 hours without needing to be plugged in. In addition, the user immediately loses control of their data. I personally don’t want my blood pressure and blood sugar values stored in the cloud, or on servers in Silicon Valley.”Having moved away from smartwatches in the 00s, Swatch is approaching the category with a watch-first strategy, according to Hayek Jr, who said the company’s watches would start at 150 Swiss francs (£101) and would be water resistant, similar to its current Swatches.Hayek Jr said: “We will bring a watch to market this year that acts as an alternative to the credit card, using near field communication. The technology works, we’re just finalising details with our partners from the credit card industry. The watch can be used for access control.”Swatch will not produce health-tracking watches, however, as Hayek Jr is adamant that as a “watch producer, I cannot accept the responsibility of whether my device warns a customer in time before a heart attack”.Hayek Jr said that TAG Heuer’s partnership with Google and Intel for a smartwatch was a “a mystery to me” and that he regrets “that for a company with a long Swiss tradition, TAG-Heuer owner LVMH is apparently not willing to invest in Switzerland in the work place.”•Traditional watchmakers turn to smartwatches as Montblanc unveils the e-Strap
Since the invention of the television, a box you could put a child in front of and leave them passively entertained, nothing has changed how children spend their time as much as the tablet computer.Four years ago, just 7% of 5- to 15-year-olds in the UK had access to a tablet. By last year it was 71%. Some 34% of this age group even owned the tablets themselves, as well as 11% of 3- to 4-year-olds, according to Ofcom figures.But the popularity of tablets among children is a controversial topic. Are these devices – with their apps, games and access to online video – distracting children from more traditional, some might say more wholesome, activities, such as reading?In my work life, I regularly write about the beneficial aspects of digital play, complementing books and physical exercise rather than replacing them. But as a parent of a six-year-old and an eight-year-old, I worry about the comments suggesting – with varying degrees of politeness – that devices and apps are sending our children to illiteracy hell in a digital handcart. What if those people are right?How have children’s reading habits changed over the last five years since the launch of Apple’s first iPad in 2010 – and can the growth in their digital habits be linked to a fall in reading?Daily reading has been on the rise for British children despite tablet growth.Illustration: National Literacy TrustReading on the rise?Around two fifths of young British children read every day. Ofcom found that 40% of 5- to 7-year-olds and 39% of 8- to 11-year-olds read magazines, comics or books almost every day, in its2014 Children and Parents: Media Use and Attitudes report.The UK’s National Literacy Trust (NLT)‘sChildren’s and Young People’s Reading in 2014 reportoffers a similar statistic, noting that the percentage of 8- to 18 year-olds reading daily outside class was 41.4% in 2014 - up from 29.1% in 2010.Related:David Walliams to help launch plans to boost child literacy in UKBy contrast, Publisher Scholastic publishes a biannualKids &amp; Family Reading Reportcovering American children’s reading habits. Its latest edition suggests the percentage of US 6- to 17-year-olds reading books for fun 5-7 days a week fell from 37% in 2010 to 34% in 2012, then 31% in 2014.Clearly there is no consensus.Do children want to know what’s at the end of the story?Photograph: AlamyFocus on focusingJoanna de Guia recently closed her independent children’s bookshop in Hackney to launch Story Habit, which runs author events, school workshops and “literature walks” to encourage children to read for fun.“I’m afraid I’m going to get political about this,” she says. “Reading for pleasure has always been cornered by the middle- and upper-middle classes, although historically there’s also been a very self-determined, self-educated working class group who’ve also had a tradition of reading for pleasure and understanding how important it is.”De Guia believes that this tradition has been “chipped away at” in recent decades, and as a critic of the phonics system used to teach early reading skills in schools, she is concerned that reading may seem like a chore to many children.Related:Roald Dahl’s gruesome twosome The Twits return in new children's app“If you come from a family where you go home and read a story at night, and associate reading with lovely time with your parents, the fact that you do this dull-as-ditchwater thing at school is immaterial,” says de Guia.“But if you do no reading at home, then go to school and are forced to do this dull thing with no idea really why you’re doing it other than ‘it’s something you’ve got to do’, then it’s totally going to put you off. We interfere: ‘You have to read. You have to read THIS’. There’s nothing more guaranteed to put a child off something.”Where does technology fit in to this? De Guia is concerned that with games, apps and videos, tablets provide too many distractions from longer-form reading.“You don’t get that opportunity to just sit and immerse yourself in a story from beginning to end. That’s brilliant for concentration, and, importantly, it creates a context for the idea of narrative. The amount of concentration required on any digital device is very short,” she says.“So, reading for pleasure is not being supported by our educational curriculum, and there’s the prevalence of these new toys-slash-tools [tablets]. And they conspire to create very short attention spans, and children who want instant gratification.”“If they’re not getting that instant gratification from the book they’re reading, they can just play a game instead. So what happens to the story? I worry about a generation of children who don’t want to know what the end of the story is, because that’s how we make sense of the world.”More research is needed into the impact apps have on children.Photograph: AlamyScreens and readingTablets as distractions from reading through other forms of entertainment is one thing. But what about digital reading on these devices? Can inventive apps and absorbing ebooks fuel children’s desire to know what the end of the story is? Could they even have some advantages over print reading?This is where you plunge into a world of academic research studies that can leave you with more questions than answers.There are studies suggesting that reading digitally is worse for recall and comprehension than reading books – yet many of them are based on computer screens not touchscreen tablets, and involved adults who’d grown up reading books, not children who’ve been swiping on tablets since they were toddlers.Related:Diversity in children’s apps: ‘Gender depictions tend to be very stereotyped’There are studies suggesting that reading digitally may, in fact, benefit certain groups of children, from boys from disadvantaged backgrounds who struggle with print, through to children with dyslexia – but many of these are based on small sample groups, with the common conclusion being that more research is needed.“We need newer research, larger-scale research and a younger cohort,” says NLT project manager Irene Picton. “We’re really keen to look at how technology could be used to positively support less confident parents in sharing books and stories with their children, for example. A really good app or website could be a force for good in that situation.”“Almost everything about e-reading is preliminary or small-scale at this point,” agrees David Kleeman, senior vice president of global trends at research firm Dubit.Kleeman makes another important point, though, which is that children are reading even when they are not explicitly reading ebooks or book-apps on their devices.“It is hard to tell what ‘reading’ is today: we’re not really measuring the amount of content that kids are reading incidentally within games and apps,” he says, suggesting that “screen time is no longer a viable term” because children are doing so many things on those screens, many of which require reading text.Julia Donaldson’s criticism of children’s apps carried weight with publishers and parents.Photograph: Murdo MacLeod/Murdo MacLeodBooks on the screenApp developers have been exploring tablet stories for children since the earliest days of the iPad, and there has been scepticism from the start about whether some of these apps help or hinder the development of reading skills.Children’s author Julia Donaldson made headlines in 2011 when she explained why there wasn’t an official app for The Gruffalo:“The publishers showed me an ebook of Alice in Wonderland. They said, ‘Look, you can press buttons and do this and that’, and they showed me the page where Alice’s neck gets longer. There’s a button the child can press to make the neck stretch, and I thought, well, if the child’s doing that, they are not going to be listening or reading, ‘I wish my cat Dinah was here’ or whatever it says in the text – they’re just going to be fiddling with this wretched button.”Donaldson’s views carried (and still carry) real clout among publishers and parents alike. But the app in question was one of the early, experimental attempts to figure out how tablet reading might work for children. There are four years of further experiments and learnings since then, and more to come.Related:Four of the top five YouTube channels are for kids (and the fifth is Taylor Swift)“We often forget that books are a technology too, and one that’s had several centuries to evolve. With ebooks or apps, we’re comparing them to a relatively new format for reading. It’s important to be open-minded around this,” says Picton.“Don’t forget the suspicion with which Socrates greeted writing. He thought that people wouldn’t remember things if they were reading them rather than listening to them. Now we’re worried about not remembering things because we’re reading them on a screen not a page.”“We’ve got an opportunity here with digital reading – ebooks and apps that encourage reading in all its forms – to keep reading relevant. And by being suspicious of it and saying it’s worse than reading on paper, we ignore that opportunity.”Kleeman offers what sounds like a more 2015 take on Donaldson’s warning, though. “With one screen competing for the child’s attention with every possibility – video, apps, games, books, social apps – it’s very easy to get seduced by possibilities: to throw in bells and whistles that don’t support or enhance the story, but distract,” he says.Is it a problem if children like YouTube more than book-apps on tablets?Photograph: Graeme Robertson/Graeme RobertsonTablet distractionsAsi Sharabi, co-founder of British startup Lost My Name, which makes personalised (print) books for children, thinks that tablets may have a deeper, cultural problem with reading as a shared experience between children and parents.“One thing that the iPad as a device, as a cultural artifact, has never really been good at are these shared co-reading experiences. Unlike books, where there’s no option but to sit down and read it with your kid in the early years,” he says.“The tablet took a slightly different direction: it became the modern babysitter, or the modern pacifier. That’s not necessarily a negative thing, but it’s more about giving the child the device – ‘It’s your iPad time now’ – rather than sitting down to read or play together on it.”Sharabi suspects this may be rooted in how parents have been using television for decades: screen-based entertainment for children is often a chance for parents to get other things done.Related:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014“It’s not just that kids are expecting screens to be noisy and shouty and fun and interactive. But also because of our middle-class guilt, where we put boundaries around screen time and tablet use, when kids get half an hour or an hour with the iPad, they will opt for the things that excite them the most.”Support for this theory can be found in a report calledExploring Play and Creativity in Pre-Schoolers’ Use of Apps, which surveyed 2,000 parents and found their favourite children’s apps were educational and story apps.The children’s top 10 favourite app brands? YouTube, CBeebies, Angry Birds, Peppa’s Paintbox, Talking Tom, Temple Run, Minecraft, Disney apps, Candy Crush Saga and Toca Boca apps.Sharabi backs up Kleeman’s view that story-apps that try to ape those other forms of entertainment may be fun, but they won’t necessarily be good for reading.“Getting kids really deeply engaged in a narrative is something that books are very good at. It’s the working of the imagination: that time and cognitive space that you need to develop the understanding and empathy with the characters; the plot; the emotion of the book,” he says.“These are all things that interactive storybooks are just not doing well enough. Kids will always look first for what they can do next on the screen to trigger some interactivity.” A topic that Natalia Kucirkovaexplored in more depth for the Guardian in December 2014.A house full of books may encourage a love of reading.Photograph: AlamyBooks as technologyBoth Sharabi and Picton make the point that books, as much as apps, are a form of technology, with features including being designed for co-reading; capable of being beautiful physical objects; and capable of being read when the tablet has been put away for the day.“A book is a beautiful thing if it’s produced beautifully, even for children who don’t value reading. If it’s a desirable thing, they’ll want it as much as they would want an iPad or anything else,” says De Guia. “We just have to get more clever about how we present real books.”Kate McFarlan, strategic director at British book-printing company Clays, suggests that, for books, providing a break from screens “is a factor welcomed by children as well as parents”, and points out that one in four books sold in the UK last year were for children, with quality on the rise.Related:Snow White by Nosy Crow app: 'Getting children sparkly-eyed about storytelling'“We have in the last few years started working with three or four new children’s publishers, all of which are growing. Their emphasis is on quality and good value, beautiful designs and great finishes,” she says.And parents, carers, teachers or older siblings to read them with. Which is where this whole debate about children, reading and screens comes back to, well, people not technology. And this is a familiar subject in the academic and parenting worlds alike.Dr Gareth Williams, an expert in reading development at Nottingham Trent University, fills me in on “The Matthew Effect”, for example: a theory that young children who are encouraged to develop their language skills will take to reading more naturally a few years later.“It’s about predicting how good children are at reading and how much they enjoy it when they’re older by tracking back the development pathway to things like language development and language play when they’re younger,” he said.“So, how confident very young children are with playing around with language helps them when they later begin to engage with print. They already have that foundation.”Williams also cites research indicating that children’s reading abilities may be linked to the prevalence of books in their home, and suggests more research is needed – that mantra again – into whether there is a similar effect if the adults in the household use tablets for reading, including with the children.Parents and carers can read with their children on screen, as well as in print.Photograph: AlamyCo-reading may be key“We think of books as being a very solo, individual activity, but for young children – pre-readers – books are very much a social activity, whether they’re being read to in a group, or by a parent,” says Williams. “Going forward, can that social and interactive aspect happen with devices as well as books? Really it comes down to the people.”Related:A child’s view on technology’s harm | LettersScholastic’s latest report provides more fuel for that theory, claiming that factors that predict if 6- to 11-year-olds will be frequent readers include “having parents who are frequent readers”, “reading aloud early and often”, and “spending less time online using a computer”.It’s a simultaneously reassuring and worrying concept. Reassuring, because it sidesteps the “are my children playing games not reading on the tablet?” question, if you’re reading to/with them when the tablet is turned off.Related:10 children's app trends for 2015Worrying, because there’s a danger that this boils down to another opportunity for parent-shaming: from frazzled full-time parents to shift-workers to white-collar 60-hours-a-week executives (Amazon staff included), finding quality time for co-reading can be tough.There’s no easy answer, then: no clear villain on either the technology or people side of the battle to figure out healthy media habits for children – let alone put them into practice. Although more than one interviewee pointed to one example of people and technology bringing the worst out of one another.“Maybe the problem with kids and screens is not kids and screens: it’s parents and screens,” says one, privately. “Children look to us as role models, so how can we expect them to love reading, if we can’t tear ourselves away from Facebook or WhatsApp for ten minutes to read with them?”
If you’ve had a run of blurry photos taken with an iPhone 6 Plus smartphone, the problem may not be your photographic skills.Apple has launched a camera replacement programme for the device after a number of owners complained about the quality of photos taken using its iSight camera.“Apple has determined that, in a small percentage of iPhone 6 Plus devices, the iSight camera has a component that may fail causing your photos to look blurry,” explained the company.“The affected units fall into a limited serial number range and were sold primarily between September 2014 and January 2015.”Owners are being asked tocheck the serial number of their device on Apple’s website, before making an appointment to have the camera replaced at one of the company’s stores or authorised service providers.Affected owners are being warned that if their iPhone 6 Plus has any other damage – a cracked screen, for example – they will have to get that repaired first, possibly paying for it.Related:Samsung and Apple battle over the smartphone ‘floating voter’Apple is replacing the iSight cameras in this case, rather than recalling the smartphones, asit did in October 2013 with a limited number of iPhone 5s handsetsafter a manufacturing error made them drain their batteries faster than expected.The first complaints about blurry photos on the iPhone 6 Plus werereported on Apple’s support website in October 2014, just weeks after the device went on sale.Although several users on the support thread reported that their handsets had been replaced when they took them in to Apple Stores for diagnosis, it has taken until now for the company to publicly confirm the issue, and launch an official replacement programme for the affected cameras.Apple is expected to unveil new iPhone models in September, including an iPhone 6s and 6s Plus.
Twitter has shut off access to 31 accounts that chronicled and archived the deleted tweets of politicians, diplomats and embassies around the world.The move follows the social network’s earlier blocking of Politwoops US, whicharchived deleted tweets by American lawmakers.The Open State Foundation, which oversees the Twitter accounts, was informed by Twitter of the impending ban on Friday night.In a statement provided to the Open State Foundation, Twitter said its decision followed a “thoughtful internal deliberation and close consideration of a number of factors”.It added: “Imagine how nerve-racking – terrifying, even – tweeting would be if it was immutable and irrevocable? No one user is more deserving of that ability than another. Indeed, deleting a tweet is an expression of the user’s voice.”Open State Foundation director, Arjan El Fassed, said: “What elected politicians publicly say is a matter of public record. Even when tweets are deleted, it’s part of parliamentary history. These tweets were once posted and later deleted.“What politicians say in public should be available to anyone. This is not about typos but it is a unique insight on how messages from elected politicians can change without notice.”The British version of Politwoopsis amongst the sites affected. Its Twitter account, @deletedbyMPs, has not posted since Friday evening as a result of the closure. Its website, however, continues to archive deleted tweets, with the most recent example beinga retweet by Labour MP Andrew Gwynne, unretweeted on Saturday.Jules Mattsson, who runs the DeletedbyMPs account, said: “It’s a terrible shame that twitter have made this decision. Politwoops has been an important new tool in political accountability in the UK and abroad. Politicians are all too happy to use social media to campaign but if we lose the ability for this to be properly preserved, it becomes a one way tool.“Social media is playing an increasing role in British politics and this denies us an opportunity to extend proper accountability to social platforms. The Labour leadership race has reminded us of the importance of politicians’ past sentiments in making informed decisions.“This issue is a world away from any legitimate arguments over privacy in the internet age – MPs’ public statements as politicians are an entirely different matter.“Tracking and archiving deleted tweets from MPs is absolutely in the public interest and hopefully Twitter will reconsider with that in mind.”In June, after it blocked the US version of Politwoops, Twitter told the Guardian that “honouring the expectation of user privacy for all accounts is a priority for us, whether the user is anonymous or a member of Congress”.
It’s Monday. I’m actually on holiday in Devon, but I will keep Chatterbox going anyway because I am a wonderful person.
The costs of building Australia’s largest infrastructure project, the national broadband network, could rise by as much as $15bn according to a new corporate plan released on Monday.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, acknowledged the forecast costs associated with the project had risen as he released the new corporate plan of the NBN Co – the company overseeing the rollout.But he contended this was not the result of any “blowout”.“The truth is that at the time of the strategic review the company did not accurately know what its true costs were, and inadequate financial information naturally impacted on its ability to make reliable forecasts,” Turnbull saidin a blog postabout the new corporate plan.When a previous strategic review had estimated a peak funding requirement of $41bn for the NBN, he said, “it was explicitly recognised by both the company and the government that more detailed work would be required to develop a reliable corporate plan”.But Labor flatly rejected Turnbull’s characterisation of events.Its communications spokesman, Jason Clare, said the Abbott government had now nearly doubled the costs of its “second-rate NBN”.“The NBN is rolling out slower than Malcolm Turnbull promised and it is more expensive than he promised,” Clare said in a statement issued on Monday.“Malcolm Turnbull has no one else to blame for this cost blowout. It has happened because he has made poor decisions and made the wrong assumptions.”The cost of building the NBN has now risen from a forecast $41bn to between $46bn and $56bn, and probably close to $49bn, according to the new corporate plan.The Abbott government has committed $29.5bn to the network’s construction. The NBNCo will consequently have to raise $26.5bn from 2017.“If you look within this year, we will have spent $21bn of allocated equity towards NBN,” chief executive Bill Morrow said.“By the end of next year, we will just cross over the $29.5bn. This is when we need to bring in external funding. That funding, we are looking at right now, today, will have to be addressed in 2017.”Morrow said the company was targeting a “reasonable” cost of $49bn, with the $46bn to $56bn range including $4.6bn for contingencies.He said the NBN had exceeded its targets in the 2014-15 financial year, with the number of active users and serviceable premises having doubled to 486,000 and 1.2m respectively.Revenue also more than doubled to $161m, from $60m.Turnbull said he was confident in the NBN management. “For the first time in the NBN’s history, all of us can have real confidence in the numbers being presented,” he said.
God of War III RemasteredPS4, Sony, cert: 18Has vengeance ever looked so good?God of War IIIis all about scale and spectacle, opening with the towering titans laying siege to Mount Olympus and going on from there. Kratos, the gore-slicked Spartan warrior, rips his way through a menagerie of mythological monsters in a quest to take revenge on Zeus, king of the gods. Kratos is an unpleasant figure, brutal and totally amoral, and his quest seems to do more harm than good. You might wonder who to root for.The2010 originalwas a real jaw-dropper, maybe the best-looking title of the generation, but this upscaling is patchy. Most work seems to have gone on Kratos himself, adding a shining and smooth quality to his skin. Other areas look to have been missed, leaving several characters looking strange and plastic. Controls feel a little slower, slightly mis-translated, though the combat’s core is still solid and visceral. But without any new content, this might be a better title for those who haven’t played the original.PHConker’s Bad Fur Day: ‘ludicrously funny’.Rare ReplayXbox One, Microsoft, cert: 16A UK development institution that is responsible for some of the greatest games ever produced,Rareis quite rightly receiving a much-deserved career retrospective in this outstanding package. Thirty of its games are given a new lease of life here on Xbox One as a celebration of the studio’s 30th birthday.Replayboasts some remarkable and varied titles, such as inventive shooterPerfect Dark, ludicrously funnyConker’s Bad Fur Day, the trickyBattletoads, andBanjo Kazooie,the closest any game has come to aping Super Mario. But beyond the classics, there are some forgotten gems, too, such asJet Force Gemini,Viva PiñataandBlast Corps. As an extra treat for fans, there’s also a challenge mode featuring scenes from classic Rare games, alongside documentaries and even some footage and artwork from cancelled games.There are notable absentees. Two of Rare’s best games,Donkey Kong CountryandGoldenEye 007, are missing for licensing reasons; but despite this, for £20, it’s hard to imagine any package as generous, charming and enticing as this beautifully constructed box set.CDKing’s Quest: ‘Strong storytelling and gorgeous visuals will draw anyone in.’King’s QuestPS4/PS3/Xbox One/Xbox 360/PC, Sierra Entertainment, cert: 12King’s Questoriginally helped pioneer the point-and-click adventure genre, serving as many players’ introduction to interactive storytelling. Here, 31 years later, it’s time for an update, something that this episodic reimagining does spectacularly well. Players follow Graham, an aspiring knight in the land of Daventry. Although we know his ultimate fate – the game is told retrospectively by an aged King Graham, a bedtime fable to his grand-daughter – the charm and wit involved in the telling pull you fully into his early, bumbling adventures.While the series’s trademark dreadful puns remain, everything else gets an overhaul. Graham now moves freely around the world, action set pieces break up puzzle-solving, while a cel-shaded art style and beautiful environments are absolute treats. The biggest departure is one of choice; similar to the likes ofThe Walking Dead, decisions made at key moments will have an impact on later episodes as they’re released. Although some puzzles are perhaps too simple, the strong storytelling and gorgeous visuals will draw anyone into this particular quest.MKStar ratings (out of five): God of War III Remastered ****, Rare Replay ***, King’s Quest ****
Companies are being urged to identify employees who could be blackmailed into revealing sensitive market information following the Ashley Madison data dump.After hackers leaked 37 million email addresses used by people who had accessed the Toronto-based adultery website, there are fears that blackmailers will start demanding money to keep the details of extra-marital affairs secret.Stephen Coty, security expert at IT security firmAlert Logic,who has analysed the leaked data, said that the much more significant problem came from employees being compromised into revealing confidential details about their employer’s activities.“Companies who have threat research and intelligence analysts should be looking at this data to see what user names or email addresses are related to their organisation,” Coty said. “They should modify their email filters to start monitoring any emails coming through that reference Ashley Madison, so that they can find if somebody is trying to coerce an employee to go ahead and release company secrets.”Identity protection analyst Adam Levin says Ashley Madison members should come clean instead of waiting to be discovered or risking becoming the victim of extortionAccording to his analysis, more than 14,000 government officials globally had been compromised, a revelation that has sparked fears some could be extorted into revealing matters of national security. But Coty said the major threat came from targeting people who had access to market-sensitive information, especially those who worked in banks and other financial institutions. “If I’m a malicious actor, I’m not really interested in blackmailing these guys for money; I’m more interested in where they work, in their corporate information. To me that is more valuable. I can sell that on an underground market, I can sell it to a competitor, to a startup overseas, and make a lot more money than blackmailing a guy for a few thousand dollars.”Coty said his analysis had shown that hackers also leaked details of the internal structure of Ashley Madison’s owner, Avid Life Media, as well as its business performance and sensitive corporate information, including the fact that it had lent its chief executive, Noel Biderman, $3m.The leak revealed that more than 173 million credit cards had been used to pay for Avid Life services in 2014 – a 44% increase on the previous year. Some 9.7 million people had signed up, of whom more than 2 million had gone on to become active members. Visitors to the site came from 46 different countries.“They had every single credit card payment going all the way back to 2008,” Coty said. “You should not be holding that information.”While the focus has been on users of the Ashley Madison site, whose slogan is “Life is short. Have an affair”, Avid Life had several other adultery sites, including Cougar Life and Established Men. “The users of all these sites are now vulnerable,” Coty said.Even those who had used anonymous emails are at risk of exposure. “I randomly picked somebody out from one of the dumped lists and I found a credit card transaction,” Coty said. “I could trace it to an address that showed that he was living in a loft in Toronto. It showed he was who he was and that he participated in the programme.”Coty suggested Ashley Madison would disappear following the furore. “Tens of millions of people’s information is now floating out there. This site is supposed to be anonymous. That’s what they guarantee. Even if you paid to have your data deleted, it’s still there. I wouldn’t be surprised if they closed their sites sometime soon.”
Racing demon: the Caterham Seven 270R.Price £27,790MPG 30Top speed 122mphBefore climbing into aCaterham, there are some things you need to be honest with yourself about. Are you slim? Over 13st and you’ve no chance of wedging your love handles into its narrow seats. Do you find intimacy awkward? Those seats are so close together your personal space setting needs to be set at “honeymoon”. The chairs have no padding whatsoever, but are unexpectedly comfortable in the same way a roller coaster’s buttock-moulded units are. They’re bucket seats that are more bucket than seat. Do you perspire? Back sweat is an issue. Can you do at least one dip on the parallel bars? There are no doors and no roof and good shoulder strength is the best way to heave yourself in and out. Wide feet? The pedals are so close together I had to take my trainers off and drive barefoot to avoid stomping on more than one at a time. Low self-esteem? Driving a Caterham is like spending time with a bucking bronco hell bent on exposing just how poor a rider you are. Every missed gear, every misjudged line is cruelly exposed. I haven’t bunny-hopped so much since my daughter’s fifth birthday party. Theme: bunnies and hopping.So, I’m in and the engine is ticking over, by which I mean it’s coughing like a phlegmy asthmatic with rage issues. I’m restrained, Houdini style, by a four-point seatbelt; the tiny steering wheel is at arms’ length. Staring through the laughable windscreen the vented bonnet stretches into the horizon. You sit so low you could put your hand on the pavement, though you’d probably burn the skin off your wrist on the giant, throbbing exhaust pipe.Back to very basics: inside the Caterham Seven 270R, with its detachable steering wheel.Photograph: Matthew HowellThis is the 270, it’s one of three new cars released this year. This one is the easy one: the runt of the litter. There is also a 360 and a 420. When I say “new”, that’s not strictly accurate as nothing is really new at Caterham. All are descendants of theLotus Sevenbuilt in 1957 byColin Chapman. There have been many revisions and tweaks over the past half-century, but the DNA of the car is still unmistakable. If Colin was to come back to life, he’d feel instantly at home in one of these cars.The 270 packs a 135bhp, 1.6-litre Ford “Sigma” engine, similar to one you’d find in a Focus. Only this one has been toughened up at a hellish brute camp and now has a real sense of mission. It takes no prisoners. Turn the ignition and it grunts and sputters, whines and shudders. Press the throttle and the avalanche of power means the drive is heart-stoppingly electric. That combination of swagged-up engine and flimsy, cigar-tube body – it weighs just 540kg – makes for a rocket ride. It’s scarcely believable that this is the least extreme of Caterham’s line-up. It will hit 62mph in just 5 seconds and tops out at 122mph. And at anything over 50mph you feel like you are about to have lift-off.The Caterham offers nothing in the way of creature comforts: no stereo, no power steering, no aircon, no air bags… no nothing. But crouching at the kerb it is stunning to look at. It sounds incredible and it delivers a raw, automotive high. If you can handle it, you’ll find an hour at the wheel as life affirming as wearing a pair of cardiac chest paddles under your shirt.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Wearable health trackersActivity-tracking devices made by companies like Fitbit, Jawbone and Misfit are increasingly popular gadget purchases, but they’re also making their way into the workplace: research firm Gartner estimates that 10,000 companies offered activity-trackers to staff in 2014. Their motivation is being questioned, however: will your boss have access to the data from these devices? (Imagine your annual review including criticism of your sofa-loafing nature at weekends). And will they share it with advertisers or insurance companies?Monitoring your night-time habitsPersonal sleep monitoring – sometimes using standalone devices or sometimes built in to fitness-trackers like Fitbit – sounds like a good idea, but would you want your employer to know how much shut-eye you’re getting? Meanwhile, a flurry of reports in 2013 called attention to the prospect of daily testing of employees’ alcohol levels, with fingerprint-scanning device AlcoSense TruTouch taking just 10 seconds to return a reading. “The benefits of testing all staff, every day are immense and the change in workforce behaviour is immediate,” explains the company on itswebsite. Anyone for a mineral water?Work/life balanceSome of the best things about workplace technology come outside your workplace: faster, more reliable broadband; powerful smartphones and tablets; better video and text chatting software all enable us to be more flexible in our working patterns. But one of theworstthings about workplace technology also comes outside the workplace, because all this flexibility often erodes your work/life balance. It might be your boss’s fault – emails in the evening, expecting an immediate response, or conference calls on public holidays – but just as often it might be your own: checking emails in bed and treating the train home as an extension of your office hours.Augmented realityTheGoogle Glassaugmented-reality specs were essentially a toy for tech people with too much money to burn (“glassholes” as they were labelled). Google has gone back to the drawing board with that product but the one area where experts agree AR glasses are likely to catch on is in the workplace. From warehouse workers to plumbers and electricians, people will be able to access data and services with a flick of their eyes. The risks? Information overload: emails and notifications in your face throughout the day. And also the questions around recording video and audio, whether in terms of your boss demanding your first-person footage of a task, or simply the danger of an entire workforce becoming walking CCTV cameras.Anonymous feedback toolsOne of the elements ofAmazon’s working culturepicked out by theNew York Timeswas its “secret feedback” system, used anonymously by employees to praise – or criticise – one another to bosses. Amazon claims most of the comments are positive but workers interviewed for the report said it could also be used to gang up on colleagues through coordinated campaigns of negative feedback. As this kind of “collaborative anytime feedback” technology spreads to other companies, moaning about colleagues in the pub could be replaced by anonymous complaints that feed directly into their performance reviews – and its anonymous nature may hamper their ability to defend themselves.Driving-monitoring appsTracking drivers remotely is well established in industries like logistics but the emergence of smartphone driving-monitoring apps may expand the idea to anyone who drives a company car. Insurance companies including Aviva and Admiral have launched apps for drivers that score their driving safety based on cornering, braking and acceleration, and then offer the best ones a discount on their insurance. Employees will be aware of GPS technology being used to track their location to eliminate dilly-dallying, but data on their driving safety – especially in a device/car that’s used at weekends – adds a new layer.Sociometric badgesThat badge hanging from your neck to get in to your workplace? What if it also recorded your daily interactions? This is the idea behind sociometric badges, which capture “face-to-face interactions” of the wearer, as well as speech and body movement, then serve all this data up for analysis by employers. It might provide data on how well (or poorly) a salesperson is doing – “improving the employee-customer interaction” as one firm selling the technology puts it. The implications for workplace gossip, or even simply judging someone more on their social interactions than other aspects of their work, are complex.Happiness analyticsSome sociometric badges are going further. Earlier this year, Hitachi unveiled a new badge – slogan: “Human Big Data”– which aims to measure your happiness. How? A mysterious algorithm based on your physical activity, from how quickly you walk to how often you nod. Hitachi says this data will be aggregated to provide an overall happiness score for a workplace, rather than used for bosses to grill individual staff about why they’re not happy enough. Mood-tracking is a hot area for tech development, from smart-rings measuring your sweat to wristbands monitoring your heart. Some, like headworn devices Melomind and Thync, even claim to change your mood via electrodes stimulating the brain. The science remains under debate, but the vision of your boss trying to make you wear a de-stress helmet is… a bit stressful.Facial recognition technologyPrivacy concerns around facial recognition tend to focus on two areas: its use by police and the government in the monitoring of citizens, and the worry that if Facebook is working on it (which it is), it must be up to no good. Employers don’t get mentioned often, but perhaps they should. Think about established fears of companies Googling potential employees or mining their Facebook and Twitter profiles, and then extend those into using software to scan for their faces in photos across the web – from drunken nights out to public protests.Security dronesIn 2015, consumer drones – as opposed to military ones – remain a plaything, with regulators still drawing up rules on how they can and can’t be used for commercial purposes. One of the uses being mooted is for building security: drones capable of zipping around buildings, filming any intruders. Concerns here don’t just include the risk of a drone falling out of the sky on to an employee’s head but the question of whether these drones will also film staff, and what will happen to the footage.Corporate securityMost of these changes in the workplace will create huge amounts of data on employees, from personal activity and email archives to photographs and footage of them going about their business. Which begs the question: are the companies storing this technology able to do that securely, in an era when data breaches are increasingly common. If Ashley Madison, Sony Pictures and Carphone Warehouse fell victim to hackers, what makes you sure your company won’t? In an era of increased data collection within the workplace, what your employer plans to do with it may be the least of your worries.
Many of Ashley Madison’s 37 million registered usershave a lot of explaining to dothis weekend. Here are some tips that just might smooth things over.Broach the subject“I can’t believe my name and credit card number were exposed in that Ashley Madison account we created together a while back as a joke. You don’t remember that? Are you serious? Are you feeling OK? You really don’t remember that? Maybe we should make an appointment with Dr Cales on Monday morning. I’m worried about you.”Admit to a lesser transgressionTell your spouse you created the account in an attempt to blackmail any one of the hundreds of government or military employees registered on the site, and that you were planning to use the money to pay for a luxurious vacation on your next anniversary.Give your spouse a compliment“Your sexual technique is so massively satisfying that I consider going outside of our marriage and sharing everything you’ve taught me to be a public service.”Turn it aroundTell your spouse that you created the account because you suspected it might eventually get hacked and exposed and you wanted to see if he or she trusted you enough not to check if you were a registered user. Act hurt; shed a tear if you can. Tell your spouse you are not sure what you have done to deserve such disrespect, and that maybe it would be best if you spent some time apart.Try to convince your spouse he or she is a ghostThis is a real long shot, but if everything else fails try explaining to your spouse that he or she is dead and has in fact been haunting you for years: “In so many ways it’s wonderful that we’ve been able to continue on with one another since the accident, but as the years have gone by I find myself longing for human contact and connection.”Get a friend to pose as a supernatural expert and explain that it’s normal for ghosts to have selective memories, as this prevents them from taking any trauma experienced at their time of death with them to the other side. If your spouse asks why, if he or she is dead, you chose a website geared towards married people, explain that even though he or she is dead, you’ll always consider yourself married.Blame identity theftPrepare for this in advance by racking up secret credit card debt you can point to as further evidence.Fall back on semantics“I wasn’t cheating, I was aggregating female companionship.”Tell the truthCalmly explain that monogamy is an outdated concept that doesn’t really address the realities of 21st century life, that the traditions surrounding marriage have failed to change and adapt as society has progressed, and that ultimately going outside of your marriage for sex is a subversive and revolutionary act designed to push society forward. This will almost definitely not work, but if you’ve got to spend the next couple nights on your brother’s couch, you might as well do so with a smug sense of superiority.
Two years ago, when I left video games criticism to work full-time in table top games, a lot of people, my mum chief among them, were startled.These days, it’s easy to explain. Board game cafes are springing up all over the world, and investors are pouring millions into the industry.But I didn’t have this evidence two years ago. I was working on my instinct that these games were just as interesting as video games, and it seemed board games and card games represented an absurdly thick seam of ideas. The money might still be in video games, but there’s huge success waiting for the digital designers who implement those ideas first.Digital card game Hearthstone already makes more money than World of Warcraft, and it has managed that success while really just beinga beautifully presented stop-gapbefore video games get a truly strong card game.So what are the biggest ideas in contemporary board gaming that video games have yet to pick up on?1. Fragile alliances are the best alliancesIn 2004, a small card game called Saboteur and a big board game called Betrayal at the House on the Hill were released. Both of these games randomly pick one (or more) players around the table to be a mole, secretly working against everybody else. This turned out to be so much fun that table top games have been a den of liars and traitors ever since.A Game of Thrones board game.Photograph: PRWhether you’re figuring out who on your ship is a Cylon in the Battlestar Galactica game, or just earnestly telling your friends that you won’t invade them (you promise!) inA Game of Thrones, modern board games often offer an interesting social dynamic on top of their puzzle. Maybe to win you need to coerce two other players into fighting. Or you can swap who is on whose team halfway through. Or you can win by correctly guessing who will win, and on what turn, and then engineering it.By contrast, human interactions in video games feel anodyne: you can play in a team, or not.DayZ is an open world survival video game.Photograph: PRRarely do we see video games that give players the chance to be something more than a dramatic, yet functionally identical, replacements for AI opponents. While massive multiplayers likeDayZmean for the first time everyone’s capable of playing against other humans at all times, video games haven’t figured out how to let us be human when doing so. Bluffing, deceit, trust, creativity – the traits first and foremost in a list of things AI cannot do – is still not something allowed in competitive video games.Related:Blood on the living-room table: why I still love the Game of Thrones board gameIt’s true that the socially nuanced multiplayer modes we’ve seen in video games (Kane &amp; Lynch, The Ship, Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood) have historically only confused their players. It’s also true that board games are more suited to creating complex relationships between players because those players can talk.Then again, when video games like Journey and Dark Souls enable such wonderful bonds to form between players in spite of their inability to talk, you’ve got to wonder if there might be a future for online games beyond basic cooperation and competition.2. Economies are more terrifying than warsStrategy in board games and video games often runs parallel, with both formats exploring and refining classic set-ups like civilisation-building or warfare. But there’s an entire genre of strategy that video games have never touched, which is economic conflict.Does that sound boring? It shouldn’t. Fantastic games likeChinatownor Lords of Vegas feature merciless battles and cutthroat negotiations for control of property. Acquire, which I’ve heard charmingly referred to as “Monopoly for nerds”, sees players fighting tooth and nail to engineer mergers and lock other players out of them. Suburbia is a wonderfully bleak game with players rushing to build and populate a suburb, where the purchase of every fancy restaurant or homeowner’s association will dent your friends’ operations.These games are every bit as ferocious and interesting as any war game, and sometimes more so. At least in a war, you know when you’re being attacked.It’s not just that economic conflict is an entire, entertaining and accessible genre of strategy that video games have left almost untouched. It’s that this genre has countless fascinating mechanics that could be incorporated into existing video games. Let supply and demand affect the prices of soldiers. Hold sporadic auctions for powerful upgrades. Let players invest their war’s budget for an even greater return, forcing them to ask how much they can spare, and for how long.3. Absurd physics is something to be championedCatacombsis a phenomenal board game that tasks players with invading a dungeon and slaying the grand, evil being at its heart. There’s just one problem. Their heroes are small wooden disks, the monsters are wooden disks, the stone pillars of the dungeon are disks that have been slotted into divots in the board, and the entire game is played by flicking your team’s disks at other disks in the style ofCarrom.The game’s perfectly interesting and tactical, but it’s this dramatic theme combined with the preposterous movement of the pucks – the elf bouncing an arrow off your team’s wizard to kill a dragon, the barbarian charging boldly towards a pack of trolls, but losing momentum and coming to a polite stop right next to them – that make it so entertaining.Flick ‘em Upis another dexterity game set to continue this tradition when it comes out in a few months. Tiny wooden cowboys exchanging tiny wooden gunfire on your dining room table, the game’s dramatic theme at odds with the inevitable errors of trying to manipulate the board by flicking, and flicking alone. This game’s “dynamite” playing piece deserves a special mention. Being a stereotypical red cylinder, it’s almost impossible to flick accurately, but nonetheless blows up wherever it comes to a stop.Similarly, I’ve been playing video games my whole life and know that they never get an easier laugh than when their physics simulation surprises you. A bouncing object picking up speed instead of slowing, a man’s limp body losing its rigid skeletal framework as it collapses in a jelly-like pile of limbs, a car rebounding off a wall with terrifying force.There are entire modding communities that try and draw this idiocy out of commercial video games, like trying to siphon oil from a hidden reservoir, precisely because it’s so much fun. And while we’re seeing more and more indie games that offer these kinds of slapstick models, as the occasional high-budget game (Just Cause, Burnout), these all feel like the work of auteurs.For the most part, games use their overwhelmingly expensive and complex physics models to create something as close to reality as possible. Board games are thought-provoking because they have the most accurate physics model you can possibly get. They exist in reality. And they’ve found out that the most fun you can have with physics is to undermine it.
‘I paid to delete my Ashley Madison account but I’m still on the database’ – AnonymousI joined Ashley Madison this year, during a very, very stressful period, both personally and professionally. But my intentions were never actually to meet another woman, and I quickly realised that this was not going to be a good way of meeting new people.In total, I used the site for a single month, getting almost zero responses. Once I realised that it was going nowhere, and that I would have never left my family behind, I decided to just quit. So I paid my€19 (£15)to get rid of everything, deleted the mobile app and removed everything: email accounts, messages, etc.A month later, I learned about the leak fromBrian Krebs. I have been working in the IT field since I left university back in 1999, and when the dump was finally made public, well: curiosity killed the cat. I decided to download the files.I felt a cold sweat when I saw my details in the dump. It was me, I knew that; it was not a hack, or a fake account. Needless to say, I opened all the databases up and started searching for more details, trying to see how deep they got. My credit card transactions were there, which linked to other tables with my full name, and even my GPS location. So much for the “full delete” – if Ashley Madison charged for a service they didn’t provide, I would like to know.Over the last few days, my feelings have changed from fear to anger. Ethics aside, why did I get charged for deletion and then [was] still on the database? Why can they not just delete your fucking profile as if it never happened?Then I decided to contact customer service and ask why I was there. A couple of days later, they told me:“Our records indicate that your account was deleted using the Full Profile Deletion option on 7 July, 2015.“At Ashley Madison your privacy is of the utmost importance to us. Rest assured that the feature you chose is the best way to make sure your profile is completely removed from our service… It is like you were never even here.”So why is my name in their database?I plan to claim damages, if there are more like me. I definitely expect some money from them. What I did to my family is on me, but what they have done to me is wrong. And they won’t write a letter to my wife saying I never signed up, will they?I haven’t told my wife. I don’t even know if I should.Related:Ten questions Ashley Madison needs to answerBreakfast show hosts on Australian radio stationNova FMreveal to a woman, live on air, that her partner was registered with Ashley Madison‘It felt awful finding his address on there’ - Lydia, Albany, New YorkIlooked up my fiance’s emailaddress yesterday, mostly out of curiosity and also a nagging feeling that something wasn’t quite right. He’s been better recently, but in the past he’s been super secretive with his phone.The first email I tried said that his name wasn’t on the list, and his information hadn’t been found. I felt a huge sense of relief. But then I remembered he has a second email address. I plugged that email in and, really, I was more expecting it to not be found than confirmed. But it came up as being on the list. My fiance’s a smart guy and I thought that at least he’d make up a new email address.I think he will deny things. He may say that he created it before we got together three and a half years ago. But it’s a known site for people seeking affairs. This means he either cheated on me or he encouraged someone else to cheat on their partner. It’s a violation of trust, and once it’s gone it’s gone.He may say that someone used his email and that someone else set it up. But I don’t think someone would have done that. It’s not like he’s a high-profile politician or athlete. It just seems highly unlikely that someone would be out to get your average Joe by setting up a fake profile.It felt awful finding his address on there. I still feel awful. We are engaged and planning a wedding. I’m really confused about why he would do it. I was trying to get him to have sex with me more. Why he would seek out affairs with other women I have no idea.I’m planning on confronting him but not yet. I don’t have much support around me. Now, I’m looking for a job in my home town where my family lives and if I find one I’ll move back. We don’t have any property together, but we do have a few bank accounts that I’ll have to organise.If he wants to win back my trust, he could log in and show me the account. I’m quite sure that like most sites that require an email, they offer a password retrieval system by sending a forgotten password to the email address on file. Then together, we could look at the page. I think that then it would be pretty obvious if it was a real or fake profile.Related:Hackers release new Ashley Madison data targeting site's CEO and operators‘I didn’t do anything to deserve the judgment and ridicule’ - Erin, 30A few years ago I found out my husband was trying to have an affair. He had created a profile on Ashley Madison. I was devastated. Of course I only told my closest friends. Now the names of Ashley Madison members could be posted online or made public. Mylocal radio station is even going to listthe names of local people. Some would say my husband deserves this as a consequence of his actions. But do I? My name is attached to his. I didn’t do anything to deserve the potential judgment and ridicule by my friends and family who aren’t aware.We don’t have any kids at this time so I dodged a bullet there. Children with parents in similar circumstances definitely do not deserve it. This is an issue I feel like isn’t getting enough attention amongst all the media buzz right now.My husband and I are still doing the best we can. Of course having to deal with this reminds me of all the hurt and pain caused when I found out he was trying to cheat a few years ago. Right now all we can do is just wait and see if the names become public and if people will actually post lists that people we know will read. If that happens and people we love and care about find out, I can only hope they will love and care about us enough to know not to be harsh and try to be understanding.‘I heard the site was mostly fake women, this proves it’ – Anonymous, 40, New JerseyI looked up my husband’s email and he was on there. I confronted him and he denied it. We both went to the Ashley Madison site together and there was an option to reset the password. We entered his email and lo and behold we received a link to reset the password.When we reset the password and logged in, his account was for a woman, and very attractive woman with a fake photograph.I had heard that the website was mostly fake women, and this proves it. I think a lot of emails were stolen and used to create accounts, as my husband’s was.‘Just because your email is on it doesn’t mean you’re an adulterer’ – Anonymous, 31, LondonI signed up years ago, when they first launched in the UK. I had a girlfriend at the time, but wasn’t looking to cheat. I just wanted to see what it was all about as there were lots of articles in the papers about it at the time and I couldn’t quite believe it existed.But I saw it for what it was, which is a smattering of pretty sad people and a vast trawl of evidently fake accounts and prostitutes. After about 10 minutes I found out they wouldn’t delete your account without paying, so I just logged off and forgot about it. I didn’t have a profile, so didn’t give them my credit cards, photos or anything like that, just my email address that was needed to access the site.When the hack happened I checked to see if my email address was still there. It is on the list. The irony that the hack was protesting the lack of a delete function is not lost on me. The trouble for me is that I’m now married with kids. I’m pretty scared that my wife, or someone else, will check my email address and assume I signed up much more recently than I did.I think it’s pretty abysmal. It also doesn’t tell the full story. Email being present means you’re an adulterer is just wrong. I’m sure that the vast majority of people who signed up were just like me, but they’re not being reported on. Headlines such as ‘1.2m UK adulterers’ ID leaked’ are just not accurate.
A dark and lengthyexposéof the work culture of Amazon, the world’s most powerful online retailer echoed round the world last week. The article, in the New York Times, made Amazon sound like the Hunger Games crossed with 1984. The sick and the pregnant fell by the wayside, trampled on by colleagues who are encouraged to snitch on co-workers. Only the meanest survived.A tidal wave of think pieces followed along with calls for a boycott. Dr Evil himself – Amazon founder Jeff Bezos – was forced to speak out and claim such behavior was anathema to himself and the company. But a week on, the reaction from shoppers and – perhaps more importantly – Wall Street and the tech community is a big “meh”.Related:Amazon stock surge makes CEO Jeff Bezos $7bn richer in 45 minutesIn the week following the story, Amazon stock did the financial equivalent of a emoticon shrug: ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. On Monday, Amazon opened at 528.67, down from 531.52 it closed at on Friday. A wobble, sure, but one driven by broader market fears, not worries about Amazon’s future. The company’s shares have risen more than 55% this year.At the end of July, after the company announced its second-quarter results, its stocks climbed by more than 40 points. In less than 45 minutes of after-hours trading on 23 July, Jeff Bezosadded more than $7bn to the $34.7bn fortuneand Amazon surpassed Walmart as the highest-valued retail company in the world (if you don’t count debt).On Monday after the story ran, Bezos emailed Amazon staff letting them know that “such lack of empathy” would not be tolerated at his company. “The article doesn’t describe the Amazon I know or the caring Amazonians I work with every day,” he wrote. “It claims that our intentional approach is to create a soulless, dystopian workplace where no fun is had and no laughter heard. Again, I don’t recognize this Amazon and I very much hope you don’t, either.”This dark side of Amazon is nothing new to those who have been paying attention. The investors just shrugged, filing away the latest report alongside the company’s other transgressions. Among those transgression is employing Americans living in homeless shelters as its “seasonal elves”, requiring hourly blue-collar workers to signnon-compete clauses, and providing its employees with“unsafe working conditions”by forcing them to work in overheated warehouses.Related:Homeless and working for Amazon: the trap of the seasonal job cycleSome have argued that this newest report was just a compilation of complaints by white-collar workers that are not that different from other high-demand industries.“The public doesn’t care much about high-paid millennials working long hours. They don’t even care about low-paid workers at Walmart,” saidSydney Finkelstein, a management professor and faculty director at Dartmouth’s Tuck Center for Leadership.“‘Those new tech giants’ employees are coddled, entitled, overpaid babies!’ ‘Those new tech giants’ employees are cruelly mistreated!’” Marc Andreessen, billionaire co-founder and general partner of Silicon Valley venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz,tweeted mockingly. Later, Andreessen responded to one Twitter user that “of course [the New York Times piece] isn’t accurate”.&quot;Those new tech giants&#39; employees are coddled, entitled, overpaid babies!&quot; &quot;Those new tech giants&#39; employees are cruelly mistreated!&quot;&mdash; Marc Andreessen (@pmarca)August 16, 2015“This is not an Amazon-only story. Taking a look at any of the top companies in their field, anyone can find scathing critiques,” said Kevin Kelly, managing partner and chief investment officer of investment companyRecon Capital. He added that since Amazon employs over 150,000 full-time and part-time workers, there are bound to be displeased current and former employees.“It’s hard to manage a fit, culturally, with every single employee,” he said. This is most notably an issue in banking and investment banking where “there has been a plethora of work-life balance stories”.These “negative” stories are a necessary cost of a culture where employees are encouraged to think and act like owners,said Fabrizio Ferri, business professor at Columbia University and expert in corporate governance.“If you incentivize employees to think and act like owners – which seems generally desirable – the ‘cost’ is that they will be subject to the same stress and lack of work-life balance that many founders and owners experience when running a business: up at night for work, difficulty in taking any time off, being basically always ‘on call’,” explained Ferri.“Institutional investors like that approach and don’t see it as a concern as long as it does not violate any regulations or creates some long-term risk. Amazon-type firms will attract the type of employees who are willing to take that approach and will naturally screen out those who are not the right ‘match’.”But not everyone thinks this will blow over quickly.“There is a big distinction between an ambitious and hard-working culture and a culture of exploitation, which I would argue is where Amazon is,” Bex Hay, co-founder of theAmazon Anonymousprotest group, told the Guardian. “If you are a long-term investor, the former might give you some good returns, but the latter becomes an investment risk if that culture starts dismantling the brand and reputation that is the secret to the company’s value.”Related:Amazon Christmas boycott campaign gathers weightHay describes Amazon as a 21st-century technology company with Victorian working conditions. She expects that the New York Times exposé will lead to some strong concerns from investors.Another potential outcome could be a boycott of Amazon and its services.“I can easily see this boycott going international. It just takes someone to get it going,” said Hay, noting that she started Amazon Anonymous with just two friends. “We were Amazon customers and we’d had enough. We run the organization in our spare time when we have the time. There’s now over 200,000 people with us, and it’s only going to get bigger.”According to Hay, between the time the New York Times story ran and Thursday, over 60,000 people had signed Amazon Anonymous petition calling for Amazon UK to pay a living wage and treat their workers fairly.What are we going to do?? &quot;Boycott Amazon!&quot; When are we going to do it?? &quot;......&quot; 😶&mdash; Marc Andreessen (@pmarca)August 16, 2015Some like Andreessen have mocked the possibility of an Amazon boycott.“What are we going to do?? ‘Boycott Amazon!’ When are we going to do it?? ‘…’,”he tweeted.The problem is that very often the benefits of using Amazon services outweigh the moral outrage over its treatment of its employees.“Customers are more concerned with the product, price, convenience and service. Prime membership continues to grow worldwide,” Kelly pointed out.While Amazon has yet to release the official number of Amazon Prime members, estimates have put the numbers at20 millionin January 2014 and40 millionin January 2015.If anything, the one problem facing Amazon would be alienating the people it needs to stay on top: workers willing to put in the long hours.“If they get the image of an unfriendly place to work for tech people, that would be a disaster. Google and Facebook don’t have this reputation,” said Finkelstein. “They would end up having to pay people more to attract them to the company, a hit to the bottom line and a competitive disadvantage.”Bezos is very much aware of this. In his email to the staff, he said that anyone working for a company like the one described by the New York Times would be “crazy to stay”.“The people we hire here are the best of the best. You are recruited every day by other world-class companies, and you can work anywhere you want,” he said. “Hopefully, you don’t recognize the company described. Hopefully, you’re having fun working with a bunch of brilliant teammates, helping invent the future, and laughing along the way.”Translation: please stay. Bezos knows that as soon as the talent goes, so does the money.
I feel bad mentioning it, because it’s not the brand’s fault when a person crashes a car: but the car crashes in the news recently, the ones that left several injured or involved a mountain, often seem to have featured a Seat Leon (not always the Cupra, though, which is the hottest of the Leons, my ST280 the hottest of the hot, at 276bhp).In the UK we’d call the size the “small family car” and be led to wonder what kind of family would like to drive it; in Europe, it’s a C-segment, small but not the smallest, and it recalls the time in a person’s life when they like to fill their car with friends. Your 20s, in other words; not your 30s – by then, your friends have their own cars, or you have dropped them, and anyway, you are all too drunk to drive.With that in mind, the styling looks a bit grown up, with a larger-than-expected rear end (the boot is really capacious) and a geometric sensibility around its headlamp cluster that looks like a dated Habitat print. Then the interior tries to catch up with the future, with a flat-bottomed steering wheel that made me want to wear driving gloves and cultivate a menacing laugh, and a shiny dash trim that I found a bit tiring on a long drive (it reflected in just the tiniest way to be noticeable).Control-wise, everything is the way you’d want it: no paddles in funny places, or “innovations” that cordially invite you to read the manual. The satnav is good – giving you a truncated version of your instructions on the small central screen between the binnacles – the Bluetooth works, and the Media System Plus can handle your iPod. The driving posture, bolt upright on two-tone seats, invites decisiveness.But what is the point of all this shine and polish? Its performance, doofus: at 6.1 seconds for zero to 62mph, it has a huge amount riding on the affections of people who would prefer to be on a motorbike, or MDMA. In fact, the acceleration in the lower gears feels a bit screechy and embarrassing, but as you move through them, you realise you can, in fact, fly. It was thequickest car of its class ever around the Nurburgring. The cornering balance is good, the steering is responsive; I experienced my control as absolute.It’s not economical, but it puts you in a kind of speculatively dangerous mood, growing more reckless with the drive. Come on! You know you want to.Seat Leon Cupra: in numbersPrice£29,205Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62 in 6.1mphCombined fuel consumption42.2mpgCO2emissions157g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating7/10
Large digital billboards around London, paid for by Google, have been spotted by the public – with a surprising revelation displayed for all to see. The brightly coloured boards – which show popular search terms being used – declared boldly that the UK “is searching for revenge porn sites”.Members of the public were informed by the loud advertisement this week that among the more mundanequeries on the search engine– such as looking upDismaland,Strictly Come Dancingand thecricketscores – there was also a darker side to searching. Revenge porn, the distribution of sexually explicit content without the consent of the people involved, was a top term tapped into keyboards.Some people had not expected to see such an honest admission during their commute. One reacted on social media with: “Good to know. Thanks Google!” Someone else said: “Depressing advertising.” Others posted images of the Google Trends announcement, which had appeared on advertising spaces in roundabouts and underground stations.Google&#39;s digital billboards at Old Street Station seem to be working, then.pic.twitter.com/honkxznkFk&mdash; Ryan Bassil (@ryanbassil)August 21, 2015The UK is searching for &quot;Revenge Porn&quot;. Good to know. Thanks Google!&mdash; whoojemaflip (@whoojemaflip)August 19, 2015What is the UK googling? &#39;Revenge porn sites&#39; according to the massive Google billboard on Old Street roundaboutpic.twitter.com/7KRMU74pzY&mdash; Matthew Chapman (@MattChapmanUK)August 20, 2015The internet giant itself did not mention “revenge porn” in its summary of trending topics in the UK:#GoogleTrends: What did the UK search for this week? &#10;&#10;Your wrap-up of this week&#39;s trending topics...pic.twitter.com/yufgo3t9Vx&mdash; Google UK (@GoogleUK)August 21, 2015Earlier this summer, Google announced its plan toexclude “revenge porn” from future internet searches. Amit Singhal, a senior vice-president, wrote in aposton the Google public policy blog that the company would soon issue online forms through which members of the public will be able to request that revenge porn content involving them no longer shows up in Google searches. Links to such images will not be included in Google search results on that person, though they will remain online.“Revenge porn images are intensely personal and emotionally damaging, and serve only to degrade the victims – predominantly women,” Singhal wrote. Interest in the search term “revenge porn”, however, has grown rapidly and peaked this year, Google Trends shows:The search engine has broken down interest in the search term regionally too, with the UK at the top, followed by the US and the Philippines at the bottom of the chart. Searches related to revenge porn, according to Google Trends, include: “ex revenge porn” and “girlfriend revenge”.Google trendsPhotograph: Google trendsLate last year Google made history when it become the first company to rent theworld’s largest and most expensive digital billboardin Times Square, New York. The billboard, eight storeys high, was estimated to cost $2.5m (£1.6m) to hire for four weeks. Three hundred thousand pedestrians are said to pass by the billboard every day.
Uber’s global bookings are projected to more than treble to $10.8bn (£6.9bn) this year and reach $26.1bn the next, according to an investors’ presentation that indicates a flotation for theride-hailing businessby 2017.The taxi app, which operates in more than 50 countries, keeps 20% of booking revenue, according to the confidential slideshow, obtained by Reuters. Based on those figures, 2015 revenue would be around $2bn.Related:Prosecutors amend Uber lawsuit to include background check failuresThe undated presentation offers a glimpse of the explosive growth of the six-year-old firm, last valued by investors at $50bn, the most for a privately held technology firm worldwide.Uber links passengers and drivers via apps, earning revenuethat is doubling every six months, according to chief executive Travis Kalanick. However, its services have been banned in several cities where, for instance, drivers have not held commercial licences. It has said it is working with authorities to lift the bans, although there have been protests against Uber in cities worldwide, including London, Paris and Rio de Janeiro.Bookings reached $688m in 2013 and $2.9bn in 2014, according to the presentation, which does not feature expenses or say whether Uber is profitable. A spokeswoman at Uber’s San Francisco headquarters, when asked about the presentation, said the company did not comment on “rumour and speculation”.Kalanick and people close to the firm have in the past declined to discuss any timetable for an Uber IPO.Related:Uber losing millions of dollars, documents revealUber is widely believed to be losing moneyas it offers financial incentives to drivers to gobble up market share. It is dealing with numerous legal and regulatory issues and bans in countries including France, Spain and Thailand. This month, it won a legal victory in the US against established taxi firms after a judge in Connecticutdismissed a lawsuit accusing it of engaging in deceptive trade practices and racketeering.However, it has faced problems elsewhere in the US. In June, aCalifornialabour commission declared that employees of the ride-sharing company wereemployees and not contractors. The ruling opened Uber up to higher costs, including social security, workers’ compensation and unemployment insurance – all factors that could weigh on the minds of investors being shown the Uber slideshow.Uber’s troubles signal a troubled birth for a 21st-century concept: the sharing economy. Under the sharing model, untapped capacity – such as idle cars and rooms – is made available for hire, which increases efficiency and lowers the price of those goods and services. The exemplars of the concept so far are Uber and Airbnb, which leases out accommodation worldwide. However, Airbnb has also faced resistance from local authorities in the US and Europe who are concerned that the service falls foul of local housing laws and regulations.Related:Ditch your assumptions about Uber and Airbnb: the 'gig economy' is no game-changerBackers ranging from Silicon Valley venture capitalists such as Benchmark and New Enterprise Associates to institutional investors such as Fidelity and the Qatar Investment Authority have poured in close to $5bn to support Kalanick.PriceWaterhouse Coopersforecast last yearthat total revenues for the five largest sharing economy businesses could reach £9bn in the UK by 2025, and $335bn globally.
A nine-year-old boy, born with his right arm missing from the elbow, can build Lego, eat with a knife and fork and pull up his trousers for the first time thanks to a new bionic hand.Josh Cathcart, who was bullied because of his disability, declared his new limb “awesome” and could not wait to show it to his school friends, after becoming the first child in the UK to be fitted with thei-limb quantum, a special child-sized hand.The i-limb, developed byTouch Bionics, is controlled by the wearer’s muscle signals and configurable via a mobile app. It is the first prosthetic hand that can change grips with a simple gesture: the wearer simply moves their hand in any of the four directions to instantly activate the desired grip.Josh, from Dalgety Bay in Fife, said: “I got it put on about two days ago. It feels quite heavy. I can stick my thumb up. I can make a pinch grip, I can get a grip for cutting with a knife.“I made myself a bagel yesterday. I can open bottles and packets with it. I can stack up blocks, I can build Lego with it and I can pull my trousers up,” he said.His mother, Clare, said: “Josh had been getting picked on and became quite withdrawn and upset, so we started looking for something a bit more advanced – something that moved. So, we had chats with him and then went on the internet and came across this company.”“He was born missing a hand. At first, I didn’t really give much thought to it, but as time went on I blamed myself for it. Now I can see him with two hands.“It gives him his independence so he can make his own food and tidy his own room,” she added.Josh demonstrates the versatility of his new hand by assembling Lego.Photograph: Mark Runnacles/Getty ImagesHis father, James, said: “Obviously his socket’s going to grow, so he’ll get about nine months to a year out of this one and then he will have to come again and get a new socket.”“I think it’s great. Just to see him pull his trousers up this morning, it was just something that he had never done, and he has been shown how to cut with a knife and fork. It just looked so natural for him. He can do things for himself without us helping him.”Alison Goodwin, prosthetist at Touch Bionics, based in Livingston, West Lothian, said: “He’s the youngest we’ve fitted so far [with] the extra-small hand that we now have available. It’s been great to have the experience this week of fitting the youngest ever person with the i-limb hand.”The i-limb quantum was only released in June, and incorporates the company’s i-mo technology which allows forward, backward and side-to-side movements, enabling grips such as a pinch grip or a lateral grip.Goodwin said: “It works from electrodes which are positioned on the surface of his skin within the socket of his prosthesis, so this is the custom-made part which is fitted on to his residual limb. When he tenses these muscles, the electrodes open and close the hand.“He’s not worked these muscles because he has not used this type of prothesis before, and obviously without having a hand he has spent about nine years not using those muscles. But he has developed them very well this week and has been working great with them.”
1. How many actual users did it have?The site’s homepage touts “over 39,170,000 anonymous members”, while the figure of 37 million is regularly quoted in news stories about Ashley Madison. Yet the leaked database shows slightly under 33 m individual user accounts. Where are the other 6 million?What’s more, a user account isn’t quite the same as a member. The data suggests that a large number of the accounts are registered with duplicate emails, which could indicate one person registering multiple accounts.2. Did it make fake accounts?In 2013, an Ashley Madison employee in Toronto tried to sue the company, claiming that she’d developed a repetitive strain injury in her wrist at work. The action which caused the damage,she alleged, was creating 1,000 fake female profiles over the course of a week to pad out the Brazilian version of the site.Ashley Madison denied that allegation,saying that“our service is 100% authentic, as described in our terms and conditions, and we resent any implication otherwise and are certain we will be both vindicated and victorious in court”. The existence of multiple accounts linked to single email addresses raised new questions.3. Was it aware of prostitution on the site?Several Ashley Madison users have reported that some of the site’s users who arerealpeople are also not actually married people seeking a discreet affair. Security researcher Robert Graham writes that “according to several users, prostitutes are really the only females they’d consistently meet on Ashley Madison”.In February this year, an anonymous user on Vicerelated his experience on the site, euphemistically referring to “sugar babies”: “If you find a profile of an attractive woman under 25 and she doesn’t turn out to be a scammer, then she probably is out to get paid,” he wrote.4. It promised security to its customers. What did it do to ensure this?The Ashley Madison website still boasts about the discretion it offers customers. From its offer of 39 million “anonymous members” (who are no longer anonymous) to the promise of a “100% discreet service” and the purple-ribboned “Trusted Security Award”, a big part of the company’s brand is the promise of an affair that no one else will know about.But the data dump shows very little actual progress towards that goal. User passwords were stored in a secure manner, “hashed” in a way that prevents them from being easily reused by attackers; and the site connected over SSL, which prevented a man-in-the-middle attack on a particular user. But vast amounts of sensitive data were apparently stored in plain text in a couple of databases on the site’s backend, letting anyone who downloads the leaked data read users’ profile information, turn-ons, and relationship goals.Before the hack happened,some staff members were aware of the security risks at the firm, according to the hacked database. Internal documents leaked as part of the attack show concerns over “a lack of security awareness across the organisation” being raised by one vice president in response to an internal questionnaire.In the same questionnaire, the company’s chief executive, Noel Biderman wrote what he would hate to see go wrong in the company: “Data exfiltration, confidentiality of the data. An insider data breach would be very harmful. Have we done good enough a job vetting everyone, are we on top of it.”5. Its CEO said the leak was an inside job. What made him think that? Has he changed his mind?Noel Biderman also said shortly after that the firm believes the hack was an inside job, from someone who already had access to its systems. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials,”he told the security journalist Brian Krebs. “It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.”But Biderman hasn’t revealed any further information since then. If he knew who it was, why haven’t they been caught? And if he didn’t, why was he so clear it was definitely an insider?6.Why did the “full delete” not fully delete a customer’s profile? Why did it keep location information for a fully deleted account?Ashley Madison offers a £15/$20 “full delete” service for users. The site stands out amongother dating sites for this, in that the paid delete will even remove conversations a user has had with other site members.But the database shows that “full” is rather overstating matters. Users who paid to delete their account have their email address, postal address, username, first and last names wiped from the record, along with their profile information; but a raft of personal data stayed on Ashley Madison’s servers, including sexual preferences, height, weight, date of birth, and even the user’s latitude and longitude, derived from the address data they entered earlier.Worse, the credit card information used to pay for the full delete is also stored (the full card number is not kept, however), and the transaction is linked through a user ID to the deleted account. In other words, it’s possible to fully de-anonymise a user, even after they paid real money for the deletion.“I paid for the complete deletion yet I appear on the dump,” one user told the Guardian. “If Ashley Madison charged for a service they didn’t provide, I would like to know.”In a statement in July, Ashley Madison said: “Contrary to current media reports, and based on accusations posted online by a cyber criminal, the ‘paid delete’ option offered by AshleyMadison.com does in fact remove all information related to a member’s profile and communications activity. The process involves a hard delete of a requesting user’s profile, including the removal of posted pictures and all messages sent to other system users’ email boxes.”7. Given it took card payments for a full delete, why didn’t it make clear that that payment information has to be retained?Ashley Madison offered anonymous payment options, includingthe ability to pay with a Starbucks gift card. But for the users who paid with a credit card, it was never going to be possible to fully remove their details from the site, because credit card payments are retained for fraud protection – and, obviously, linked to a specific real identity.CEO Noel Biderman:“Have we done good enough a job vetting everyone, are we on top of it?” Not so much.Photograph: Jane Mingay/Rex Shutterstock8. Why didn’t it disclose the hack to customers as soon as it happened? Why did they have to find out from the press?Disclosure is important in security breaches: often, the most damage will be done in the time before users find out and change passwords and card details. The Ashley Madison hack is, of course, a special case, because the information is damaging in and of itself, regardless of whether it’s reused later on; but the same principle applies.Which is why it’s concerning that the hack has been largely communicated to the public through security reporters, rather than contact between Ashley Madison and its members. Since the hack was first reported, there have only been five public statements from the firm, and no advice for actual users concerned about the dissemination of their personal data.9. Why did it make a specific, narrow denial about storing card numbers?One of those five statements read, in its entirety:“No current or past members’ full credit card numbers were stolen from Avid Life Media. Any statements to the contrary are false. Avid Life Media has never stored members’ full credit card numbers.”While the statement is undoubtedly true, it glosses over the fact that payment information was stolen, including the last four digits of payment cards. Was this an attempt to distract from the issues at hand?10. Why is it still implying the leak is not real?At this stage, the evidence overwhelmingly points to the complete database being genuine. Not only is consumer data exposed, but also Ashley Madison’s internal communications – including, in a second dump twice the size of the first,the complete email database of founder Biderman.Yet the site’s most recent statement on the matter merely says “we are actively monitoring and investigating this situation to determine the validity of any information posted online”. If the company is going to attempt to win back user trust, the first thing it has to do is come clean. And until it admits the extent of the breach, that’s not going to happen.The Guardian put these questions to Ashely Madison, but the company has not directly replied to any questions so far through its UK spokeswoman.
Workers crying at their desks. Workers subjected to anonymous criticism. Workers put on performance reviews after a miscarriage or cancer. The office isn’t what it used to be – at Amazon, anyway. This week,the New York Times revealedextraordinary stories of management practices at the tech giant’s Seattle HQ, where the most pugnacious employees earn the nickname of “Amholes”. And yet, as extraordinary as the anecdotes were, for many people, they rang a bell.But in the storm of comment that the Amazon story unleashed, the picture was not as straightforwardly critical as you might have expected – and the public conversation about it was often heated. “Of course you’ve got conflict in teams, that’s what teams are about!” burst out radio talkshow host Nick Ferrari on Thursday morning, as he clashed with a female caller who said it was never OK to shout at colleagues. He was not alone. Meanwhile, Amazon fiercely battled the image that the story projected. Founder and CEO Jeff Bezosfired off an email to employeesin which he wrote that the article did not describe “the caring Amazonians I work with every day”, and suggested they readthe detailed rebuttalposted on Linkedin by Nick Ciubotariu, a head of infrastructure in the company’s search department.Related:Jeff Bezos defends Amazon after NYT exposé of working practicesThe reaction is fascinating, both for the new material it adds to the story – one former employee, “TechRecruiter” of Seattle, posted that “I still struggle with the Amhole nature within, resisting the desire to verbally castrate my current colleagues” – and because it so spectacularly demonstrates the gulf that divides Amazon’s attackers from its defenders. While some readers (includingthe Guardian’s Stuart Heritage) see the new information as the final straw, and will no longer shop with the world’s biggest retailer, others say: keep up the good work! And if you don’t like it, you can always leave!So is more-or-less continuous performance management and appraisal, as practised by Amazon, a sinister form of corporate control-freakery? Are its anonymous feedback loops and combative culture akin to bullying? Or, as Ferrari claimed on the radio, should people working in highly competitive industries be prepared for a bit of argy-bargy? And is world-conquering, tax-avoiding Amazon a case apart, or does it light the path to all our futures? If the office is becoming a jungle, is that OK?Tim Sullivan, author with Ray Fisman of The Org: The Underlying Logic of the Office, and editorial director at Harvard Business Review Press, says feedback to the story has been different on the east and west coasts of the US, with much greater tolerance for Amazon in and around Silicon Valley. “Amazon is not a place where I would want to work, but their system seems to work for them,” he tells me in a phonecall. “I think the company has probably learned from the story that it had some over-eager managers, terrible managers – I don’t really know what to call them, the people driving people who were sick – and realised they need to put some safeguards in place. But I can’t imagine that the culture of the workplace is going to change very much.”Demonstrators wear costumes during a protest at Amazon.com Inc. headquarters in Seattle, WashingtonPhotograph: Bloomberg/Getty ImagesHe thinks Amazon is an extreme case, remarkable for its degree of focus, and puts the high level of interest in technology companies down to voyeurism, as well as the creeping fear among white-collar workers that the robots, algorithms and artificial intelligence that Amazon and others are developing will one day make us all redundant.So should we simply shake our heads, perhaps reflect on our shopping habits, and carry on? Alex Bryson, Head of Employment at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research in the UK, says no. He believes the Amazon story is “highly relevant” to what is going on in the wider labour market both in the US and UK. (This week, a survey for British solicitors Slater and Gordon found that one in three respondentssaid they had been bullied at work.) “The issue of labour intensification – that is, the propensity of employers to press workers harder as a way of improving productivity – is very pertinent to policy debates such as that surrounding the living wage. The question is what benefits firms, what benefits employees, and what do government and society say about this?” he says.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos defended his company’s culture and spoke of ‘the caring Amazonians I work with every day’.Photograph: Ted S Warren/APBut he also thinks “posturing” is a factor, and says “you can feel the stand-off between Amazon and Google, which has adopted an utterly different route and tried to create an environment conducive to workers reaching their full potential in their own way”. Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg memorably beganher bestselling manifesto Lean Inwith an anecdote about how, when she worked at Google, she marched up to the bosses to demand “pregnancy parking”, to which they immediately agreed. Amazon, by contrast, offers no paternity pay at all in the US.But while Amazon is unapologetic about its reputation as a tough environment, and about its use of data to monitor how employees are doing, and “organizational level tanking” to weed out the weakest performers, Bezos insisted in his email that a policy of “lack of empathy” would be stupid, since it would cause staff to leave. Though none of the specific cases – including a woman put on a performance improvement plan shortly after giving birth to a stillborn child – was denied, Ciubotariu claimed the company has dramatically changed since he joined 18 months ago, and put such excesses behind it. Working at Amazon, both men insisted, is fun.Whether or not this is true probably depends on the personalities of the employees doing the work. Undoubtedly, thousands of people thrive at Amazon. Others describe leaving the company feeling changed and even damaged (one woman, Beth Anderson, posted an open letter to Bezos explaining howher husband had gone into therapyafter quitting).Related:The culture of presenteeism is going to kill British workers | Archie BlandBut the business writers and academics I interviewed for this article all saw Amazon as an outlier, to differing extents, since evidence shows that the long hours and ultra-competitive culture the company fosters do not deliver the best results. The promise of wellbeing has become a recruitment tool in a fast-growing, high-tech sector panicked about hiring and keeping the best talent, as Bezos knows. But Sullivan, Bryson and others insist that persuading people not to leave your company is not the only reason to treat them well.“The evidence I’ve seen is that happier, more cohesive teams produce better results, and overwork produces worse results and poorer decisions,” Sullivan says. “Maybe Amazon is finding a ton of people who are exceptions to that rule, but most people wouldn’t be at their best in those circumstances.”He believes the “anytime feedback” tool, enabling employees to send anonymous online comments to managers, is Amazon’s single least attractive invention: “It’s entirely possible to bring out the worst in people. We’ve all read internet comments and I can’t imagine the culture produced by that. GE was famous for firing the bottom 10% [of staff] every year, but the idea that you’re going to enable people’s worst impulses is frightening to a lot of people.”Employees busy working inside Lloyd’s of London in the early 1960’s.Photograph: Adrian Ace Williams/Getty ImagesNigel Nicholson, professor of organisational behaviour at London Business School, believes the whole idea of a company as a meritocracy in which talent can rise to the top is flawed and out of date. “It’s based on a very primitive male instinct, a bunch of alpha-male chimpanzees fighting for mating opportunities – and this is not the world humans should be in, really. You can promote a kind of killer mentality and a place where the weak don’t survive,” he adds, “but this brings with it all kinds of problems of loyalty and culture. In highly individualistic organisations you don’t get any synergies – people working together.”Consumerism may have reached nirvana in the US, where one Amazon employee described to the New York Times as “magical” the process of sourcing and delivering a doll to a customer in 23 minutes, but Nicholson says the Japanese showed long ago that group work was superior in terms of efficiency and quality. The most productive car plant in the world, he adds, is in Britain.Bryson says that, until recently, data about the relationship between job satisfaction and productivity were missing, but interest from the French and UK governments in measuring wellbeing has led to new research: last month he and two colleagues published a paper showing a positive correlation betweenworker satisfaction and financial performance. He points to a study published last year, based on an experiment carried out in China that showedemployees allowed to work from home were more productivethan their office-based colleagues.Union: Amazon UK staff are ‘burning out physically and mentally’ – videoSo what do workers want? Richard Exell, senior policy officer for the TUC, says the trend towards tighter supervision, and away from the gentler world in which weaker colleagues were more likely to be tolerated, dates back 20 years. He puts this down to a globalised world with more competitive pressures on business, but adds that new technology has played its part: “The prospectus was for a new age of independence and creativity. Instead, the potential for management to keep much closer tabs on people has become much more noticeable.” The weakening of trade unions has, he says, made it harder for employees to stand up for themselves in the face of unreasonable demands such as being contactable 24/7.Much business literature has been devoted to the question of how to manage “generation Y”, the people born in the 1980s and 1990s now entering the jobs market and often seen as having distinctive skills and needs. With many people now retiring later, another question being examined by Marks and Spencer, among others, is how to manage multiple generations at once. Whilethe Economist recently declared much of this to be “snake oil”, it admitted there may be differences between older workers and the generation coming up and offered up a tip of its own: forget about teamwork and “corporate do-goodery” and focus on individual performance instead.Will Leonelli is head of human resources, or “peopleworks leader”, at Flight Centre, a travel agency founded in Australia that has 100 shops in the UK. Flight Centre is a growing and people-focused business, selling holidays in person and over the phone. Its co-founder, Graham “Skroo” Turner, was influenced by Nigel Nicholson’s approach, which draws on evolutionary psychology in making the case that more co-operative structures work best – particularly for women and others who find it difficult to win in the dog-eat-dog, or ape-eat-ape scenario that remains the default setting of many companies.Flight Centre organises its business into families, villages and tribes, and the main team-unit (or family) never has more than seven people in it, while an area or “tribal leader” can have no more than 120 staff.“We’re the opposite of a call centre,” says Leonelli. “That is fundamentally not our business model. If you’re in a team of 25 with one supervisor, you haven’t got any opportunity for progression, and if you’re a supervisor looking after such a large group, how can you effectively manage them? We fundamentally don’t believe that works.”Related:What will it take to make Amazon a great place to work?The business is very target-driven: every role is financially incentivised, and each year the top 10% of staff get sent on an all-expenses-paid trip, this year to Las Vegas. But Leonelli insists that individual competition is kept in check by systems that encourage team members to support each other, because “the whole is always greater than its parts”. Each team has a “pot of gold” to spend on having fun.Opinions on performance management are sharply divided, with unions strongly opposed, and some evidence from polling that younger workers are more willing, and even eager, to be measured and rewarded in this way. Bryson points out that it will take a long time for other employers to catch up with Amazon, since most companies lack its data-analysis expertise. But he and colleagues at the London School of Economics have produced research based on an app,Mappiness, that records users’ feelings at different times of the day. The app is now being used in white-collar companies and health settings, with a view to boosting efficiency.Call Centre customer service representatives work at their desks inside the customer service call centre in Leeds.Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty ImagesIt is clearly possible to imagine the benign application of such technologies, and a thoughtful approach to human beings that recognises low mood can lead to poor service and outcomes. It’s equally possible to imagine unpleasant scenarios in which employees become accountable to their employers not only for their work, but for their feelings.But even if these nightmares do not come true, and Nicholson and others turn out to be right that flatter companies with less hierarchical and more democratic structures – whether they are filled with staff from generations X, Y or Z – turn out to be better suited to the challenges of the future, such companies will not suit everyone.“Our sheer size and complexity dwarfs everyone else, and not everyone is qualified to work here, or will rise to the challenge. But that doesn’t mean we’re Draconian or evil,” wrote Ciubotariu in his defence of Amazon. “Not everyone gets into Harvard, either, or graduates from there. Same principles apply.”
I don’t know how much wine I’d had when I offered to marry Nathan, an American living in Berlin whom I had never met. The time stamp on our Facebook chat history says my proposal occurred at 7.23pm one Friday in January, so hopefully not too much. The (non-serious) offer of marriage was friendly rather than romantic: Nathan and I have a similar sense of humour and marrying me would allow him to remain in the EU without having to navigate the complicated bureaucracy of German visa applications. He politely declined.True, we’d never met in real life, but that has never been much of a problem for me. Most of the new friends I have made in the past two years, since moving to London, I have initially encountered online.In April 2014, I flew to Ireland to stay at the house of a friend, Harry From Twitter, for three days. When I booked my flight, various real-life friends and family wondered if I was leaving to join a sex cult, or whether I would end up a captive as Harry, like Kathy Bates inMisery, removed parts of my body while reading my tweets back to me. In the event, we had a lovely time.My friend Gabriel and I became friends online gradually – from Twitter to Facebook and then to long instant message conversations, until eventually, Gabriel invited me to his wedding, never having met me. In many ways, this isn’t as surprising as it sounds – friendship and intimacy can develop online as easily, if not more easily, than they can by the office water cooler.Among my peers, in their mid to late 20s, dating websites and apps such as OkCupid, Tinder or Grindr have gone mainstream. I don’t bat an eyelid when couples tell me they met online. However, I suspect that the users of these sites would be more startled by an app called “Befriendr”, for example. In fact, a San Francisco company is developing just such an app,Wiith. There are also dedicated friendmaking websites, such as Meetup or the more sinister-sounding People Hunter. I have yet to meet someone who actually uses them. To answer the question, “What are you looking for?” with “friendship” instead of “a white wedding and hardcore BDSM” still has a tinge of vulnerability about it.But people are lonely. I am single and have a great group of close friends drawn from school and university. However, relationships, work commitments and emigrations have made us less available for each other. Many of these friendships are now maintained online anyway – by texts, emails and Whatsapp – with real-life meetings punctuating where possible. Meanwhile, the internet has become more central for me as a way not just to maintain but to initiate friendships.But how to solicit genuine friendships online and make them function IRL (in real life) without looking like a stalker, sociopath or common creep? Here are my tips for turning followers into friends.1 People on the internet are real people, tooThis sounds obvious, but just because you interact with them by tapping on an LED screen, online acquaintances are not your personal kennel of Tamagotchi pets. Normal social rules apply. People want you to be considered, but not over-keen. No one likes a dead-eyed social climber. Women who use social media have told me this is even more critical when straight men try to befriend them; they are used to a barrage of men being pervy, misogynistic and rude to them. If you’re not, good for you, but take care to establish that through your behaviour and interactions. In other words, don’t be creepy.It is also worth remembering that if you suggest meeting up with someone you’ve met online, it can be unclear whether it is a date or company you are seeking. Clarifying this is important. I wouldn’t recommend saying, “This isn’t a date btw” but perhaps something like, “Great! I always need new cinema friends.”2 Take it slowBoldness and outlandishness can be good sometimes: the internet has a rapid-fire pace and attention spans are short. However, go gently when trying to befriend strangers. I learned this the hard way when I tried to make Naomi Campbell my pal. I tweeted, “Hey babe, have you considered doing a Topshop accessories collaboration called Blood Diamanté? Drinks soon?” Naomi blocked me. Charlotte Church refused to come to my pub quiz (replying to me in Welsh) and my attempts to engage early 2000s former pop star Dane Bowers in conversation have also fallen on deaf ears.It went well when I added a cabaret performer calledHarry Clayton-Wrighton Facebook after seeing a picture of him dressed as Ariel from Disney’s The Little Mermaid. As we gradually interacted more on Facebook, in comment threads beneath statuses and photos, a conversational “style” developed, rarely serious, sometimes bawdy. One day Harry sent me a private message. It was a still image of a gay porn actor who apparently bore an uncanny resemblance to pictures he’d seen of me. Without so much as a “hello” he opened with “IS THIS YOU?!” It wasn’t. Sending someone images like this over the internet normally isn’t recommended, but this time it made me laugh. Harry and I now Skype regularly to talk about Cher. So in this case, the bold approach worked.3 Some people are better online (and that’s OK)Confident users of social media are normally confident users of the written word. This won’t always equate to social ease or good humour in real life.I have had awkward coffees and laborious drinks with people who are hilarious online, but shy in real life. Sometimes people just work better as internet friends. Be polite, bid them farewell graciously and tweet them on the bus home.4 Research people, a bit, just for peace of mindThe biggest concern people have when they hear about online friendmaking is safety: just as the internet offers ample scope for new connections, so, too, does it provide endless opportunity for deception. There will always be horror stories; fake photos and alter egos. But it’s easy to check up on people – enough to get a feel for whether their online persona adds up. Let’s all admit it: sometimes, we Google people’s names and check their LinkedIn profiles. (It’s not just me, right?)Remember that social media is full of clues – if you follow someone on Twitter, it should be possible to see who they also talk to. Who seem to be their real-life friends or colleagues? Have a look at their profiles. If they’re on Facebook, add them as a friend – true, these days it’s likely to be all pictures of weddings and baby nieces, but this can be reassuring.5 Once it’s a real friendship, not everything has to go onlineOnce you have translated a digital friendship into a full-blown IRL one, remember the distinctions between public and private spheres. Several times people have uploaded screenshots of texts I intended to be private, or tweeted verbatim things I have said to them in person.We social media addicts can’t help it (we need to document everything), but this impulse needs to be restrained. My friend Fiona (another online pal whom I have boarded planes to visit) once asked me to de-tag her from a Facebook video of her dancing and being thrown around by her drunk housemate toElastic Heart by Sia, which I had posted without telling her. I did – she’s my friend. Be considerate about what you say publicly about people, wherever you met them.So that’s my advice. But let’s face it, social media and the etiquette that surrounds it changes so quickly that anything I’ve said here may well be redundant in a year. Who knows, by 2025 I may finally have the legal right to marry my smartphone.
The chief executive of music service Spotify has apologised to users after anger over sweeping changes to itsprivacy policythat give the company much greater access to personal data on users’ phones.As well as collecting personal information, such as email addresses and birthdays, Spotify will be able to sift though users’ contacts, collect their photos and in some cases, even check their location and determine how quickly they are moving. Depending on the device being used, Spotify said it may be able to collect sensor data, such as “data about the speed of your movements, such as whether you are running, walking, or in transit”.Some information would also be shared with advertisers, although Spotify did not spell out exactly what data it would pass on.Some users – including Markus “Notch” Persson, the creator of hit game Minecraft – took to Twitter to announce they were cancelling their accounts.In an attempt to stem the rising anger, Daniel Ek, the chief executive of Spotify, apologised to users over “confusion” caused by the changes ina blogpost on the company’s website.Spotify’s Daniel Ek speaks during the Spotify New Platform Launch at S.I.R. Studios in New York City.Photograph: Taylor Hill/FilmMagic“We should have done a better job in communicating what these policies mean and how any information you choose to share will – and will not – be used,” he said.The new terms relate to features that the company plans to introduce, such as Spotify Running, which matches the beats-per-minute of a track to the pace of a user’s run, or Discover Weekly, which curates a weekly playlist based on listeners’ tastes.Before Ek’s apology, the company said: “Spotify is constantly innovating and evolving its service to deliver the best possible experience for our users. This means delivering the perfect recommendations for every moment, and helping you to enjoy, discover and share more music than ever before. The data accessed simply helps us to tailor improved experiences to our users, and build new and personalised products for the future.“Throughout, the privacy and security of our customers’ data is – and will remain – Spotify’s highest priority.”The news of the updated terms led to a high-profile clash between two of Sweden’s most influential technology stars. Persson, told his 2.4m followers he was quitting the music-streaming service, after calling in Spotify to “please consider not being evil”..@SpotifyHello. As a consumer, I&#39;ve always loved your service. You&#39;re the reason I stopped pirating music. Please consider not being evil.&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)August 21, 2015I just cancelled mine too.https://t.co/vJ9jJ7T2xy&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)August 21, 2015In a heated exchange on Twitter, Ek countered that his fears were overblown, adding that users would be asked before Spotify looked at their cameras.@notchhave you read our blog? We explicitly will ask when using camera or GPS. However both changing playlist image and running feature&mdash; Daniel Ek (@eldsjal)August 21, 2015@eldsjalFeature creep for privacy invasion. I want NONE of those features. I want to stream music.&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)August 21, 2015@notchAnd again it&#39;s *if* you use those features that we&#39;ll ask permissions for it.&mdash; Daniel Ek (@eldsjal)August 21, 2015@eldsjal“If you don’t agree with the terms of this Privacy Policy, then please don’t use the Service.” – Spotify&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)August 21, 2015Spotify has 75m active users, according to its own data, with 20m paying for its premium subscription service to avoid adverts. Last week UK listeners propelled Scottish DJ Calvin Harris to the coveted most-streamed spot, with ‘how deep is your love’.Spotify’s Discover Weekly service was introduced in late July as an attempt to solve the company’s long-standing problems with music discovery. The feature offers up a two-hour playlist based on users’ listening habits, as well as those of similar fans, and is overseen by Matthew Ogle, formerly of music social network This Is My Jam.“We wanted to make something that felt like your best friend making you a mixtape, labelled ‘music you should check out’, every single week,”Ogle told the Guardian last month. In the month since the feature was launched, it has become a hit with users, with comments on social media calling it “the most fire DJ of 2015” and “scary good”.Simon Rockman, a journalist at tech websiteThe Register, said Spotify’s “aggressive” collection of data was likely to a driven by an effort to improve profits, while rivals, such asApple, developed music-streaming services.He predicted that the vast majority of Spotify users “will just tick the box and not care”.“Generally with security, there are people who understand, people who understand and don’t care, and then a subset in between of people who understand and do care and that subset is quite small.”But Louise Bennett, chair of security at the Chartered Institute for IT, challenged the view that young people no longer care about privacy.She predicted growing consumer demand for transparent companies with an “ethical” policy on data. “It will come back to bite those companies eventually. Increasing numbers of people will say ‘I don’t want this to happen’ and there will be value put on those companies that do look after your privacy and don’t keep on changing their terms and conditions.”She called on companies to make terms and conditions much simpler, occupying a phone screen, rather than 45 pages of dense text.Companies should be encouraged to adopt a traffic light system, she said, where a red symbol warned people their data was being shared with third parties, amber indicated customer data was used by the service provider, and green meant no data harvesting.If such an industry standard came into practice, “a large number of people would go for green or amber,” she predicted.
Even if you’ve never suspected your partner of infidelity, are you still tempted to search for their name in the leaked Ashley Madison profiles list? What about an ex, or even your colleague?Some 33 million records of people apparently seeking secret extramarital affairs have had theirnames and identifying details released online, and inevitably people are looking up who’s there.Related:What happened when I tried to delete my Ashley Madison accountThe infidelity website, whose tagline is “Life is short. Have an affair”, appears to have profiles with email addresses from government, the military and large well-known companies. More than 100 user accounts were registered with Ministry of Defence email addresses, and another 100-plus accounts were registered with emails ending in gov.uk, the general government domain.Although there are 1.2m profiles registered to UK addresses, Ashley Madison’s lack of email verification means that some of the emails used may have been faked.The leak also appeared to demonstrate that the “full delete” service costing £15 which would remove all their information, did not work comprehensively. The company appears to have retained date of birth, city, state, postcode, country and gender of its former customers, plus information about their relationship status, what they were open to sexually, and what they were looking for in a partner.Is it OK to look up our partners email addresses just in case? Is it similar to sneaking a quick glance at our spouse’s inbox before the standby function kicks in? Or maybe it’s the opportunity you’ve been waiting for to confirm or refute your worst fears?We want to know how people have been affected by the leak. If you’ve looked up your partner and found out they’re on the list, we want to hear from you. Or if you’re on the list, how has having your information leaked affected you? Share your experiences in the comments, or by filling out the form below. We’ll use a selection of responses in a feature on the site.
Football: bloody hell! After a summer of Fifa shenanigans, it’s good to be back in the swing of the club season.Jose Mourinho is scowling andfiring his blamecannon; Arsenal have adodgy keeper; Sunderland are making my school team (1997-98 season: played one, lost one, scored two, let in 14)look like Barcelona; mascots aregiving children nightmares… It’s like the beautiful game never went away.If you love football in 2015, your smartphone or tablet can be the perfect companion to your passion, whether it’s checking scores, tweaking your fantasy team or pitting your wits against virtual opponents in games.With tens of thousands of apps to choose from, which are the Champions League contenders? Here’s a handpicked selection covering iOS, Android and Windows Phone. Prices are correct at the time of writing, and “IAP” means they use in-app purchases.Forza Football.Forza Football(Free + IAP)iOS / AndroidThere are dozens of apps promising live scores, but Forza Football is the top dog. You start by choosing competitions and teams to follow – in England, that includes the FA Women’s Premier League and as far down the men’s game as the Northern and Southern Premier Leagues – but can add individual matches that you want to get push notifications about as they play, too. The iOS version has an Apple Watch companion app.New Star Soccer.New Star Soccer(Free + IAP)iOS / Android / Windows PhoneYears after it first launched for mobile devices, there still aren’t enough superlatives for New Star Soccer, which despite its basic looks is the best pocket-sized football game available. It puts you in the boots of a novice pro: passing, heading and shooting your way to the big time, while stocking up on boots, bling and even racehorses. Its swipe’n’tap controls work beautifully, making it the kind of game you’ll miss tube stops for – and, indeed, sleep.Stats Zone by FourFourTwo.Stats Zone by FourFourTwo(Free)iOS / AndroidThis is a spin-off from FourFourTwo magazine, and is the knowledgeable football anorak’s choice for keeping up to date with the key leagues and teams. It taps Opta’s database of match statistics, so rather than simply checking scores, you can dig deeper into individual player performances. Whether you want to beef up your pub-punditry skills or get an extra edge in your fantasy football career, this is a genuine rabbit-hole of an app.BT Sport.Sky GoandBT Sport(Free w/ subscriptions)iOS / AndroidIt may be cheating to have two apps in one entry, but these two sit together as the official ways for football fans in England to watch live Premier League games on their mobile devices. And yes, some may quibble over whether they’re “best” – their middling app store ratings reflect users’ anger when they encounter bugs or crashes while watching. Even so, when they do work, the ability to tune in live on a smartphone or tablet rather than be tethered to your home television is welcome.Onefootball.Onefootball(Free + IAP)iOS / Android / Windows PhoneOriginally called The Football App, this has been one of the most popular ways for fans to get their news, scores and statistics for years now. That popularity is justified: from push notifications and minute-by-minute commentaries to one-to-one and group messaging features to chat to (or taunt) friends, it’s well thought out and neatly designed. Like rivals, Onefootball is exploring how to add smartwatch features, while its level of detail from global to local leagues is impressive.Corner.Corner(Free)iOS / AndroidCorner may sound like a bit of a niche: it helps you find a nearby pub in the UK that’s showing football matches on TV. But since writing about it when it first launched in 2014, it’s one of the apps I’ve regularly fired up when out and about with an hour or two to kill. It’s fast and easy to choose a match, see which nearby pubs are showing it and find your way to them: complete with a filter if you only want those serving food, offering Wi-Fi and/or with beer gardens.Football Manager Classic 2015.Football Manager Classic 2015(£14.99)iOS / AndroidThere are actually now two versions of the Football Manager game for mobile devices:Football Manager Handheld 2015is also excellent, and available for smartphones as well as tablets. But it’s Football Manager Classic for tablets that has more depth: 117 leagues – including the English Conference South so I can play as my local team Bishop’s Stortford FC – and a massive player database are complemented by a TV-style match engine. As with the Classic mode in recent Football Manager PC games, this is tuned for players to blast through seasons if they want to, with an assistant to take some tasks off your hands. Perfect for people whose FM habit has waned due to life pressures.Ultimate Fan Live.Ultimate Fan Live(Free + IAP)iOS / AndroidWhich fantasy football app you use will probably depend on which fantasy football tournament you play with friends: from the Telegraph to the official Premier League game, they all have mobile presences. But UFL offers a really interesting spin on the format, best experienced by signing up and creating a league with your own friends. The key here is that it’s live: you choose two players before a match, then earn points for all their actions – Opta, again, provides the data – making judicious use of “power-up cards” to boost their totals.Fanatix.Fanatix(Free)iOSGoal replays on Vine are the not-so-hidden secret of the football world in 2015: if a game is being televised somewhere, chances are every goal will have an unlicensed six-second clip on Vine within a couple of minutes. Fanatix offers a slightly different take on football video-sharing though: its clips loop just like Vines do (albeit with a longer eight-second length) but it’s more focused on news, from clips of freshly-transferred players to training-ground snippets. Highlights last for 24 hours at a time.Flick Kick Football.Flick Kick Football(Free + IAP)iOS / AndroidIn theory, this is a casual football action game, but once the bug bites, your gameplay habits will be anything but casual. The game is all about scoring goals with flicks of your fingers, avoiding burly defenders and goalkeepers. The flicking mechanic is perfectly tuned, complete with aftertouch. A variety of modes, from hitting bullseye targets to scoring against the clock, keeps it interesting, and there is even an online multiplayer option for short, sharp matches testing your skills against real opponents.Related:The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPadOn the bench ...Choosing just 10 football apps is a challenge. Honourable mentions go to news apps likeTeam Streamand850 Sports, what-to-watch-next appLive Football on TV, and football-themed food and drink discounts appGreen Card Pubs, which just missed the cut.There are plenty of other good football games too:Top Eleven 2015for a more social spin on football management,Tiki Taka Soccerchanneling classic Sensible Soccer with a touchscreen twist, for example.Championship Manager: All-Starshas just been released, andFIFA 16 is on the way in September.Finally, there’sthe Guardian’s own app, with its news, minute-by-minute reports and the ability to set your team and get goal alerts by push notification. Taking up a slot above would have felt unfair to other developers, but as a reader, football is probably the thing I use the app most for.What other football apps do you think should have been promoted to this lineup? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
It’s Friday! Today’s screenshot is from Lucky’s Tale, the visually impressive virtual reality platformer from Playful Corp.
Hackers dropped a second, even larger cache of data from extramarital dating service Ashley Madison on Thursday, apparently annoyed by a statement on Wednesday from the company’s CEO that stopped short of confirming the authenticity of theinitial data release.The new data, from a group calling itself the Impact Team, appeared to be bad news for the site’s operators rather than its users: files were filled with emails from CEO Noel Biderman, as well as source code for the site and its apps. Impact Team released a terse statement signed: “Hey Noel, you can admit it’s real now.”As security experts, media and the curious were trawling through the new information, the first political consequences of the scandal have started to appear: US defense secretary Ash Carter said the armed forces were looking into the apparent use of thousands of .mil email addresses to sign up for Ashley Madison. Adultery in the military is a prosecutable offense,reported the Hill, which broke the news.Josh Duggar, an already scandal-ridden reality show performer on TLC’s 19 Kids and Counting (canceled after family members accused him of abusing teenaged girls, including his sister),reportedly had a paid account on the site.Impact Team statements have focused on the company’s leadership from the very beginning, referring to the CTO of Ashley Madison’s owner, Avid Life Media, by his first name, Trevor. “Well Trevor, welcome to your worst … nightmare,” read the first statement from the hackers.Brian Krebs, the security analyst who first reported the hack, said it had the hallmarks of an inside job. “Early on, when I broke this story a month ago today, the CEO confirmed that they’d been hacked and he seemed pretty convinced it was somebody who had legitimate access to their network at some point and they had strong suspicions about who that person might be.”But if the company had its suspicions, it wasn’t able to act on them in time. “The attackers had everything – not just the internal database but reams of corporate documents,” Krebs said.
Twitter shares have crashed below the price they originally sold for as investors grow increasingly concerned that the service won’t be be able to become a mainstream platform like Facebook.Shares in the company, which have soared as high as $69 a share, fell 6% on Thursday to below the $26 initial public offer (IPO) price when Twitter floated in November 2013. It means the company’s market value has collapsed from a high of $41.5bn to just $17.6bn on Thursday.Twitter has been under intense pressure for the last few weeks after Jack Dorsey, co-founder and interim chief executive officer, said the company’s recent performance had been unacceptable and it would take a long time to turn round the slowdown in user growth.At the end of last month, Twitter reported the slowest user growth – from 302 million to 304 million active monthly users – since it went public. Dorsey, who has not confirmed when a permanent CEO will be installed to replaceousted former boss Dick Costolo, told investors that the slowing growth was “unacceptable and we’re not happy about it”.At the time of its IPO, Twitter was heralded as having the potential to become the next Facebook. But while Twitter’s new user growth has stagnated Facebook has continued to add users – up 13% last year to 1.49 billion, which is equivalent to half the world’s online population.Among investors selling Twitter stock have been the US’s smartest colleges. Harvard, Yale and Stanforduniversities have all sold big chunks of their Twitter stockin recent weeks.Yale University, which has a $23.9bn endowment fund, sold all of its 34,345 shares in Twitter – worth just under $1m at Monday’s stock price – over the last quarter. Harvard, the world’s wealthiest university with a $36.4bn fund, sold 29,856 Twitter shares between April and June. Stanford, which has an endowment fund worth $21.4bn, sold 18,000 shares.
California prosecutors have amended a complaint against popular ride-sharing service Uber to include poorly managed background checks that permitted drivers with convicted murder and sex crimes to drive for the company.The complaint now includes what prosecutors say are “systemic failures in Uber’s background check process” that appeared after the initial December filing.Prosecutors from San Francisco and Los Angeles said in a 62-page filing late on Wednesday that they have uncovered evidence that Uber’s background process allowed registered sex offenders, identity criminals, burglars, a kidnapper and a convicted murderer to get through and drive for the company. Those individuals have since been cited for illegal activity, prosecutors said.The lawsuit filed in December accuses Uber of misleading customers about the background checks to which it subjects drivers.Related:Uber's bad week: California prosecutors sue car service for unlawful practices“I absolutely believe that there was something wrong with how Uber did things,” said 38-year-old Larry Chow, who is now a regular driver for Uber’s competitor Lyft after having numerous poor experiences driving for Uber. “They just didn’t seem to get it when I was driving and the response times were slow and sometimes they weren’t even talking about the same thing. And I know a lot of people with bad experiences.”The San Francisco-based company said in a statement that it believed its screening process has been more effective than those currently being used by rival taxi companies.“We continue to work on improving safety for riders and drivers before, during and after the trip,” Uber’s statement read, adding that more than 600 applicants had been denied in California for violent and drunken driving crimes.The ride-sharing company has faced controversy across the country and the world, with a number of cities in Europe facing violent protests and street closures by taxi drivers against Uber’s entrance. In early August, a racketeering lawsuit against the company by Connecticut taxi and limousine companies was dismissed, giving Uber the ability to continue service in the state.Related:Uber pledges to improve vetting of drivers after Dallas sexual assaultIn Texas this month, Ubervowed to improve its background proceduresafter a driver accused of sexually assaulting a passenger was granted approval to drive for the company.“I support technological innovation. Innovation, however, does not give companies a license to mislead consumers about issues affecting their safety,” San Francisco district attorney George Gascon said in a statement.For many riders in San Francisco, Uber remains a quicker, and generally, cheaper option than traditional taxis. But users are more aware of the growing issues facing the company, and want Uber to take responsibility for their actions.“This is a good idea, but they [Uber] have to be aware that this is a society and there are some rules you have to follow and I want to know I’m safe when I get in one of those cars,” said Jennie Robertson, a recent midwest transplant who added she is apprehensive about using Uber “because of the stories I’ve heard.”
A sharp escalation in the use of drones will bring increasingly complex risks from cyberattack, reckless pilots and privacy issues, a new report from the Lloyd’s of London insurance market has warned. Spending on unmanned aerial vehicles is likely to double to more than $90bn by 2024, Lloyd’s predicted, but makers and users of the machines, as well as insurers, are relatively unprepared for the emerging consequences.“Drone technology has significant potential, but is a particularly novel – and controversial – emerging technology. Insurance is expected to be a key component in the risk-management framework that will need to be developed for the systems to operate safely and with due regard to third-party interests,” it argues in thereport “Drones take flight”.“As the market for drones continues to expand, manufacturers can expect to face increasingly complex and high-value risk exposures. Protection of intellectual property and the management of product liability will also likely need to be considered in the scope of insurance cover.”Related:Amazon proposes drones-only airspace to facilitate high-speed deliveryDrones have a controversial image because of their use by the military, but the technology is increasingly being expanded into a number of civil and commercial uses.A man flies a drone in Belgium.Photograph: Eric Lalmand/AFP/Getty ImagesOnline retailer Amazon has been talking about its plans – called Prime Air – to usedrones for parcel deliveriesin Britain and America. The company has already proposed to aviation regulators the establishment ofspecial commercial air corridors. Drones have already been used to deliver medicines and textbooks in remote Australian locations, while the BBC World Service has used them for filming, and Kenya uses them to detect poachers on game reserves.But Lloyd’s has concerns that negligent or reckless pilots, poor regulation and licensing and the dangers of collision or damage to third parties all represent significant potential risks.“Liability considerations are expected to become increasingly significant for drone operations as they expand in scope. Third-party liability could be especially prominent as the greater intensity of use and variety of tasks will likely mean that drone operations interact with a much greater range and value of third-party interests,” says the report.Related:Drones aren’t just toys that cause a nuisance. They’re still killing innocent people | Chris ColeThe insurer notes that already there have been cases such as a restaurant customer in New York who was injured by a drone being used to take images of diners, and another case where an Australian triathlete was hit by adrone dropping out of the skywhen she was only metres from the finishing line.Lloyd’s also points out the dangers to the equipment itself, potentially from cyber-attacks. “Most civilian drones rely on unencrypted data links for command and control and navigation, meaning they are particularly vulnerable to jamming, interception and manipulation.” It warns that there are already reports circulating of a thriving community ofdrone hackerswho have focused onprivacy and the use of the machines by police as potential reasons to disrupt their use.Lloyds said different national regulators have been establishing their own rules, making it more complex and therefore costly for insurers. The insurer argues that tougher and more harmonised global regulation is desperately needed as the sector expands.
Google has been ordered by the Information Commissioner’s office to remove nine links to current news stories about older reports which themselves were removed from search results under the ‘right to be forgotten’ ruling.The search engine had previously removed links relating to a 10 year-old criminal offence by an individual after requests made under the right to be forgotten ruling. Removal of those links from Google’s search results for the claimant’s name spurred new news posts detailing the removals, which were then indexed by Google’s search engine.Google refused to remove links to these later news posts, which included details of the original criminal offence, despite them forming part of search results for the claimant’s name, arguing that they are an essential part of a recent news story and in the public interest.Google now has 35 days from the 18 August to remove the links from its search results for the claimant’s name. Google has the right to appeal to the General Regulatory Chamber against the notice.Deputy commissioner David Smith said: “The European court ruling last year was clear that links prompted by searching on an individual’s name are subject to data protection rules. That means they shouldn’t include personal information that is no longer relevant.”The right to be forgotten ruling allows Europeans to apply to remove outdated information about them from search engine listings. Google has approximately a 90% market share of search in Europe, making it the primary focus of the rulings and watchdog attention.Relating to journalistic contentIn the ICO’s ruling Smith says that it is “not a case where the information is about an individual in public life or where making the information available would protect the public from improper or unprofessional conduct” and that “the information is not reasonably current”.However, the ruling says that the “commissioner accepts that the search results in this case relate to journalistic content” and “does not dispute that journalistic content relating to devisions to delist search results may be newsworthy and in the public interest”.“That interest can be adequately and properly met without a search made on the basis of the complainant’s name”, the ruling concluded.Google alerted news organisations to early right to be forgotten link removals through its webmaster tools, which prompted some news organisations to detail which links had been removed in news updates.In June the BBCdetailed all the links removedto published BBC articles. The Telegraph alsopublished details of link removalsaffecting its website.Smith said: “Let’s be clear. We understand that links being removed as a result of this court ruling is something that newspapers want to write about. And we understand that people need to be able to find these stories through search engines like Google. But that does not need them to be revealed when searching on the original complainant’s name.”Google did not respond to request for comment.•Right to be forgotten: Swiss cheese internet, or database of ruin?•EU to Google: expand ‘right to be forgotten’ to Google.com
What is Ashley Madison?A dating site with the tagline “Life is short. Have an affair” which offers married people the opportunity to cheat on their spouses. With a claimed 37m users, it is one of the biggest of its sort, and no stranger to controversy:the site had previously allowed a sports scientist to eavesdrop on conversations between its usersto write a paper on how women seek affairs, and regularly contacted journalists to offer “adultery insights” based on data from their users.The site is run by Canadian company Avid Life Media, which operates a portfolio of similarly niche and controversial dating sites, including Cougar Life (for older women seeking younger men) and Established Men (“Connecting young, beautiful women with interesting men”).How does the site work?Unlike many dating sites, Ashley Madison does not charge for membership directly. Instead, users pay for credits, which are used to send messages and open chat sessions. Controversially, the site charges men to send messages to women, and also charges men to read messages sentbywomen. While many dating sites tilt the scales in favour of female members, few are as explicit about doing so.Users can also use their credits to send gifts, or pay more to put their message at the top of a (female) members inbox.Related:Ashley Madison using copyright law to try to limit attack leakWhat’s been stolen?The site’s database of members, as well as a huge amount of internal corporate data. The database is split into three parts: the largest contains profile information, including the names, street addresses, and dates of birth of users.That database also contains the users’ entries in three checkbox lists, variously detailing their turn-ons, what sort of person they’re looking for, and what acts they’re hoping to perform, as well as biographical information such as whether or not they smoke and drink.A second database contained the users’ email addresses, as well as information about what mailing lists they were opted-in to. This is the database which has been the source of many of the stories up till now, because it is the easiest to search in general terms. Unsurprisingly, users have signed up with email addresses from the UK and US governments and militaries, as well as a number of large corporations and educational establishments – although, despite reports to the contrary, no-one has signed up with a valid email from the Vatican.But the email database is questionable. Understanding its members’ needs for privacy, Ashley Madison did not require an email to be confirmed before the account could be used, leading to some members signing up with obviously false emails (such as “tblair@labour.gov.uk”, an address that doesn’t exist), and others gave emails that weren’t their own, such as the multiple accounts created with “steve@apple.com”.The third is a database of credit card transaction information. But the information isn’t enough to steal users’ cash, and Ashley Madison has been very clear that full credit card information wasn’t leaked, saying:“No current or past members’ full credit card numbers were stolen from Avid Life Media. Any statements to the contrary are false. Avid Life Media has never stored members’ full credit card numbers.”Related:Ashley Madison hackers release vast database of 33m accountsWhat if the account was deleted?Some of the information from deleted accounts remains in the database. This is true even for accounts which appear to have been deleted with Ashley Madison’s paid-for “full delete” option, which charged £15 or $20 to remove all of a user’s information from the site. The Guardian has found that some accounts, labelled as “paid delete” on the database,retain enough information to identify the account holder: specifically, a longitude and latitude derived from the post or zip code, as well as the date of birth, height, weight and gender.Where is the information now?The main dump is hosted on a Tor “hidden service” – a website which can only be accessed through the anonymous browser. Unlike a normal website, which visitors connect to directly, a hidden service is accessed via an encrypted connection routed through third-parties which obscure the website’s address from its visitors, and vice-versa. That means that it’s very difficult to use the legal system to take down the main dump, since no-one yet knows who to send the takedown notices too.On top of that, the dump itself is now being disseminated using bittorrent, a peer-to-peer transfer protocol. The file is broken up into multiple blocks, which are then shared directly from one downloader’s computer to the next. With no central repository, it is all but impossible to prevent the transfer, although a “magnet” link – a short string of text telling a new downloader how to connect to the “swarm” of files – is still required.Who did it?So far, no one knows. On the day of the hack, Ashley Madison’s chief executive Noel Biderman told security reporter Brian Krebs thatit might have been an inside job. “We’re on the doorstep of [confirming] who we believe is the culprit, and unfortunately that may have triggered this mass publication,” Biderman, said. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials. It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.”Related:Top data security expert fears traumatic aftermath in Ashley Madison hackBut since then, nothing more has been revealed by Ashley Madison, except for the fact that the firm is investigating the attack. In its most recent statement, the company said: “We immediately launched a full investigation utilising independent forensic experts and other security professionals to assist with determining the origin, nature, and scope of this attack. Our investigation is still ongoing and we are simultaneously cooperating fully with law enforcement investigations, including by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the Ontario Provincial Police, the Toronto Police Services and the US Federal Bureau of Investigation.”What can I do if my details appear on it?Given the widespread availability of sites which will allow the curious to check whether a given email address was included in the hacked data, if you know your information was on the site, you should prepare for it to become public sooner or later.That said, the mere fact that a person’s data was included in the leak does not mean that they used the site to have an affair, says Tod Beardsley of information security firm Rapid 7. “For starters, it’s trivial to set up a fake account on Ashley Madison, since Avid Life Media’s (ALM’s) account setup procedures encourages, but does not require, an e-mail address to be verified by the user. This might be done for a variety of reasons by actors ranging from pranksters to bitter divorce rivals.“Second, the majority of “real” account holders tend to use fake, throw-away data and details, for obvious reasons. If some of those fake details happen to coincide with a real person, then it can create a sticky problem for that real person.“Finally, even if the real data is a real person, and that person really registered for the site, there is no indication in the data if that person was successful at, or even intending to, pursue an illicit affair.”What repercussions will the site face?It could find the breach will be very costly indeed, says Luke Scanlon, technology lawyer at Pinsent Masons: “The interesting thing about this incident is that recent court decisions in the UK have been leaning towards the view that a claim can be brought when no financial loss occurs but where a person experiences distress as a result of an data breach.“In the case of Ashley Madison, which is reported has 1.2m subscribers in the UK alone, if each were to try to claim for £1,000 in compensation Ashley Madison could see itself incurring costs of up to £1.2bn. Even if claims for distress in this case are modest, the sheer volume of data breached and individuals affected in this attack could have a critical impact on the company.“This event reinforces the need for businesses to not just think about what is mandatory by law in information security, but what is best practice.”
Hacked extramarital dating service Ashley Madison is trying to prevent dissemination of its stolen database by sending copyright takedown notices to social networks and file-sharing sites.The action, after 33m user records were posted online, mirrors the largely-successful attempt to get an earlier, smaller, leak of user data scrubbed from the internet. But this time, the main dump remains very much online, as the arms race between hackers and hacked has escalated to include the use of technology such as peer-to-peer file sharing protocol bittorrent and the anonymous browsing service Tor.Ashley Madison has had some success in taking down links from centralised services such as Twitter or Facebook. One tweet containing information from the dump have been removed from the service, while a Reddit subforum devoted to sharing the dump wasremoved almost immediatelyby the site (A second subreddit has beenallowed to stand, but only by promising not to share direct links to the data).Related:Ashley Madison hackers release vast database of 33m accountsAshley Madison has also been accused of being overzealous with its enforcement. Joseph Cox, a writer for tech site Motherboard, reported that a copyright takedown notice wasfiled for three of his tweets, each of which contained screenshots of information contained within the Ashley Madison breach.Twitter took down one tweet, which contained an image of the company’s floor plan. But the company disagreed with Ashley Madison over the infringing nature of the other two tweets, Cox writes. “One was a heavily censored screenshot of a spreadsheet which details the shareholders of the company and the percentile of shares they own. The screenshot did not include any names, figures, or other data, but simply the headers of two columns. Another screenshot showed the column headers of a spreadsheet detailing the company’s bank accounts.”The main dump is hosted on a Tor “hidden service” – a website which can only be accessed through the anonymous browser. Unlike a normal website, which visitors connect to directly, a hidden service is accessed via an encrypted connection routed through third-parties which obscure the website’s address from its visitors, and vice-versa. That means that it’s very difficult to use the legal system to take down the main dump, since no-one yet knows who to send the takedown notices too.On top of that, the dump itself is now being disseminated using bittorrent, a peer-to-peer transfer protocol. The file is broken up into multiple blocks, which are then shared directly from one downloader’s computer to the next. With no central repository, it is all but impossible to prevent the transfer, although a “magnet” link – a short string of text telling a new downloader how to connect to the “swarm” of files – is still required.This article was amended on 21 August 2015 to clarify that Twitter removed only one tweet containing a link to the Ashley Madison dump.
As the line between civilization and wilderness becomes increasingly thin, do true adventurers still exist?Technology allows climbers to tweet from the top of Mount Everest. Antarctic skiers can instantly upload selfies from the South Pole. Anyone can obtain an inexpensive device with a panic button that allows them to request a rescue from any place on earth, for any reason – adventure’s version of a “get out of jail free” card.In 2007,Spot, a subsidiary of the companyGlobalstar Inc, introduced a new satellite messenger unit with the catchphrase “Live to tell about it”. The device could communicate three messages – “I’m OK”, “SOS” and “911” – independent of cellular coverage. The first two buttons privately alerted a user’s chosen contacts, and 911 signals were transmitted directly to emergency services.Personal locater beacons and satellite phones existed before this, but Spot made remote communication more affordable and accessible. Now with 250,000 units in service, Spot has facilitated 3,810 rescues worldwide – an average of about one per day.Debates about the device’s use have raged as long as it’s been available. Advocates argue that satellite messengers take the “search” out of search and rescue missions because they help pinpoint exact locations. The devices also alert authorities during the early stages of emergencies, mobilizing rescues soon enough to make a difference. Money and lives are saved when volunteers don’t have to comb the woods looking for a person who went missing days earlier.Critics, on the other hand, argue that money is wasted and volunteers are unnecessarily exposed to danger when people call for help they don’t need. These devices also garner an inflated sense of security, and prompt people to take more risks than they otherwise might.In October 2009, two men and their teenage sonsactivatedtheir emergency beacon three separate times during a single hike in the Grand Canyon. The first time, the inexperienced hikers panicked when they ran out of water, but declined help from rescues who arrived after they located a water source. The second time, a helicopter was dispatched in the middle of the night, only to find the same hikers who signaled for help because their water tasted “salty”. Another dubious alert arrived the following morning, and rescuers angrily removed the group from the canyon. Thousands of dollars were spent on these erroneous rescue efforts – costs ultimately absorbed by taxpayers. The hikers stated that without the beacon, they would not have attempted the hike.Thousands of dollars can be spent on erroneous rescue efforts.Photograph: Jill HomerIn February, a woman embarked on solo hike in the Presidential Range of New Hampshire. Several hours after Kate Matrosova’s husband dropped her off at a trailhead, she activated her emergency beacon in the midst of a major winter storm. Searchers couldn’t immediately locate her on an exposed mountain ridge before the storm intensified, plunging temperatures to 30 below zero. Wind gusts exceeded 100 miles per hour. By morning, she was dead.Matrosova, 32, had an impressive resume of mountain climbs and cold-weather experience. Before she embarked on her hike, the Mount Washington Observatory had issued a dire forecast: whiteout conditions, wind gusts to 125 miles per hour, and a wind chill factor of 75 below zero. The reason rescuers couldn’t locate Matrosova right away was because hurricane-force winds apparently lifted her from the trail and dropped her several hundred feet down the ridge.Mountaineers often seek out severe weather in the Presidential Range to prepare for bigger mountains, but even the most experienced and well-equipped climbers wouldn’t stand much of a chance in weather that severe.Many questioned why Matrosova didn’t choose to turn around before retreat became impossible. “Maybe she relied a little too much on the technology,” search and rescue volunteer Mike Pelchat told the Boston Globe after the incident. “Maybe she thought she could turn back. But the temperatures, and the wind, got the best of her.”Dangers become less intimidating when safety nets are available. Research has shown that reckless driving increased following the implementation of seatbelt laws. Humans inevitably adjust their behavior to match the perceived level of risk. The result, some argue, is not only a safety hazard. It’s also a moral hazard.According to David Roberts, a long-time mountaineer and author, “(GPS) devices have engendered a radical shift in the concept of adventure. Hikers, skiers and boaters not only expect to be whisked to safety at the push of a button, they regard this luxury as an inalienable right.”Mountaineers aren’t the only ones contemplating the direction of adventure’s moral compass in light of GPS technology. In recent years, adventure races have used locator beacons to track athletes’ progress, and signal for help if needed.Mushers during the Iditarod in 2015.Photograph: Jill HomerTrackleaders.comis an independent business that facilitates race tracking by renting out Spot units and providing the software to broadcast tracks in real time. Online spectators watch their favorite “blue dots” move along maps on courses that can cover thousands of miles, through remote areas of the world. For some races, the SOS button is an important feature, allowing organizers to facilitate fast extractions.“We happily support SOS through Spot when that’s what an event wants,” said Trackleaders co-founder Matthew Lee. “Some of our clients hold races for quite inexperienced participants, and they literally encourage the use of SOS, so we have it fully programmed and tested before the starting gun.”But are these safety nets what adventure racers want? After all, Trackleaders features events that promote themselves as the toughest and most challenging races in the world – events such as the Tour Divide, a 2,750-mile mountain bike race from Canada to Mexico, and the Iditarod dog sled race, a thousand-mile race across frozen Alaska.When the Iditarod first introduced Spot units, some participants expressed aversion. Among those was Alaska musher Danny Seavey, who was lining up for his third Iditarod in 2014.“At the last minute a race judge came running over and attached a GPS Spot tracker to my sled, and told me it had an emergency SOS button I could push if I needed to be rescued,” Seavey said. “I (and many other mushers) told him I’d rather not know that. It’s harder to be tough if there’s an easy way out.”In 2014, a half-dozen Iditarod mushers pushed their SOS button, which rules stipulated was an automatic forfeit from the race. California musher Cindy Abbott activated hers while while driving her dog team through the Dalzell Gorge, a steep and notoriously difficult section of the trail. A dearth of snow created especially hazardous conditions over rocks and glare ice – a “death run” as she described it. She had some close calls, and was frightened, but she and her dogs weren’t injured. Abbott had invested a lot of time, money and energy into her second Iditarod run, and she still isn’t sure why she pushed the button.“I knew I was scratching,” she said. “It was OK. I understand. But I wished they hadn’t had the button on there.”While Abbott wished she could take back her help signal, musher Hugh Neff believed help didn’t come quickly enough after his dog team quit running in 65-mile-per-hour winds.Neff criticized Iditarod management for failing to respond for more than 10 hours, by which time, his girlfriend Nicole Faille wrote, “my guy was on his way out of this world.” Veteran mushers and grizzled Alaskans were critical of Neff’s criticism, questioning why an experienced musher – or anyone venturing into the Alaska backcountry for that matter – wasn’t more prepared to hunker down for 10 hours in a storm.“Even a 911 mission can take hours,” said Robert Pollhammer, race director for the Yukon Arctic Ultra, a bike, ski, and foot race on the Yukon Quest Trail in Canada. “If the weather does not permit, there is no air rescue at all. That is why it is so important to have basic survival skills, enough food, warm clothes and the right sleeping system.”Two cyclists making their way on the Iditarod trail.Photograph: Jill HomerFor years, the Iditarod Trail Invitational – the human-powered version of the thousand-mile dog sled race – took a more hardline stance. Cyclists, skiers and runners were explicitly forbidden to carry GPS trackers. “Technology has no place on the Iditarod Trail I love and enjoy,” co-director Bill Merchant wrote before banning the devices, citing miscommunications as the main reason. “I miss the days when we went into the wilderness dependent on our skills and a bit of luck to come home alive.”In 2015, however, the race partnered with Trackleaders to offer optional GPS tracking of participants, under the stipulation that racers used Spot Trace devices, which only track location and do not include an SOS or 911 button. At the pre-race meeting, co-director Kathi Merchant explained that this concession was “for entertainment purposes only”.Spectators who clicked on the tracking page were alerted to the possibility of erroneous data, and warned not to contact race management for any reason. During the 2015 race, three foot-racers and one cyclist encountered a massive snow dump along an especially remote and untravelled section of the Iditarod trail, slowing their progress to as little as 10 miles per day. Meanwhile, temperatures plunged to 45 below, communication was limited to brief satellite phone calls from one racer, and it was all spectators could do to not fret over the glacial progress of blue dots on a screen. Why were they moving so slowly? Were they in trouble? Would they press an SOS button, if they had one to press? Even with limited data, a remote and ungraspable situation became more real.“Through tech tools, pics, audio and blogging, we arguably have more fodder for keeping ourselves enchanted,” Trackleaders’ Lee said. “We can wonder about so many more details. What are the snow conditions like, where are they camping, what are they eating, how often are they stopping? As the windows on adventure have opened, we don’t have to hang it all on the great ‘when’. Yes, the tracking data possess vital statistics, but the mystery lies in the images, the words – the stories.”Where does the mystery lie for adventurers? The athletes battling inhumane conditions on the Iditarod trail had no sense of the worried spectators watching from the warm comfort of their homes. They were just doing what adventurers have always had to do – relying on their own skills, and a little bit of luck, to push through adversity and come home alive.Would they have pushed an SOS button? After the frostbitten and exhausted racers emerged in a village on the Yukon River more than a week later, every one of them said no.Roberts wrote of a “blissful disconnectedness” that has been all but lost in the GPS era. He believes adventurers are spiritually and intellectually poorer without places where they can truly leave everything behind. The mysteries of the wilderness are fading, only to be replaced by the mundanity of modern life. Yes, it’s always better to live to tell about it, but what stories are we telling? Real-time Facebook updates about freeze-dried meals, Strava segments from glaciers in Greenland, blurry phone videos of a summit bid?Others, such as Lee – who himself has finished and won a number of ultra-endurance mountain bike races – believe the rise of satellite communication will continue to bring the spirit of adventure to more people, and that’s a good thing.“No adventurer worth their salt wants to be that guy who scratches all the time,” Lee said. “Like any mental crutches that come along over the maturity of adventure sports, so too will the effect of tracking mature. Folks are already becoming more experienced and sophisticated in its use.”
