The Golden CompassPS2/Xbox 360, £39.99 cert 3+ Shiny/Sega, 2/5Following the book and the film comes The Golden Compass game, easily the weakest of this week's three games reviews (the other two beingBee MovieandAce Combat 6).Controlling heroine Lyra and her polar bear companion, players indulge in platforming, puzzle-solving and exploration - all fine on paper, but the clunky controls and tedious action soon kill off any enthusiasm.For a game aimed at children, Golden Compass is surprisingly frustrating in places. The platforming levels suffer from an infuriating camera that makes it hard to judge distance. The other major gripe is an overuse of lazy "press the button in the right order" gameplay. Any hope that the graphics might save the day are banished by backgrounds and textures that are passable on the PS2 but simply ugly on the Xbox 360. The upside? Well, the snowy landscapes feel festive, and some of the polar bear action is mildly enjoyable. But those looking for a Pullman fix are better off reading the book.
Ace Combat 6Xbox 360, £29.99, cert 12+ Namco/Atari, 3/5There's no mistaking the Japanese provenance of this aerial combat game: from the start, it's riven with near-interminable cut scenes, which are lovingly crafted and unutterably cheesy. But it's worth enduring them as it puts you at the controls of some of the world's most state-of-the-art fighter planes. Taking on the role of a pilot in the Air Force of Emmeria - a country invaded by neighbour Estovakia - you take part in long missions facing both dogfights and ground attacks.Ace Combat 6 impresses in many ways: it looks sensational, and the control system is beautifully fettled. But the missions can be confusing, and if you never dreamt of being a fighter pilot you might find it overwhelming and frustrating at times. But if you didn't achieve your ambition to cut a dash in the RAF, this is the game for you.
Bee MovieXbox 360, £39.99, cert U Infinity Ward/Activision, 3/5Attaching a game to a hit movie always pulls in punters at this time of year. Bee Movie is better than most, cramming a varied bunch of mini games into a sandbox-style arcade adventure. Admittedly, most of the games are shallow clones of better known ones (Mario Kart, Crazy Taxi etc), and the ones that aren't (pollinating flowers or navigating water-drops) are hindered by a maverick roving camera. And yes, the graphics hardly push the bigger consoles, but Hollywood production values ensure every screen is packed with eye candy. The result is a charming mix of styles, with the main 15-level adventure almost like a pre-school version of Grand Theft Auto. As stocking fillers go, few would complain.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Gaming sites are dark, geeky and cramped, with porn, pop-ups and poker ads. We just don't like that..." saysweplaythis, a new social network site for gamers. It comes to the attention of the gamesblog from the inimitableAlicewho notes some of its more attractive features:there are some nice touches, like "my digital alter ego" which points to all the other spots on the web you might be living in, and the "playground" section where you're encouraged to upload a pic of your playing space..It looks more Edge than Arcade, thus hoping to cater to a more sophisticated crowd of discerning interactive types. Unfortunately, more nosing around will have to wait until the super-secret invite code is sent out; weplaythis is currently in closed beta.
America's competition regulator has given the green light to Google's $3.1bn (&pound;1.6bn) takeover of online advertising company DoubleClick in spite of opposition from industry rivals who fear that it will give the search firm unfair dominance.The Federal Trade Commission said: "After carefully reviewing the evidence, we have concluded that Google's proposed acquisition of DoubleClick is unlikely to substantially lessen competition."The decision was welcomed by Google, though the takeover is far from complete. It is still being scrutinised by the European commission and an outcome is unlikely before April. "The FTC's strong support sends a clear message - this acquisition poses no risk to competition and will benefit consumers," said Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt.Microsoft is among the takeover's fiercest critics. It maintains that Google will be able to use a vast store of search data about customers' habits to target advertising. Addressing a senate committee in September, Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, said: "Google is already Amazon and is already Fed Ex and now they are trying to buy the post office."A telecoms analyst, Scott Cleland, backed the view by telling the senators that the deal was the equivalent of merging the top 15 Wall Street investment banks with the New York and London Stock Exchanges, while throwing in data providers such as Bloomberg, Experian and Equifax.Google has said that competition clearly exists and points to the fact that Viacom this week abandoned DoubleClick and took a $500m advertising deal to Microsoft's Atlas platform. A Google spokesman said: "Google has argued all along that the online advertising space is highly competitive."
The word first appeared in these pages - and now Guardian Technology has its ownpodcasttoo:Tech Weekly. The first of the regular weekly series can be downloaded it or listened to it directlyhere.Hosted by Aleks Krotoski, with guests technology correspondent Bobbie Johnson, technology editor Charles Arthur and new media writer Jemima Kiss, this week the subject is2007 In Review.The spotlight falls onApple's iPhoneand its importance (or not) to mobile phones; whereFacebookwill go next; if Microsoft'sVistaand Apple'sLeopardoperating system upgrades were successes; whether the world of games is moving towards the non-threatening world of theWii, or ifManhuntandHalo 3really rule the roost; whether the loss of those discs with thechild benefit datacan be easily sorted out; and can technology be a force for good? TheOne Laptop Per Childinitiative comes under our retrospective microscope.The second episode will follow on Wednesday December 26, with a look ahead at the issues that will matter for 2008. We will look atgreen energy(both its price and whether IT companies will use less), whether there's aweb bubblefit to burst, the threat tomobile data users, trends towardssmaller gadgets, take in yourfeedbackfrom the Technology blog as you look ahead to the year (flying cars, anyone?), read the runes for signs of who will win thehigh-definition DVD war, and finally name thegamesthat you ought to look forward to in the coming year.To suggest topics you'd like to hear about inTech Weekly, or give us feedback, let us know via theTechnology blogor emailtech@guardian.co.uk
Look on the bright side, as the directors of the White Star shipping line might have said in April 1912: at least people are talking about us now. In the continuing fallout from the child benefit disc disaster, the government's IT chiefs can draw one small consolation: the "transformational government" programme to join up public services through IT is now on the chattering classes' agenda.Intelligent citizens have begun to grasp that the 10-year-old programme to offer citizens joined-up electronic access to government (and government to citizens) is the biggest change to the government machine for 60 years, since the birth of the welfare state. The chattering is mainly hostile, of course, with a consensus that e-government will create a snooper's paradise or a permanent milch cow for IT consultancies. Or both.It's useless for those on the inside to roll their eyes and trot out case studies of successes in e-enabled government. (There are successes, though mainly they're the work of our despised and ridiculed local councils, rather than Whitehall.) The chattering classes' verdict is a legitimate expression of outrage at a fundamental change in the government machine being foisted on citizens - and public servants - with almost no Parliamentary, let alone public, debate.But, ministers will say, we tried. And yes, they did - within the limits set by the technocratic imaginations of the mainly private-sector experts implementing the vision. Over nine years, a series of uninspiring papers have set out visions of "modernised", "e-enabled", or "transformed" government for anyone prepared to plough through their dismal consultancy-inspired language.What no one has done is set out the e-government programme in a political context. It's never featured prominently in election manifestos, or been debated in Parliament, let alone put to a referendum. Instead, it's presented almost as a force of nature, an inescapable tide of demography and technical innovation.Yet there is nothing necessary or inevitable about joined-up e-government. The UK is not a unitary state like Singapore, and there seems to be a perfectly respectable argument for allowing taxpayer-funded organisations to operate as islands of information, held on paper, if people really want it that way. As it happens, I think that would be bonkers, but we need - as politicians always say - to have that debate.Thanks to an almost inconceivable blunder at the interface between HMRC and the National Audit Office, that debate is now getting under way. Its ebb and flow will mingle with, and be reinforced by, existing streams of concern about ID cards, the NHS electronic care records service and the ContactPoint children's index. This is healthy and necessary, because all these projects should be seen as part of a whole.From that debate, which will ideally involve a general election, some kind of political decision should emerge about the kind of machine we want government to be, and the information infrastructure supporting it. Once we've made that decision, we can start building it.The process will take time, of course. To jolly things along, here's a modest suggestion. It involves an old IT management technique called the "scream test": the way to find out what a rambling old IT system is really being used for is to turn it off and see who screams. To kick-start the e-government debate, we should do the same. That's right: turn it all off, from your council's webcam to NHS Healthspace to the DVLA's car tax online service. The whole shooting match, off. The screams, I suspect, will be louder than the chattering classes would have us believe.
PC shopping revisitedYou gave advice on shopping for a Windows PC inOctober 2005. Has your advice changed with the advent of Windows Vista? I need something that will work without too much technical knowledge and will have sufficient memory etc to be good for at least five years.Steve HamiltonJS:Microsoft is currently testing Windows Vista's Service Pack 1 update, and although many fixes have already been slipstreamed into shipping versions, the arrival of SP1 has traditionally been seen as a good time to buy. In hardware terms, Intel's Core 2 Duo processor now sets the standard. However, you can still buy low-end PCs with Intel Celerons and similar chips, while high-end machines often have quad-core processors.Vista delivers marginally worse performance than Windows XP SP2, though the Aero interface's fading and sliding menus can make it feel slower than it is. You can speed it up by turning off the animations, and by removing all the free "crapware" that most PC manufacturers bundle with their systems. Vista does need more memory and better graphics support than XP. Go for 2GB of main memory, if possible, and 128MB or more graphics memory. Check theWindows Experience Indexbefore buying. This rates each PC subsystem out of 5. If the graphics score is less than 3, don't buy it to run Vista, though it would be fine for XP.Vista requires new drivers for peripherals, which may not be available for older printers and scanners. This was also true of Windows 95 and Windows 2000/XP when they came out. Check theWindows Vista Hardware Compatibility Listfor an initial guide, and search the web for any common problems with the system and model number you choose.There has been something of a backlash against Vista, but this has also been true of most new Microsoft operating systems. I'd still recommend Vista rather than XP, especially if you're taking a five-year view. Vista is more secure, more reliable and more capable than XP, comes with better applications (including ubiquitous search), and has a better user interface. The kernel is based on the hugely successful Windows Server 2003 code, and with SP1 will be much the same as Windows Server 2008. It will be a few years before Vista is more common than XP, but it is not going away.Field recording timesI am a working musician and am looking for a high density recorder/playback unit capable of all the facilities of a MiniDisc but with greater capacity. I have been looking at the Fostex FR-2 field recorder but I can't find out the various recording times for the 1, 2, 4 and 8GB cards.Bill BridgesJS:It's hard to say, because the capacity depends on the sound quality. The Fostex can record in Broadcast WAV Format (24-bit 96kHz), and the rule of thumb is 2GB per hour. If you record in 24-bit 48kHz stereo then you'll use 1GB per hour (or 1GB per 57.8 minutes), and so on, pro rata. If you recorded in the highly compressed 192kbps MP3 format, you'd get about 12.4 hours per gigabyte.Free hotspotsI sometimes help out at a local charity and we have been thinking of making our wireless connection freely available. We would like users to be able to access the internet only, probably via our own web page (containing "accept terms &amp; conditions" etc). Web searches provide masses of technical info, leaving us completely flummoxed.A FranceJS:Basically you want to set up a free Wi-Fi hotspot, so try searching forfree hotspot software. At a pinch, you could use something intended for cybercafes and small hotels, likeAmazing Ports. If you have a spare PC, you can use aLinux-based ZoneCD. Try to find a local Wi-Fi expert to help.Another idea is to buy a special router called La Fonera+ (&euro;43.06/&pound;31) fromFon. This splits the Wi-Fi signal into a secure private channel to the internet, and a separate 512kbps channel to share with "Foneros". The idea is that you share your connection with other Fon users and they share theirs with you. BT has a page where you cansearch for Fon hotspots. Fon has now launched a system where visitors can pay for a Fon access pass and you gethalf the money. Guests get 15 minutes free as a trial - enough to look something up or read emails.Snail-like laptopI've had a very similar experience to your reader John Uttley (December 13). According to all the usual tests, the virus has gone, but the laptop remains more or less unusable as it is so slow.Mike ClaytonJS:If Windows XP is sluggish, it is often because you have malware (or anti-malware software) installed, too many programs loading at startup, or not enough free hard drive space. If it's unusably slow, it is often because of a hardware problem, such as bad memory, or a hard drive that is about to fail. Press F1 to get the Help and Support Center and search for "clean environment". Go to the page that says "To create a clean environment for troubleshooting" and follow the instructions. If this doesn't isolate the problem, run a memory test (memtest.org) and a drive checker such as HDD Health (panterasoft.com). Also, try the free quick check atPCPitstop.comby clicking only the Full Tests link on the left-hand side.How safe is Safer?An icon for MarkAny Safer 3.00 has appeared on my desktop (XP SP2). What is it and where might it have come from?Peter LovelandJS:MarkAnyis a Korean rights management company, which has licensed Digimarc's audio watermarking patents for combating music piracy. The most likely source is the software supplied with a Samsung MP3 player. Your PC will probably be running MAAgent.exe from C:\Program Files\MarkAny\ContentSafer (if it's in a different folder, a file of the same name could be malware). You don't need it. Go to Add/Remove Programs and look for an entry to uninstall ContentSafer.Detector detected?What's your opinion of an anti-spyware program called Spyware Detector? I've just purchased it and it seems to be very good, but it is never mentioned in any magazines.Anthony CoxJS:I hadn't heard of it, but it seems a legitimate product from a reputable private company based in Pune, India (maxpcsecure.com/profile.htm). There's a list of rogue antispyware programs atspywarewarrior.com/rogue_anti-spyware.htmBackchatAlastair Duncan wanted to know if Wi-Fi would work through thick stone walls. Richard Moulds suggests "one of the new wireless N routers such as theNetgear DG834N RangeMaxcoupled with one of Netgear's network N adapters". It worked for him.&middot; Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
I had worried that after the previous version, 2.006, of this product expired that installation of the new one would be a problem. But version 2.007 turned out to have some nice features. Under the "Apple" menu was a new feature called "iPhone", announced early on during the booting-up phase, which looked very promising - although our product's licence was halfway-expired by the time it actually showed up, and even then it was an expensive add-on.The next big new feature was "Vista", found in the "Microsoft" menu, which also looked promising but turned out to make everything run slower, even if it does have more security features and lots of whizzy graphics. Trust me, guys - the older XP model from version 2.005 did the job just about as well.But what 2.007 had - since its limited-time licence is almost over - that previous versions didn't was a great new networking feature called "social". You could use it to connect to almost  everyone. This is a hit feature, no doubt, and sure to be baked into future versions rather than being an add-on. Younger users will wonder how we ever did without it.Another new element under the "good deeds" menu, called "OLPC", was a nifty computer for the developing world. However, the developing world, it turns out, prefers clean water and mobile phones.Some of the games included with version 2.007 weren't too clever. Manhunt is just a transparent "hate me, ban me!" call for publicity, though Halo 3 showed how things can or should be done.The other favourite feature from 2.006 in the games menu - the "Wii" - was both brilliant and frustrating: too often, loading produced the error message "out of stock".Also, rather than using the usual paradigm of pages and folders, the designers have broken the "year" into "months", which are subdivided into "days". The variable length of the months (28 days? 30? 31?) means it takes about half a dozen uses to grasp it - along with the strange names of the months. Clearly they thought that 1-2-3 was too easy, so we have "January", "February" and so on. Did they translate the manual from the Latin? Even more confusingly, the "year" is also available in regional and denominational varieties, which are numbered differently. Watch out for this when working abroad.Pros:Lots of nifty new gadgets and gamesCons:The limited licence expires injust over a week
Because it can't serve adverts on Wikipedia, and it makes its money from adverts, and since it can't buy Wikipedia (or doesn't want to try) there isn't much else to do but try to compete.But what will the great Googlepedia really be like? There's not a great deal to go on; the single "example" article on insomnia (atgoogle.com/help/knol_screenshot.html) is detailed and bears the name of Rachel Manber, a specialist. By comparison the Wikipedia page on the same topic (en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insomnia) on Tuesday had the legend "This article or section is in need of attention from an expert on the subject" and "may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards". (Fortuitously, Manber is related to Udi Manber, Google's vice-president of engineering, so it probably wasn't that big an ask to get her writing.)Google intends to let people write a "knol" (newly defined as "a unit of knowledge"), even on the same subject as others, and in effect take part in a Darwinian struggle to see theirs made most popular. It's completely unlike the Wikipedia model, where people contribute anonymously to a single page. Is one "better" than another? Not really: if you buy the Encyclopedia Britannia, you don't know who the authors are either. You have to trust the brand.Explaining the move, Udi Manber wrote on the Google blog: "Books have authors' names right on the cover, news articles have bylines, scientific articles always have authors - but somehow the web evolved without a strong standard to keep authors' names highlighted. We believe that knowing who wrote what will significantly help users makebetter use of web content". But a name - and even a qualification - isn't always a guarantee of accurate information; would you rely on a knol by Sir Roy Meadow about the likelihood of multiple cot deaths in a single family?The underlying question is why Google didn't simply buy one of the existing encyclopedia sites out there, since there are plenty to choose from, or else follow the footsteps of Citizendium (the brainchild of Wikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger), which "forks" the Wikipedia content towards confirmed expert-written articles.That isn't answered in the blog post - but the example page has lots of spots for adverts, and Google would be delighted if, as the blog hopes, it really turns out that "[a] knol on a particular topic is meant to be the first thing someone who searches for this topic for the first time will want to read".But as Salon.com pointed out, that won't subtract from Wikipedia, which simply sucks up content from anywhere online. If really good knols appear, Wikipedia will feed off them and even produce meta-versions of multiple knols on the same topic. And that will mean that it will remain dominant. Google may have met its match.
Unless you're one of those extremely organised people (and it's unlikely with all the novel technological goodies complicating our lives), between now and next Tuesday you'll purchase and wrap approximately 312 presents, prepare a turkey dinner with all the trimmings, clean the house, decorate the tree and prepare several hundred hours of family-friendly fun for relatives aged between six and 76. If you're up to your elbows in poultry or have managed to paper-cut your nose off, I recommend other sections of this newspaper. All the gamesblog is qualified to advise on is the entertainment portion of the proceedings, and for that we have several suggestions that might just save Christmas.There is a plethora of family-friendly software options that provide dual public services: saving the sanity of parents with chocolate-guzzling kids, and preventing the coronaries of middle-aged over-eaters. If you can get your hands on the elusive Nintendo Wii, a few rounds of virtual tennis should burn enough calories to justify skipping the Boxing Day morning run, and the controls are easy enough for even the most ardent games-sceptic to master.Alternatively, the game most likely to come out in my house this festive season is the PlayStation's SingStar. After a few too many eggnogs, who can resist a rousing rendition of Queen's We Are The Champions? You may want to wait an hour after you eat to play, as wrestling for the mic can cause stomach cramps and other unpleasant side effects.Of course, the rich feast may prove all too much, and you'd rather stick your head in the oven than flail around with a virtual tennis racquet or warble along with Freddie Mercury. In that case, the Xbox 360's Scene It - the home console adaptation of the hit DVD movie quiz - could be a suitable Queen's Speech replacement. Couch potatoes will welcome this game; the challenge lies between the ears. With a set of controllers featuring several giant buttons reminiscent of the PlayStation's Buzz!, Music, Movie and Sports Quizzes from Christmases past and a very straightforward question-answer format, this is one game where Grandma may have the upper hand.So, the entertainment's sorted; that's one less thing to worry about over the next five days. And if you find yourself covered in goose fat with no direction: put down the bird, fire up your Nintendo DS and say hello to Cooking Mama - the million-selling cook's training game. If you can thrive under the tuition of a demanding digital Mama with a penchant for poking turkey basters in all kinds of places, Christmas will be a doddle. I guarantee it.
The Golden CompassPS2/Xbox 360, &pound;39.99 cert 3+ Shiny/Sega, 2/5Following the book and the film comes The Golden Compass game, easily the weakest of the three. Controlling heroine Lyra and her polar bear companion, players indulge in platforming, puzzle-solving and exploration - all fine on paper, but the clunky controls and tedious action soon kill off any enthusiasm.For a game aimed at children, Golden Compass is surprisingly frustrating in places. The platforming levels suffer from an infuriating camera that makes it hard to judge distance. The other major gripe is an overuse of lazy "press the button in the right order" gameplay. Any hope that the graphics might save the day are banished by backgrounds and textures that are passable on the PS2 but simply ugly on the Xbox 360. The upside? Well, the snowy landscapes feel festive, and some of the polar bear action is mildly enjoyable. But those looking for a Pullman fix are better off reading the book.Greg HowsonBee MovieXbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert U Infinity Ward/Activision, 3/5Attaching a game to a hit movie always pulls in punters this time of year. Bee Movie is better than most, cramming a varied bunch of mini games into a sandbox-style arcade adventure. Admittedly, most of the games are shallow clones of better known ones (Mario Kart, Crazy Taxi etc), and the ones that aren't (pollinating flowers or navigating water-drops) are hindered by a maverick roving camera. And yes, the graphics hardly push the bigger consoles, but Hollywood production values ensure every screen is packed with eye candy. The result is a charming mix of styles, with the main 15-level adventure almost like a pre-school version of Grand Theft Auto. As stocking fillers go, few would complain.Mike AnderieszAce Combat 6Xbox 360, &pound;29.99, cert 12+ Namco/Atari, 3/5There's no mistaking the Japanese provenance of this aerial combat game: from the start, it's riven with near- interminable cutscenes, which are lovingly crafted and unutterably cheesy. But it's worth enduring them as it puts you at the controls of some of the world's most state-of-the-art fighter planes. Taking on the role of a pilot in the Air Force of Emmeria - a country invaded by neighbour Estovakia - you take part in long missions facing both dogfights and ground attacks.Ace Combat 6 impresses in many ways: it looks sensational, and the control system is beautifully fettled. But the missions can be confusing, and if you never dreamt of being a fighter pilot you might find it overwhelming and frustrating at times. But if you didn't achieve your ambition to cut a dash in the RAF, this is the game for you.Steve Boxer
We kept the price tag the sameAhh, Christmas nostalgia: theTandy 1000, circa 1987, which "is just like the one at my office" - so does he play games on that one too? Interesting how PCs still cost $999 even today.Could you try starting it again?The IT helpdeskers at Wise Foods do their12 days of Christmas. Could be a cult hit based on its painfulness.Christmas lights, in timeThere's a whole competitive Christmas lights thing going on in the US that we won't try to diagnose, but you have to admit thatthis is impressive- even if the music isn't particularly themed.&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Search and destroyIs Google a Grinch or a good guy? (December 13) took it for granted that readers knew how Google ranked its search results: it said it depended on "links". Well, yes, but what links, and why do they matter to Google? To those who don't know, the article meant little.Brian Jones,AbingdonThe writer not only presented things entirely from the perspective of SEO companies, but he also failed to explain why they would be upset by Google's rejigging of its algorithms. The reason is that it makes the SEO companies look bad. Their customers pay to be kept high up the rankings, which presumably the SEOs are able to do till Google changes the rules. They then have to figure out how to trick Google into ranking their customers' websites highly and hopefully retain their business. If only Google could leave things the way they were. Google is indeed their Grinch!Rob Beer,Christchurch, DorsetPainful moveI'm against the death penalty because I think voluntarily giving your government the right to kill you is a bad move (US military in denial over 'pain ray', December 13). I'm also against my government spending money on death rays to keep me out of public places.peromyscus.blogspot.comSpotty LeopardHaving installed Leopard recently on 17 machines, some PPC and some Intel, all belonging to different people and all of which are working perfectly, I have to say I think you have been unlucky or have failed to do basic housekeeping and troubleshooting (Leopard is nothing to purr about, December 13).Niall Macaulay, PenicuikA full backup, erase, install and restore seems to be the best way of upgrading to Leopard, whatever you may have done in the past. If updating causes problems, if you do have a clone from Tiger, go back and do it properly.Ian Orchard, New ZealandI have not had any significant problems, except for Adobe Acrobat (which Adobe has promised to fix). I suggest you take your Mac to your nearest MacGenius and let them look at it: it costs you nothing, I might add.William Yaeger, Missouri, USOS loses its wayCharities and individuals republishing OS data have been required to negotiate licences (Free Our Data, December 13). Now they will get it for free. This is great news for lone developers. However, it is not great news for startups. OS has "almost" come to its senses because there remains the issue that startups will not be able to create businesses out of this data - even though these are businesses from which the government could potentially extract tax revenues.uk.techcrunch.comPerl before swineDr Harper may not run Perl on Windows in Cambridge, but some of us do elsewhere (Letters, December 13). I use ActiveState Perl for all my scripting on Windows 2000, XP and 2003 server. The thing that annoys me about the HMRC cock-up is that the data was ever stored in unencrypted form at all, anywhere. It should only be decrypted at display time, and this should only be possible on terminals with no ability to save the data to anything else. None of that is especially difficult or expensive.David Budd, University of ManchesterNot in the pinkSarah Dobbs (Letters, December 13), is getting her knickers in a twist. It only becomes an issue of gender stereotyping because she has chosen to make it one.Ron Graves, Prenton[Ms Dobbs was referring to the picture with the article that appeared online; this was not connected to the writer of the article - Tech. Ed]&#183; Send letters totech@guardian.co.uk
Web finds of 2007Voting has started in Yahoo!'s annual Finds of the Year awards forinnovative websites.Fishy iPod accessoryThe iPond, atiny fish-tankthat doubles as an MP3 music speaker, should be banned because it's too small, according to the RSPCA.Packed with PotterNext month,Archoswill offer its 605 Wi-Fi portable media player pre-loaded with Harry Potter films.We'll always have ParisAnd Britney. Unruly Media is offering 2007's top 20celebrity viral videos.Sobering thoughtsThe Drinkaware Trust has launched what it says is a "non-patronising"  website to tell the under-18s thetruth about booze.Vista SP1 in viewWindows Vista's Service Pack 1is approaching the end of its beta-testing phase and it should be available early next year.Virtually LeicesterThe University of Leicester has opened an"experimental research island"in Second Life to explore the educational benefits of virtual worlds.Social for localWe Love Localis a social networking website where people can write reviews of local businesses. Reviews can also be displayed on Facebook.
In a laboratory in Switzerland, a group of neuroscientists is developing a mammalian brain - in silicon. The researchers at the Ecole Polytechnique F&eacute;d&eacute;rale de Lausanne (EPFL), in collaboration with IBM, have just completed the first phase of an ambitious project to reproduce a fully functioning brain on a supercomputer. By strange coincidence, their lab happens to lie on the same shores of Lake Geneva where Mary Shelley dreamt up her creation, Dr Frankenstein.In June 2005, Henry Markram, director of the Blue Brain project, announced his intention to build a human brain using one of the most powerful supercomputers in the world. "The critics were unbelievable," recalls Markram. "Everybody thought we were crazy. Even the most eminent computational neuroscientists and theoreticians said the project would fail."Some of Markram's peers said there simply wasn't enough data available to simulate a human brain. "There is no neuroscientist on the planet that has the authority to say we don't understand enough," says Markram. "We all know a tiny slice. Nobody even knows how much we know."Markram was not dissuaded by the negative reaction to his announcement. Two years on, he has already developed a computer simulation of the neocortical column - the basic building block of the neocortex, the higher functioning part of our brains - of a two-week-old rat, and it behaves exactly like its biological counterpart. It's something quite beautiful when you watch it pulse on the giant 3D screens the researchers have constructed.The neocortical column is the most recently evolved part of our brain and is responsible for such things as reasoning and self-awareness. It was a quantum leap in evolution. The human brain contains a thousand times more neocortical columns than a rat's brain, but there is very little difference, biologically speaking, between a rat's brain and our own. Build one column, and you can effectively build the entire neocortex - if you have the computational power.Although a neocortical column is only 2 millimetres long and half a millimetre in diameter, it contains 10,000 neurons and 30m synapses. The machine that simulates this column is an IBM Blue Gene/L supercomputer is capable of speeds of 18.7 trillion calculations per second. It has 8,000 processors and is one of the most powerful supercomputers in the world.Markram believes that with the state of technology today, it is possible to build an entire rat's neocortex, which is the next phase of the Blue Brain project, due to begin next year. From there, it's cats, then monkeys and finally, a human brain.Markram is banking on Moore's law holding steady, as a computer with the power of the human brain, using today's technology, would take up several football pitches and run up an electricity bill of $3bn a year. But by the time Markram gets around to mimicking a full human brain, computing will have moved on.Modelling the futureModelling seems to be the way forward for neuroscience. Each year, there are about 35,000 neuroscience papers published - and the number of papers being published is increasing at a rate of between 20% and 30% a year. Most neuroscientists only get to read about 100 of these papers a year, if they're lucky. Pouring all of this knowledge into Blue Brain seems an obvious way to use and preserve it.Markram, a 44-year-old South African, first became interested in recording the electrophysiology of neurons when he was at the Max Planck Institute in Germany. He was recording two neurons and he saw them communicate. "I thought, my God, this is incredible, you can actually capture neurons communicating," he says. "Then I wanted to find out how they all communicated, so I started to map the whole circuit. It took 15 years." Markram describes the data he has collected over the past decade and a half as "too boring to be published".The model is there to unify the data and test that it works. A neurobiologist who wants to test a certain theory of how a specific brain function, such as memory retention and retrieval, works can use Blue Brain to do so. The model will be open to the entire world's research community.Simulation-based research becomes possible when you have a critical power of computation. Today, every commercial aircraft that is built started life as a simulation. Even cameras are simulated before they're built. In physics, we don't let off nuclear weapons any more, we just use simulations."We don't use simulation in life sciences because biology requires the most powerful computers," says Markram. "We do experiments on animals, but that is going to change in the near future and this project will drive that change."One thing Markram is keen to stress is that this isn't another artificial intelligence (AI) system. "We're not looking for the brain of a robot," he says. "You can get an engineer to do that. They are much better at it and they can do it really quickly. But in the end, it [Blue Brain] will probably be much better. If we build it right, it should speak."Decoding dysfunctionHowever, Markram is not holding his breath, waiting for some emergent consciousness to arise from the silicon brain. What he is after is something more prosaic, but also a lot more useful than a talking machine. By understanding the function of the brain, we can also begin to understand its dysfunction.Disorders such as depression, schizophrenia and dementia are the price we pay for having complicated brains. "We don't understand what goes wrong inside those circuits," says Markram. "We're still in empirical medicine. If a drug compound works: good. If not, we try another one." Blue Brain could accelerate experimentation tremendously. It will be much more efficient than wet-lab experiments and it will reduce animal experimentation.However, Steven Rose, emeritus professor of biology at the Open University, is sceptical that a biologically accurate model of the entire human brain can be built, given our current state of knowledge and technology. The integration between the different regions of the brain is just too complex to recreate on a computer simulation. "I'm not against people playing with models," says Rose, "but the idea that you can use it for anything very sophisticated as opposed to looking at real animals with real behaviour at the moment seems to me to be pie in the sky."Rose warns against underestimating the difficulties that still remain. Then, rather grudgingly, he admits that the Blue Brain project is impressive. "Impressive but modest," he adds. Clearly, Markram still has some doubters to win over.
These two categories neatly dovetail into each other: the titles that we once looked forward to, and the ones that, despite having been let down in the past, we're still getting our hopes up about. Lots of voting here and many different games mentioned, but there were two runaway winners...Most disappointing game of 2007'Winner'Pro Evolution 2008Well, it had to happen sooner or later. The PES series has consistently delivered since taking over from the ISS franchise, but this Xbox 360 iteration - later to garner an inferior PS3 conversion - lacks the pinpoint accuracy, the solidity, the beautiful flow of its predecessors. The game's passionate creator Shingo 'Seabass' Takatsukaadmits as much, especially with the PlayStation version which suffered both due to the tyranny of its delivery deadline and the unfamiliarity of the platform. Apparently, the team at KCET has gone 'back the drawing board' with PES 2009. The thing is, nothing radical is required - PES has improved subtly over the years, but the stock gameplay and features have remained largely intact. All we ask for is PES fully functioning on a next-gen machine. It'll happen.Runners-upHere, votes were split equally between Assassin's Creed and Bioshock. Interesting choices. Neither is a bad game - far from it. They both promise - and deliver - so much. But amid the hype and the critical plaudits, many Gamesblog readers feel they are fundamentally flawed. On Ubisoft's ambitious adventure, Zooey74 summed up the mood of voters when he asked, "How can something so technically stunning be so, so dull to play?" Many reviewers, too, have complained that it feels like completing the same mission over and over again. The good news is, the success of the game means there will be sequels, lots of sequels, and with the technical foundations in place (you'd think so after four years in development), the team can now concentrate solely ongame design.With Bioshock, perhaps the pre-publicity and some early extremely enthusiastic reviews set the expectations unreachably high. It is an essential purchase, but it gained almost mythical status before most of us even touched it. Some were surprised to find itwasn'tperfect after all. But it says something about the quality of games these days that something as packed with ideas and genuine surprises as this can be considered disappointing. We're so spoiled.Most promising game of 2008WinnerGrand Theft Auto IVRockstar's latest GTA sequel took a quick look at this category, smashed the window, hot-wired it and screeched off into the distance leaving all other candidates lying mangled in pools of gore. If games journalists are starting to feel pretty jaded about the series (I know a few who are), the people who matter are clearly itching to get back into Rockstar North's nihilistic universe. It is easy to forget sometimes that somewhere beyond this publisher's shameless lust for controversy lies a brilliant sequence of games that just exuded freedom and irresponsible fun.It'll be interesting to see how the darker background to GTA IV (Eastern Europe, human trafficking, etc) alters the essentially parodic nature of the series so far. In the past, the designers played with glamorised notions of the gangster life, indulging our daft Scarface fantasies, our Miami Vices. The games drew on the way in which our understanding of Black American urban culture has been shaped by gangsta rap and Hughes Brothers movies. But there are no mainstream Platinum selling rappers glorifying the Eastern European immigrant culture. We're back in Liberty City, but really, we're in entirely new territory.Runners-upSpore, LittleBigPlanet and Capcom's Wii adventure, Zack &amp; Wiki, shared the second place spoils. Coming in behind them were obvious (at least to me) front-runners like GT5 and Metal Gear Solid 4 - a few years ago these series' would surely have fared better? Fable 2, Burnout: Paradise and Alan Wake also drew a few nods of approval. There were at least 25 titles with just one vote each, though, showing what a disparate bunch you are.
The moment I decided I had to leave Facebook was when I discovered that its latest advertising gimmick sent information about members' purchases on other sites to Facebook even when they were not logged on there. It was bad enough that this information be sent at all to the company. I don't see it is any of Facebook's business what I do elsewhere on the web. But that the company should be sent the information when I am not even logged in is intolerable.I know it is possible to opt out on a case-by-case basis, but that should not be necessary. At a minimum, Facebook should supply a global opt-out, and a properly run company that was honest with its customers would offer an individual and clearly explained opt-in for every single site that runs its advertising software.Would you like to tell all your friends, and even your Facebook friends, what you have just bought from Blockbuster or Travelocity whenever you buy it - whether or not you are logged in to Facebook? That would be the honest question, which Facebook refuses to ask. It is not entirely rhetorical: the answer is sometimes and for some people "yes".There is a gaming site, Kongregate.com, whose chief executive told Macworld that his users seemed happy with the programme. But gaming is a sociable activity, entirely different from shopping for shoes, books or travel. Anyone who really wants to tell the world about their new shoes can do so easily enough on Facebook itself, without the information being automatically posted on their feed.Nor is it just your friends whom you tell. Facebook has not said how long the information will be stored on its servers - and it is all sent there by participating sites, whether or not you have opted out. The cleaning, if it is done at all, is done on Facebook's servers. There is no reason to suppose that some of this data won't eventually leak out into the public domain, as happened with the Google search queries that AOL released last summer.Facebook's data is far more personal than Google's because it is all tied to specific, real people. One might say that Google is more intimate, since a map of Google searches shows pretty much everything you have been interested in, but it is possible to use Google more or less anonymously, though not, perhaps, if you use Gmail or the calendar.Social scientists are already using Facebook as a laboratory to conduct research that is far more detailed and accurate than anything that could be carried out using old-fashioned data acquisition, where people answer questions consciously rather than simply being traced in their everyday online life. As Professor Samuel Gosling, a psychologist at the University of Texas, Austin, told the New York Times, "There is a rule that you are allowed to observe public behaviour, but it's not clear if online behaviour is public or not." It seems to me perfectly clear. It's all public - at least to the companies which own the servers.So that is why I decided to leave Facebook. I don't like where it's going, and I don't see why I should always be on my guard against whatever new tricks it thinks of to deliver my data to advertisers.It was then that I made the interesting discovery that you can't actually leave Facebook once you have joined. Like the Hotel California, it is a place that you check out of but you can never leave. Sure, you can "deactivate" your account, but you can't scrub it out. Friends will continue to see your profile and may continue to send messages to it, which will be lost forever. The logon and password are preserved, presumably forever, and so are the cookies that identify you to Facebook - and which can be used to tie your Facebook identity into advertising sites.All that "deactivation" means is that you've handed over another piece of data to the company: you can't even get as far as clicking the final button without answering a question as to why you want to leave. I said it was in protest against its advertising practices. I assume, since very few other people will have done so, it will learn from this that nobody really cares. But if there is anyone in the world who has not yet signed up to Facebook, my advice is to stay well clear. It is not a company that means its users well.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Ever so slightly underrated on releaseRainbow Six Vegason the 360 was a fantastic shooter that shone brightly when played online. The co-op mode was especially enjoyable, allowing you and up to 3 friends to play through the story together. Ubisoft have just announced details of the sequel - due out in March - and co-op plays a key part here too. A friend can join you in your single player game at any time - Crackdown style - without it affecting the story. Equally as interesting is the persistent identity feature that spans both single and multiplayer modes. Think Call of Duty 4 style leveling but with your single player efforts also contributing to your character. There are all the usual adversarial combat options as well, but for me the co-op play is the most interesting news here. Cooperative play - in Rainbow 6's case, teaming up with friends to take on the computer controlled enemy rather than shooting each other - is the future of online gaming. Or at least where the real innovation is, particularly in first person shooter games which usually stick to the standard deathmatch/capture the flag stuff that is off-putting to anyone not willing to put hours of practice in. Anyway, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 - excited?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
In early June 2006 Malcolm Clark, a successful businessman, was chatting to his nephew, Steve Marshall, a 37-year-old hardcore gamer, about opportunities in online games. Steve said he would think about it and come back with any ideas. On June 14 he emailed some thoughts about cashing in on the current bout of football mania. He wrote: "How about the ability to play online with potentially thousands of other people in five-a-side, full-team squads with a first-person prospective instead of a top down or third-person view?" Clark replied: "This is awesome. Is there anything like it currently? I'll talk to you in the next few days about how I think we should progress."Progress they have, and Clark's company Cyberports (based near the Guardian's office in Clerkenwell) is now barely six months away from launching Football Superstars, an innovative virtual football world, which - if it lives up to its very ambitious expectations - could not only be a global success but could help turn virtual worlds from a geeky diversion into a mainstream activity.Like so many good ideas, it is blindingly obvious in retrospect. Football is the most popular global sport, but football games are restricted to managing statistics or playing one or two players in an automated environment. Football Superstars will enable up to 11 players anywhere in the world to control one player (or avatar) each in a team, with the chance to improve their footballing skills. They can play either in "scratch" games on a field or graduate to virtual stadiums with screaming fans. Afterwards they can wander around town, stop off at a pub to discuss the game (or a real-life game) or future tactics.There is a social element enabling you to earn lifestyle points easing entry into places such as celebrity nightclubs, and also a serious management side. Instead of playing around with statistics, as in a typical football computer game, a manager has to organise a squad of real people, making sure they turn up and train between matches if they are to progress in one of 14 leagues with four divisions (which can be replicated endlessly if needed). Clark suspects that women will prove particularly good at management.Players can improve their skills during the week through training or buy better boots and other kit in stores using one of two virtual currencies which, along with sponsorship and brand advertising, will provide revenue to finance the game and keep it free at the entry level. The aim is to reproduce all the excitement and culture of football on and off the field. As the title implies, Clark and Marshall believe it will produce its own superstar teams and individuals. Squads will get chess-style "Elo" ratings according to their performance, while players will be given percentage ratings. Players are rated on six basic abilities such as speed and spatial awareness plus six football abilities including passingskills and tackling - skills that can be increased by playing better (virtual) football.During asneak previewat the studio's Nottingham HQ, I was very impressed with the agility of the player/avatars, which were in a different league to the cranky ones in Second Life. Table football it is not. There are lots of obvious problems, including different broadband speeds, junior pulling the plug out of the socket, or the lagged response of avatars. This may not matter so much in a multiplayer war game, but might be critical if a centre forward is about to shoot in a critical match.Cyberports is confident that it has cracked these problems and that the game - still at an early alpha phase - will be ready by the tight deadline of May. This is because, unlike complicated war games, football has simple rules (offside, apart). It hopes the evident enthusiasm of the 35-strong team building it will win through. If so, it could produce in a virtual world something that continuously eludes us in real life: a global footballing success story.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
According toMCV, the PlayStation 3 should be used to play games. This unbelievable announcement came from the top of Sony - PS President Kaz Harai no less - who commented,"PS3 is starting afresh as a console to play games with. Although pricing strategy is important, now we would like to put our strength in the number of software games,"(via theAP)This marks a departure from the console's apparent raison d'etre over the past year: as a multi-media device which, oh yeah, you can play games on. This approach has backfired in the UK and Europe, where other multi-media devices come in cheaper (and more consistent) packaging. The move towards re-integrating games into their, er, game plan, suggests that the general public may not be ready for the dream of One Box Under The TV.
Apple has killed the Think Secret site, following long legal negotiations.The site says:As part of the confidential settlement, no sources were revealed and Think Secret will no longer be published. Nick Ciarelli, Think Secret's publisher, said "I'm pleased to have reached this amicable settlement, and will now be able to move forward with my college studies and broader journalistic pursuits."The student-run site published information about unannounced products, which Apple doesn't think qualifies as journalism: it's "misappropriating trade secrets". The rich and secretive American megacorporation attacked Think Secret after it scooped everybody on the Mac Mini witha postthat began:December 28, 2004 - With iPod-savvy Windows users clearly in its sights, Apple is expected to announce a bare bones, G4-based iMac without a display at Macworld Expo on January 11 that will retail for $499, highly reliable sources have confirmed to Think Secret. The new Mac, code-named Q88, will be part of the iMac family and is expected to sport a PowerPC G4 processor at a speed around 1.25GHz. The new Mac is said to be incredibly small and will be housed in a flat enclosure with a height similar to the 1.73 inches of Apple's Xserve. Its size benefits will include the ability to stand the Mac on its side or put it below a display or monitor.Shocking stuff. No wonder Apple wanted it closed down. Apple only likes highly-controlled leaks, whereby it gives "exclusives" to a handful of compliant publications, such as Newsweek.According toThe Mac Observer:After a brief stint at a different domain, Think Secret was officially launched on May 3, 1999 by Nick dePlume (a.k.a. Nick Ciarelli) at the tender young age of 13. When he was sued, he was still a teenager, aged 19, attending Harvard, a fact that added to Apple's image of being a bully for pursuing the case. Until that time, few realized that the one of the most highly regarded "Mac rumor sites" on the Internet was published by such a young person.Update:TechDirtcomments: "It's really a shame that Apple even decided to pursue this vendetta, and the fact that it ends with Think Secret being shut down completely is a travesty."
We kept the price tag the sameAhh, Christmas nostalgia: the Tandy 1000, circa 1986, which "is just like the one at my office" - so does he play games on that one too? Interesting how PCsstillcost $999 even today.Christmas lights, in timeThere's a whole competitive Christmas lights thing going on in the US that we won't try to diagnose, but you have to admit that this is impressive - even if the music isn't particularly themed.Could you try starting it again?The IT helpdeskers at Wise Foods do their 12 days of Christmas. Could be a cult hit based on how painful it is to watch. But hey, it'sChrissttmassss.Got a technology video we ought to be watching here? Tell us the link!
The print section finds out which cities have the most vibrant blogging communities (may be controversial - how do you define "city"?), has a 2007 quiz (no search engines allowed), why Facebook is like the Hotel California, and how neurologists are trying to model a rat's brain - with IBM's most powerful computer.Click through for the full list...Mapping Britain's blogosphereAs blogging becomes a national pastime, Guy Clapperton takes a look at some of the writers who have embraced the medium to promote the cities they live inFacebook is like Hotel California, but you might want to leaveAndrew Brown: I decided to leave Facebook when I discovered that its latest advertising gimmick sent information about members' purchases on other sites to Facebook even when they were not logged onWhy does Google want to compete with Wikipedia?Google intends to let people write a 'knol' (newly defined as 'a unit of knowledge'), even on the same subject as others, and in effect take part in a Darwinian struggle to see theirs made most popular.NewsbytesWeb finds of 2007 | Fishy iPod accessory | Packed with Potter | We'll always have Paris | Sobering thoughts | Vista SP1 in view | Virtually Leicester | Social for localGamesThe Golden Compass | Bee Movie | Ace Combat 6Festive family fun that will even get your Gran gamingAleks Krotoski: Gamesblog has several entertainment suggestions that might just save Christmas.Listen here: Technology Guardian launches podcastThe word first appeared in these pages - and now Guardian Technology has its own podcast too: Tech Weekly.Test your geek credentials with our quizFrom the Wii to iPhone, social networking to stock values, we've reported all the big technology stories of 2007. Test how closely you've followed the news with our quiz on the year just goneYouChooseTechnology videos we loveTechnophileVersion, 2.007, is about to expire: it wasn't a bad stab, offering some neat new gadgets and graphicsLetters and blogsSearch and destroy | Painful move | Spotty Leopard | OS loses its way | Perl before swine | Not in the pinkGame on for virtual football worldVictor Keegan: If Football Superstars lives up to its very ambitious expectations, it could help turn virtual worlds from a geeky diversion into a mainstream activity.Ask JackPC shopping revisited | Field recording times | Free hotspots | Snail-like laptop | How safe is Safer? | Detector detected? | BackchatChattering classes deserve a debate about e-governmentMichael Cross: Intelligent citizens have begun to grasp that the 10-year-old programme to offer citizens joined-up electronic access to government is the biggest change to the government machine for 60 yearsLab comes one step closer to building artificial human brainAn ambitious project in Switzerland was scoffed at - but researchers have just succeeded in simulating a rat's brain in silicon
W00t - an interjection, used to convey excitement. And now, says the Merriam-Webster dictionary, 2007's word of the year - albeit one coined at least 15 years ago by early internet users. But with this development, internet slang, verb-acronyms, creative misspellings, portmanteux and joyfully painful grammar, is officially no longer confined to life online. A simple guide to some other popular terms from the geektionary includes:l33t:the internet slang language to which "w00t" belongs. Derived from "elite", and created by talkboard users, who, wishing to discuss oft-banned topics without getting caught by search engines, used punctuation and numbers to replace letters.teh:the (letters are transposed in deliberate misspellings, the dangers of speed-typing lightheartedly feeding into the lexicon).b0rked:broken, usually beyond hope of repair. And more fun to say than "broken".suxxor, and its opposite, roxxor:something that "sucks or "rocks". As in: "d00d! This pizza is teh roxxor!!!1!1!" (Overpunctuation obligatory, ironicised by the inclusion of "mistyped" numbers)WTF, Mate?:Abbreviating "what the fuck?!" isn't new, but this phrase's online usage spread after The End Of The World - an online animation featuring a bemused kangaroo caught up in nuclear war (googling "wtf mate" will take you straight to it).LOL:Laughing out loud. See also ROFL (pronounced: roffle), rolling on the floor laughing. But since these are generally exaggerations, a new phrase, popularised by comedian Dimitri Martin, LQTM (laughing quietly to myself), is thought more honest.LOLcats:much of the terrrible English currently littering the web can be traced to the phenomenon of LOLcats (see icanhascheezburger.com) - images of cute critters with comedy captions written to bizarre grammatical rules. Main rule: LOLcats love oversimplified grammar, can't spell, prefer "z" over "s", and like cheezburger.K Thnx Bai:How a satisfied LOLcat ends a conversation. No longer confined to LOLcats: peeplz too. And, at their current speed, expect Merriam-Webster to pick up on it in about 16 years.
From the Wii to the iPhone, social networking to stock values, we've reported on all the big technology stories of 2007. Test how closely you've followed the news with our quiz on the year just gone. Scroll to the end for answers.Money, money, money1) How much did Steve Jobs's wrongly dated stock options cost?(a) $137.25m (b) $84m (c) $02) In the past year, Microsoft's stock value has changed by(a) -18% (b) -8% (c) +8% (d) +18%3) In the past year, Apple's stock value has changed by(a) +13% (b) +113% (c) +130%4) In the past year, Dell's stock value has changed by(a) -22% (b) -12% (c) 0% (d) +12%5) How much did Microsoft allow in its accounts for repairs and replacements to faulty Xbox 360s?(a) &pound;300m (b) &pound;400m (c) &pound;500mSocial networking6) How many UK users does Facebook have, approximately?(a) 1m (b) 2m (c) 5m (d) 10m7) Which social network was rumoured to be about to be bought by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation?(a) Facebook (b) Bebo (c) LinkedInFree Our Data8) A paper map licence from Ordnance Survey lets you scan maps and put them online. What saving does this represent over the standard "web" licence for online-derived maps?(a) 33% (b) 66% (c) 99%9) By what factor did use of maps rise in South Africa after it made its mapping data available for free?(a) 0% (b) 200% (c) 500%10) How many ministers did the Guardian's Free Our Data team meet formally?(a) One (b) two (c) tenLost and found11) HM Revenue and Customs sent two discs to the National Audit Office. The discs were ZIP password-protected. Which encryption method does ZIP use?(a) AES (b) PGP (c) SHA-0 (d) SHA-1Gaming12) How many PlayStation 3 consoles were reportedly sold in its second week in the UK?(a) 30,000 (b) 50,000 (c) 80,00013) How did that compare with the first week?(a) -10% (b) -50% (c) -80% (d) -90%14) Halo 3 sold more in its opening day than which film?(a) Superman 3 (b) Spiderman 3  (c) Shrek 3 (d) Born Free15) When in 2007 did the Wii pass the Xbox 360 in cumulative sales, according to vgchartz.com?(a) August (b) September (c) OctoberMiscellany16) Does one say hello to ...(a) Apple's iPhone (b) the iPhone (c) iPhone (d) IPhone (e) Iphone?17) Which company had already registered the same trademark years earlier?(a) Vonage (b) Cisco (c) AT&amp;T18) What has been identified as the cause of the "Red Ring of Death" affecting Microsoft's Xbox 360?(a) Overheating graphics card  (b) faulty CPU (c) don't know19) Amazon's Kindle is an e-book reader. How many different e-book readers are already on sale in Europe?(a) 0 (b) 1 (c) 220) Which operating system upgrade disabled your firewall?(a) Microsoft's Vista (b) Apple's Leopard (c) Ubuntu's "Feisty Fawn"21) Which would-be deputy Labour leader was all a-Twitter?(a) Harriet Harman  (b) Alan Johnson (c) Hilary Benn (d) Jon Cruddas22) When the movie 300 went on sale in DVD, HD-DVD and Blu-ray formats, what were the relative sales figures for the first week?(a) 95/2/3 (b) 96/2/2  (c) 96/1/323) Silverlight, Gears, Pipes, Apollo. Four companies' products: but which one of them belongs to which company, in order?(a) Google, Yahoo!, Microsoft, Adobe  (b) Y M A G (c) M G Y A (d) A G Y MMix and match24) Of those four (Silverlight, Gears, Pipes, Apollo), which is the odd one out, and why?25) Which two people whose names are near-synonymous with their companies became their chief executives this year?26) Joost, Babelgum, BitTorrent. What is their common theme, and which is the odd one out?27) What did Lily Allen and U2 have in common, sonically?The answers1)Jobs was granted 7.5m stock options priced at $18.30 (= $137.25m) but returned them for nothing. Apple took a $84m tax charge against wrong dating. a, b or c, you're right!2)d;3)b;4)b;5)c;6)b (it was 1m in March);7)c (it didn't);8)c;9)c;10)a (Michael Wills; another was another off the record);11)a;12)a;13)c;14)all and any of them;15)a: see tinyurl.com/2885mx;16)strictly, c; or a;17)b;18)c, though a was suspected;19)b (the iRex Iliad);20)b;21)b;22)c: a hint for next year?23)c;24)Pipes is internet-only;25)Jerry Yang (co-founder, Yahoo!) and Michael Dell (Dell);26)They all offer video content online, but BitTorrent isn't on-demand;27)Mastering of their CDs gave the songs limited dynamic range.How did you do?0-5: maybe you should have used a search engine5-10: impressive - but could do better ...11-22: remarkable: a diligent reader23-27: buy a lottery ticket - you must be lucky!
The man with the wire-frame glasses, the greying hair and the rumpled blue shirt makes for an unlikely superstar."Today we will talk exclusively about work and energy," he says, turning from his audience, chalk in hand, to spend the best part of an hour adorning a blackboard with mathematical symbols and equations.But in the 47th minute of lecture 11 in the classical mechanics course at the renowned Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Professor Walter Lewin, a 71-year-old Dutch physics professor, does something that has brought him legions of fans across the world. He picks up a prop and carries out an experiment upon a willing subject: himself."I have here a pendulum," he declares, dangling a wrecking ball from a line. "I am such a strong believer in the cultivation of mechanical energy that I am willing to put my life on the line."A murmur arises from the audience of students as Lewin stands against a wall with the ball touching his chin, ready to release it in the expectation that on its return it will not swing up any higher and break his nose.Like any good showman, Lewin raises the stakes. "This is no joke. If I don't succeed ... this will be my last lecture."He releases the ball. It swings back, perilously close to his chin, but does not rise any higher. The audience laughs and cheers."Physics works and I'm still alive," Lewin proclaims. "See you Wednesday."Performances such as lesson 11 have helped turn Lewin into one of the digital age's more unpredictable phenomena: the internet celebrity. Since MIT put Lewin's lectures online he has topped the most downloaded list at iTunes U, an educational adjunct to the Apple digital music service, and has attracted fan mail from around the world through MIT's site.But Lewin is not alone. Top of the academic pops this week on iTunes U is Berkeley professor Hubert Dreyfus's philosophy lecture What is Existentialism? Just below him is a contemplation of quantum mechanics by Leonard Susskind of Stanford University.But Lewin is the true showman of the group. In one lecture he rides a tricycle propelled by a fire extinguisher to demonstrate how a rocket lifts off; in another he beats a student with cat fur to show the effects of electrostatics. One video has him dressed in a safari outfit as he fires a golf ball from a cannon at a stuffed monkey wearing a bulletproof vest. That was to demonstrate the trajectories of objects in freefall.Such is Lewin's appeal, he is able to win hearts and minds in the most difficult battlefield of all."You are now my Scientific Father," wrote one online fan, a physics teacher from Iraq. "In spite of the bad occupation and war against my lovely IRAQ, you made me love USA because you are there and MIT is there."Web celebsPeter OakleyUsing the name Geriatric1927, 80-year-old Peter Oakley started posting films about himself on YouTube in August 2006. His first series, entitled Telling It All, was seen by millions.Mar&iacute;a Amelia L&oacute;pezAt 95 years old, the Spanish grand-mother is supposed to be the oldest blogger on the net. Her blog has had more than 918,000 hits and receives posts from all over the world.Belle de JourThe author of a sex diary recounting a London call girl's encounters with her clients and lovers. It won a Guardian award in 2003, became a book and also a TV series starring Billie Piper.Xu JingleiA 33-year-old Chinese actress and director, Xu Jinglei started a blog about her life in October 2005. It has since been constantly in the top 50 of the 75m worldwide blogs.
You gave advice on shopping for a Windows PC inOctober 2005. Has your advice changed with the advent of Windows Vista? I need something that will work without too much technical knowledge and will have sufficient memory etc to be good for at least five years.Steve HamiltonMicrosoft is currently testing Windows Vista's Service Pack 1 update, and although many fixes have already been slipstreamed into shipping versions, the arrival of SP1 has traditionally been seen as a good time to buy. In hardware terms, Intel's Core 2 Duo processor now sets the standard. However, you can still buy low-end PCs with Intel Celerons and similar chips, while high-end machines often have quad-core processors.Vista delivers marginally worse performance than Windows XP SP2, though the Aero interface's fading and sliding menus can make it feel slower than it is. You can speed it up by turning off the animations, and by removing all the free "crapware" that most PC manufacturers bundle with their systems.Vista does need more memory and better graphics support than XP. Go for 2GB of main memory, if possible, and 128MB or more graphics memory. Check theWindows Experience Indexbefore buying. This rates each PC subsystem out of 5. If the graphics score is less than 3, don't buy it to run Vista, though it would be fine for XP.Vista requires new drivers for peripherals, which may not be available for older printers and scanners. This was also true of Windows 95 and Windows 2000/XP when they came out. Check theWindows Vista Hardware Compatibility Listfor an initial guide, and search the web for any common problems with the system and model number you choose.There has been something of a backlash against Vista, but this has also been true of most new Microsoft operating systems. I'd still recommend Vista rather than XP, especially if you're taking a five-year view. Vista is more secure, more reliable and more capable than XP, comes with better applications (including ubiquitous search), and has a better user interface. The kernel is based on the hugely successful Windows Server 2003 code, and with SP1 will be much the same as Windows Server 2008. It will be a few years before Vista is more common than XP, but it is not going away.
I sometimes help out at a local charity and we have been thinking of making our wireless connection freely available. We would like users to be able to access the internet only, probably via our own web page (containing "accept terms &amp; conditions" etc). Web searches provide masses of technical info, leaving us completely flummoxed.A FranceBasically you want to set up a free Wi-Fi hotspot, so try searching forfree hotspot software. At a pinch, you could use something intended for cybercafes and small hotels, like Amazing Ports. If you have a spare PC, you can use a Linux-based ZoneCD. Try to find a local Wi-Fi expert to help.Another idea is to buy a special router called La Fonera+ (€43.06/£31) fromFon. This splits the Wi-Fi signal into a secure private channel to the internet, and a separate 512kbps channel to share with "Foneros". The idea is that you share your connection with other Fon users and they share theirs with you. BT has a page where you cansearch for Fon hotspots. Fon has now launched a system where visitors can pay for a Fon access pass and you get half the money (http://www.fon.com/en/info/makeMoney). Guests get 15 minutes free as a trial -- enough to look something up or read emails
I am a working musician and am looking for a high density recorder/playback unit capable of all the facilities of a MiniDisc but with greater capacity. I have been looking at theFostex FR-2field recorder but I can't find out the various recording times for the 1, 2, 4 and 8GB cards.Bill BridgesIt's hard to say, because the capacity depends on the sound quality. The Fostex can record in Broadcast WAV Format (24-bit 96kHz), and the rule of thumb is 2GB per hour. If you record in 24-bit 48kHz stereo then you'll use 1GB per hour (or 1GB per 57.8 minutes), and so on, pro rata. If you recorded in the highly compressed 192kbps MP3 format, you'd get about 12.4 hours per gigabyte.
I've had a very similar experience to your reader John Uttley (December 13). According to all the usual tests, the virus has gone, but the laptop remains more or less unusable as it is so slow.Mike ClaytonIf Windows XP is sluggish, it is often because you have malware (or anti-malware software) installed, too many programs loading at startup, or not enough free hard drive space. If it's unusably slow, it is often because of a hardware problem, such as bad memory, or a hard drive that is about to fail.Press F1 to get the Help and Support Center and search for "clean environment" (without the quotes). Go to the page that says "To create a clean environment for troubleshooting" and follow the instructions. If this doesn't isolate the problem, run a memory test (memtest.org) and a drive checker such as HDD Health (panterasoft.com).You can also try the free quick check atPCPitstop.comby clicking only the Full Tests link on the left-hand side.
An icon for MarkAny Safer 3.00 has appeared on my desktop (XP SP2). What is it and where might it have come from?Peter LovelandMarkAnyis a Korean rights management company, which has licensed Digimarc's audio watermarking patents for combating music piracy. The most likely source is the software supplied with a Samsung MP3 player. Your PC will probably be running MAAgent.exe from C:\Program Files\MarkAny\ContentSafer (if it's in a different folder, a file of the same name could be malware). You don't need it. Go to Add/Remove Programs and look for an entry to uninstall ContentSafer.
What's your opinion of an anti-spyware program called Spyware Detector? I've just purchased it and it seems to be very good, but it is never mentioned in any magazines.Anthony CoxI hadn't heard of it, but it seems a legitimate product from a reputable private company based in Pune, India (maxpcsecure.com/profile.htm). There's a list of rogue antispyware programs atspywarewarrior.com/rogue_anti-spyware.htm
There is virtual silence as I enter the studio of Monumental Games in the centre of Nottingham. Around 35 people - well, blokes actually - are crouched over terminals with hardly a word being uttered. Maybe it is because I am with the boss, Malcolm Clark CEO of CyberSports, the company behindfootballsuperstars.com.More likely they are simply enjoying their work despite a looming deadline of May next year to produce what is claimed to be the world's first massively multi-player online game (MMO ) to recreate football and its associated lifestyle. Unlike almost all computer football games, in which most of the players are automated, in this one there will be a human being somewhere in the world behind every avatar. If - and it is a big "if" - they can deliver to their promises they could havea global hit on their handswhich attracts a whole new audience into virtual worlds.For someone who spent much of his reporting life going around factories it is a bit weird seeing guys spending all day producing virtual goods that have no existence outside the ones and zeros of computer code. Is this our post-industrial future? One is building houses on a screen in different styles to place on a grid of roads, a second is engaged in "motion capture" to translate the real-life movements of sports people they have been tracking into realistic life-like movements for the avatars. Another is using tools enabling him to create and change whole landscapes in a second or two. And they are getting paid for it too.This game is high in ambition - to simulate football matches and the lifestyle surrounding them (pubs, nightclubs, posh apartments etc) by enabling two teams of up to 11 players a side to play each other in special leagues. They gain points as they hone their passing, defensive abilities or goalkeeping skills. Managers will actually be organising people rather than statistics (as in most football management games) and can hire scouts to check out talent in other leagues or go to a video library to view the recent games of someone they have got their eyes on for a transfer offer. Like Second Life it will have 3D sound, which gets louder the nearer you are to the person talking or shouting, thereby emulating the sounds of a football stadium. There will even be virtual journalists and television interviews with players climbing the celebrity ladder. It will cost nothing to enter the game or to play three or five a side on a field or recreation park but there will be plenty of ways to spend either real money or the game's own virtual currency on better boots, strip or ways of improving your personal performance.There will be a cornucopia of statistics relating to the skills of players based on their past performance on the field and even on what segments of the pitch they perform better in. I peeked over the shoulders of one of the developers with my little camera as some of the guys took time off to demo it.>It looked very impressive to me even though the game is still an an early ("closed alpha") stage with only 35 % of the motion capture so far done. Players hopefully won't be able to walk through the net in the final version. When I tried it myself I was, predictably, digitally challenged but it looks fairly easy to learn the necessary finger skills that are second nature to a gamer used to manipulating the W, A, S and D directional keys in synch with the mouse (used for passing the ball and adjusting the viewpoint).>Malcolm Clark, Stephen Marshall (his nephew who first thought up the game) and Rik Alexander, CEO of Monumental Games, the developer, are reconciled to the prospect of lots of male players adopting female avatars when they play. That's what blokes do. Clark thinks that women themselves, because of personal and multitasking skills, will turn out be surprisingly good football managers. Asked who would win in a gamers versus footballers match they agreed that gamers would have an early advantage but footballing skills such as positional play would favour footballers once they had managed the basics. CyberSports/Monumental are not the only ones moving into virtual football but others such as empireofsports.com see it as part of a portfolio of sports whereas, for the moment, CyberSports is dedicated just to football and its culture. There has already been a lot of interest from around the world from South Korea to Brazil. If they get the gaming right and it scales up successfully - both big "ifs" - this could be a global success.
My decision to omit PS2 from the awards voting 'procedure' proved controversial and I'm happy to admit it was a terrible mental error. But it happened and we've all got to live with it, so let's move on.Here then are the best of what the 'next-gen' PlayStation and Xbox machines had to offer this year as selected by the readers and writers of Gamesblog.PlayStation 3WinnerWarhawkSony's flight shooter survivedrumoured development difficultiesand the scrapping of its entire single-player component to become perhaps the first essential title of the PS3 era. The combination of excellent groundandair combat together with a gameplay system that manages to be both highly customisable and perfectly balanced make this a remarkably accomplished package. When you get 32-players on a lag-free connection, it's just pure adrenaline-churning gun fun.Runners-upEvolution's slick offroader, Motorstorm, edged in front of the likes of CoD 4, Heavenly Sword and Unchartered, but possibly would have been beaten by several PS2 titles if I'd have made this a PlayStation 2and3 category. There was also a smattering of votes for PlayStation Network downloads like flOw, Super Stardust and Locoroco Cocoreccho. I was expecting many more for Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction, despite its extremely familiar design, non-existent multiplayer and lack of any sort of certainty about its target audience. Er, then again...Xbox 360WinnerThe Orange BoxA really close call this one, but Valve's collection of Half-Life flavoured treats prevailed. It's a bargain alright, but that's only part of the story - Orange Box has so much more to offer than value. It really explores the FPS from every angle, providing a huge narrative adventure, a great multiplayer experience and an innovative puzzler - and each is definitive. Portal, especially, reminds me of what it was like to discover Castle Wolfenstein all those years ago - it forces you to reconsider the way in which 3D space can be represented on screen, and how you can interact with it. Meanwhile, Half-Life 2 and its episodes arguably did for gaming what the likes of X-Files and Buffy did for TV series'; presenting a compelling over-arching plot with lots of characters, twists and side-stories, and upping the narrative ante for everything that followed. We'll be playing these games for many months.Runners-upBioshock was closest. It has divided opinion among readers, but it is a game that more-or-less demands that you have an opinion about it. Behind it Greg's fave, Crackdown, as well as Mass Effect, Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3, which all attracted a similar amount of votes. I was surprised not to see more for Forza 2 or Aleks' choice Assassin's Creed. And what about Guitar Hero II and Castlevania? One vote each?! What were you thinking?
This may fall into the "quixotic efforts" bucket, but Colette Bowe, chair of the Ofcom Consumer Panel, says itwants a mandatory code of practicefor ISPs, to make them stop using all that "up to 8Mbps" stuff in their adverts - since "up to" includes "0", the speed that quite a few people get, especially when trying to switch to new providers.The key (well, pretty much the whole) points:The code of practice should include a commitment from ISPs to:1: Inform consumers, during the sales process, about the theoretical maximum line speed they could expect2: Provide clear information upfront about the factors that can affect line speed3: Contact customers two weeks after installation to provide them with the actual line speed supported by their line4: If the actual line speed is significantly lower than the package they bought, consumers should have a penalty-free choice to move to a different package or, in certain circumstances, opt-out from their contract.Interesting that they don't suggest that you should pay less if your line speed is slower. The reality is, of course, that you're probably not going to get a faster absolute line speed (as measured by, say, your router) by changing ISPs, unless you find one that has lesscontention. (But if you've got lots of ISPs, they'll probably be using BT's PlusStream package - as that link talks about - and so, I'm guessing, using the same frequencies for the data. Does that mean the contention ratio is the total of all connections at a particular frequency, or can ISPs separate their traffic? Broadband engineers to the fore, please.)Colette Bowe - ah, memory lane - said: "This code would establish agreed processes to give the customer the best information during and after the sales process, and to give them flexibility to move freely to different packages that reflect the actual speeds with which their ISPs are able to provide them," Bowe said.OK, now, how likely is this? Well, ifeveryoneadhered to it, that would be marvellous. It would also be amazing, since it would imply that BT Openreach (which does all that line work when things aren't up to scratch) would have a much bigger engineering team, and that ISPs would therefore be able to pay them. Where would that money come from? Not ISPs' huge coffers of money, since it's not a great business, profit-wise (though the cash flow can be good). No, the money for this would likely come from you.That said, there are quite a few campaigns around this - Web User (I think) has one, and the BBC's iPM show did an item about it last week. It narks people who think everyone else is cackling away at 8Mbps. I blame the adverts.What would make a lot more sense would be adverts that pointed out how much line speeds can vary, and showing you where you can find out - BT has afree checker by postcode, after all. (It's spot-on for mine: 5.5Mbps.) Point to that, change "up to" to "maximum", and then wait around forADSL2+. You hadn't heard? Speeds of up to 24Mbps. We'll write about it next year...Oh, bonus point - Colette Bowe was, previously and briefly, much more famous.. but can you recall for what? (No search engines allowed.)
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Richter Scales, a part-time a capella group, have posted an updated verson of their popular Bubble 2.0 song. Thefirst versionwastaken downby a photographer, Lane Hartwell, whoobjectedto one of her pictures appearing for less than a second without payment or credit.The group says:As background, when we created Version 1.0 we didn't see similar YouTube videos crediting every image used, nor did what we read about fair use point us towards the need to do so. Also, when Lane emailed us shortly after the video was released, we immediately gave her a credit, with a link, in the "About This Video" section on YouTube, but weren't able to assess whether that was sufficient because Lane wouldn't talk to us via phone and didn't respond to our emails with any requests or proposals before she issued the DMCA take-down request.In the new video, Hartwell's picture has been replaced with a picture ofKara Swisherfrom All Things Digital. (A clip from anATD videoopens the Bubble video, so Swisher comes out of this a winner, while Hartwell is a loser.)The new Bubble video has credits at the end, and on theRichter Scales site.Hartwell, who still wants her pound of flesh, issending the group an invoice, but she doesn't divulge the amount. Since she says she'll "use the money to pay my lawyer," it's likely to be very much more than the use of the photo was actually worth (unless her lawyer charges in cents). Still, Richter Scales could always offer her a share of the profits. The group says:the Richter Scales is a not for profit organization from which members make no money. This past Friday, for example, we sang to a standing room only crowd in Noe Valley, yet lost money on the gig just as we have on every show we've put on since we started up in 2000. Another statistic putting our economics into perspective is that in the week Version 1.0 was up, we sold only eight CDs of previously recorded music. That's one CD sold per 125,000 viewers of the video. If this rate holds, the "profits" from CD sales will equal the $355 we spent making the video when Version 1.1 gets its 3.5 millionth view. (Mommas, don't let your babies grow up to be a cappella singers.)In this case, "profits" should read "revenues". Not even Prince makes 100% on a CD sale.
Sensible World of Soccer has launched on Xbox Live Arcade! Hurrah, etc. But before you get too excited it looks like there *could* be a problem with disconnections when trying to play online. Earlyforumreports suggest the game disconnects from Live when you try to play. I'm not able to get on till tonight so I've no idea if this is true or not but if anyone is able to get the game then do post your impressions. Problems with the online side of the game were the reason SWOS was delayed from August in the first place. Let's hope they haven't rush released it for Christmas without fixing the online first. Especially as they seem to havesnuck in some in-game advertising. Last year's playable yet patchy PS2 remake undoubtedly tarnished the Sensible Soccer "brand", so there is loads riding on this Xbox Live version. From a nostalgia and gameplay point of view we all want Sensi to be great - let's hope the feedback from today proves that it still is.
The brand spanking newTech Weekly podcastis up on The Guardian's site and features me, Bobbie Johnson, Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss talking about our favourite shiny things of 2007. I managed to get a few games in there, giving the gamesblog's 2p on the best of the year. Next week, we discuss the future of gaming in 2008, so keep an ear (and eye) out! You can listen (and subscribe, if you will)here.
First, some statsfrom Gamesindustry.biz. This month, DS has broken the UK weekly hardware sales -twice. The handheld shifted 185,000 units in the first week of December then over 200,000 last week.Meanwhile, the site also reports that Wii is thought to have surpassed the installed user base of the Xbox 360 in the UK, selling a futher 100,000 machines last week - not bad considering the much-talked of shortages.Elsewhere,it seemsthe recent PSP firmware update provides users with internet radio compatibility, plus remote play access to every PSone game via PS3.
Dating website Match.com hopes to attract new customers by becoming the first big matchmaker to partner with the social networking site Facebook. It is offering a "Little Black Book" application to Facebook users from next week, which helps them find potential partners.The move comes as analysts argue that free social networking sites pose a serious threat to subscription services such as Match. Some dating sites have already left the market as networking operations such as Facebook and MySpace have rapidly expanded their non-paying audiences. Other matchmakers have become more like networking sites by introducing chat functions and video clips.But dating sites also argue that the social networking phenomenon has helped them increase their overall audience by breaking down people's inhibitions about meeting online.Jason Stockwood, head of the UK arm of Match, said: "As the market leader, our biggest strategic challenge is to grow the category and our experience tells us that social networkers have a high propensity to try online dating, which makes this a natural move for us."Match.com shares many of the same characteristics as a social network - both are about bringing people together. Sites like Facebook are great at helping people manage their existing relationship networks, but Match.com helps people expand these by meeting new people with an interest in forming romantic relationships."The Little Black Book service marks a departure from Match.com's subscription model, instead giving customers the chance to meet its members on a "pay-per-contact" basis.The move is also backed by evidence that the opinions of friends play a key role in dating - at the core of TV presenter Sarah Beeny's Mysinglefriend.com, which allows users to sign up single friends.Using the Little Black Book application, friends can share potential matches with any of their other friends on Facebook and can purchase keys to "unlock" a potential match for a friend.Match's announcement comes after research last week showed Britons were the heaviest users of networking sites in Europe.British adults log on to social networking sites on average 23 times a month and spend longer on them than their European neighbours - an average of 5.3 hours a month, according to the media regulator Ofcom.
"Eat this!"Yesterday, NASAannouncedthat itsChandra X-ray Observatoryhad spotted a powerful jet being blasted from a super massive black hole into a neighbouring galaxy. "This never-before witnessed galactic violence may have a profound effect on planets in the jet's path and trigger a burst of star formation in its destructive wake," said the space agency.Amazing stuff, but what's even better is that the ray, filled with deadly X-rays and gamma radiation, is being shot from what's known as a 'death star' galaxy, named for its destructive properties.This, quite frankly, is the best game design concept I've heard in quite a while. It is pure XBLA/PlayStation Network fodder - the natural successor to Geometry Wars, Mutant Storm and Space Giraffe. Imagine controlling a rogue galaxy as it tumbles through space, taking out planets with a ray of particles travelling at the speed of light. Yeah, okay, in essence it'll play out like a standard space shooter - but how often do you get to control a galaxy - let alone adeath stargalaxy?Have any readers been similiarly inspired by the game design possibilities of recent developments in astrophysics? Gamesblog would love to hear from you.
My headline might be putting it a bit strongly, but the message of Jakob Nielsen's latestAlertbox columnis that most ordinary sites are (or would be) wasting their time adding so-called Web 2.0 features if they haven't got the basics right. In fact, Web 2.0 features can be counterproductive:The bottom line? While a modest 2.0 infusion can be beneficial, advanced features are rarely the most important contributor to good user experience or profitable websites. If you get caught up in the hype, you divert attention and resources from the simpler things that really matter. This opportunity cost is the real reason to take it easy on Web 2.0.Before throwing spending money at "2.0" features, make sure that you have all the "1.0" requirements working to perfection.A lot of it is the press's fault. We usually cover the exciting or odd sites -- the atypical ones -- not the bread-and-butter stuff that keeps the wheels of commerce turning.Of course, some of the things that are atypical today will become commonplace tomorrow. It's not long since the idea of having a company web page sounded pretty outlandish to mainstream businesses. But by the time Web 2.0 e-commerce sites become standard, we'll probably be writing about Web 4.0 novelties, and whichever bright set of Stanford grads could overthrow Google's trillion-dollar market-strangling Evil Empire....
Okay, I've counted your votes (check out the photo of my notes above!), I've consulted Greg and Aleks for their skew and now here's the first part of our Official Gamesblog Awards for 2007. I kept things simple, so no MMORPGs, Flash games or, controversially, PS2 titles - hey, it was enough work with just seven categories.Anyway, here are what we all reckon are the best PC, handheld and Wii games of the year...Best PC gameWinner:Portal (Orange Box)Valve's follow-up to cult freeware classicNarbacular Drop, is just a joyously challenging manipulation of traditional FPS environments and activities, providing a new weapon and form of transport in one fell swoop then constructing a range of stimulating environments in which to play. This one was a clear favourite with Gamesblog readers, earning twice as many mentions as anything else. The good news is, the brief introduction to the portal concept provided as part of the Orange Box package is just that - an introduction. Valve has barely started with this concept, with several interviews over the last year, hinting at a myriad of directions - including multiplayer (see Kim Swift'sinterview with IGN) - planned.Runners-up:Both Football Manager 2007/8 and the World of Warcraft expansion pack,Burning Crusade, fared well with you lot. I've just started playing FM 2008 after a long self-imposed exile from Sports Interactive's ridiculously deep management series and it's as life-consuming as ever, with the soap opera of media relations and manager rivalries beginning to feel integral to the experience. Behind these two titles lurkedDawn of War: Dark CrusadeandCrysis, which I was expecting to perform better.I was also glad to see a few offbeat selections, including the undeniably addictive casual gaming phenomenon,Bookworm Adventures("Finally, a half decent word puzzle game with some variety and depth!" exclaimed Popzeus), and the MAME version of Street Fighter III 3rd Strike. There was also a nostalgia-tinged vote for the new episodic adventures ofSam and Max, stars of the 1993 LucasArts point-n-clicker.Best handheld gameWinner:Legend of Zelda: The Phantom HourglassThe latest masterpiece in the action RPG series is beautifully presented and perfectly paced, chopped into bite-sized adventure chunks for the hurried adventurer on the go. Importantly, it has both accessibility and depth - a combination that most publishers struggle with, but which Nintendo seems to be able to pull off with a sort of Mozart-like instinctive genius. Naturally, some Zelda veterans complained of dumbing down, disliking the simplified sailing and the lack of alternative traditional controls. But most agreed it was a game all DS ownershadto experience.Runners-Up:Hourglass wasn't the runaway winner. Greg's preference,Puzzle Quest, ran it pretty close, the astute combination of RPG character progression with casual gem-based puzzler voraciously gobbling up your gaming hours. From here, your selections were spread more widely than in any other category, withFinal Fantasy TacticsandJeanne d'Arcsplitting the traditional RPG vote down the middle, andElite Beat Agentsand Metal Gear Portable Ops creeping around close-by. Phoenix Wright and Wipeout Pulse got a couple of mentions each. No votes for Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga or Syphon Filter: Logan's Shadow, though, and very few for mobile games - perhaps I didn't make their inclusion in this category clear enough. Yes, that must be the reason.Best Wii gameWinner:Super Mario GalaxyBy no means an astonishing surprise, Mario's wonder-filled platformer earned the sort of majority a Liberal Democrat leadership candidate could only dream of. It is another awe-inspiring achievement for Nintendo, a gigantic pleasure dome, filled with brilliant puzzles, stimulating ideas and pitch-perfect level design. Importantly, it finds stuff to do with the Wiimote that most other 'serious' non-Wii Sports titles have failed to even begin to consider. Better than Mario 64? Erm, maybe. Probably. Sure, why not.Runners-Up:Metroid Prime 3scooped several votes which put it in an extremely distant second. After that, a few of you apologetically attempted to nominate Wii Sports, while two went forResident Evil 4. Nintendo-published fare like Mario Strikers and Super Paper Mario attracted a single vote each. There was even a mention forMario and Sonic at the Olympics("My three year old loves it !" assured Greymin).Next: Xbox 360 and PS3 titles...
It's been brewing for a while, but today we are officially launching ournew weekly podcast() from the hi-tech digital ninjas that are the Guardian's technology team.Each week you'll be able to listen to news, interviews and unfettered opinions, all hosted by the inimitableAleks Krotoski.We're kicking things off with a look back on 2007, with panellistsCharles Arthur,Jemima KissandBobbie Johnsonraking over the coals of some of the year's biggest hits and misses.Was theiPhone all it cracked up to be? Have you had enough ofFacebook? Were youunderwhelmed by Vista, excited byHalo 3oroutraged by discgate? All that and more in just half an hour of aural goodness.In our next episode - available over Christmas week - you'll be able to hear our thoughts on what 2008 has in store, and come the new year, fresh episodes will be available to download every Tuesday. We'll start by taking you around CES, Macworld, Silicon Valley and Britain's tech scene.It's our first pass, so expect things to get better - but feel free to leave your comments, thoughts and suggestions below.·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·or download this to your computer·The podcast feed URL·Visit our Facebook group
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
On virtual worlds uberblog Terra Nova, Father Of MMOs Richard Bartle asks, "Why Fantasy"? Actually, what he asks is,Here's a simple question for you, which I suspect does not have a simple answer: why is Fantasy the predominant genre of game-like virtual worlds?Oh hurrah - indeed, why?Early commentators tend towards the "Tolkien Is My God" argument, suggesting that everyone played D&amp;D and read Lord of the Rings in their youths, and thus everyone has fairy tales in their hearts. For example,More people seek a low barrier to entry and/or a child-like wonder and curiosity. They rule out science fiction and reality, and move to fantasy. They see what is out there in fantasy, and see Tolkien derivatives. They seem familiar so they buy and play them. Companies see these purchasing habits, and keep the pipeline full. Repeat over multiple generations.Personally, I have a phobia of anything LOTR-related and have never rolled a dice with more than 6 sides. This orc and elf-centred online experience is enormously off-putting even to a seasoned gamer like me, and one of the reasons I still have never picked up World of Warcraft.I know there areother MMO genresout there - notably those set in space (another final frontier I find irritating) - and there are a couple of big "realistic" online games forthcoming, like Real Time Worlds' APB and the rumoured GTA Online. So my question is thus:If you were to design an online world andno fantasy or sci fi was allowed, where would you set it, what would you do and how would you measure progress?If you're inspired, we'll welcome any and all art, which we'll feature over the next couple of holiday weeks. Send submissions to gamesblog +at+ gmail.com.
