Last week's Newsbytes mentioned that PC World would erase a disk for £29.99. Can I recommend Darik's Boot and Nuke program (dban.org) instead? It is almost certainly as effective as PC World's erase, doesn't involve giving your hard disk to a third party, and is free.William HudsonDBAN is run from the PC and can be installed on a floppy disk, CD-R, DVD-R, or USB Flash drive: pick one you can boot from. Note that it erases everything, including the hard-drive partition table, so your hard-drive letters will disappear.
I have a new Dell Inspiron 530s that will not boot: it does not get beyond showing the manufacturer's logo. I suspect the hard drive is not spinning up. I could, of course, contact Dell and it would no doubt be replaced. However, having just finished setting it up and transferring all files from its predecessor, I am wondering if there is anything I can do to try to get the hard drive going again.Simon DetreIt could be a hard-drive problem, but it may just be a loose cable or a failure in another component. PCs run a POST (power-on self-test) when booted, so you should get one or more beeps to help you find out what has gone wrong. There's a guide to what the beep codes meanhere. You can also try pressing F12 as soon as the Dell logo appears, to see if your PC will run the Dell Diagnostics pre-boot test routine. If it does, write down any error codes, then contact Dell for advice.An alternative is to try booting your PC from a "live" version of Linux, ie one that runs from the CD. If the hard drive works, this should enable you to make a backup copy of your installation. If not, you will probably have to install all your software again.
Despite the shaky economy and fears over the health of chief executive Steve Jobs, iPod maker Apple has shaken off the gloom to register record financial results.Over the three months to December 2008, Apple had revenues of $10.17bn (£7.3bn) and profits in excess of $1.6bn, selling record numbers of iPods and iPhones along the way."We're proud… particularly in comparison to the rest of the market," said Apple's chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer.The figures are the company's best quarterly results, up marginally on the same period last year and with revenue breaking the $10bn barrier for the first time.Between October and December, Apple sold 22m iPods and 4.36m iPhones worldwide, pushing up the company's share in both markets. Apple also registered computer sales gains – selling 2.5m Macs over the period – although it said it was increasingly seeing consumers move away from desktop computers and towards laptops.Apple has had to deal with speculation and concern over the health of Jobs, who survived pancreatic cancer in 2004. Earlier this month, he revealed he was suffering from a "hormonal imbalance" before then announcing that his health problems had become "more complex" and saying he would take a five-month leave of absence to aid his recovery.Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, who is deputising for Jobs, said: "The values of our company are extremely well entrenched. I think regardless of who is in what job, those values are so embedded in this company that Apple will do extremely well."He did not comment on reports that the US financial regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission, was investigating the way in which the news of Jobs's health was revealed to shareholders.Despite the record results, Oppenheimer warned the coming months could prove more difficult, particularly without the bumper Christmas season to boost figures.Although the company is ploughing ahead with plans to continue expanding its popular retail operation – with another 25 shops worldwide in the next 12 months – Oppenheimer said it was difficult to forecast sales for the next quarter, suggesting revenue guidelines of $7.6bn-8bn.Apple stock registered gains of more than 8% in after-hours trading.Other technology companies fared less well.Auction site eBay reported a 31% drop in earnings from the same period last year, with a $367m profit over the last three months, down from $531m,.Chip manufacturer Intel announced plans to close factories in Malaysia and the Philippinesand end production at facilities in Oregon and California. The closures will affect up to 6,000 of the company's 86,000 employeess.
With its current sales down by more than 20%, Intel is cutting back.It says:The company plans to close two existing assembly test facilities in Penang, Malaysia and one in Cavite, Philippines, and will halt production at Fab 20, an older 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Hillsboro, Ore. Additionally, wafer production operations will end at the D2 facility in Santa Clara, Calif.These actions "are expected to affect between 5,000 and 6,000 employees worldwide," but the number of lay-offs will be smaller. Some staff will be offered other positions at Intel.AsReutersnotes:The announcement comes a day after the world's largest maker of microprocessors used in personal computers slashed prices on a number of its processors, and a week after it reported a decline in fourth-quarter revenue amid slower global demand.It's a big change from the days when PC manufacturers had to compete to get all the chips they wanted.Less than a week ago, smaller rivalAMDsaid it planned to cut 1,100 staff, or 9% of its workforce. This followed a loss of 600 jobs last month, and 1,600 jobs earlier last year. Senior staff have taken a pay cut.
If you found the shift to digital TV confusing, and are still unsure whether you need high-definition TV, prepare for more bemusement: 3D TV is on the way - but with every possibility of a format war. And, worryingly, it could involve buying another new television. Taking TV into the third dimension has been a dream for decades. In the 1970s there were real broadcasts, which used the familiar red and green glasses. In 2006, France Telecom demonstrated its own version, using a fibre-optic connection. And just before Christmas, Sky confirmed it is involved, having made experimental recordings of a Ricky Hatton boxing match.But the BBC is interested too. All of which makes it hard not to think that we'll end up with a format war. But will it be like VHS and Betamax, where one took over the world? Or DVD-Audio v Super Audio CD, where "superior" music CD formats pushed by the record industry flopped?Polarised positionsSky is touting one version: it uses a technology that requires a new television, with a barely affordable price tag (about &pound;2,500). Philips has a technology called Wow, which demands televisions with a price tag at least double that.Technically, if not in price, however, Sky's version feels like a step backwards, as it uses glasses when there are glasses-free alternatives; however, those alternatives have led some users to report motion sickness and other drawbacks. Sky's glasses will be cheap, look like ordinary sunglasses (the 3D process relies on polarisation: one lens has horizontal stripes, the other vertical) and were reasonably comfortable over my ordinary prescription glasses.Brian Lenz, Sky's head of product design and innovation, hopes to avoid a damaging format war. "We're announcing what we're doing now so we can avoid precisely that," he says, claiming that feedback on the Sky model has been positive. "We showed a Ricky Hatton fight and the audience loved it," he says.John Zubrzycki, of the BBC's engineering department, says that the push at the moment is to make 3D TV display-independent, so it won't matter which sort of TV the viewer buys. Broadcasting the signal itself will require extra bandwidth - Zubrzycki estimates 20% more. "We want to broadcast 3D in a form that as wide a range as possible of televisions will be able to show," he says. "The standard needs to be 2D-compatible as well, because of the spectrum availability - there isn't a lot." The ideal, he believes, would be a handover more like when TV began to move into colour in 1968 than the digital switchover of today. People in the 1970s could watch every broadcast on a monochrome television; they just wouldn't see the colours until they changed their equipment. Zubrzycki's hope is that 3D content will be beamed to sets that will either display a 3D picture if they can decode it, or a 2D picture if they can't, without the viewer feeling pressured to upgrade.One problem will be capturing the 3D image in the first place. Zubrzycki represents the BBC on the EU-backed 3d4you (3d4you.eu), and its focus is very much on getting beyond the stereoscopic model used in the cinema. "That enables a type of 3D that can be shown on the displays that are emerging, which allows you more than two views, so you have the ability to get a bit of parallax [the movement of the background relative to the foreground] if you move your head around." Parallax, he explains, "makes it easier for people who have one lazy eye to see in 3D because they can get around it by moving their head".Passes at glassesZubrzycki stresses that his remit is in capture rather than display, but he understands that customers will be bewildered by the options if they want to buy into 3D early. Some methods use spectacles with shutters, others polarising lenses, and some don't use them at all. "There may even be something that's yet to be launched that will trump the lot, you can't really tell," he says.Sky's Lenz is the first to admit that the Sky offering isn't going to work for everybody in the longer term, mostly because of the glasses. "Glasses-free is the long-term objective," he says. Cost-sensitivity is another constraint. Sky, at least, is happy that the polarised glasses only cost a couple of pounds to replace if someone sits on them, unlike some of the more sophisticated competition. It's also important, Lenz suggests, that customers will be able to use their existing Sky HD boxes to store 3D content, needing only to upgrade their television sets. Protecting people from the need to spend more than is necessary is a vital part of the strategy, he stresses.None of this will matter if the schedules aren't filled with interesting content in 3D. And there isn't much sign of that yet. The BBC, for example, still produces some of its "flagship" programming, such as EastEnders and Doctor Who, in standard definition only, despite the emergence of the BBC HD channel. BS11, a Japanese broadcaster, has been broadcasting 20 minutes a day of 3D since March 2008, but this isn't going to have everyone buying up new sets in the middle of a recession. The BBC confirmed to the Guardian that there was no strategy for rolling out 3D programming, as it's too early; it was also unable to say when some of the programmes mentioned above would go into HD.Treat with careFor younger people, however, 3D isn't just about television programming. Paul Donovan, a senior analyst with the research company Gartner, says he believes there is a real opportunity in the games market. "In games you start off with a computer-generated image, so obviously multiple camera angles are not an issue."The other possibility - suggested by almost everyone pushing 3D TV - is "treating" older films and TV to create 3D versions. Donovan is sceptical: the nearest precedent - colourisation, in the 1980s - was a flop. "I have DVDs on which there's an alternative colour version of a black-and-white film and I haven't even watched it. Why would you?" Many consumers will feel the same, he says, about 3D on older programmes and films.The other precedent is, of course, the 3D broadcasting experiment of the 1970s, which failed completely. Having the BBC around to experiment without pressure for an immediate broadcast may help this time; Zubrzycki points out that the BBC made the first drama in HD in 1987. "Maybe we'll be making something that people won't watch for decades yet," he says.At the recent Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, major manufacturers including Sony, LG, Panasonic and Samsung showed off their latest 3D TV technologies. In the main part these systems still need viewers to wear glasses, and 3D filming requires extra cameras - meaning the technology was usually touted as an extra for special events or animated films.What's certain, and appears to be agreed by all players, is that the consumer doesn't want to be caught in yet another format war. In an ailing economy it's by no means certain that consumers will be willing or able to buy expensive new kit even if they want to - especially if there's a risk of buying the wrong &pound;2,500-plus set. 3D TV has everything to play for - but everything to lose too.Cinema - and CGI - leads the wayThe big screen is the place where 3D works best, and cinema is currently undergoing its third flirtation with what many still consider just a gimmick.The filmsThe first, in the 1950s, saw mainly horror, suspense and science-fiction films - from House of Wax to Alfred Hitchcock's Dial M For Murder and It Came from Outer Space - given the treatment. There was a minor revival in the 1980s, with films such as Jaws 3-D, Friday the 13th Part III and Parasite failing to wow audiences.But now that digital technology has advanced to the stage where 3D filmmaking is easier, cheaper and looks better than ever, we're seeing a renaissance. Most of the major film studios are gearing up for a big 3D push. Both DreamWorks and Pixar have announced that all their future computer-animated output will be in 3D. Pixar (and its owner, Disney) probably have the biggest slate. Coming to a screen near you over the next 18 months or so are: Bolt, above (the first CGI film from Walt Disney Animation Studios under its new boss, John Lasseter); Jonas Brothers: The 3D Concert Experience; G-Force (a blend of live action and CGI); Toy Story and Toy Story 2 (re-rendered in 3D); Up; A Christmas Carol (CGI, but using motion capture - think 2007's Beowulf); Toy Story 3; Rapunzel; Newt; Bear and the Bow; Cars 2; and Alice in Wonderland. DreamWorks has Monsters vs Aliens, How to Train Your Dragon and Shrek Goes Fourth; Dimension Films has Piranha 3-D; New Line Cinema has Final Destination: Death Trip 3D; 20th Century Fox has Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs and Avatar; and Lionsgate has Alpha and Omega.Will it catch on?Computer animation seems to have the edge over live action in 3D, which is probably why most of the films listed above will be in CGI. And although the polarising glasses used in cinemas now are far better than the red-and-green cardboard jobs of the 1950s, I can't see audiences embracing 3D until the glasses are not needed. There's also a shortage of cinemas that can show digital 3D films – about 80 in the UK, and 2,000 worldwide.Stuart O'Connor
Real sex is difficult for the Googlebot. If humans argue so much about distinguishing between erotica and pornography, imagine the difficulty search algorithms have with the topic. Two years ago, an admitted bug in a change to Google's ranking algorithm caused many respected and popular sexuality-related sites to suddenly lose their rank insearch results. The bug was soon fixed, but not before it had made Google's treatment of sexual material into a prominent issue.Although such events often spawn theories about political motivations, the explanation is almost always along the lines of a problem with Google's spam-filtering; instances of governmental censorship of search engines in western countries are very rare. As porn is one of the most popular subjects for spam, legitimate writers concerned with sexual topics can find themselves filtered out as collateral damage.One site that seems continually beset with Google problems is Comstock Films, which offers "erotic documentary films about real couples, having real sex" (comstockfilms.com). Tony Comstock writes frequently on his blog about the effects of Google's treatment of the site, his frustrations in dealing with the mysterious factors which determine search placements, and what he sees as the societal implications.For example, regarding searching for the words "real sex",he lamented: "A couple of days ago Seth Finkelstein wrote a post linking to my 'Taking the Real Sex out of [Real Sex] Searches' post. This morning, Seth's post is page two on the 'do not filter my results search' for 'real sex', while my original post is somewhere around page 50. If I write about sex, the algorithm says it's irrelevant, but if Seth writes about me writing about sex, it's relevant. The algorithm isn't just 'advanced proprietary technology', it's postmodern too!".However, obscure search engine optimisation enigmas are not all that can go wrong with Google. Some troubles are as simple as the (presumably) arbitrary decisions made in compiling a list of words considered unsafe. When Comstock recently let me know he'd found that Google's "SafeSearch" option ("web pages containing pornography and explicit sexual content are blocked from search results") entirely excluded the word "clitoris" from searching, but not "penis", my inclination was to gently break it to him that this sort of stuff was very old news.In 1995, I'd seen prohibited keywords in my originalcensorware blacklist decryptions. In 2003, I worked on alegal briefin a case arguing against a law about censorware in libraries, where one free-speech argument was that the tendency of censorware to disapprove of words such as "gay" and "lesbian" constituted improper viewpoint discrimination. An investigation I'd planned, examining which celebrities' names appeared on decrypted censorware search blacklists, was never completed, as nobody seemed to consider it significant or newsworthy. And Google's SafeSearch setting in particular had been publicised as having serious flaws in 2003, when astudy by a then-Harvard student, Ben Edelman, documented many problems.What anti-censorware researchers interested in law and policy might have viewed as a minor and long-known example of censorware weakness was regarded by sexuality authors as deeply connected to their concerns of marginalisation and stigmatisation. The sex criticSusie Bright wrote: "The people suffering from being firewalled and banned aren't commercial porn-makers designed with hardcore prurient appeal - they're educators, healthcare professionals, midwives, nurses, doctors, researchers, artists, writers, filmmakers, political activists, critics and analysts - all of who find their interest in women's lives to be shrouded in the great internet burka of 'safeness'.".It's become almost a cliche to point out that algorithmic choices made by search engines represent social values. But different factions care about different values, as demonstrated in the case of complex topics such as sex. As more groups begin to see how Google's determinations affect their own interests, we'll likely see repeated outrage from people newly arrived to these debates.sethf.com/infothought/blog
If Silvio Berlusconi gets his way, we might. Italy's conservative prime minister, born in 1936, has a plan to control the web. His interior minister, Roberto Maroni, has hinted it could mean every user having an "identification number".Such a Prisoner-style approach might sound far-fetched. But Berlusconi is in a position to make a difference. Italy took on the rotating presidency of the G8 - the "Group of 8" most powerful nations - this month, and it will be Berlusconi and his officials who draw up the agenda for the next meeting of the rich nations' club, in Sardinia on 9-10 July.What is worrying Italian web enthusiasts is that last month Berlusconi said he intended to present "a proposal for the international regulation of the internet system" to the next G8 meeting.Several democratic governments have tried imposing controls. South Korea is thought to have been the first to pass an internet-specific censorship law, in 1995.  One of the most web-savvy MPs in Berlusconi's party, Antonio Palmieri, admitted the plan had taken him by surprise. Palmieri, a delegate to the 2005 World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis, cautioned web users against "reacting in a dogmatic fashion". He told the online daily Punto Informatico that "the net is not a utopia and it is unthinkable there should not be rules".Many Italian opposition MPs would agree. But not Antonio Di Pietro, the leader of the small Italy of Principles party and one of the first Italian politicians to understand and explore the net's potential. Di Pietro is mistrustful of Italy's prime minister and fervently convinced that Berlusconi has deep-seated anti-democratic tendencies.On his blog, Di Pietro noted that Italy was among the European states with the lowest net usage, and argued that it "doesn't need gagging and censorship, but development".Yet Italy's bloggers in particular already operate under the threat of prosecution and conviction.In 1948, the government passed a law making it an offence to publish a newspaper without registering it with the authorities. The aim, understandable enough at the time, was to scotch the growth of an underground press that could have undermined Italy's still-fragile republic.Yet in 2001, the provisions of the law were extended, by a centre-left government, to web-based "publications". And last year saw the first conviction.A court in Sicily imposed a token &euro;150 (&pound;137) fine, with costs, on a local historian and journalist, Carlo Ruta. His crime? Posting a feisty blog, accadeinsicilia.net, that was judged to be a newspaper that did not conform to the law because its "editor" had failed to register it.Don't bother looking for Ruta's site, by the way. It was closed down in 2004. He now has another - or is it a newspaper? - atleinchieste.com.
Looking through the Beta windowI just thought I'd stop being one of the silent majority for a change. I've been getting a bit irritated about the oft-repeated bashing of Windows Vista (Getting to grips with Windows 7, 15 January).I bought a Dell laptop in April 2007 with Vista Home Premium. It has been fine since day one and remains so. The Dell is an Intel dual-core with 2GB of memory and is plenty fast enough. I use a Microsoft optical mouse and an ageing (but not ancient) HP printer; also an iPod nano and a Garmin GPS. I use Microsoft Office 2003 and other open-source software including Firefox for browsing. Nothing changed with the Vista SP1 update. It all works without any dramas.Les Hewitt,WarringtonWhy don't you publish an article on Ubuntu? I deleted XP from my system before Christmas and will never go back to Windows again.Please inform people that there is a choice, an alternative to Windows that is not only simpler and safer (Windows will always be plagued by viruses and malware) but completely free, with a growing library of open-source software. In a recession, why would people want to pay for another Windows OS, when it is the same old dog with a few new tricks?Martin Wheeler,by emailDriving at the truthLetters to the Guardian (Letters and blogs, 15 January) suggested that Which? had misadvised people and that "smashing hard drives to prevent data theft could lead to thousands of useful, working PCs being put out of service".This isn't the case. Which? has always supported the recycling of PCs. Hard drives are cheap and replaceable and destroying them doesn't mean the rest of the computer can't be recycled. Which? Computing research found that even if you delete files from your hard drive, or pay a company to wipe it clean, it's still possible for personal data to be recovered. We all have sensitive data, such as bank account details, on our PCs and if you want to be 100% sure that this won't fall into the wrong hands, you should physically destroy the drive.Sarah Kidner,editor, Which? ComputingA demand for on-demand"People have been predicting for years that bookshops would gain print-on-demand facilities ... But apart from the technical aspects, I don't see who gains from printing on demand." (Amazon Upgrade: a really useful idea that nobody has heard of, 15 January.)How about this for a reason - lots of books go out of print, I suppose for economic reasons. So, when you want one you have to search around Amazon or the likes. But these books could be retained on a print-on-demand basis, like the film-hire libraries, where it is economic to have a few copies with low usage of each but overall there is a useful return. And then there are ebooks and readers - I can see a use for them too that complements the printed versions.Brian Tyler,HandforthNo recession in spamHas the volume of spam fallen because of the recession? (Newly asked questions, 15 January.) On the day that Nick Ryan posed that question, my Gmail account displayed 632 items of spam, more than 10 times the (already too high) usual number. Bah.Jean Morgan,FordingbridgeA small price to payIn 1993, I needed a computer. I was attracted first by price and then by performance to the Performa 200 from Apple - from knowing nothing about the machine to typing Greek in just a few minutes! Price and performance should attract people to the Mac mini (No surprises at Apple's final Macworld, 8 January). Are Apple really going to be so silly as to discontinue it? They need to go on making good computers for people who have less to spend.Roger Larkinson,by email• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk. Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Roughly once a year, Apple releases an upgrade to its productivity suite iWork. This year's update is the predictably-named iWork '09 and hit shelves just over a week ago. Like always, the upgrade features yet more on-screen eye candy, plenty of well-designed new templates and some slick new features: but is it worth the money?There's no entirely new desktop apps this time around, with Apple choosing instead to further improve and mature the three existing products: Pages, which handles desktop publishing and word processing; Numbers, the spreadsheet and charting app; and Keynote, the presentation tool doted upon by Steve Jobs.Numbers receives a wealth of feature updates this time around. A far more user-friendly take on pivot tables, known as Table Categories, makes it really easy to take flat-data tables and better organise them.For users intimidated by Microsoft Excel's pivot-table wizard (and I'll include myself there), Apple's reworking is a breath of fresh air. You simply right-click the relevant column you want to sort by, and choose the "Categorise by this Column" option. You're not limited to one category, though and can keep adding or re-ordering categories and sub-categories to you liking.Table Categories may be the big new feature, but there's some new additions elsewhere in the application, including support for far more formulae than before – 262 if you're curious. There's far better formula editing, and also a searchable index of formulae used in a particular spreadsheet too that makes managing (and finding) forumulae on a spreadsheet far easier. All in, Numbers '09 is a smart upgrade that adds a number of the features missing from the debut version but still manages to stay relevant to home and small-business users.There are lots of little improvements in the new version of word processor PagesPage layout and word processor Pages has been around slightly longer, though it too has a few new features to keep wordsmiths happy. Full-screen mode is invaluable in blocking out distractions such as Twitter to ensure full focus on your documents, and the new Outline view is handy for document planning. You simply enter the headings and sub-headers to layout the document, and once you toggle out of Outline view you're presented with a skeleton in which you can enter content.Pages '09 features an improved Quick Look preview that displays a page-thumbnail alongside a full-page imageThere's also a few other small, yet handy, additions to Pages this year that caught my eye: playing catch-up with Microsoft Word there's a live-updating word count at the bottom of every document in both regular and full-screen views; additional PDF export options now mean you can password-restrict what recipients can do with yours PDFs – removing the arduous task of firing up Adobe Acrobat; and if you're running Mac OS X Leopard there's also an improved Quick Look preview, with each saved document giving you a selectable page thumbnail view alongside the original full-page view.One of the things that puts Pages above the free-with-your-Mac TextEdit (or even Google Docs) is that it works rather well as a page layout tool. You won't be building national newspapers with it, but if you're looking for a well-designed and fairly powerful page layout tool to build newsletters Pages will almost certainly meet your needs. Some users will knock Pages for lacking Auto-Save, though for me it's no deal-breaker: my Auto-Save is an almost-obsessive-compulsive habit to hit Cmd + S after every sentence.Apple's Keynote presentation tool has long been chosen over Powerpoint for MacKeynote has always been the big gun in iWork's arsenal. Already incredibly mature, and generally preferred over Powerpoint for Mac, this year's "big feature" is Magic Move, which lets you seamlessly transform elements between slides. It's super slick, and ridiculously easy to use: duplicate a slide, remove the no-longer required elements from the duplicate, add some new content and then choose the "Magic Move" transition. When you play the presentation, Keynote knows what to keep and smoothly transform, while adding the new content. It's mighty impressive to watch in action.Apple have built-in support for an iPhone Remote application into KeynoteAlso new for Keynote this year is an official Keynote Remote app for iPhone and iPod Touch. The app (which isn't included with the suite, and costs £0.59 from the iPhone App Store) connects to Keynote via a WiFi connection, loads up your slides and notes, and lets you advance the slideshow by swiping the screen. The app works well, but I'm not certain I'd ever actually use it: much as I love my iPhone, I prefer the tactile feedback of a regular Apple Remote or clicker with some larger-sized crib notes.The iWork.com service lets you share, view and comment on iWork documents from within your web browserTo complement the applications there's a new iWork.com service that lets you share and receive feedback on any iWork document. It's a free "beta" for now, and Apple plan to charge for iWork.com once officially released. As you'd expect it's well-designed, however to justify that unannounced fee (and compete against the likes of Google's free and online-editable Documents service) it'll need more depth. Right now, you can add comments, leave sticky notes on specific areas, and download the documents including comments, but I'd far rather that the desktop applications themselves were able to retrieve feedback from from my shared documents instead of requiring a duplicate Pages, Numbers or Keynote file on my Mac.The release of iWork.com also raises the question of whether the online competition make iWork somewhat irrelevant:Google Documents,Zoho Docsand the slick280Slidesare the main contenders here. If you're not wanting to shell out for iWork, then their free online alternatives might make do though ultimately they're no match for the native OS X application experience that iWork offers. For now, the online apps can only better iWork on price and collaboration, and if Apple think carefully aboutiWork.comit's possible that iWork may yet steal a lead on collaboration too.One of iWork's biggest wins is that the applications all read (and write) into their respective Microsoft Office format. Support for Office formats is mostly excellent, however if you end up having to export Keynote documents to Powerpoint you will lose a little of the iWork eye candy. It may not be ideal, but iWork does alert you to anything that won't cross the void to Office and the results are still perfectly usable.Setting up the iPhone application is all managed through Keynote's Preferences that shows devices on your WiFi network that have the companion app installedAll things considered, iWork '09 is well-designed with some glaring omissions from previous years finally added. Those who already own a previous version of iWork should probably think long and hard about whether you really need this latest release so it's definitely wise to try Apple's free 30-day demo before parting with any cash. iWork '09 now retails for £69 (up from £55 last year) and there's no upgrade pricing offered so you'll have to need a fair amount of the new features in order to justify the upgrade.If you don't already have iWork, and want to avoid the bulk and brawn of Microsoft Office, iWork '09 will likely give you everything you need. It costs less than even the cheapest version of Office, and uses far more visual flair throughout the applications and their end results – so long as you keep the documents within iWork.Pros:Plenty of visual flair; even more well-designed and readily-usable templates; easy to use; good value for money (particularly the Family Pack) for new users; reads and exports in Office formats; iPhone Keynote Remote application is a nice touch.Cons:iWork.com needs more features to justify a paid-for service; Certain features (such as Keynote-only transitions) won't remain when exporting to Microsoft Office; price has increased from previous versions; existing iWork users will really need to use the features in the upgrade to justify the expense; iPhone Keynote Remote application is sold separately (inexpensive though it may be).Pricing:£69 Single User, £85 5-user "Family Pack". Apple's Keynote Remote application for iPhone and iPod touch sold separately (£0.59). Free 30-day demo available fromapple.comSystem Requirements:Intel, PowerPC G5 or G4 Mac; Mac OS X 10.4.11 or 10.5.6 or later; 512MB RAM; 1.2GB hard disk space; DVD drive.
Intel unveiled its Classmate 2 reference design at last week's Bett education exhibition at Olympia in London, with the aim of bringing a convertible tablet PC to millions of schoolchildren across the globe. It works as a normal laptop PC, but you can swivel the screen round and fold it over the keyboard, which turns it into a touch-screen tablet PC. Children can then draw on the screen, or use it for handwriting recognition.We've had convertible PCs for more than a decade, of course, but few people use them. Will that change? Possibly. The Classmate 2 is a cheap, durable, child-sized PC based on Intel's Atom netbook chipset and, like the original Classmate, it could tap a previously unexploited market.At Bett, Intel's European vice-president, Gordon Graylish, told me: "We now have over 40 companies developing the original Classmate, nine companies have started building the convertible, and there are 30 companies in 40 countries developing software as part of the Intel Learning Series Alliance." The software bundle includes the Smart Classroom Suite, from the leading interactive whiteboard company."It's not about the device," says Graylish, "it's about supporting the local language, the local culture, and local manufacturers who understand how the [education] system works. It's about getting the right software environment, and making sure teachers are trained. The last thing we want is computers sitting in closets."Intel reckons Classmate 2 convertibles are being produced by CTL and others in the US, by NEC in France, ASI in Australia, Hanvon in China, and the UK's CMS. CMS tells me it's making its Classmate PC, the Fizzbook Bang, in Liverpool, but will source the convertible Fizzbook Spin from Taiwan until sales volumes increase.Zoostorm sells the Fizzbook Bang via Amazon, Argos, Littlewoods and other outlets, so Classmate PCs are not limited to educational buyers (fizzbook.com).Graylish says that more than 1m Classmate PCs have now been shipped, counting all the brands. These will continue to be sold alongside the new convertible, and alongside the growing number of netbooks based on the same technology.Also, Portugal has ordered half a million Magellan, or "Magalh&atilde;es", Classmates, with Venezuela opting for 1m of the same design. This version - designed by Ceiia and built by JP S&aacute; Couto - will have a larger screen and 3G and/or WiMax connectivity.One of the annoying things about Classmate PCs is that, while they are available with Windows or Linux, Microsoft's ultra-cheap deal is only for XP Home. This lacks the tablet PC features found in XP Pro. Intel says you can use its ILS suite instead, while CMS points out that schools and local education authorities with Windows site licences can upgrade to Pro for a trivial sum. But people who don't have site licences will have to pay a silly price for XP Pro to get features that should be part of the operating system.One of the unknowns is whether Microsoft will offer a cheap deal on Windows 7, which works well on an Atom-powered netbook with 1GB of memory (I've tried it on a Dell Vostro netbook, like the Mini 9).Microsoft slashed the price of XP Home so as not to lose too much of the netbook market to Linux, and this has had an impact on its profits.Either way, Microsoft can't charge as much for Windows on a &pound;250 netbook as it did on a &pound;2,000 desktop. Is it time for the answer that we suggested on minicomputers - software prices that are based on the power of the processor?
The 200 million people in India who are officially hungry were probably not that interested in the successful launch of the country's uncrewed moon mission Chandrayaan-1 in November .And with India 66th out of 88 in the UN's Global Hunger Index, the forthcoming sell-off of India's 3G spectrum is likely to generate even less excitement.More than 70% of Indians live in rural areas; and that is where most of the 200 million hungry people live. Though Mahatma Gandhi once said "the soul of India resides in rural India", its mobile subscribers definitely do not.Untapped gapThe latest figures from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRIA) say mobile penetration in rural areas is less than 13%, compared with 73% in urban areas, a gap that threatens to hold back the development of India as a global superpower.But there are hopes that 3G will address this imbalance. Vishal Gondal, the CEO of Indiagames, one of the country's biggest mobile games publishers, hopes the next stage of mobile networks will open up this untapped market."2G networks helped spread voice and SMS across rural India and has transformed that society. 3G will do the same by accelerating the spread of high-speed broadband in rural India. 3G cards will mean such services as e-education, video, e-governance and telemedicine that were not reaching rural India because of lack of bandwidth will see a surge," he says.Mobile penetration matters to any would-be superpower. In December 2008 a TRIA paper on India surmised that a 1% higher mobile subscription rate would mean a &pound;140 rise in GDP per capita.Some global analysts are even more bullish about prospects for rural India. McKinsey Global predicts that in 2028 the rural Indian market will be larger than those in South Korea and Canada today. It puts the size of the 2028 rural market at $577bn - more than four times the size of today's urban Indian market.Furthermore, as mobile penetration in urban areas becomes saturated, operators have launched extensive marketing programmes to attract rural takeup.And the market is booming. TRIA says India's operators added 10.35m new mobile accounts in November, taking the total to 336.1m. That's a rise of 38% on the preceding 12 months and almost 300m more than there are landlines in India.Such surges in subscribers have also led to a lack of spectrum for the existing big operators. According to a source at one of India's largest operators, 3G licence-winners are more likely to use the spectrum to service future 2.5G subscribers.Sudhir Gupta, who co-wrote a TRIA report on how to attract  100 million more mobile broadband subscribers in rural India, says 3G will increase mobile broadband to rural subscribers -but these services will initially launch in urban areas."The forthcoming 3G launch will help to provide faster provision of broadband and customised data-centric applications to rural subscribers. However, the operators will start to roll out their 3G networks to high ARPU [average revenue per user] subscribers who reside in the urban areas," he says.Smallest shacksOperator advertising is everywhere in India, not just in big cities. On the shacks in the smallest villages, Airtel, Vodafone and Reliance signs are ubiquitous.And the Indian government seems committed to opening up this market. Telecom service providers have to pay 5% of gross revenues into a Universal Service Obligation fund for rural initiatives.Other government-supported policies include forgoing the need for permission to build mobile masts up to 40m tall.The government is also considering subsidised rural-only MVNOs (mobile virtual network operators), while the service providers report that of 593,731 villages, 407,112 have  mobile coverage.Already, the government has issued licences to two state-owned operators, BSNL and MTNL, with the latter launching trial 3G services last month.Other operators ready to join in the stampede will look to grab licences in the "circles" of urban areas such as Mumbai and Delhi and think about the rural areas later - and therein lies the problem.Successful 3G operators will concentrate on areas where there is already high mobile penetration. There are billions of pounds involved in setting up 3G structures in the most accessible of regions, let alone the countryside.And for villages without a regular electricity supply, mobile users are more concerned with longer battery life than power-sapping snazzy features.So the operators are going to do 3G their way and will use the opportunity to increase their ARPU in the major cities - and that's after they top up their subscriber base with the extra spectrum.For India's rural community - in spite of the government's efforts - it may be some time before they attain the same services as urban users. In fact, they may as well whistle at the moon.
In the late 60s, Hollywood lost touch with its audience, rolling out staid formula flicks to a populace shaken by Vietnam and turned on by the counter-culture. As Peter Biskind memorably recounts in Easy Riders, Raging Bulls, the smart companies handed over the means of production to a new generation of independently minded auteurs. That's how Scorsese, Spielberg and co saved the film business. The same thing could be happening right now in the games industry.Last year, the big publishers started cutting staff and examining their portfolios for projects to drop. Top managers are all saying the same thing - let's stick with our key franchises and ride it out. But what if, say, the disappointing sales of the most recent Tomb Raider title are indicative of a coming trend? What if people don't want sequels anymore?OK, it's unlikely, but the current market is crazily fragmented - we've got more technology platforms than ever before and we've got a global market that isn't acting in unison any more: Japanese gamers love Wii and DS, Americans favour Xbox, and Europe shows an affinity for PlayStation 3. No one knows what's going on. No one really understands the audience.In fact, it could be that no one has known what's going on for years; it's just that consumers had enough spare cash to buy dodgy games. They don't any more, so publishers who produce the wrong types of titles are going to get punished. "Historically there have been a lot of irrational decisions," says Karl Jeffrey, chief executive of the UK developer Climax. "The green-light committees are often disproportionately populated by executives who aren't playing games, who've never created a game, and there's often little or no representation from the development guys."So what we may see over the next year or so is a shift in the balance of power, away from the execs lounging around in the corporate HQ, and towards the studio heads, the chaps who actually make and play games.There's a theory that licence-holders for major TV, movie and sports brands may just cut out publishers altogether and start selling directly to development studios, who can then put games out on digital distribution systems such as Xbox Live Arcade or Steam. I just visited the tiny, Dundee-based studio Tag Games, which is buying franchises such as the animated series The Imp - "stuff that's a little bit left of centre, that the big guys have missed out on, or aren't prepared to take a risk on", says Tag's co-founder, Paul Farley.We saw in the 70s how the new auteurs made massively successful movies out of unpromising material - pulpy novels by Peter Benchley and Mario Puzo spring to mind. As the power relationships within the industry are rocked by recession, it might be that the biggest brands of 2009 have nothing to do with the likes of Tomb Raider, Need for Speed or Pro Evolution. The sure bets are off, but the stakes are higher than ever.
Signs of the futureResearchers at Boston University are developing a searchable dictionary of American Sign Language (ASL).Spot the ancestorThe data from the UK's 1911 census is now online. Searching is free, but you have to pay to read records.Greener carsThe government has announced &pound;23m of funding to develop low-carbon vehicles.Face for radio?The BBC has experimented with visual radio, using a studiocam to webcast Chris Moyles.Engineering the demographicDame Wendy Hall is leading a campaign for increased diversity in engineering.Books on the goThe phone company 3 has teamed up with GoSpoken.com to deliver audio and ebooks to mobiles.Mobile musicThe Idiomag music magazine is now available on mobiles.BirdwatchingThe RSPB is holding the world's biggest bird survey - on 24-25 January.Gaming recordsThe Guinness World Records 2009 Gamer's Edition will be published on 4 February.
Roxanne, are we in Jamaica yet?Microsoft's just-released Songsmith software lets you sing a tune, then fits music to it. But what happens if you feed it the vocal line from the Police's Roxanne - and sync it to the video?Slower than nurses, but smaller"Swarmbots" created by a team at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale in Lausanne, Switzerland, drag a child across a room. A very, very, patient child; welcome, robot underlords.Sharper by designHere's how to apply a bit of vorsprung durch technik to the always-pressing problem of sharpening a pencil.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
When I started tracing my ancestors online a few years back, the trail went cold about 200 years ago at Westmeath in Ireland. Now I have moved on and reached back 50,000 years thanks to the Genographic project, now in its fourth year, organised by National Geographic. The project is collecting data about us that not even Google can reach. A team from NG is scouring the Earth to collect more than 100,000 DNA samples to which are added many more from members of the public such as me. A few weeks ago I dispatched two samples of saliva, in phials from a kit NG provided, to a laboratory in Houston, Texas.I was able to follow the progress of the analysis week by week on the web. The results, in the form of 10 pages of fascinating explanation and a map of my ancestors' long journey to Europe, have just appeared on my screen. My line has been traced back to 10,000 fellow members of Homo sapiens living in or about the Rift Valley in north Africa (roughly, modern Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania). It seems I am nothing special. About 70% of men in the south of England are fellow members of my "haplogroup", R1b, rising to more than 90% in parts of Spain and Ireland (95% in the north). A haplogroup is a series of "markers" shared by men carrying the same random mutations in their Y chromosome, only found in males. R1b is a kind of communal marker for men in the UK.My journey, according to NG, began around 50,000 years ago, when melting ice in northern Europe prompted 10,000 or so of my ancestors - and probably yours - to travel northwards to warmer, moister climates. The first migrants from Africa took a coastal route that ended in Australia. Others later went from Siberia across what was then a land bridge to Alaska, to what is now Canada and the US. My lot, part of the second migration from Africa, followed grasslands and animals to the Middle East.Another key ancestor born 40,000 years ago somewhere around modern Iran triggered a mutation marking a new lineage that spent the next 30,000 years populating much of the planet, with splinter groups moving into central Asia, Pakistan and India. NG points out that the descendants of my Iranian, or southern-central Asian ancestors, known as the Eurasian clan, include most people in the northern hemisphere, nearly all north Americans and east Asians and many Indians.To cut a long story short, about 30,000 years ago our clan, by now numbering about 100,000 people, headed for Europe, marking the end of the 200,000-year era of the Neanderthals that had inhabited Europe and parts of western Asia previously. Some 20,000 years ago, expanding ice forced us to retreat to southern Spain, Italy and the Balkans before eventually moving back to the British Isles. The map of my genetic journey can be seenhereand I have to say that looking at a record of where you come from is a milestone moment. I did it thanks to a press kit from NG with its partner IBM, but anyone can participateonline. It costs &pound;68.94 plus delivery, with profits going to further scientific research. The project leader, Spencer Wells, told me that the internet was "absolutely critical" to the project, since it was the way people were recruited, the way they receive results and the way NG researchers operate around the world.Sadly, the genetic traces of my ancestors' group ends between 5,000 and 10,000 years ago, though more details may be known as a result of extra information participants are invited to contribute about themselves. So there is still a gap between knowledge gained from genealogy and that from genetic searches. But that doesn't detract from the vital contribution the internet has made to resolving the most fascinating of problems - who we really are.• This article was amended on 26 january 2009. We said that National Geographic sells public participation kits for its Genographic study of human migration for &pound;150, it is in fact &pound;68.94. This has now been corrected.
Finding a better VistaI want to buy a laptop, but it seems that not all Vistas are the same. Is there any danger of buying a laptop now that isn't, as Tim Anderson said in last week's Windows 7 cover story, "more mature and reliable"?Peter PerkinsJS:You can minimise the risk of getting an underperforming Windows Vista PC in three ways: (1) make sure Vista SP1 is installed; (2) pick a system with no pre-installed trialware; (3) search the web for any problems with the specific make, model and configuration you're thinking of buying. You should certainly skim through messages in the manufacturer's online help forum, paying particular attention to driver issues.However, most or all of the major manufacturers have seen the results of the Vista Velocity programme, where Microsoft tested and tuned the setups of about 300 PCs. This work is continuing with Windows 7 (http://bit.ly/aj0093).Note that some trialware - often called "crapware" - is installed as part of the operating system, so it gets reloaded even if you do a clean reinstallation. This is best avoided. Some trialware is pre-loaded on the hard drive, though, so it can easily be installed on demand. This is not usually a problem.Travels with a cameraI am going travelling and will not have regular access to the internet. Is there a device that would let me back up the contents of a digital photocard?Duncan RodgerJS:Small SD cards are cheap, so you can spread the risk by using a number of cards, and perhaps post some home. However, several companies make portable hard drives with memory card slots so you can copy photos across. Examples include the Epson P-7000 Multimedia Storage Viewer, the Canon Media Storage M30 and M80, and products from Vosonic andJobo. You may also be able to use an MP3 player or portable video player such as the SanDisk Sansa View (http://bit.ly/aj0095) or an iPod with a "camera connector", but beware compatibility problems. Bear in mind that, even if you copy your photos to a portable drive, you will still only have one copy in one place. When you do have internet access, try to zip pictures into 50MB or 100MB archives and upload them to an online drive. Be careful when using online photo-sharing albums, as they don't all store the whole of the original file. If you plan to use an online resource, test it thoroughly before you go.Nuke that driveLast week's Newsbytes mentioned that PC World would erase a disk for &pound;29.99. Can I recommend Darik's Boot and Nuke program (dban.org/) instead? It is almost certainly as effective as PC World's erase, doesn't involve giving your hard disk to a third party, and is free.William HudsonJS:DBAN is run from the PC and can be installed on a floppy disk, CD-R, DVD-R, or USB flash drive: pick one you can boot from. Note that it erases everything, including the hard-drive partition table, so your hard-drive letters will disappear.Post PC bluesI have a new Dell Inspiron 530s that will not boot: it does not get beyond showing the manufacturer's logo. I suspect the hard drive is not spinning up. I could, of course, contact Dell and it would no doubt be replaced. However, having just finished setting it up and transferring all files from its predecessor, I am wondering if there is anything I can do to try to get the hard drive going again.Simon DetreJS:It could be a hard-drive problem, but it may just be a loose cable or a failure in another component. PCs run a "Post" (power-on self-test) when booted, so you should get one or more beeps to help you find out what has gone wrong. There's a guide to what the beep codes meanhere. You can also try pressing F12 as soon as the Dell logo appears, to see if your PC will run the Dell Diagnostics pre-boot test routine. If it does, write down any error codes, then contact Dell for advice.An alternative is to try booting your PC from a "live" version of Linux, ie one that runs from the CD. If the hard drive works, this should enable you to make a backup copy of your installation. If not, you will probably have to install all your software again.BackchatLast week, I expressed the hope that Brother's takeover of Pentax's mobile printer business would lead to portable printers at more reasonable prices, and I linked to a PocketJet 3 Plus page at Expansys. Dr Trevor Turpin comments: "I think you'll find that the &pound;78.99 only gets you the vehicle mounting kit - the printer is extra at &pound;599!"
A mock-up of a home controlled by the power of thought has been successfully piloted by a hospital in Italy, promising new levels of independence for the severely disabled.Scientists showed that people could open doors or operate lights, a telephone, a small robot and even a robotic hand by wearing a strip of electrodes on their head to pick up brainwaves that signal "interest" and send them to a computer that interprets them as desired actions.Demonstrating the system in the Fondazione Santa Lucia research hospital in Rome, Professor Fabio Babiloni said this was one of the first lab-based mock-ups in the world to successfully test this form of home automation - or "assistive domotics" - by mind control.He predicts that within three years such a system would be of practical benefit to the severely disabled."The progress in developing brain computer interfaces (BCI) has grown very rapidly in the last few years to the point where we are capable of 85% accuracy in the computer interpreting a subject's desired action, such as turning a wheelchair or switching home appliances on or off," says Babiloni.  "The type of brainwave we pinpoint is common to nearly all people when making this 'focusing interest' thought."Nor is much training required. "A 10-minute familiarisation session is usually enough," says Babiloni.That is because the brain wave that is produced when we "show interest", for example when we focus on a light switch, is well mapped, distinct and almost uniform from person to person.To demonstrate, one of the Santa Lucia team wore a fabric headset connected to the BCI and could open doors, switch on a fan or adjust lights by concentrating on a menu on a monitor. Two to three attempts are usually needed for each action.Other applications, apart from gaming and use in a smart home for the exceptionally lazy, is in space, says Babiloni: mind-controlled devices would be a boon to muscle-wasted astronauts.
This article was amended on Friday 30 January 2009.In the report below we misrepresented a new record use policy being promulgated by the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC), which aggregates library records and makes them searchable online through its WorldCat database.  The policy does not, as we said, restrict libraries' ability to make their own collections and records available for public search and indexing by search engines; the policy applies to WorldCat records.  The article also said the OCLC shares only 3 million of its 125 million records with Google Books.  In fact, the OCLC shares its full database with Google, including Google Books.  The Google search algorithm determines whether or not a WorldCat record appears in a set of search results.  The article quoted a claim that OCLC has tried to obstruct the growth of the website OpenLibrary.org.  OCLC was not given the opportunity to respond to the claim and denies it.  OCLC said they remain optimistic that the two organisations can work together.Despite the internet's origins as an academic network, when it comes to finding a book, e-commerce rules. Put any book title into your favourite search engine, and the hits will be dominated by commercial sites run by retailers, publishers, even authors. But even with your postcode, you won't find the nearest library where you can borrow that book. (The exception is Google Books, and even that is limited.)That's strange, because almost every library has an electronic database of its books - searchable either at the library's own website or via its local council. The wrinkle is that at the book level, those databases aren't accessible to the search engines; and you may not be able to search all the libraries in your area at once.Bibliographic dataYet there is an alternative that few people seem aware of: Worldcat (worldcat.org), which offers web access to the largest repository of bibliographic data in the world - from the 40-year-old Ohio-based non-profit Online Computer Library Center (oclc.org). But Worldcat suffers from the same problem on a larger scale. OCLC shares only 3m of its 125m records with Google Books; none of them show up in an ordinary search.You might expect forward-thinking libraries to put their databases online, to encourage people through their doors. But they can't. Even though they created the data, pay to have records added to the database and pay to download them, they can't.In November, OCLC announced new rules covering the use of Worldcat data due to go live on 19 February."It's safe to say that the policy change is a direct response to Open Library," says Aaron Swartz, the founder of Open Library (openlibrary.org), a project to give every published book its own Wikipedia-style page. "Since the beginning of Open Library, OCLC has been threatening funders, pressuring libraries not to work with us, and using tricks to try to shut us down. It didn't work - and so now this."Open Library is one of several projects aiming to bring book data into the internet age. LibraryThing (librarything.com), for example, lets users share the contents of their libraries; if you and I have favourite books in common, maybe the other books you have are ones I'd like. Under OCLC's new policy, would libraries be unable to share their data with these projects?Karen Calhoun, the vice-president of OCLC WorldCat and metadata services, believes it's important for OCLC - whose annual revenues, as of June 2008, were $246m (&pound;175m), and which in recent years has bought several smaller commercial competitors in Europe - to be the only big kid on the block, and to ensure that "the WorldCat commons is not exhausted through over-exploitation. Protecting the commons means adopting 'some rights reserved' as the data-sharing model."Over-exploitation, she says, would be "to have lots of these stores in different places on the web that disperse the information and we don't have a way to connect it all back up again".Besides, Calhoun adds: "Trying to operate on web scale on behalf of libraries really does take a businesslike approach." Local libraries, she says, are too small to do their own negotiating.Yet millions of website owners and bloggers do not negotiate with Google to have their sites crawled and available on results pages. Open Library's 1m records have open APIs and are available for download as a single data dump. There is even a plug-in for WordPress that lets bloggers automatically integrate a link to the Open Library page of any book mentioned."The library world is set up on this model where the library is a physical building and has a number of books and serves a geographical community," says Swartz. "Our model is find the book you're interested in and give you the metadata - and then find the best way to get it to you."In the politely acrimonious debate that has followed OCLC's announcement, WorldCat's copyright status was raised. In the US, collections of facts don't get copyright protection. In 1998 the EU created "database right" - but individual records can't be copyrighted. Those suspicious that OCLC is attempting a power grab believe uncertainty over copyright law may be behind the new policy: if OCLC can't rely on intellectual property law, a contract - the new policy - is its only choice.Calhoun says OCLC's legal department is still researching the copyright question, explaining that courts have in the past considered "sweat of the brow": creating a bibliographic record, she says, requires intellectual effort and judgments by trained personnel.Changing worldRichard Wallis, a technology evangelist at Talis, which competes with OCLC in interlibrary lending systems in Europe, thinks OCLC's main problem is that it has not kept pace with the changing world."They're still stuck in the wrong business model," he says. "It was expensive, 20 or 30 years ago, to set up a large dataset and communications, editing, storing backup tapes, and so on." By now, though, "a lot of the things that made it difficult are negligible costs". Talis, he says, focuses on selling services, not access to data.Enough people have protested for OCLC to convene a review board and delay the planned 19 February implementation. However, few expect a change of heart.What we don't know - because we've never had the data to experiment with - is what opportunities we're being denied. The National Library of Sweden has put its entire catalogue on the web as linked data, the first effort by a national library to become part of the semantic web. It should have been the second: US Library of Congress staffer Ed Summers was told to take down hissimilar experimentin December. Karen Coyle, a librarian and consultant on digital libraries, says: "If library records were open access on the web, it would be possible to create bibliographies that go beyond the holdings of any one library."She points to Kosovo, where libraries have been destroyed in generations of conflict. Open records, she says, "could create a virtual library of books published in that geographical region, which would allow scholars to study the literature and history of that area in a way that isn't possible today with our separate, physical libraries." Rob Styles, a programme manager for Talis's data services, says: "The main reason I think libraries need freedom to innovate is because we don't know what they're going to look like".
The inauguration of President Obama must have been one of the most photographed single events ever, partly because most of us can now take as many snaps as we like, without charge. There are already more than 55,000 photostagged "inauguration" on Flickr. And as Kevin has notedbelow, in several respects it broke new ground.However, the best collection of inauguration images I've seen so far is the one assembled byThe Boston Globe's Big Picture section. It includes Google's GeoEye Satellite image, and some taken in other parts of the world of people, perhaps watching the event on TV or, in Afghanistan, a notebook PC.But there's one set of pictures I'd really love to see: he ones taken by Obama's daughter Malia. The New York Times did a short piece on her,A New Photographer in the White House, saying: "Her camera of choice (on this day) appeared to be a grape-colored $150 Kodak EasyShare M893."
Apple has just announced its financial results. It's had a storming quarter - its best-ever - with revenues of $10.17 billion, profits of $1.61bn ($1.78 per diluted share). If you stripped out the GAAP accounting method it uses for iPhone revenue - under which revenues from an iPhone are counted over 8 quarters, rather than at once - then the figures are $11.8bn revenue, $2.3bn profit.It's Apple's best-ever quarter. Economic meltdown? Seems like everyone was either buying iPhones to tell each other and surf the web, or iPods to drown out the bad news.And yet, and yet... the graph shows how the Christmas spike has helped iPod sales (the blue lines): from their explosive growth in 2005, therateof growth seems to be slowing. This year it was up 3% on the year-ago quarter. It's still enormous, though: 22.73m iPods (including iPod Touches, I believe) sold.Compared to the year-ago quarter, iPhone sales were up 88%, at 4.36m. That's not surprising, given that a year ago there wasn't an iPhone 3G, which has done well. Interesting to note that sales of those seem to have actually fallen compared to the previous quarter - possibly a sign of weakness in the market.There's a conference call on now, so we'll go on to that as and when.
Consumers are to be given much more information about the connection speeds they can expect to receive when they sign up to mobile broadband services under a new code of conduct being drawn up by the UK's networks.Sales of mobile "dongles" – devices that enable PCs and laptops to access the internet using a mobile phone network rather than a landline – have rocketed, with over a million sold last year as prices came down to as little as £10 a month.But customers are becoming  frustrated with slow download speeds and patchy network coverage, especially inside buildings. Several mobile phone companies have seen return rates increase recently.The code also comes at a crucial time for the mobile broadband market. Using mobile networks to access the internet will play an important role in communications minister Lord Carter's ambition to have a universal broadband service by 2012. His initial report into "Digital Britain", to be published next week, will include a promise to provide broadband for all by using wireless networks to fill in gaps in the fixed-line coverage.Research by regulator Ofcom last year showed that mobile broadband is significantly slower than fixed-line, with customers being offered headline speeds of up to 7.2Mb per second, but receiving just 1Mb per second. That is too slow to watch standard-definition video services such as the BBC's iPlayer. In contrast, the average actual fixed-line broadband speed is 3.6Mb per second.Complaints from fixed-line customers that the speeds they were receiving bore little resemblance to those advertised caused regulator Ofcom to threaten legislation last year. Providers quickly thrashed out a voluntary code of conduct, which came into force last month, under which they must provide an accurate estimate of actual maximum speed. ISPs must also explain to customers the factors that determine the actual broadband speeds they can receive and give guidance on how to improve their connections. Now the mobile phone operators are looking to see off the potential threat of regulation in mobile broadband with their own code.It will focus on hints and tips for consumers that will help improve the performance of their mobile broadband service. But the operators are unlikely to be able to provide customers with a clear estimate of the speed they can expect to receive. That is because the performance of the mobile phone networks depends not only on exactly where the user is located but on how many other people are using the network at the same time.
Barack Obama's inauguration was clearly historic as the United States celebrated its first black president, but the coverage and experience of the inauguration also broke new ground. For the first time, digital satellite images showed themillions of people who braved the cold to see the inauguration.Microsoft's Photosynthsoftware stitched together thousands of photos to show theinauguration in 3D on CNN's website, and CNN also brought together a live stream of its coverage and Facebook.BloggerC.C. Chapman said in his post and in the videoabove:This changes things. The fact that I don't HAVE to turn on my television if I don't want to. The fact that I can share the experience with friends around the globe in real time. The fact that this is another step towards social viewing.This isn't the first time that chat or social elements have been integrated into video streaming, but with CNN's success, we're bound to see more experiments like this.Integrating the internet and television or video isn't really new. I can remember a decade ago, MTV in the US showing chat room comments under music videos. Several online video services like Joost have integrated chat into their services, but CNN's Facebook feature was definitely a coming of age for this type of social video service.CNN.com said it has served more than 21.3m live video streams, including 1.3m simultaneous streams before Obama gave his address,according to CNET.com. Facebook had 1.5m inauguration-related updates, andFacebook provided these figures:• 600,000 status updates have been posted so far through the CNN.com Live Facebook feed• There were an average of 4,000 status updates every minute during the broadcast• There were 8,500 status updates the minute Obama began his speechI tried the service during the inauguration, but I had problems with it. When Facebook is getting a lot of traffic, the service logs me out in seconds. Later during the parade, I was to use the service from home. It was nice to be able to chat with friends from Malaysia, the UK and the US about the ceremony.It wasn't just Facebook, and Toronto's Globe and Mail called it the "The first true Internet inauguration". Web caching service Akamai said that global internet traffic surged 54% above normal during the inauguration. Social media played a huge role in how people experienced the inauguration.Twitter continued its partnership with Al Gore's Current TV, and CBS and NPR partnered with Twittervision to createinaugurationreport.com. CBS and NPR aggregated huge amounts of content including not only tweets, but alsoimages,audioandvideousing the tag inaug09.With video on demand services ramping up with the success of the BBC's iPlayer and social networking becoming more mainstream, efforts to merge the two have been ongoing. Cable set-top box makers are already cooking social features into their wares, and software like Boxee, whichmade a big splash at CES, are bringing together social recommendation features and media centre software so that you can see what your friends are watching and listening to. I think this will be one area of experimentation in 2009.What social video services are you using? What features do you like? Or do you think this is just a gimmick?
Shh! Hear that? It's the sound of people not searching and not doing things on the web while Barack Obama is giving his inauguration speech. This is a man who can stop traffic of all sorts - including web traffic.Google hasblogged about it:the overall query volume of Google searches dropped in the U.S. from the time President Obama took the oath of office until the end of his inaugural speech, demonstrating that all eyes were on today's festivities.Flickr too saw adramatic fall in businesson its servers as people stopped uploading photos (many busy taking them in the Mall, one guesses);Last.fm also saw people stopping to listen, not to music, but to one man talking to them. (I've only linked to the photos, as they're all rights and CC rights/no money.)But as Google's blogpost points out, things have changed ever so much.During the last nine years, the growth of the Internet has changed the way the world seeks information. From President Bush's first inaugural address in 2001 to his second in 2005, the number of inauguration-related searches increased by more than a factor of ten. From 2005 to today's address, the number grew even more.  Few of the 2001 queries requested "video," and none requested streaming.  By 2005, a few queries such asinauguration audioandstreaming video of inaugurationappeared. Today, technology has become so prevalant that queries such asYouTube live inauguration,live blogging inauguration,inaugural podcast, andObama inaugural speech mp3formed one-third of all inauguration-related queries.
Is the download dead? Apple clearly doesn't think so; its announcement earlier this month that music on iTunes will drop its jacket of DRM (digital rights management) may feel overdue, but it's an implicit insistence that it thinks people will keep buying songs to "own" - even if all they actually "acquire" are invisible variations in magnetoresistance on a hard drive.But with computing becoming increasingly cloud-based, it no longer seems necessary to download or store music. As network connectivity becomes pervasive, the possibility of having every piece of commercially available music at our fingertips, instantly playable via our next-generation portable music players, mobile phones and Wi-Fi home entertainment systems comes closer. So will downloading digital music to an iPod soon seem as archaic as taping the Top 40 on to a C90?"The paid-download model has failed to meet expectations," says Mark Mulligan, a music industry analyst and vice-president of Forrester Research. "The music industry needed a format-replacement cycle, in much the same way that CDs replaced cassettes. It needed to do two things: offset declining CD sales, and fight piracy. The download has failed on both counts."This is not a love songIn the UK - Europe's strongest digital market - downloads account for only 13% of total music sales, with CDs remaining the dominant music format. Mulligan's research shows that only 9% of UK internet users purchase paid downloads, while 42% buy CDs or music DVDs. (Music industry research broadly agrees, finding that in 2008 only 5% of music downloads were paid for.)The download seems hard to love. Grumbles over sound compression and DRM have hardly helped its cause. To fill a 500GB hard drive costing about &pound;50 with 79p downloads would cost &pound;100,000; few music fans would claim to prefer browsing through an iPod menu to thumbing through a rack of vinyl LPs.And the success of the iPod has done little so far to boost download sales: 83% of European iPod owners say they do not regularly buy digital music, apparently preferring to fill their devices with ripped CDs - or illegal downloads.But 24% of UK internet users listen to streaming music - for example, on-demand tracks via MySpace, radio content from the BBC iPlayer, or, increasingly, personalised playlists from services such as Last.fm. "Cloud-based music will most likely replace downloads to some extent," says Eliot Van Buskirk, who writes about music technology at Wired's Epicenter blog (blog.wired.com/business). "The younger demographic already thinks of YouTube and MySpace as the places to go to hear music right away, and devices such as the iPhone already provide access to thousands of customisable stations on Pandora, Last.fm, imeem and so on."Significantly, cloud-based streaming services offer instant access to music without the need for download or purchase."We definitely see a move towards access rather than ownership," says Christian Ward of Last.fm, the London-based (and CBS-owned) music-streaming and recommendation service, which has 25 million users. "Since we launched we've been working towards providing access to every piece of music ever made, wherever you are, and our iPhone app - plus recent partnerships with hardware device companies and mobile firms - helps us get closer to achieving that goal. You can have access to millions of tracks on the go, instead of the limited amount of files you have on your iPod, which is ultimately a glorified Walkman in comparison."Social networking plays a big part in the appeal of streaming services. Last.fm is based around a music-recommendation engine, imeem is a music-centred social-networking site, and Pandora - currently unavailable in the UK due to licensing restrictions - generates playlists based on musical attributes catalogued by musicians. Spotify, another startup which offers web-based music streaming, lets people create collaborative playlists while offering a huge range of music: it will have U2's latest single ahead even of digital "shops".Says Ward: "There's no point in having every piece of music at your disposal if you can't navigate through that and make the experience meaningful to you."But on the downside, streaming services have costs. Napster, which will launch a new web version this year offering unlimited streaming playback of its catalogue from any computer, is subscription-based, and costs from &pound;9.95 per month. Spotify - currently in beta - charges &pound;9.99 per month for a premium subscription (though it also has a free ad-supported version). Last.fm, imeem, Pandora and similar services such as Seeqpod and Blip.fm are also ad-supported and free to the end-user.Mulligan thinks the future lies with ad-supported and subsidised services - where internet and mobile providers bundle music access into packages. "When you take out the pay aspect, usage goes up," he says. The Danish internet service provider TDC's Play service bundles unlimited free streaming and downloads into its subscription, and Nokia's Comes With Music also offers unlimited streaming and downloads for 12 months with the purchase of a specific handset. Sky is known to be planning to bundle music access into its broadband and TV packages.Quantity over qualityBut the crucial point is that when access is free, there is no need to steal. Piracy has undoubtedly damaged the paid download market: music fans who would never dream of stealing a CD seem quite happy to illegally download - perhaps because music downloads are invisible, and so perceived as having little tangible value."If music fans fully embrace streaming instead of downloading, then that would be a blow to the pirates," says Ward. "If music fans are getting the music they want, free, from safe, legal environments like ours, then there's reason to imagine they'll be less inclined to download from peer-to-peer in the future. And with our ad-supported model, the artists and copyright holders get paid for those listens."But what about quality? Bandwidth limitations mean that no current service can offer CD-quality streams, although Ward doesn't necessarily see this as a problem. "We have a generation of music fans now who've grown up with the iTunes standard of 128kbps, which is the quality we stream music at on Last.fm," he says."I think there will be a demand for increased audio quality, but I'm not sure that will outweigh the bigger demand for instant access, on-the-go, to a comprehensive music catalogue. It could be some time before the latter can be offered at CD quality, especially wirelessly. It may be that those who continue to download will be the audiophiles, while the general mass of music listeners will stream at whatever bitrate is most convenient to them."So, technological limitations may prevent a complete shift away from downloads to streams. "Wi-Fi and mobile networks aren't good enough," says Mulligan. "Coverage is affected by buildings, and distance from base stations, so you'll never get a seamless experience. Streaming is good enough in the home, but on the go it will need to co-exist with downloads.""Downloads are not going to go away, just like vinyl has not gone away," says Van Buskirk. "But within the next 10 years, I suspect a significant percentage of music fans will listen by streaming stations, songs and playlists from the cloud."
Watching the hundreds of police officers lining President Barack Obama's route down Pennsylvania Avenue yesterday, I couldn't help but be struck by their discipline. I mean, I can only imagine the level of self-control it must have taken to see a black guy in such an expensive car and resist their natural urge to pull him over.Perhaps they were still stunned by the new President's inaugural speech – a homily so feel-good, I half expected it to end, Oprah style, with Obama giving each of the assembled crowd a puppy. "You're getting a puppy, you're getting a puppy ..." And don't get me started on Elizabeth Alexander's poem – "Someone is trying to make music with a pair of wooden spoons on an oil drum ... A woman and her son wait for the bus ... A farmer considers the changing sky" – which sounded less like a poem and more like someone reading outTwitter. And then ...... actually, no, sorry, I can't do it. I may be a professional cynic but tonight, as Blur so memorably sang, my heart's not in it. I've just got back to my hotel room in San Francisco from a party to celebrate the inauguration – and the last thing I'm in the mood to do is mock. Perhaps I've been here too long and have gone native, but from the moment I switched on the television this morning and watched President Obama being sworn in by the Keystone Chief Justice, I've felt nothing but unbridled, uncynical optimism about this new chapter in American history.I'm staying two blocks from Bush street which, for today only, has been renamed Obama street. All day, in every cafe, grocery store, bar and private home, televisions were tuned to the non-stop coverage of the inauguration and the parade that followed. At the party tonight, organised by my friends Eris and David, they served "Yes We Canapés" and everyone – me included – proudly wore little American flags in their lapels, without even a trace of irony. Finally, in the cab on the way back home, with Obama's speech replaying on the radio, the couple I was sharing the ride with held each other's hands tightly and talked about Change.It's like in Ghostbusters II when the river of evil flowing beneath New York grips the city in collective paranormal madness, except in San Francisco today it's a river of change, putting the populace in the grip of hope.I leave town on Thursday – I have to be in Munich by the end of the week forDLD– but more so than on any previous trip, I'm going to miss the hell out of San Francisco.  The fact that I've had a great time here is certainly a factor, but more than that I feel like I'm leaving at exactly the wrong time, like walking out of a cinema five minutes in to a brilliant movie.The camera has just faded in on a city with an uncertain future: US share indexesdropped sharplyagain today, and each week brings a fresh round of layoffs in the tech sector. Last time I was here, back in October, the mood among entrepreneurs at Silicon Valley parties was unequivocally buoyant. Sure, a downturn was coming, but there was a feeling that somehow the tech sector could ride it out. This visit, though, the optimism is all but gone. People are still talking a good talk but behind their eyes the fear is unmistakable. When even Google islaying people off by the ton, no-one feels safe. And then, of course, there's Steve Jobs.Just after I filed my column last week, I went for brunch with a friend who works at Apple. Halfway through the meal, she got a message on her iPhone and abruptly excused herself from the restaurant. When she came back – 10 minutes later – the look on her face was somewhere between sadness and shock."Where did you go?" I asked."I had to reply to an email from Steve.""Steve?""Steve.""Oh …oh.""Yeah."She – along with every other Apple employee – had just received the now famousemailfrom Jobs saying that, actually, his illness was far worse than he'd – ahem – realised and that he was – ahem – taking a few months' medical leave from the company.And at that, just as things are looking terrifying and hopeless, we cut to a week later and our hero's grand entrance. Barack H Obama – 44th President of the United States, and easily the most technologically savvy chief executive the country, and perhaps even the world – has ever seen.Much has been made of Obama'sreluctanceto give up his BlackBerry after taking office, and his campaign'suse of Twitterand other social networks during the election. But those are just tiny details – signifiers that underline Obama's comfort around weapons of mass communication. Much more impressive are hisactual policies: starting with the pledge to appoint America's first Chief Technology Officer to ensure that his administration is the most open and transparent in history.Then there are the other promises: to defend net neutrality and privacy rights; to roll out next generation broadband to all parts of the country; to make permanent a tax cut for research and development spending; to increase funding for science education ... the list goes on and on – and every item is music to the ears of the people of Silicon Valley. This is a president that is serious about encouraging America's technology sector.But making election promises is one thing – delivering on them, while also trying to rescue the economy, fix America's reputation around the world and choose a new White house dog, is quite another. And that's why it kills me that I have to leave just as the opening credits start to roll.I want to be here to see what happens next, to witness the effects of an Obama presidency on the most liberal and technology savvy city in America. But I can't. Thanks to visa restrictions, commitments elsewhere and this strange tech-nomadic lifestyle I've chosen for myself, I rarely stay in any one place long enough to get under its skin. And until today, that suited me just fine.If you asked me yesterday whether I'd ever want to settle down in one place again, I'd laugh and reel off my usual list of reasons why permanent travel and living in hotels is the only way to live. I can go where I want, do what I want, have new experiences with new people every day. Only an idiot would want to give that up.Today, though, something has changed. I got a lift to the party with my friend Scott who has just moved here from London to work as CTO for a company based out here.  As I listened to him talk about his new job, something felt different. I was feeling envy. For the first time in over a year, I was actually envious of someone with an apartment and a job that forces them to stay in a single city and a single country. Especially when that city is San Francisco and that country is the shiny new United States of America.I haven't decided what to do about the feeling yet – and maybe it will pass. But right now, as I watch yet another re-run of his speech on Fox News, it feels like, thanks to Obama, all of the decisions I've spent the last year making about I want to do and where I want to do it have suddenly changed.And, to paraphrase the new President ever so slightly, that's change that scares the living shit out of me.•Paul Carris author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
Apple faces a review by the US Securities and Exchange Commission to check that its recent disclosures about Steve Jobs's health did not mislead investors,Bloomberg is reporting.The company is due to announce its first-quarter financial results (covering the three months ending December 31) tonight at 2200 GMT. Analysts will probably be asking about this matter - among others.The review doesn't mean that there is any evidence of wrongdoing; but some proactive investigation by the SEC will be welcome. It might also set out some ground rules for what actually needs to be disclosed, and when it needs to be disclosed.Following growing rumours about his health near the end of December, Jobs issued a statement on January 5, ahead of the Macworld trade show, saying he had been diagnosed with a hormone imbalance and that there was a straightforward treatment for it.A week later though he said that the diagnosis had changed and that he would be taking medical leave - though not stepping down - until June.Peter Henning, a former federal prosecutor and SEC lawyer who now teaches at Wayne State University Law School in Detroit, told Bloomberg that the SEC would probably only have cause to take action if it could be shown that the company tried to benefit by holding back information about an unambiguous diagnosis."It would be difficult, and certainly a new area of the law," Henning said. "You would have to pin down exactly what they knew, and with a health issue – unlike a merger or a decline in revenue – it's not subject to definitive answers."At the AllThingsD blog (owned by the Wall Street Journal), Kara Swisher - who has been pretty vocal in the "leave the guy alone" group - says:What will be most interesting is exactly how much companies do have to reveal about the health of their leadership and whether the relative fame and brand-critical nature of that exec matters more.For example, does someone like Jobs or, say, Martha Stewart have more need to discuss their health than some lesser known CEO who might have a similar problem?And since it has been well known that Jobs has suffered from a bout with pancreatic cancer and recovered, does he have to disclose it all, given that even his curable version of the illness has complications that are well documented?And, most of all, how specific does Apple and Jobs have to be, and how frequently do they have to update, especially since a diagnosis is always a moving target?More to the point, given the bordering-on-crazed attention given to Jobs–who engenders so much passionate emotion–has also been off-putting and, worse, all over the map in terms of accurate information, what clarity can regulators provide?Swisherwrote last JunethatApple investors who have not figured Jobs' precarious health–after a round with any kind of cancer–into their investment strategies about Apple going forward need some serious reality medication themselves.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Last week we reported on agame that plays for you; this week, our interest is piqued by reports of a game developed without human intervention.Julian Togelius, a postdoc researcher in Artificial Intelligence at the Dalle Molle Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Switzerland, has aimed to create a machine that generates a game based on 'meta-rules', with the aim of creating something - automatically - that is, well, fun.With fans like fun-ologist (and celebrated game designer)Raph Koster, eyeballs are on togelius. He recently presented his findings at theIEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Games (CIG'08). You can read all about themhere(.pdf).Luddites like myself would say that there's something inexplicable about a human-developed game, but then again I've never played a computer-generated game. i don't know; a game developed purely on static rules rather than the traditional, flexible and  organic process sounds rather wooden to me. But in the report, togelius presents a compelling argument for why automatic game development is worthy in a commercial space:When a new video game gets a mediocre review in a newspaper or on a game site, one of the most common complaints of the reviewer is that the game lacks imagination. It's just another game of this or that subgenre (e.g. WWIIshooter); not necessarily bad, but certainly not innovative. One would be forgiven for thinking that there is simply a lack of fresh ideas among game developers3 . Enter evolutionary computation: what evolutionary algorithms do best is producing unexpected solutions to problems. Numerous experiments in evolutionary art testify to this.One use of automatic game design would be to develop prototypes of completely new games. The game designer speciﬁes a game engine (something as simple as in this paper, or something as sophisticated as the Unreal engine) and the axioms that deﬁne a rule space, and sits back to watchevolution produce new game ideas. These would naturally need to be reﬁned and elaborated on by human artists and programmers.The industry is crying out for new game ideas; even indie games, a development trough that should seem  bottomless, is dominated by a few good game mechanics. Is the answer to a creative drought to set the mechanical brains upon it?via/.
Mixed PS3 news this morning. The good? The latest firmware update for Sony's console has now launched. It adds a new, potentially nifty, gallery app, support for divx 3.11 and assorted smaller benefits. Good news then for those who store photos on their PS3 - check out thevideo demo. But the news isn't all good for Sony. Yes, Sony boss Kaz Hirai has beenspeakingto the Official Playstation mag.  Oh dear. His comments include:This is not meant in terms of numbers, or who's got the biggest install base, or who's selling most in any particular week or month, but I'd like to think that we continue official leadership in this industryHmm. I'd "like to think" second from bottom Southampton FC will get promotion to the Premiership this year too Kaz. He continues…It's difficult to talk about Nintendo, because we don't look at their console as being a competitor. They're a different world, and we operate in our world - that's the kind of way I look at things. And with the Xbox - again, I can't come up with one word to fit. You need a word that describes something that lacks longevity.OK, he has a point here – Microsoft did ditch the original Xbox far too quickly – but is he overstating the case for longevity? He saves his best line till last though.And unless things go really bad, there's no way that at the end of a life cycle our competition is going have a higher install base.For his sake I hope by "competition" he means the Xbox and not the Wii. And even then it's going take numerous price cuts and some decent exclusives (Killzone 2, based on what I have played so far, is a good start) before PS3 overtakes the 360.Anyway, what do you think? Is PS3 the long-term sales winner like Sony suggests? Or is Kaz Hirai living in the past?
As someone who exists at the intersection of two sorts of information - the physical  (newsprint) and the digital (the web), I maintain a tenuous grip on both worlds and a fascination with them both.My desk is a mess of both electronics and paper, and I spend days poring over magazines, staring at websites and digging around in info of all sorts. It probably explains why I get unfeasibly interested in projects which bring the virtual to the physical (or vice versa). Sometimes they're calledubicompand sometimes they're just fun.In that vein, two recent ideas spring to mind that I wanted to share with you.First up:Things our friends have written on the internet 2008; a paper anthology . The tabloid, put together by Ben Terrett and Russell Davies, is essentially an anthology of blog posts from 2008. It's a nice exercise in turning relatively ephemeral digital information into a packaged, physical format (which is increasingly what we're doing with the newspaper, I suppose).Meanwhile, there was amicroprinter hack by Tom Taylorthat involved combining a thermal receipt printer and an Arduino board to produce a regular printout of virtual things that might prove useful (upcoming events, weather forecasts, friends' movements and so on). Tom, who works forHeadshiftand happened to contribute to a group blog I ran many moons ago, explains the process on his website.Useful? Perhaps, perhaps not. But there's still something lovely about it.
Your article on the problems of race-hate material published on Facebook and apparently authored by British soldiers (MoD investigates race hate on web, 19 January) raises two important issues in the digital age: the first concerns the authenticity of claimed identity; and the second is about where responsibility lies for extreme and offensive language posted on social media sites.It is tremendously easy to impersonate other people online, so anyone trying to make firm conclusions as to the provenance of the comments needs to be wary. Of course if the offensive and extreme material really was authored by soldiers in the employ of MoD, they need to be held to account. But does the issue end there, as purely a matter for individual authors and, in cases such as these, their employers? Your report did not comment on the apparent unwillingness of the proprietors of social media to be held to account too. Waiting for complaints about extreme content may suit some publishers as it keeps their management costs down, but is it morally responsible?Is it not time that social media publishers/proprietors become more proactive in dealing with the darker sides of content whose publication they are both facilitating and marketing?Robert MarcusDirector, Chat Moderators
As you have probably noticed, theWhiteHouse.govsite is under new management, and now it has a blog.The opening postis from Macon Phillips, the Director of New Media for the White House. It doesn't look as though Obama will be posting, but Phillips says:Citizen participation will be a priority for the Administration, and the internet will play an important role in that. One significant addition to WhiteHouse.gov reflects a campaign promise from the President: we will publish all non-emergency legislation to the website for five days, and allow the public to review and comment before the President signs it.We'd also like to hear from you -- what sort of things would you find valuable from WhiteHouse.gov? If you have an idea, use this form to let us know. Like the transition website and the campaign's before that, this online community will continue to be a work in progress as we develop new features and content for you. So thanks in advance for your patience and for your feedback.That would, of course, sound a whole lot better if the post allowed comments….During Obama's campaign, the@BarackObamahandle was used to tweet news to followers, but this was abandoned after a "We just made history" post dated Nov 5th, 2008. It's not clear if that channel will be used again, but a post on 16 January added:To participate in the Inauguration visit http://pic2009.org or text HISTORY to 56333. Follow the Inauguration on Twitter @obamainauguralFinally, for before &amp; after grabs of the White House web site, seeFlickr.
On this week's show, we explore how the real battlefield in Gaza translates into the virtual one withKevin Anderson.  Plus there's trouble at the top - what's happening to Silicon Valley's chief executives, and what directions will the new heads of Yahoo!, Microsoft and Apple take new media in?Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Here's one for those who found inspiration in ourSpaceship! game development experimentlast year:Zork, the original Infocom text adventure classic, with impossible challenges and angry, knife-wielding grues in every dark passage, is set to berecreated as a web-based massively multiplayer online game.From the intro:"The Great Underground Empire has recently fallen and the land is in disarray. The stock market has collapsed, leading even mighty FrobozzCo International to fire employees from throughout its subsidiaries. A craze of treasure-hunting has swept through the remnants of the Great Underground Empire. It's a dangerous time to be a newly-unemployed traveling salesman, but it's also a great time to try a bit of adventuring."Feeling misty yet? Head here for more Zork goodness. And of course, fill the meantime with the gamesblog'sSpaceship!
For as long as humans have been developing new technology, we've been worrying that our inventions will cause our brains to decay.Even the development of writing was seen as a threat to the memory skills that enabled ancient poems to be passed from teller to teller -many scholars believe Homer's epics weren't written by a single man, but were the product of a long tradition of oral poetry.Arguably civilisation gained something better in exchange, but there were still those who bemoaned the loss of the memory skills of the oral culture; in Mary Renault's novelThe Praise Singer, master-memoriserSimonidesworries that his student's memory will become hazy because he is writing things down.There are some signs that we may be approaching a similar cultural moment, although perhaps with fewer reasons to be cheerful.Reading has been on the decline for the past half-century- largely, it seems, because television has replaced reading in our leisure time. I love television: even with the slew of boring reality shows currently broadcast, TV still offers someveryenrichingculturalexperiences. But the loss of reading - that is, not purely literacy but reading for pleasure - could have wide cultural implications. Reading brings with ita host of other skills and benefits, the loss of which would leave our society poorer, includingthe ability to absorb information quickly, to think through complex problems or to compare points of view.And it's not just television that poses a threat to reading, it's the internet too. Of course, using the internet certainly demands literacy. But reading on the internet isn't the same as reading a book.Recent studieshave indicated that online reading tends to break down in the face of "texts that require steady focus and linear attention". University teacher friends have told me that some of their freshers have started to write in a similar fashion to the way we apparently read online. All the right keywords are in the right paragraphs, but the sentences don't follow on coherently from each other. Their essays are meant to be skimmed, not read.Of these two issues, that people are reading both less and less well, I am torn as to which is more serious. The latter may be easier to fix: simply noticing that I don't read as thoroughly online as I do in print has changed my habits and encouraged me to spend more time reading offline. Education systems could be designed to take this into account.But it's harder to see how the decline in total reading time could be addressed. Certainly no one can force people to read for pleasure; people used to read more, and write more letters, because there were few other options. My family is fortunate to have preserved some of the hundreds of letters my grandmother exchanged with her brothers, Alan and Henry, while they were fighting in the second world war. They didn't write these letters to improve their skills in comprehension and composition; they did it because it was the only way to stay in touch. If they'd had mobile phones and been able to call each other every day, I'm sure they'd have done so. And if they'd had a TV set or an X-Box to relax with at the end of a hard day in basic training, they might have preferred that to a novel.But perhaps technology can offer solutions as well. One bright spot in my reading life recently has been theGolden Notebook Projectin which I and six other women writers read and discussed Doris Lessing's novel over several weeks. The social, collaborative nature of the project encouraged me to stick with a classic which, while it is in many ways astonishing, was occasionally so infuriating that I wanted to hurl it across the room. The future of e-Readers may offer more opportunities for this kind of social reading. Or perhaps the global economic apocalypse will encourage more of us to embracea simpler philosophyand spend our evenings at home with a good book.But while I hate to side with the neophobes I can't help feeling a little concerned; as the loss of the ancient Greek oral culture shows, ways of thinking and using our brains can disappear for good. Reading initiatives aregenerally targeted at children, but I think it's time to start encouraging adults to, as it says on the back of Penguin books,Read More. The Greeks may have replaced their oral traditions with Plato and Aristotle but, though I love computer games, I don't feel that trading the reading culture for Guitar Hero is a fair swap.
Ever since the success of the original Dr Kawashima Brain Training game there have been a host of similar edutainment titles for the Nintendo DS.Maths and Sight Training have been just the tip of the iceberg. The latest addition to the genre is Junior Brain Trainer. Aimed at 6- to 11-year-olds, the game follows the national curriculum and – in theory – develops reading, writing, spelling and maths. Whether the simple word and number games here – fill in gaps, do sums – will have any lasting educational impact is debatable, but the game is at least nicely put together.The game plays out in a similar way to the original Brain Training games, with daily challenges to undertake. Also the more you play the more conundrums you get to solve. But the minigames – like a version of mobile classic Snake – are likely to be more appealing to the target audience. A worthy effort then, but don't expect this to remain in your child's DS after you have turned away.
Ubisoft's "my coach" series for DS has so far covered Latin-based lingos like Spanish and French to good effect, and this latest instalment follows the same template – a series of mini-games and lessons encompassing more than 12,000 words and 1,500 phrases.You can draw characters, learn about the culture and, most importantly, compare your own pronunciation with that of your virtual coach. And this is where the problems begin, with tinny sound and little clear guidance on how to negotiate a phonetic structure that can feel alien to western speakers.As a result, although you gain a reasonable grounding in theory and vocabulary, speaking with any confidence remains hit and miss. It's a noble effort, but ultimately the least successful in the series.
If you're interested in finding out what the fuss is all about regarding iPhone/iPod Touch games, Rolando, which is about as pricey as iPhone games get, provides a decent starting point.Created by ngmoco, which has attracted attention as a startup developing nothing but iPhone games, it's reminiscent of Sony's Loco Roco. Except that it makes decent use of the iPhone's multi­touch screen and accelerometer. The Rolandos – blobs with faces – must be steered to exits, by rolling them (tilt the iPhone and virtual gravity will do the rest), making them jump (by flicking them) and manipulating objects with your finger.There are often dozing members of the royal family around, who remain oblivious while you rescue them, and baddies who kill Rolandos with a touch. With 36 levels, cute 2D graphics and a typically bonkers jazz-inflected soundtrack from Mr Scruff, Rolando is very charming, surprisingly polished, and perfect for dipping into on journeys or just when you're at a loose end
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Let's continue the week with adelicioushaul. Here are a few of our favourites form the past month:• Routes &gt;&gt;routesgame.com• The MMO Crash of 2008 &gt;&gt;hellforge.gameriot.com• US: Sony brings MTV to PSN &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Emogame &gt;&gt;emogame.com• Air Traffic Chaos Review &gt;&gt;eurogamer.net• Companies attending Digital Mission to SXSWi, March '09 &gt;&gt;chinwag.com• Understanding Islam through Virtual Worlds report to release January 29 &gt;&gt;eurekadejavu.blogspot.com• 8-Bit Jesus &amp; Game Grump &gt;&gt;gamegrump.com• £5 App, Pong and Phone Fight &gt;&gt;lastminutelabs.wordpress.com• Digital student &gt;&gt;guardian.co.uk• Company league tables to reveal male-female pay gap &gt;&gt;guardian.co.uk• Why is the idea of online friendships still treated with such disdain? &gt;&gt;guardian.co.uk
The internet is a funny old place. I often wonder to myself about the things that future generations will uncover when they dig back through what we did during the early days of the web - a sort of digital archaeology - and witness a series of odd jokes and weird threads that leave them utterly baffled.Most internet memes fall into that category - a mixture of context, insanity and peer pressure that creates a snowball that's funny for a bit before becoming ubiquitous and tiresome.Rickrolling, anyone?But sometimes memes go even further: they turn anonymous individuals into mini-celebrities for no discernable reason. Which is why thestory of Boxxy, an unidentified young woman who went from being just another unknown YouTuber to causing civil war on one of the world's biggest websites, is so bizarrely fascinating.You'd be forgiven for missing this over the past few weeks, but if you've been surfing the darker corners of the web in recent weeks you might have come across Boxxy (videos about her have racked up millions of hits on YouTube) and wondered what the hell was going on.A year ago a young, unnamed and heavily-eyelinered young woman who hung around onGaia Onlinemade a video. She went by the handle of Boxxy.That's it. Or at least it was for nearly 12 months.At Christmas, the video - by then languishing in YouTube's vaults - got posted toi-am-bored, and from there hit 4Chan, and in particular the site's /b/ messageboard... the heartland for many memes (and definitely NSFW). Why? Nobody's sure. Was Boxxy herself behind it? Or was she simply a vehicle for fans who liked her camgirl approach, apparent ADD and weirdly excitable behaviour?Over the subsequent days and weeks, Boxxy became a topic of contention on 4Chan - with the site splitting into two groups; those who professed to love Boxxy and all she stood for and those who hated Boxxy and her fans. Every thread threaten to spill over into Boxxy spam or a flamewar, and hundreds of 4channers went hacking Boxxy's YouTube account and other websites in search of her true identity. So far they don't seem to have succeeded.Things really came to a head, though, when Boxxy haters - sick of seeing so much about her on 4Chan - decided to launch a denial of service attack on the website itself, bringing it down for some hours as a protest.Things haven't stopped there, though. The YouTube channelBoxxybabeeis the site's most-subscribed to for the month; videos are still being made about how much people hate Boxxy, and her influence continues to spread inexplicably.OK, yes, the whole story is extremely convoluted. But it's the sort of thing that I saw in evidence atROFLCon earlier this year: somebody who is entirely unknown can get picked up for basically doing nothing, but doing it in public.So when our future digital archaeologists start looking back at our actions, they'll come across Boxxy and look confused. How on earth do you relate that story in a way that makes sense in 100 years, given that it makes basically no sense right now? That's partly what I love about the internet - and partly what makes my brain hurt.
With the approval of parliament, our government is planning to hold more information about us than ever before. It wants a national identity database of every UK citizen, identity cards for many UK residents, DNA records kept for millions of innocent people, and records kept of emails sent (although not their contents), web-pages visited and phone calls made. In arguing that these measures are needed for the protection of society, they assure us that "if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear".It has now emerged that the government has drawn up proposals to exclude MPs' expenses from the Freedom of Information Act (Leaders, 17 January). This despite the fact that the existing law has exposed irregularities in how MPs are using their expenses. This double standard is concerning in and of itself. That it is happening during an economic downturn when we are all being expected to tighten our belts is nothing short of outrageous. That it happens 18 months after Gordon Brown launched his premiership by announcing that parliament should be covered by the Freedom of Information Act is deeply worrying.MPs will have an opportunity to pass or block the Freedom of Information Order this week. If they pass it, they will do the reputation of parliament tremendous harm. We urge them to see sense and block this regressive measure.Peter FaceyUnlock Democracy,Maurice FrankelCampaign for Freedom of Information,Matthew ElliottTaxPayers' Alliance,Roger SmithJustice,Phil BoothNO2ID,Anthony BarnettOurKingdom,Neil O'BrienPolicy Exchange,Guido FawkesOrder-Order.com,Louise Christian, Stuart WeirDemocratic Audit,Sunny HundalLiberal Conspiracy,Pete MyersEnougthsEnougth.org,Neal LawsonCompass,Simon DaviesPrivacy International,Henry Porter, Ken RitchieElectoral Reform Society,Barry WhiteCampaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom,John KampfnerIndex on Censorship,Prof AC Grayling, Prof David MillerSpinWatch,Nick MolePAN UK,Tony CurzonPrice Open Democracy,John Jackson
A "business development representative" of Belkin, the router (and other stuff) makerhas been caught soliciting fake positive reviews on Amazon for one of its routerswhich had a stinking reputation from real people.Bit of a mistake posting the job advert on Amazon's Mechanical Turk service, really, since everyone can see the requests - in this case, among others, "Write a Positive 5/5 Review for Product on Website" (including hints like "Use your best possible grammar and write in US English only" - guess that stuffs a lot of us then - "Always give a 100% rating (as high as possible)" and "Write as if you own the product and are using it". Oh, and also "Mark any other negative reviews as 'not helpful' once you post yours."Oh dear. A quick LinkedIn search turned up the person who made the request, Mike Bayard, who was offering 65 cents per (positive) review. Who he? He a "business development representative" for Belkin.Mechanical Turk, in case you've not noticed, is Amazon's "human-powered computer" - basically, people who consider whether they'll do the work for the price you're offering.The router being pimped has "consistently gotten bad reviews", says The Daily Background, which uncovered the story. Although once it did (good thing it took screengrabs), Bayard pulled the ads.Not, however, before they came to Belkin's notice. Its president Mark Reynoso posted an email andletter on the Belkin sitesaying thatit was with great surprise and dismay when we discovered that one of our employees may have posted a number of queries on the Amazon Mechanical Turk website inviting users to post positive reviews of Belkin products in exchange for payment.Belkin does not participate in, nor does it endorse, unethical practices like this. We know that people look to online user reviews for unbiased opinions from fellow users and instances like this challenge the implicit trust that is placed in this interaction. We regard our responsibility to our user community as sacred, and we are extremely sorry that this happened.So what have they done?- We've acted swiftly to remove all associated postings from the Mechanical Turk system.- We're working closely with our online channel partners to ensure that any reviews that may have been placed due to these postings have been removed.One has to say that it was hardly a stellar success. There's precisely one 5-star review and one 4-star review on the page. That's a total 65c (perhaps $1.30) outlay, which has pushed the average rating from one star to... 1.5 stars. Give it another ten bucks, you might be pushing four stars. You might be able tospot the fake review, by the way.Right, that sorts it, doesn't it? Err.. hang on. No word about Mr Boyard. At the very least, might he not be encouraged to sit on the naughty step for a bit? (With everything that's going on, we wouldn't wish him out of a job.) But of his fate, there's no word.Wouldn't it have been cheaper, though, to just fix the router? The one in question, by the way, is theBelkin F5U301 CableFree 4-Port USB 2.0 Hub with Dongle. Anyone got one? How's it going? Give us a potted review, why not?
Antix LabsAntix Labswants you to pick up your phones and play. And then they want you to share your games for free. Francis Charig, Chief Executive, visited the gamesblog's elevator and gave us the skinny on their technology.Explain your product to my mum in 140 words.The Antix Game Player ("AGP") makes games as portable as music or video. Download and play an AGP game to your phone, and copy it to your other AGP-enabled devices such as another phone or even something like a TV and play the same game there. Buy a game, and beam it directly from your phone to someone with an entirely different handset. The copy may be a trial version to allow them to try before buying the complete game. People with different handsets can connect to your phone and play along with you in 2 player games, even without owning the game. There's more for the consumer than that but it gives a flavour of the AGP's power that is otherwise absent from rich casual and premium game engines in the market today.How do players control the product?It's no different from playing a game written directly for a Nintendo DS or an Apple iPhone. Anyway, it's determined by the developer and the AGP can be as transparent as the developer needs it to be.  The point here is that we don't increase complexity at all but it's the handset provider or the game developer who decides how many key presses to start the game or what is required to receive or send a game and the play itself, joystick or keyboard or touchscreen control is really up to the person writing the game. We just provide all the necessary infrastructure to make that choice possible.What is your background?I founded the business in June of 2007 along with a great team who have accumulated between them several hundred years of experience in the design and bringing to market of rich media software platforms working for operators, handset manufacturers, games publishers, compiler companies and silicon design houses.  Take a look at antixlabs.com and view the animation on the home page.  This will give you an impression of our culture, AGP and the market issues that we solve.Name your competitors.Java &amp; Flash are not really competitors - already they sit comfortably alongside games written in C and C++ that are written in most cases directly for the software platform (e.g. a version for Windows Mobile, another for Symbian, for Android and for the many proprietary platforms supported by the manufacturers). C and C++ are the languages used for writing games on the Wii, PlayStation, Xbox, GBA, DS, PSP and so forth. That's where the serious gaming is taking place. But with games being written for specific devices and with an inordinate number of devices available, this means there is mass fragmentation which is at odds with an increasingly convergent world where devices have different operating systems, chipset architectures, screen sizes, input devices and so on. Apple has a strong game playing environment for the iPhone, Nokia for its NGage phones but games written for them are device specific and games cannot be shared in the same way that we can do and which we believe the market wants. If an operator wants to run games services competitive with Nokia and Apple but deployed to its subscriber base across many different handsets, connected home devices and so forth then how does it do it? Apple in particular has shown the market potential, raising the profile and addressing issues like ease of access, fun and great quality graphics but to extend this to the whole market needs Antix and in that sense there is nobody else that one can define as a competitor.How many users do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We have two blue chip handset companies licensing our Player; we haven't yet launched it in the market. Targets are confidential.What's your biggest challenge?The economy!What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus  far?We have not really had much that's weird. We have an experienced team and probably the more experience one has, the less one is surprised and so little appears to be out of the ordinary.What's your distribution/publishing plan?You're asking questions that really are under wraps - not because we don't have them, but they are confidential as our plans include some quite innovative things.Are mobile games the latest killer app?Mobile games are an important part of the overall service that a consumer expects and they have huge revenue potential having overtaken music in terms of $ generated in 2008, but over time games will decreasingly be described as "mobile" or "console" as the market converges.Are you the next big thing?I already am but have been trying to do more exercise since Christmas.The company has enormous potential and we're very confident that we have the right product at the right time.
At the beginning of 2009, Limni undertook the heroic task of compiling a 'Best of' out of the incredible 1733 posts. He emailed the opus to me... and I sat on it for a week. Well, in my defence, I've been in Dundee for a bit. But, no, that's no, that's not good enough.But anyway, here's the round-up of the first week of the year. "With so much to pick from I've had to be brutal so apologies if you find your cherished work missing," says Limni. And from this week, he will be working with two exciting new signings - yes, CheddarFrenzy and ImperfectRex have agreed personal terms and are joining the Best Of writing team.For now, let us cast a wistful look back to the very start of the year...Part one: the serious discussionThe ever-cultured GhostDaz postedthis linkto an article by John Lanchester tackling the well worn topic – can games be considered art? His conclusion seems to be, not yet, but "if the good guys win, or win enough of the time, we're going to have a whole new art form"The Chatterbox contributors were, of course, quick to offer up their own opinions and also addressed a less well covered issue – is a strong storyline actually desirable in a game? A further thread tackled the sticky issue of sex in games.There are too many posts to reproduce them all –check Wednesday's Chatterboxif the mood takes you. A selection of the best is below:Cagool:For me one barrier to games being accepted as art is the obsession with review scores. No-one has discussions about books, or films or paintings by resorting to "it got 93% on metacritic".PhilosopherK1ng:In particular the argument about gaming convention rings true - we all 'get' that games work in a certain way, but asking Joe Public to understand that your uber-strong, fast paratrooper can't hop over a three-foot fence (because it's an artificial barrier and denotes the edge of the playable area) to get past some enemies meets little more than a sneer.Whynotfatboytook the discussion in two new directions with one post:1) Game stories. These are normally terrible - does anyone have examples of stories that worked? My favourite would be 'Thief', I actually cared what happened next, and the plot made sense (sort of) in game terms; e.g. using disease as a reason to restrict the areas you could access. Anyone disagree, or have better examples?2) Pornography in games. The writer is talking about 'seeing what you shouldn't see', but I mean in a more traditional sense - I'm always surprised by how little sex/nudity there is in games and by the amount of fuss it causes when they do appear. I mean, think about the games market - lots of single males with time on their hands ... you'd think game porn would be an obvious step, but there is very little. If a character appears naked for whatever reason they are blurred or shadowed - this is in 18 rated games! I don't think I've seen a nipple in all my years of gaming! Is this going to change, or are games so different from movies that nudity will never be seen?ImperfectRex:Surely the big draw in movies with sex scenes/nudity is the actors or actresses? Games are different in that technology is only now reaching the point where computer generated characters would look convincing in the buff - and there would be little point in doing it as gamers know they're not real people.Umborous23:I don't want romance, I want a landing sim like Elite. Right a bit... left a bit.... down a bit.... wrong landing platform, slap in the face, game over.JuanBlanco:To have a great story in a game, it would need to be extremely linear – yet linear games are looked upon as being a negative thing by most. I suppose having a great non-linear storytelling game would be next to impossible to make – think about the amount of work, writing &amp; content that would go into something like that.On a personal level, Id love to play a game that moved me in the same way a great book or film would – nothing's came close to date.EnglishRed:No, it's just wrong; I don't play games to get cheap Soaraway Sun-type thrills. There is too much titillation in some games, particularly those with a fantasy bent. For example the women in Oblivion, why was their underwear so small?McBegbie:I kind of like the addition of relationships in RPGs and the like, it can add to the story somewhat. Mass Effect and Baldur's Gate 2 are two good examples.Illocon:my two bob is that interactive entertainment does not require a high level of story telling as it is not a passive form of entertainment such as film or theatre, and in many cases we make up our own narratives by the actions that we take. In many ways, over wrought exposition, or any exposition, is often to the detriment of our enjoyment as it can stifle the flow of a game and take events out of our hands.CBPodge:But nudity as part of romance is something that games can and maybe should do. A sex scene that says "look, these two characters definitely really like each other" and doesn't seem forced would be fine. A sex scene that says "look, animated tits!" would be crap.In my humble opinionCheddarFrenzyprovided the best comments:Until someone in the industry takes a risk and manages to make something truly adult-focused and popular (think DC comics starting up Vertigo), this will probably continue, and people will still believe that depth in games means Lara saying something before putting on her black swimsuit...The game world needs some real auteurs, not people like Molyneux who had their heyday 15 years ago and now just talk the talk, but people who genuinely try and explore the possibilities of what interactivity means, and how emergent stories and gameplay can really be different to other media, whilst still maintaining an awareness of how interactivity works well.Part two: lateral thinking and Monty HallThursday must have been particularly boring as the Chatterbox regulars resorted to throwing some lateral thinking puzzles out. I'm just going to post the questions – work it out or read the blog for the answers!McBegbie:A woman, while at the funeral of her own mother, met a guy whom she did not know. She thought this guy was amazing. She believed him to be her dream guy so much, that she fell in love with him right there, but never asked for his number and could not find him. A few days later she kills her sister. What is her motive for killing her sister?CBPodge:A man and his son are in a car crash, and get taken by different ambulances to different hospitals equal distances apart and get taken straight into surgery. The ER doctor operating on the son walks into the operating theatre looks down at the boy and says "I can't operate on him, he's my son". What's going on?Umborous23:A plane takes off from London, half the passengers are English and half are from Belfast. It crashes halfway across the Irish Sea. Where should the survivors be buried?Apic:A woman is going up an escalator when suddenly it stops, all the lights go out and she starts crying inconsolably. Why?Davefalse:A man is marooned on a desert island, but is rescued before he dies. Many years later he goes into a restaurant sees Albatross on the menu and orders it. He takes one mouthful then walks out and kills himself. Why?(Keef adds: okay here's another easy one: a fit young man wearing a backpack approaches a completely normal-looking field. However, as soon as he steps foot in it, he dies. What happened?)Then all hell broke loose as KillerBee posed the Monty Hall dilemma:You're on a game show and you've got to the final round. There are three doors and behind one of them is a new car. Behind the other two are consolation prizes - a teddy bear.You pick one of the doors but then the host (who knows where the big prize is) opens one of the other doors to show you one of the consolation teddies. He asks you if you want to change your choice to the other remaining closed door or stay with your original selection. Should you stick or switchThis kicked off a whole host or responses and pseudo-mathematical explanations, below is a selection – mostly of people getting it wrong rather than the lengthy explanations. Personally I still can't properly understand how it works, but I've given in and acceptedthe explanation on Wikipedia.CBPodgeappears to be king of the puzzle and got it straight away: "You always switch. It's a maths problem isn't it. All kinds of probabilities. I forget the name of it, but I remember being quite intrigued by it".Bigworv:That seems like mathematical balls to me. Given you don't know which door it's behind the second opening is surely an independent event from the first, hence switching won't make a difference. I never agreed with this riddle.Makar27:They are probably talking about exactly the same thing on the Deal or No Deal forum right now, which is very worrying really...Humofevil:This kind of thing annoys me. Just shows you can apply abstract maths to anything without proving anything attached to real life. Once one door is removed from the equation there is a 50/50 chance of you having the right one. Switching (or not) does not effect this in reality.Riano:Slight issue with that puzzle - the host is always going to show a teddy bear - therefore mathematically you already know you have a 50-50 chance. Ergo one of the three is redundant and therefore no need to be in the calculation - you can only really try and use probability when there are two and that will be 50-50. It's a load of b@llox.Lazybones:Surely: If you stick with the one you've gone for it's always going to be one in three because there are three doors you're choosing from. But then when the one door is opened you're making a one in two choice ... Holy ... Now I get why you're still talking about this. No - it's always one in two because the host always takes away one of the teddy bears. Is this what Riano was saying? Have I completely misunderstood the whole thing?M33nan:This has always bugged me, so I wrote a program this lunchtime in Oracle (handy language for me at the mo) to test it out. It simulates 10,000 of these scenarios with either the switch behaviour on or off. If you don't switch you win 33% of the time; if you always switch, you win 66% of the time. Totally not the result I was expecting. Maths is so weird.BeardOfBeesused the opportunity to suggest a novel pub game:Say you're going to auction off a £10 note between two or three other mates. The highest bidder, whatever price that may be at, pays you their bid and takes the £10. The other bidder(s) have to pay you their bid amounts but DON'T get anything in return. It's all fun until you get to say £9.50. Then person who's losing is faced with this decision: "bid £10 and break even, or do nothing and lose £9". So then the next person has: "bid £10.50 and lose 50p, or do nothing and lose £9.50". You can double or treble your money with a few people working against each other here. If anyone does it to you, agree on the sly with the other person to bid 1p, nobody compete, and you split the £10 at the end and laugh.Anyone tried it yet?Part three: the actor questionEveryone loves a bit of listing on a Friday and this week was no exception. Whynotfatboy agreed (with me) that The Hustler was a great film and said:Me and a friend sometimes try to think of actors that have been in five really good films (or directors who havemadefive really good films). It's harder than you think. Paul Newman is one of the few who definitely make it.Plenty of good suggestions, without going into too much detail:Arnold Schwarzenegger, Johnny Depp, Tom Cruise (BeardofBees)Sean Connery, Bill Murray (TonyHayers)Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, Jodie Foster (Limni)Harrison Ford (Killerbee)Sigourney Weaver (Smellavision) (roundly condemned due to including Alien Resurrection)Michael Caine (Davefalse)Jean-Claude Van Damme (OfficePest) (a joke - I think!)Dan Akroyd, Robert Downey Jr, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall (Cmidrfti)Bruce Campbell (Ward10)Steve Buscemi, Jack Nicholson (Alimantado)Christian Bale, Brad Pitt (Kezabien)James Stewart, Humphrey Bogart (CheddarFrenzy - he really is the blog's cultural guardian)Alec Guinness (CommodoreSchmidlapp)Christopher Walken, Leonardo Di Caprio, Kevin Spacey, Kevin Costner, Keanu Reeves (CBPodge)Bruce Willis (HDStanton)Jackie Chan, 'Beat' Takeshi Kitano (APic)Jeff Bridges, Kurt Russell, Woody Harrelson, Peter Cushing, Charles Napier (CrispyCrumb)Daniel Auteuil, Gregory Peck, Robert Mitchum, Ingmar Bergman, Stephen Spielberg (Keef)Part four: the rest (including special guest category)Excuse of the Week:My bargain Motorstorm for £17 didn't turn out too well. I got an email a week and a half after I ordered it (and a week after it had been apparently dispatched) to say it had been damaged in an accident with a leaky pipe.They've given me a refund but I can, of course, order another copy when they get a replacement. Unfortunately the price has now gone up. Fair play to them for trying to make up a ridiculous excuse.GhostDaz refuses to fall for the old leaky pipe con.Quote of the Week:I'm not a big fan of action movies - although strangely I do like the first Die Hard, and that is despite Mel Gibson being probably my least favourite actor of all time.The prize goes to Whynotfatboy for this little classic. He won't thank me for the reminder but was very broad-shouldered when dealing with the inevitable abuse!Other quotes:"Lots of exercise and just not being at work, does wonders for the spirit. That and finding true love..."Who are you and what have you done with TonyHayers?"Drinking hit new heights over festivities, port, beer, wine, whiskey, moscato, sherry, lager, gin, champagne. When there was nothing left I even considered the bacardi breezers at the bottom of the fridge. Because I left it means I am not alcoholic."You keep telling yourself that, Mollocate."I had to euthanize one of my buddies - he kept getting injured and slowing me down."Chubster2010 is clearly of the 'firm but fair' school of friendship."I actually convinced my wife recently that the only reason Parent + Child parking spaces were bigger was because they knew that most of them would be used by women, so gave them more room to compensate for lack of parking skills. I think she still believes it."ArtieFufkin: never afraid to take on the PC brigade."I ate my body weight in Ginsters on the way home, I just couldn't get enough of them that evening."Bigworv creates his own nightmarish version of I'm A Celebrity's bush tucker trial."I'm very worried about Sunday's game. I have a feeling you'll beat us and beat us well. We're on a bit of a downward spiral at the moment."I've included my prediction for Sunday's Chelsea-Man U game in the hope of landing a job as a Guardian sports writer…Link of the Week:Norn Iron- thanks LazybonesGames:Call of Duty: World at War, Mirrors Edge, Oblivion, Fallout 3, Tomb Raider: Underworld, Chrono Trigger, Gears of War 2, Left 4 Dead, Far Cry 2, Halo 3, Valkria Chronicles, Banjo Kazooe: Nuts &amp; Bolts, Wipeout HD, Football Manager 2009, Lost Oddysee.Films:The Spy Who Loved Me, Casino Royale, Crank 2, When We Were Kings, Speed Racer, Wanted, Apocalypto, 2001, The Descent, The Ring, The Grudge, The Devil's Backbone, The Orphanage, There Will Be Blood, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Halloween, The Bucket List.Music:DrumCorp, Damien Rice, Jack Johnson, Nick Drake, Frank Turner, Bob Dylan, Ben Folds, Leonard Cohen, James Yorkston, Neutral Milk Hotel, PJ Harvey, Brian Eno, Roxy Music, Enslaved, BloodbathKids Authors:(requested to help JuanBlanco with his own attempt) Neil Gaiman, Alan Garner, Garth Nix, Lemony Snicket, Eoin Colfer, Michael Morpurgo, Phillip Pullman , Charlie Higson, Susan Cooper, Robert Westall, Rosemary Sutcliffe, Jill Paton Walsh, Mary Renault, The Brothers Grimm, Enid Blyton, Terry Pratchett, Darren Shan, CS Lewis, Natalie Haynes, China Mieville, Anthony Horowitz, Lauren Child...
I've never bought into the "gaming is a sport" thing. Yes gaming needs decent reflexes and skills but sitting on your arse playingCounter-Strikenever struck me us up there with running a marathon or scoring the winning goal against Pompey when it comes to sporting achievements. I could be wrong though. Let's face it darts and snooker are hardly tests of physical endurance. And I have no doubt that I'd get thrashed at Counter-Strike, Warcraft III and all the other aging PC games normally played competitively.Sensible World of Socceris a different story mind.Anyway, maybe, just maybe, there is something to this sports gaming thing. Today the UK eSports Association (UKeSA) – no, me neither, although they are apparently the official governing body for competitive gaming in the UK -  launched the first official UK videogaming tournament. Interestingly consoles games are finally included. Historically these tournaments have tended to be PC only and despite all the arguments – and I have a lot of time for PC gaming – watching or playing games on your PC will NEVER be sexy to anyone outside the hardcore. Console gaming though has a chance of attracting a wider audience – heck, even the Wii is included. See for yourself…The games you can compete in are:PC GamesCounter-Strike: SourceDay of Defeat: SourceCounter-Strike: Condition ZeroCounter-Strike 1.6Team Fortress 2Warcraft III: The frozen ThroneCall of Duty 4 – Modern WarfareCompany of HeroesFIFA09Nintendo WiiSuper Smash Brothers BrawlMario Kart WiiXbox 360Call of Duty: Modern WarfareGears of War 2FIFA 09Guitar Hero 3Rainbow Six Vegas 2Forza Motorsport 2Halo 3PlayStation 3FIFA 09Rainbow Six Vegas 2Call of Duty 4: Modern WarfarePro Evolution Soccer 2009Players cansign upuntil midnight on the 25th Jan.Fancy it then? And if so, which game should they add to this list that would give you a chance of winning? Or do you remain unconvinced by the whole esports thing.
The number of Windows computers infected with the new "downadup" worm – also known as "Conficker" and "Kido" – has exploded to almost 9 million worldwide, from roughly 2.4m last Thursday, according to the computer security company F-Secure.The growth in the number of infected machines – which the company's researchers called "just amazing" – makes it one of the worst malware outbreaks of the past five years. The principal targets are corporate Windows servers belonging to small businesses who have not installed security updates released by Microsoft last October. F-Secure estimates that a third of all potentially vulnerable systems have not had the update.But antivirus researchers are still unsure of the precise purpose of the malware, which is spreading via the internet, through unpatched corporate networks and through USB memory sticks attached to infected computers.First discovered last October, downadup loads itself on to a computer by exploiting a weakness in Windows servers. Although theweakness was noticed and fixed by Microsoft last October, not enough people with vulnerable machines – including those running Windows XP and Vista – have installed it.The worm can infect USB sticks and any corporate laptop that gets infected could then launch attacks if it was later connected to a home network.The reason for the explosion in infected machines seems to be a new variant which appeared last week, updated by the hackers who wrote the original. The new one attempts to crack the passwords of machines on a network using the computing power of the infected machine to apply a "brute force" approach – so that passwords such as "admin", "password" or "123456" on potential target machines will quickly be broken.Once it has infected a machine, the software also tries to connect to up to 250 different domains with random names every day. Researchers reckon that one of them will be the intended "control" domain, and that when the computers connect to it they will download a fresh program that will take over the infected computer."This makes it impossible and/or impractical for us good guys to shut them all down – most of them are never registered in the first place," the F-Secure team noted on its weblog. "However, the bad guys only need to predetermine one possible domain for tomorrow, register it, and set up a website – and they then gain access to all of the infected machines. Pretty clever."So far, nobody knows when that domain will become active – or whether it already is. Some have tried registering the domains that the worm tries to connect to (by advancing the clock on an infected PC by a day or two, to see which ones it will connect to) – but gave up because the cost of registering domains grew too high.McAfee, another antivirus company, points out thatweaknesses in Windows are being exploited more and more quickly. In 2001, it took 335 days for a worm to appear that exploited a vulnerability already patched by Microsoft. That worm, called Nimda, nevertheless did serious damage.Since then, the length of time between patches appearing – which hackers can use to "reverse engineer" a piece of malware that will attack the weakness – has shortened, until the latest patch appeared on the same day that an "exploit" against it was found online.
It's not often bloggers get into PC design, butTechCrunchhas just updated us on what it's now calling the CrunchPad. It says:The idea is to get a new type of device into people's hands for as cheap as possible (we were aiming for $200, it looks like $299 is more realistic). It fits perfectly on your lap while you are sitting in front of the TV, so you can look up stuff on Wikipedia or IMDB as you channel surf.Fair enough, except for the bit about it being a "new type of device". It's actually an old type of device, tried previously in the Geode chip-basedWebPadreference design and Microsoft's Windows CE-based Companion ideas.National Semiconductor was showing the reference design for its WebPad back in November 1998, which shows just how far TechCrunch is behind the times.In a feature inNovember 2000, I wrote that:More recently there have been attempts to sell tablet computers as mobile "internet appliances" (IA). This trend started at Comdex two years ago, when National Semiconductor unveiled a reference design for the WebPad as a way of encouraging sales of its Intel-compatible Geode processor (see http://ia.national.com). It was continued last year, when Gates demonstrated "MSN companions" during his keynote speech, using a Compaq device.Most of these tablets are not PC-compatible but use an operating system requiring fewer, cheaper hardware resources. Examples include Linux, Be's BeOS, and Windows CE. But the market has yet to take off.Guess what: although I saw a couple of dozen WebPads of various types, I never found anybody who'd actually bought one, and the whole movement crashed and burned.Times and markets change, of course, but it would be amusing to know if any of the people advocating CrunchPads now either bought a WebPad roughly a decade ago, or -- better still -- rubbished the whole idea.
Few web surfers can resist collections of photos such as 10 Towering Tree Houses, 12 Unbelievable Examples of Buildings in Motion, 20 Awesome Gun and Bullet Artworks, or 24 Gripping Ghost Towns and Abandoned Cities. That's exactly the kind of showWebUrbanistputs on all the time, though the site is probably best known for producingThe Definitive Guide to Banksy Graffiti and Street Art.According to its logo, WebUrbanist is about urban design, culture, travel, architecture and alternative art. Although the emphasis is on the urban environment, the site will cover anything from thumbtack art to space travel, if it's whacky stuff. You probably wouldn't think of making anelephant sculpture from discarded Cambodian weaponsunless you'd seem it on WebUrbanist.Technically, WebUrbanist is a blog, though usually with only one post per day. Stories are in a single narrow column, and you might get two or three images in each small panel, with 50-100 words underneath. The result looks neat and tidy, and means pages don't take long to download. Thankfully, you never need to click 25 times just to see 25 images. However, there are usually links to sources, which might be magazines, blogs, or Flickr.In a verybrief interviewin July, Kurt Kohlstedt, WebUrbanist's founder and lead editor, said: "One post a day, five authors, one lead editor is the master plan behind the success of WebUrbanist." Authors who only have to make one or two posts a week can put quality over quantity.Also, unlike most blogs, WebUrbanist doesn't focus on timeliness. It really doesn't matter when you post or look at a collection of pictures of, for example, bookcases, converted sea forts, or mazes. So although you can access WebUrbanist via its monthly archives, it's better to think of it as a growing archive of galleries, collected into topics such as vehicles, buildings and cities.WebUrbanist is closely integrated withWebEcoist, a sister site launched in August. This covers everything from heroic stories of handicapped pets to environmental oddities, and includes green design and sustainable living.WebEcoist takes the same approach as WebUrbanist, with stories such as 15 Amazing &amp; Unusual Trees Around the World, 15 Adorably Tiny Miniature Pets &amp; Animals, and 15 Delicious Vegetarian Thanksgiving Recipes. The result is a lot less male and geeky than WebUrbanist.WebUrbanist is a very successful site: it claims more than a million unique visitors per month, and about 65,000 people subscribe to its RSS feed. The site also accepts advertising and is looking for sponsors. But perhaps it would have done even better under a different title.Although Europeans still tend to relate "urban" to cities and town planning, the word has a much larger set of associations in the US. "Urban" is now a genre of music originally associated with hip-hop and other ghetto styles. It's basically a replacement for what was commonly called "black music".Urban music fans who visit WebUrbanist will find it has no connection, though they should still enjoy the trip.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
