"For Jory Bell, creating a handheld computer that uses the full Windows XP operating system isn't a matter of if, but when. As chief executive of San Francisco-basedOQO, Bell has been trying for four years to create such a handheld. Now he says the product will be launched in the fall," reports theMercury News.See Online'sReal power in your pocket(February 12) for more on the "mini-PC" genre.Comment: ThePC Statssite gives a better idea what this "ultrapersonal computer" is like, based on its announcement at the Consumer Electronics Show in January. But like the Transmeta chip it uses, it has already had such a ridiculous amount of coverage that the reality is almost certain to be a disappointment.
Regular Blogger users are being invited to sign up to test the Gmail mail service. Both systems are owned by Google.
That chilling phrase which has haunted generations of nerve-wracked schoolchildren into their adulthood - "You may turn over your paper now" - could soon disappear from the classroom lexicon.The head of the government's exam regulator yesterday signalled the imminent end of the conventional paper-and-pencil exam when he predicted that all youngsters could be taking their national tests, GCSE and A-level exams on screen at a computer in just 
 five years' time. Instead of the familiar scene of rows of children hunched over desks in school halls which has encapsulated the annual exam season since Victorian times, children could be answering questions on-screen at any time of the academic year, writing prose as well as responding to "tick box" questions and being guided through interactive problems and sequences.In some cases, under a scheme being tested on the Isle of Wight, they could even answer questions about coursework from home using mobile phones.Yesterday Ken Boston, chief executive of the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) set out the first blueprint towards a new, on-screen examination to take advantage of huge strides in technology and reduce the risks of exam scripts being lost.He told a London conference on e-assessment that developments in new technology which were already being extensively piloted meant it was feasible for all youngsters and adult learners to take exams and tests online if they wanted to in five years' time."On-screen assessment will 
 shortly touch the life of every learner in this country," he said.Dr Boston, who after the 2003 A-level regrading fiasco famously likened the discredited exam system to a "Victorian cottage industry", said the introduction of new technology would create more flexibility, allowing youngsters to take exams and tests when they were ready for them and at any time of the year."The well-worn rhythms of the school year, which have existed for decades, would be challenged by assessment on demand, as would our deeply 
 entrenched age-related education system." Marking of scripts would also be quicker and more accurate, he said.Martin Ripley, the QCA's head of assessment policy,told the conference that on-screen assessment and marking would allow students to get their results within seven to 10 working days rather than after three or four months.The first group of youngsters to take a test entirely on-screen, the QCA suggested, were likely to be 14-year-olds taking the national test in information and communications technology in 2006.
You have been allowed to handle one of the world's oldest and most precious books - and as you turn the pages, you notice with horror that the paper is starting to crinkle under your finger.For such fragile manuscripts, crinkles are but a step away from cracks and tears.This frisson of nightmare has to date been available only to a few privileged scholars permitted to touch the books, but from today can be shared by all the 10 million UK households that are online.The British Library has put 10 of its greatest and rarest literary treasures, from the Lindisfarne Gospels to the world's earliest dated printed book, the Diamond Sutra, on to the internet.Tony Blair yesterday hailed the project, Turning the Pages, as a "magnificent example" of what the internet could achieve.The electronic facsimiles are so realistic that the pages do appear to crinkle as they are turned by mouse clicks. However, the damage is an illusion. Smaller details, almost invisible on the actual manuscripts, like the realistic cat on the opening page of the Lindisfarne Gospel of St Luke, are revealed by a zoom facility.The zoom also shows the glee on the faces of the devils and lascivious women who torment St Anthony in a play ing-card sized painting in the Sforza Hours, a book of hours commissioned by the Duchess of Sforza in the 1490s.The painting, by Giovan Pietro Birago, was once so celebrated that it was insured for more than Leonardo da Vinci's Madonna of the Rocks. Today, Leonardo's notebook of drawings and writing is probably the most valuable item of all the collection.Most of the digitised versions have been readable on terminals for about 100,000 visitors to the library's exhibition galleries in its headquarters near St Pancas station in London. The prime minister, who has visited the galleries' set-up, said in a tribute to the spreading of the page-turning technology to the internet that it "opens access to a broad spectrum of our cultural heritage".Other books on the website are the Luttrell Psalter (1590), the 14th century Hebrew Golden Haggadah from Spain, the Sherborne Missal of around 1400, Sultan Baybars' Koran of 1306, Elizabeth Blackwell's Herbal of 1737-1739, and Andreas Vesalius's Anatomy from the 16th century.To see Turning the Pages, go tobl.uk/collectionstreasures/digitisation.html/. The site requires a Macromedia Shockwave plug-in, which can easily be downloaded.
"Internet security experts warned Tuesday of a serious security vulnerability in the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) a critical communications protocol used on the majority of computer networks in the world, according to an advisory from the United Kingdom's National Infrastructure Security Co-Ordination Centre (NISCC). The hole exists in all implementations of TCP that comply with the Internet Engineering Task Force's TCP specification. By exploiting the holes, malicious hackers could cause TCP sessions to end prematurely, creating a 'denial of service', or DoS attack, reportsIDG News Service."Despite the dire warnings, the impact of the TCP hole will probably be small."
"IBM over the next two years aims to win wide support for something called "extensible Content Protection," or xCP. It unveiled xCP on Monday at the National Association of Broadcasters convention in Las Vegas," reportsUSA Today."The idea is to embed xCP as widely as possible in digital music and movie files, as well as most kinds of playback devices. Once widely distributed, IBM says xCP will open up lucrative ways to sell digital content."Comment: IBM seems to unveil a new DRM system every couple of years. It's not clear how the latest effort relates to the EMMS (Electronic Media Management System) it was selling in 2001, if at all. Remember: "The EMMS system was also used to offer downloads of Grammy nominated artists, the first public showcase of EMMS. RealNetworks was chosen as the featured application for playback of the copyright-protected downloadable music from the Grammy website" (here). Actually, I quite liked IBM's 1996 version of DRM, which was calledCryptolopes, but of course, I may have missed a few.
"America Online this week is expected to announce a new feature that will let subscribers access their e-mail through third-party applications such as Eudora and Microsoft's Outlook, the company confirmed Tuesday. Called Open Mail Access, the feature can be used on any e-mail software that supports Internet Message Access Protocol, which lets applications access e-mail off other servers," reportsCNet.
When it comes to names, Jaguar retains a powerfully emotive magic. Of course, it could be said that as part of the Ford empire, it retains little else. Nevertheless, few words summon up a kind of dashing aspirational Englishness with such reflexive certainty. One needs only to utter its first syllable for a vivid picture to form of a chiffon-cravatted bachelor - Simon Dee, perhaps - ushering a miniskirted dolly bird into a silver E-type, or an MK2 neglecting to observe the speed limit as it leaves a post-office blag in Wembley. What you don't see is a family estate car from which to unload the week's shopping. Nor, alas, did my wife."Where?" she asked, when I said I had a Jag outside. "There," I replied, pointing along our street, which only contained three other cars, one of them our hatchback."Where?" "There!"That is an abridged version of a conversation that went on in the same vein for rather longer than I enjoyed. The problem was she was looking at its boot, which, from a visual perspective, is not unlike the boot of every other estate car made this century.To say that it is an inconspicuous rear end does not begin to do justice to its confusing blandness. I stood for almost a minute squeezing the remote key in a fruitless attempt to open the door before it dawned me that I was actually trying to get into my neighbour's VW Passat estate. I also had an unfortunate experience with a Daewoo Nubira in the courtyard of a country hotel, which I won't go into here. An adaptation to that annoying rear windscreen sticker that says "My other car is a Porsche" might go some way to preventing these misunderstandings: a simple reminder such as "This car is a Jaguar".The point is that, as with nervous horses and Jennifer Lopez, the Jaguar X-type sport estate is not a creature best approached from behind. From the front, however, it is proudly and unmistakably Jaguaresque. The elegant, bevelled contours of the bonnet, the familiar aristocratic grille and the seductively elliptical headlights are all characteristics that make a head-on encounter so much more rewarding, and helpfully distinctive, than the reverse introduction.There is, needless to say, only so long you can spend getting into a car, even when you factor in all the other cars you've incorrectly undertaken to enter; sooner or later, you have to drive the thing.The complaint that is made of the X-type is not that it performs like so many other cars, but that it performs like one car in particular, the Ford Mondeo, on whose platform it is built. This is not a particularly harsh criticism, as far as I'm concerned, because the Ford Mondeo is a fine vehicle. All the same, it's not a Jag.Certainly, if you're forking out over 32 grand, with all the extras, you don't want to be mistaken for an ink-jet salesman. Happily, this is not a problem with the estate, because salesmen don't drive estate cars. But, as I found out whenever I tried to relocate the X-type, a surprisingly large number of other people do. And I'm not sure why.Unlike SUVs, which are much more a lifestyle statement (specifically, "Get out of my way, I'm taking my kids to private school"), the bigness of an estate seems to be nostalgically attached to a notion of practicality. Yet, unless you're in the decorating business, the only time you'd need all that boot space is when loading up for a family holiday. And the kind of people who buy estates   are the kind of people who fly abroad for their holidays.Notwithstanding that contradiction, the X-type sets out to counter the image of suburban pragmatism by sexing it up with sporty trimmings. But if the concept of a sport estate is not already worryingly oxymoronic, a diesel sport estate seems to drive the notion of sportiness to the furthest outskirts of meaning. Something about the taxi purr of a diesel does not square with the youthful raciness implied by "sport", especially when you're carrying roof bars and a back end situated in a different time zone.Actually, that's not quite fair. For an estate, the X-type is pretty compact. A little too compact if you're an adult in the back and are keen to continue the blood supply to your feet. Indeed, there's a suspicion of reverse-Tardis syndrome here. The X-type looks long enough on the outside to turn the search for a parking space into a Conradian adventure, but compressed enough inside to make you wonder why you got an estate in the first place.The front seats are a different matter. If we're calling a spade a spade, they're not quite a bucket, but they're tailored and shapely and feature a multi-dimensional adjustment system that should keep the kids happy for hours in the unlikely event of a breakdown or, still more improbable, the discovery of a suitable parking space. The rest of the charcoal-grey interior, like the simple modern-retro dashboard, is perfectly inoffensive and tasteful with out ever quite conveying the sense of luxury promised by the badge.Such nitpicking would remain just that if the car was a joy to drive. But in a urban setting, it comes precariously close to being a drag. In the stop/start environment of a town or city, there is a decided lack of oomph at low speed, and any hesitation in changing down gears can result in the impression that you've forgotten you'd hooked a caravan on to the back.On the open road, though, the X-type comes into its own. Cruising along a motorway at 90mph (I imagine - I was careful not to go above 70) with the soothing voice of the woman on the GPS system encouraging you to continue, the car attains the smoothness and sense of purpose of the Eurostar nearing top speed. That's when you can sit back and dream you're driving a Jag.The lowdownJaguar X-type sport estatePrice:£32,462Top speed:123mphAcceleration:0-60 in 9.8 secondsConsumption:36.7 &#91;urban&#93; / 60.4mpgAt the wheel:Dave Lee TravisOn the stereo:Hits of the 60s Vol IIIEn route for:The Cotswolds via B&amp;Q
The government today launched a new NHS jobs website in a bid to attract more people to pursue careers in the health service.More than 90 NHS organisations across England, including all the strategic health authorities, are already advertising their vacancies onthe website, which allows the public to search and apply for jobs online. It has 559 new vacancies today.During a three-month trial from last December, more than 3,000 people applied for jobs advertised by 46 NHS organisations on the website. The site has already attracted hundreds of thousands of visits and has around 24,000 registered users.The health minister John Hutton said the online recruitment service would boost NHS recruitment."To build on our success in increasing the numbers of key staff in the NHS we need to make it much easier for people to find out what jobs are available," he said."We also need to speed up recruitment so that people can access the rewarding careers that the NHS has to offer.""I am delighted that the trial of the service has been such a success. Rolling out the service nationally will not only help the NHS to recruit the people it needs, but also help candidates to find and apply for the jobs they want with easily and quickly."The five-year contract to run the website on behalf of the Department of Health was awarded to Methods Consulting, a provider of specialist IT services, and Jobsite (Worldwide) UK, a large online recruitment company.
Around one in five companies has experienced problems with employees misusing the internet, according to a survey published today.Over the last year, research found, nearly two-thirds of large companies were affected, reporting an average of one incident a week.The two biggest areas of misuse were excessive personal emails and access to inappropriate websites. The results were revealed in the initial findings of the 2004 Department of Trade and Industry biennial information security breaches surveyResearchers conducted 1,000 telephone interviews with organisations of all sizes and a number of face-to-face interviews between October 2003 and January this year.Employees had access to the web in 89% of UK businesses - 98% in large companies - up from 69% in 2002 when the survey was last carried out, the research showed. Investigations into incidents of misuse lasted typically up to a week, according to the findings.Chris Potter, of PricewaterhouseCoopers, which led the survey, said: "As more businesses provide their staff with access to the internet, the number of incidents of staff abusing that access is rising. It seems unwise to wait until a major breach before putting effective controls and plans in place."
Identity theft could become the next big crimewave to hit Britain because people have problems recalling their various passwords, pin numbers and access codes, an internet security company claimed yesterday.Customers frequently use the same numbers or names to access different types of services and websites, including email and bank accounts. They also frequently write them down in order not to forget them, or share them with friends and relatives.A survey by RSA Security - admittedly based on a small sample - suggested that 79% of people would be prepared, when questioned in the street, to give away some personal information which might allow a dedicated fraudster to steal their identity."Around eight out of 10 people are prepared to effectively give away their passwords," said Tim Pickard of RSA. "They don't see a high value in that information. A worrying number of people actually have passwords stored within their wallets."The internet users questioned for the survey had created on average more than 20 different online identities by providing personal details to a website."Every day we hear examples of physical identities being stolen, from credit and debit card slips thrown in the bin, or activities such as credit card skimming," said Mr Pickard."However, there seems to be a huge disparity between the perceived risk of physical and online identity theft. Consumers need to be more aware that their willingness to hand over personal information to strangers is actually a greater threat - ultimately it could lead to their identities being stolen online."Around 11 million Britons have online bank accounts. Identity theft is rapidly becoming an issue across the industrialised world. "Access to online identities through personal information and passwords is the new easy target," Tony Neate of the national hi-tech crime unit told the RSA survey."The British economy loses millions of pounds a year as a result of identity fraud. This can only increase if people do not become more aware of their responsibilities to protect their virtual identities." RSA has a vested interest in the problems of online security. It manufactures what are known as authentication tokens, which generate secure remote access codes for banks. They are used more widely on the continent and by some banks in the UK for high-value customers.
"HandHeld Entertainment, the San Francisco company which introduced the portable device late last year, over-promised and under-delivered. There's no user manual, the online customer support site is skeletal and the company's business model looks flawed. Yet the Zvue (www.zvue.com), much to my surprise, actually does a decent job of playing back video on its 2 1/2-inch color LCD screen, and works well as an MP3 music player. At such a low price, that's remarkable," says Mike Langberg atMercury News.
"The ad for the Sportka, a hatchback sold in Europe, shows the realistic-looking orange cat climbing on top of the car and poking its head into the open moonroof, The Detroit News reported Sunday. The hatch slides closed, the cat struggles briefly and its headless body slides to the ground," reportsAP."Ford says the clip was conceived without its approval by ad agency Ogilvy &amp; Mather as part of a 'viral marketing' campaign for the Sportka. Ogilvy &amp; Mather Worldwide issued a statement saying it also didn't sanction the commercial, which was leaked onto the Internet on April 1."
"Apple Computer Inc on Monday announced upgrades to its entire line of portable computing products. Apple's pro PowerBook models have been bumped to a top speed of 1.5GHz, while the consumer iBook now reaches speeds of 1.2GHz." reportsMacCentral.
Rhodri Marsden:I guess that starting my blog was an extension of emailing. I'd regale friends with stories of my tedious life, and embarrassingly I found that I'd be copying big sections from one email I was writing to someone in Sydney, to another email I was writing to someone in Leeds. Terrible, really. So I thought I should come clean before I got rumbled. Now it all goes up on the blog, the side-effect being that none of my friends get any emails any more.I just looked back at my first entry, which was on June 16 last year. It's about me buying a washing machine, and how I narrowly missed assassinating one of the John Lewis delivery men with a piece of lead piping. It's a fairly typical entry, with thoughts and incidents that would otherwise go unrecorded, and I guess it sums up what I wanted to do: to write about mundane stuff in a way that would make entertaining reading.Gregor Wright:I'm not interested in entertaining people. I started Burning Salad about a year ago for some reason still unclear to me, most likely boredom. I felt pretty strange about it at first as I've never been one to keep diaries and the idea of keeping one on the internet for the whole world to read seemed ludicrous.Salam Pax:I have never kept a diary either. But the idea of keeping a record of things is in the end what has kept me going. Things that go on the blog are really intended for one person to read. But who am I fooling?GW:I like the idea of just writing something. If it wasn't for keeping a blog, my written output would amount to about 10 words a month. I'm sure someone once said something about people writing in the past because they had something to say and people writing nowadays to find out whether or not they've got anything to say. There's probably something in that.RM:Very few people blogging have anything "to say", as such. I certainly don't. Salam clearly does. Being in the midst of a situation that's having a profound effect on the world will certainly make your day-to-day activities and thoughts more interesting to the majority than my observations about my filthy-mouthed barber, or a weekend trip to Whitstable.SP:A tip on how to make your blog popular: position yourself in a place where a bomb might fall on you. Tickles everybody and makes your hits-counter happy. Possibility of death is a downside, but hey! You get linked by A-list bloggers.GW:It's nice to be able to keep a record of things, but I'm more interested in keeping a record of the minutiae of life that I would otherwise forget rather than a catalogue of inner thoughts and feelings. Nutters on the bus are more interesting than angst. Don't put angst-ridden stuff on the web; write it down and hide it somewhere.RM:I find confessional-type entries a little difficult to stomach. You're having all manner of stuff revealed to you - personal foibles, health problems, sexual inadequacies - when you barely know these people. I've seen people announce on their blog that they've dumped their fellow-blogger boyfriend. And then proceed, a week later, to blog about the new love of their life. And then blog a request to their boyfriend not to be "such a dick". And all in public. You can't help feeling that a phone call between the relevant parties would have been a better course of action. It certainly doesn't make for very comfortable reading.SP:Who wants comfortable? One of the most amazing blogs I have been reading is DogPoet's Campfire, who would sometimes write about how he deals with all sorts of addictions. But he is a brilliant writer.GW:I don't really read many other blogs. I'm not interested in anyone else's life, just my own. The whole blogging thing has the appearance of people recording their lives in order to be examined by a larger audience when in fact they're mostly recording their lives in order to examine themselves.RM:I was talking to my flatmate last night; he's also a writer, but said he could never put that kind of personal information into the public domain. I can understand that viewpoint, but I generally keep it very light, I don't reveal very much about myself, or the surnames of friends who get mentioned. And I don't write about things I'm going to be doing, or places that I'm going to be visiting, although on reflection the chances of me becoming a stalking victim are infinitely tiny.SP:I am one of those people who say things on their blog they would never say to just anyone. Most of the things would have either gotten me stoned for my sins or hanged for my political deviance. This is the part of blogging that intrigues me most, and is partially what started me blogging.You have to admit that there is something slightly exhibitionistic about blogging. It might have been healthier to go to a psychiatrist with all the baggage, but no, it ends up on the blog. Kind of sad really. I am just glad that Iraqis aren't really interested in blogs or blogging. I would have made such great tabloid material - your neighbour, the walking freak show who puts his life on public display. How very un-Iraqi.RM:How anonymous are you, in fact? How many people that you meet day to day are actually aware of what you do? Both Gregor and I make no secret of our full names, but then, we're not exposing the harsh realities of a war zone. I've had people come up to me occasionally saying, "Oh, you're Rhodri, you do that blog," but the conversation usually ends there as there's generally not much discussion to be had about my experiences in the post office on Camden High Street.SP:Until the day I went to do that interview with the Guardian, not even my family knew about what I was doing. I started writing for G2 and I had a book published and there were reporters calling up Atlantic Books asking whether "he" is for real. So I guess this is quite anonymous.What is really scary is when someone I have never met in my life asks me how my mother is doing these days and if she is going out again. My first reaction is usually a bewildered "Whaaaa??" and then I remember that they probably also know about the cold I had last week and my friend's latest girlfriend trouble.Every time I meet someone and they tell me, "Hey, I read your blog," I cringe. It is so unfair, they know so much about me while I know nothing. Next time you meet someone and you think to yourself how it just clicked make sure they haven't been reading your blog for a while.RM:What tends to happen with me is that I'll meet up with someone I haven't seen for a while, attempt to make casual small talk about what I've been up to, and get stopped in my tracks as they tell me that they've already read it all. "Yeah, I know," they'll say, disinterestedly. It's like starting a joke and having the punchline inserted by someone else.I don't particularly want my life examined by a larger audience, but if you set yourself the task of writing every day, you're going to end up writing about yourself. If you try and write about the news, you'll inevitably come across like a third-rate leader-page columnist. As someone who attempts to make a living out of writing, blogging is a neat exercise: its addictive nature forces you to write something every couple of days, and the more you're aware that people are reading it, the more you take it seriously, and the more effort you put in.GW:Blogging is slightly addictive, but so is wanking. I get a bit pissed off when I feel as if I've got some kind of duty to a "readership" to keep things up to date. I keep saying to myself that I'll update it every day but I never do. That makes it feel like a job or something. I like the fact that people can read what I write and if they like it that's a real plus, but if my readership was two people I couldn't care less.SP:"Slightly addictive"? It is more than just slightly addictive. But you're right about "duty to a readership". It kind of screwed things up for me after "the readership" started expecting certain things from the blog. "You have to tell us what is going on; you are my main source of information." Habibi, it is only tiny insignificant me, don't put "that" on my shoulders. It scares me.But then, have you never had the moment when you start giggling just thinking about the reaction of your readers when you tell them about what happened to you today? Don't you feel "The Urge" to go online and write about the guy who started shouting abuse at you last night?RM:You're right about "The Urge"; I find myself in situations thinking, "This'll make a good story." Like last night, which I spent at the launch of a new brand of tequila, surrounded by men in double-breasted suits ogling scantily clad Mexican dancers. It would be ridiculous if I started forcing myself into such situations purely to have something to write about ... but, thinking about it, that might have already started happening.SP:It is like wishing you were a crash test dummy: "Let's go watch a demonstration and see if any Americans start shooting at us." After a while you realise that you really are going to these places because you know they will make great blog entries. I used to go check out bomb sites the morning after they had the hell bombed out of them. And then there was that stupid trip around the south of Iraq after the war, everybody was saying that Raed &#91;Salam's friend and fellow blogger&#93; and I would end up in a place that was targeted with cluster bombs without knowing it because we are so clueless. But it made great blogging.I have noticed that the person I am on the blog is not exactly Salam. It is not like I have invented a new personality, but I did let go and Salam Pax is just a little different. People who know me and have read the blog think that Salam Pax is ballsier than the Salam they know. Now I have this secret wish to become the blog Salam.Maybe it is time I schedule an appointment with a psychiatrist.&#183;Salam Pax is a columnist on G2. His blog is atdear_raed.blogspot.com/.&#183;Rhodri Marsden has a website,timewasting.net/, and a blog,rhodri.livejournal.com.&#183;Gregor Wright's blog is on his website,gregorwright.com.&#183;Franz Ferdinand say"For many artists, there is the desire to chart the everyday, giving a voyeuristic thrill to the reader and the  confessional buzz to the artist. We had become aware of the growing presence of this within the blogging community."
Kew scientists are compiling the first volumes of the cyber book of life. In the next few years - in some cases already - researchers, farmers, foresters and gardeners anywhere in the world will be able to click a mouse and call up via the internet a high-resolution image of a rare plant preserved in the herbarium of London's Royal Botanic Gardens for more than 200 years.They will also be able to study plants in the garden's living collection, examine the field notebooks of Victorian botanists or rare pages from 18th century collections of plant paintings, sift a collection of plants adapted to survive in arid lands, comb through the flora of the Zambesi Valley, sample the economic uses of flax, cannabis or willow, or compare the DNA of orchids."What we want to do is make all of the information that we have - an enormously wide and varied amount of information about different types of things to do with plant science - available," says Mark Jackson, architect e-PIC, Kew's electronic plant information centre. "Once you start totting it all up you do get into some pretty big figures. Someone coming to the site may only have a plant name, and that may be all they have. They may wish to know what it was used for; they may want to know if we have any specimens of it."The acronym is e-PIC but the scale is truly epic. Plants are at the base of life's pyramid: humans ultimately depend on plants for food, drink, clothing, shelter, tools, medicines and at one time even ink and paper. Kew is one of the older scientific organisations on the planet, and its collection extends back to herbals illuminated by medieval monks; the observations of explorers such as David Livingstone, the first samples brought back from Botany Bay by Sir Joseph Banks and a collection of 7m pressed examples of leaf, stem, flower and berry.Many of these are "type" specimens: first used to give the plant a scientific identity as a species, within a genus and a family. For the first time, taxonomists or botanists or growers in the developing world will be able to examine now rare or even extinct species once collected in their own home countries without the expense of visiting Kew. This is vital: 80% of life's teeming variety is in the forests, savannahs and swamps of developing world. But probably 90% of the world's knowledge of life is stored in the libraries, museums and greenhouses of a handful of the world's most expensive cities.However Kew's slowly growing digital encyclopaedia of plant life could become more than a fingertip reference guide for researchers anywhere in the world. It could turn, ultimately, into the basis of the first authoritative inventory of life on the planet. This is because, in spite of three centuries of systematic plant science, botanists still live in a confusing world. IPNI, the international plant names index, once known as Index Kewensis, con tains the names of more than a million species of plant. Nobody has the foggiest idea of how many species there might be - new species of flowering plants are still being described at the rate of 2,000 a year - but educated guesses range from 200,000 to 422,000, according to Eimear Nic Lughadha, Kew's science co-ordinator, an expert on eucalypts, cloves and guavas. So the index contains a lot of what researchers politely call synonomy."Plants cross political boundaries but flora writers often don't," she says. "Typically a lot of synonymy is about one person in one country calling it this and another person describing it as a new species or calling it something different. So we need to take a whole group, right across wherever it occurs, and look at the names, to cut down on that synonymy."Up to one third of all plant species could be at risk of extinction: conservationists need to know where to start, and correct identification is the cornerstone of conservation. But researchers need more than just a name and a specimen. They   need to know as much as possible about the plant: its range, its varieties, its economic uses, its ecological role. So the challenge is to link the images of precious type specimens - which can be measured by electronic instruments and magnified 300% - to the huge body of information about them in museums, libraries and botanic gardens around the world.The painstaking, ground-breaking work has begun, with funds from government and philanthropic groups, on the "monocots" - the palms, ferns and grasses - and 55,000 species collected in Africa, the 70,000 specimens in the living collection and the Hortus Nitidissimis, a 190 colour plate collaboration between the 18th century artist Georg Ehret and the horticulturalist Christoph Trew."We have an estimated 7m specimens in the herbarium, so ultimately, if the funding was there, and we had the resource, and sufficient time, all of those would be available," says Mark Jackson. "And we continue to collect. So the number would increase."
"The day when computer displays and TVs roll up like a window shade moved a step closer to reality Friday as Xerox researchers said that they'd cracked one of the biggest problems in putting plastic circuits on flexible materials. The problem: ink. According to Beng Ong, a Xerox fellow at the Xerox Research Centre of Canada, his team has developed both an ink-jet-like ink and the process to print semiconductors--one of the three elements of a circuit--using that ink onto flexible stock," reportsInformation Week."Circuits traditionally are made of silicon, a process that doesn't work on flexible materials. Xerox is among the companies that have been trying to come up with a low-cost alternative to silicon that could print flexible plastic transistors as easily as printing a newspaper. "The technology could lead to backplanes for LCDs that would roll up, or to 'electronic paper,' like a newspaper," Ong said."
You are in a bar, waiting for a drink with your bosom buddy. His busy corporate lifestyle often means a long, lonesome wait. Today, however, he arrives joyously on time. And it's all down to - wait for it - the time-saving genius of his new word-processing software and spreadsheet package.'Another great moment brought to you by Microsoft,' is the somewhat implausible tagline of this advert from the Bill Gates's software behemoth. Its new Office software promises many more 'Great Moments at Work'.Forget for a minute that the more common recent experience of Microsoft software has been the time-consuming need to download a variety of 'patches' in response to security and virus scares. The Seattle-based Microsoft Corporation is itself in need of the odd great moment this year. Investors are desperately looking for some good news when third-quarter results are released this Thursday.The fear is not yet that its core business, the Windows operating system and the Office suite of applications, is in terminal decline: that is still helping to bring in a billion dollars profit a month, and is sustaining a $53 billion cash pile. The worry is more nimble players - and that the firm's new businesses are not growing fast enough to compensate for an increasingly competitive threat to its near monopoly on key PC software.As Business Week puts it: is Microsoft having a midlife crisis? To be sure, Gates' company is now coming up against a confluence of serious commercial, regulatory and technical threats to its pre-eminence.Having motored through the 1990s with revenue growth approaching 40 per cent a year, these days the company, now in its 29th year, is heading for single-digit growth. Forays into gaming, internet search, digital music and mobile phone software have failed to take up the slack in revenue growth. Indeed, in all these areas, Microsoft's near total monopoly on desktop and laptop computers has failed to translate to top position in new markets.Meanwhile, an erstwhile foe, Steve Jobs's Apple, has just announced a trebling of profits mainly on the back of its iPod music player and iTunes download service. Given its minuscule market share, how did Apple grab the highly profitable market leadership in digital music?The same may apply to the computer games market, where Microsoft's billion-dollar loss-making Xbox has failed outside the US to make serious inroads into the dominance of Sony's PlayStation 2. Ed Fries, the second-in-command of the Xbox project, left the company earlier this year after disagreements over the strategy for the new Xbox version.Microsoft's CEO, Steve Ballmer, says that the billion dollar advertising revenue brought in by their internet arm MSN (Microsoft Networks) shows the company's commitment to innovative and lucrative thinking. Yet after throwing nearly $10bn at MSN, there has only been one quarter of profit (earlier this year), before a drop back into loss of $79m in the second quarter. Yahoo, on the other hand, has been consistently profitable; it announced a doubling of profits to $101m in its latest quarter.And it's not as if Gates has failed to do the spadework. As chief software architect, he oversees an annual research and development budget of &#163;3.7bn.But nothing has really taken off. Perhaps the notion that its 90 per cent market share in computer operating systems could be used as a springboard for a more generalised techie hegemony is fatally flawed. Maybe, as some share holders suggest, Microsoft should accept what it does do well, and start handing back more of that cash pile. The stock price is where it was six years ago, and these days the company pays out an annual dividend of more than &#163;1bn. If revenues continue to stagnate, these calls will only get stronger.The PC market is maturing, and demand for products in newly industrialising countries is not offsetting the demand 'plateau' of richer countries. External analysts pencil in growth of the PC market of about 10 per cent a year. That is at the top end of analysts' expectations for Microsoft. Wall Street consensus is for revenue growth of just 8 per cent in 2005-6.And then there is the expensive hand of the law, particularly in Europe. Mario Monti, European commissioner for competition policy, slapped on a $611m fine for a number of legal violations over the past decade. Then Microsoft handed over $2bn to another arch rival, Sun Microsystems, for assorted competition and licensing misdemeanours.As JP Morgan analyst Adam Holt has pointed out: 'Microsoft will always be subject to some degree of legal liability. As the largest software company in the world, &#91;it&#93; is constantly in the scope of both regulators and &#91;lawyers&#93;'.One Microsoft competitor says: 'One of the issues is about open versus closed systems, which is where the EU comes in, because they want open systems.'So doors are closing for Microsoft's growth. But is Gates' corporation fearful enough about its own lunch getting eaten? How long can those pots of cash from Windows and Office remain unchallenged? Microsoft has not, for instance, got the vision or the concentrated brainpower of upstart technologists such as Google.And the crystal-ball gazing does not bode well for Gates' giant. Rather than using a Windows desktop, everything - software, photographs, documents, music - could be based on a remote supercomputer and accessed through the web using efficient 'slim' mini-computers and souped-up mobile phones.'This is what Larry Ellison at Oracle and Sun Microsystems have been banging on about, but haven't actually executed,' says one former Microsoft executive. 'They did not have the crucial killer application - search - but Google does.'At work, and increasingly at home, an information overload puts a premium on effective ways of filtering, indexing and quickly retrieving filed documents, photographs, videos and music. Software programmes matter, and have made Microsoft its billions. But the really important function for many people is navigation and access. So the search methods Google has developed, for mapping six billion web pages around the world, will become potentially critical within corporations, besides being seen as crucial for home use.   Google's projected move into web-based email is the first direct threat to Microsoft's Hotmail service. Its Gmail service will offer one gigabyte of storage space, a hundred times that of its competitors and the equivalent of half a million pages of email. It will also offer the ability to search and index the contents of email messages.No surprise then, that Gates tried to buy Google earlier this year. (He failed.)So with all Microsoft's resources, can Google out-think the Seattle-based giant?Insiders believe that Microsoft's unwieldy size means it is not really effective at thinking. The split between its main business units has made it 'incapable of talking across boundaries'.Its vision is clouded by the unremitting success of its cash cows, Windows and the Office applications. Most effort is channelled through Longhorn, the codename for its next-generation Windows operation system. And it has earned a brace of nicknames: Longwait, for the time it will take the new software to debut (2006 at the earliest); and Logjam for this delay, which is holding back the development of other products.Key customers are beginning to look elsewhere. The Chinese government will fit out one million personal computers with Sun's StarOffice and the Linux operating system rather than Microsoft. The tech-friendly Indian state of Haryana will use StarOffice as its standard in all state government offices. A German software distributor has sold more than a million copies of StarOffice. And closer to home, the National Health Service, the biggest employer in western Europe, is trialling Sun's offering as a replacement for Microsoft.Lindows has sold 100,000 copies of its Linux version of Windows in the US - though Microsoft brought the trademark lawyers in and last week the company changed the name to Linspire.It is still pretty small fry. But it is the start of something resembling competition. Microsoft insists that most of the Linux success comes at the expense of Unix, rather than Windows. But even Dell computers, Microsoft's sidekick in the 1990s, now ships a fifth of its servers with Linux rather than Windows. HP has teamed up with Apple on production of a generic iPod. RealNetworks has made overtures to Apple to take on the Windows Media Player.All of a sudden, smaller players are lining up to have a pop at the big boy.Gates may insist that 'our biggest competitor is our installed base' (referring to the reluctance of users to upgrade their software to new versions) but the fact that his market is now contested means that profit margins will be squeezed. Microsoft's rivals are beginning to scent weakness.'It's not been like this before - commercial, technical and regulatory barriers are all undermining Microsoft. All these things add up to a tipping point in the industry,' says one industry veteran.Others are doing to Gates exactly what he did to IBM nearly 30 years ago. This is not a great moment for Microsoft.
Apple's re-scheduling of the worldwide launch of its iPod Mini player - from April to July - has hit us really hard here in the music-mad UK.Thousands of Brits who'd hoped to parade their fashionable pink and blue players through the streets of Italian and Greek resorts this summer are clearly going to be disappointed.They can, of course, invest in a US-sourced iPod Mini via eBay (current price is well over £200), but if bought direct from the States buyers run the risk of customs adding a hefty surcharge to the purchase.So maybe it is time for Plan B - which means ignoring the iPod mini all together and shopping for players that are available now.Sure, buyers will be passing up on a design classic, but there are better value MP3 players out there which scoop the iPod mini both in terms of features and battery life. They might not be quite as iconic as their Apple rival, but many still look pretty cool. Here are a few suggestionsPhilips HDD060:  £140What's good:Will confuse your friends as its white finish makes it look like an iPod, yet it is just over half the Apple player's size. Sound quality is excellent for an MP3 player and it is compatible with Windows Media Audio (WMA) files. Storage is 1.5Gb, much less than the iPod mini, but given the price is actually not bad value. Battery life is a reasonable ten hours.What's bad:Slow-ish transfer of tracks as it only has a USB 1.0 connector, software is much more complex than it needs to be and annoyingly you can't create a play list of tracks on the player.Verdict:Good iPod mini substitute, especially given its competitive price.Rio Nitrus: £170What's goodBest in its class for battery life (around 16 hours) and its USB 2.0 connection means you can fill the player up very quickly.What's bad:Small screen. Reasonable software, but it won't let you create playlists on the player. You pay £30 more for the same amount of storage (1.5Gigabytes) as on the Philips HDD060.Verdict:Well-equipped player, but not great value.Creative Nomad MuVo2 4GB £180What's good:Same storage as the iPod mini (4 Gb, or around 1500 tunes) but sells for £20 less. Excellent battery life too, at around 14 hours, and it is compatible with WMA files as well as MP3.What's bad:Software isn't as intuitive as it should be. Jury is out on its rather podgy square design.Verdict:The iPod mini's most direct competitor. If design isn't a key buying issue it is well worth considering.Cowon iAudio M3 £280What's good:Not so much a rival to the iPod mini, but rather its big brother. The M3 is thinner and lighter than the fully fledged iPod yet holds the same amount of tunes (20Gb). Great line up of features including direct recording on to the player, WNA compatibility and an integrated FM radio. It is £20 cheaper than the 20 Gig iPod too.What's badScreen on the remote (there isn't one on the player) is a tad tricky to use as it is so small. Software unavailable for test at time of review.Verdict:Great design and features. Quality product.Creative Jukebox Zen NX Extra: £300What's good:Huge storage capacity of 60 Gb for a price that's normally the preserve of players with just a third of that capacity. Excellent array of features, including WMA compatibility and direct recording from CDs. It has good battery life too.What's bad:Only anoraks really need all that storage. The screen and jog dial aren't as good as some rivals. The software isn't perfect.Verdict:You can't argue with it in terms of value. Design and software let it down though.Philips HDD120 £300What's good:Trumps the iPod in the design stakes, is thin and very light and has battery life of around fourteen hours.What's bad:Software is rather clunky and tricky to use. Cycling through the library on the player to find a track takes an age too. Around £300 for a 20Gigabyte player now seems a little steep.Verdict:Still our favourite non-Apple player. Would be a no-brainer were it a few pounds cheaper.Apple iPod mini £200What's good:Looks amazing and is wonderfully compact. iTunes software is very simple to use. Neat screen on the player and the jog dial makes finding tracks a cinch. Sound quality is at least the equal of most of its rivals. Four Gigabytes for £200 is actually reasonable value for money.What's bad:Battery life (eight hours is stated, but in reality it is less than this) is a real issue as is its lack of support for WMA files. Short on accessories too.Verdict:If you love the design it is worth the wait. If not try elsewhere.
As scams go, the email was hardly sophisticated. "Hello dear client Barclays Bank," it warned recipients. "Today our system of safety at night has been cracked!!! It not a joke!!! It is the truth!!! We ask you, in order to prevent problems, to repeat registration of your data. Make it very quickly! Administration Barclays Bank."But new research reveals the scale of a fraud which has already cost British banks hundreds of thousand of pounds after customers have been fooled by these apparently crude messages into divulging their online banking passwords to organised criminals.The survey by the email security consultants MessageLabs will make grim reading for the online banking industry, which now boasts 11 million users. The scams, which first hit Britain last August, may range from the inept to the highly complex but they are starting to hurt."Phishing scams are pretty sophisticated, it's high level social engineering," said Mark Sunner, chief technical officer at MessageLabs. "They must be working because we are seeing so much of it. All the major banks are saying it's a problem. Initially they were worried about loss of reputation, now it's loss of money."Rogue programmersBecause the criminals cannot obtain lists of customers, they speculatively target the most popular banks on the assumption their strike rate will be higher. Those who responded and logged on to the address in the Barclays email found a website that looked virtually identical to the bank's site.Even a glance at the site's web address would have failed to alert users to the fact it was bogus. Rogue programmers in eastern Europe have learnt how to disguise an address by hiding additional letters or characters that would expose its true location. The scam emails often link to websites that differ by only one character from the genuine site.If a bank customer, as prompted, typed in security codes they would have been exploited swiftly by the gangs, who would log in to the victim's online account and transfer money out.But that is only the first stage of what has now been uncovered as a far more complex scam than first appreciated.The problem for the fraudsters is getting the money out of the United Kingdom and back to eastern Europe.A second level of deception is therefore necessary. Other willing British account holders are being recruited, usually for a 5% cut of the gains, to send the cash abroad via money transfer firms such as Western Union.The police's national hi-tech crime unit (NHTCU) and the banks' association for payment clearing services (Apacs), which are coordinating the drive against phishing, call these recruits mules. They have been enticed into taking part in the belief that by making their accounts available they are helping out small Russian or east European businesses.The criminals place adverts on websites, magazines and newspapers luring those seeking jobs or business opportunities. Their confidence trick is a variation on the well-documented Nigerian bank scam, though in this case it does pay out some money. One recent advert read: "We are looking for honest and smart people for business offer ... We are engaged in the sales of TVs and accessories."The work, it added, would involve accepting "internal bank transfers from our clients with the subsequent sending to one of our legal representatives via Western Union Money Transfer or Money Gram". It goes on: "We shall notify in what bank you should open new account for work with us."Sandra Quinn, of Apacs, said: "If people see adverts for earning money that appear to be too good to be true, then they probably are. What the mules are doing is illegal. The phishing emails seem to come in waves. They come from organised gangs generally based in eastern Europe and   Russia. Mainly English-speaking countries have been hit, but there have been similar scams in France and Spain.""The mules who are passing the money on are involved in money-laundering, though they may not think what they are doing is criminal. Phishing could be around for a long time," said a police spokeswomen.In one attempt to elicit a sympathetic response, the criminals even pretended to be operating a charity. The British-registered Russian Orphan Opportunity Fund (Roof) has discovered that fraudsters copied its website and set up rival versions overseas on which they placed adverts to recruit mules."We have chased them off about five domain sites," said Georgia Williams, the founder of Roof. "But they keep reappearing. They are using our name in order to get people to apply for jobs. They also appear to be encouraging people who sign up to ship stolen electronics items, like TVs and CD players, to Russia. The way they have set up this scam is very clever."Phishing scams first appeared about three years ago, according to the NHTCU, on the payment system used by the online auctioneers eBay.They began targeting banks in Australia and South Africa first before hitting Britain last summer. One mass email last December targeted the Bank of England but failed to realise it had no customer accounts.A spokeswoman for Barclays said the bank had, for a period, limited the amount of money that could be transferred electronically to limit the impact of phishing attacks."There's nothing wrong with online bank security," she said. "It has not been compromised. We have warned our customers not to reply to these emails. We are reimbursing our customers. Most of the main financial service providers have been hit."
Gangs of fraudsters operating from Russia and eastern Europe are stealing hundreds of thousands of pounds a year from online banks by exploiting gullible and greedy British account holders.The number of so-called phishing scams is increasing sharply, according to new figures compiled by a leading British email security company, MessageLabs, which monitors the bursts of baited messages sent out to internet users.Last September it intercepted 279 suspect emails; in January it stopped 337,350 phishing-related messages.The scale of the problem is so large that high street banks have reversed their policy of denying there is a threat to online accounts.Instead, they are broadcasting warnings about the dangers in an attempt to prevent others falling prey to similar tricks which may undermine consumers' confidence in the security of online banking.Phishing - the term derives from the way computer thieves go fishing for private data on the internet - involves the use of junk emails sent out randomly to lure unsuspecting victims to bogus websites where they are fooled into typing in their account details and passwords as a security precaution.The fraudsters then access the victims' accounts and transfer money into the accounts of British mules, who withdraw the cash and wire it out of the country to the gangs in return for a cut of about 5%.The survey by MessageLabs, which scans 45m emails a day for 8,500 business customers worldwide, found an extraordinarily high level of phishing emails in circulation. The number intercepted in March dipped only slightly to 215,643.Combatting the fraud has become a priority for the police's national hi-tech crime unit. Several teams of detectives are investigating but no one has been charged here or abroad."This is one of our main investigations at the moment," said a spokeswomen for the unit."We are working with the banks to track down the people behind it all. We think there's more than one group."She added: "The main criminals are operating from outside Britain, in a number of eastern European countries."The Association for Payment Clearing Services (Apacs), which coordinates electronic payment systems for all banks, admitted that by now the banks had probably lost hundreds of thousands of pounds."The amount of money that has been stolen is less than a million," said Sandra Quinn, a spokeswoman for Apacs."The banks are reimbursing their customers for these losses but for individual customers it is a bit of shock when they first find cash missing," Ms Quinn said.
High street banks have admitted that they are also losing money to criminals who record passwords and identities using remotely operated key-logging programs.Most banks have switched their logging-in procedures for online customers to avoid the threat from trojan programs which have been surreptitiously placed on users' computers to record keystrokes.Instead of requiring customers to type in their passwords and identities, they make them click on a drop-down menu or alphabet by clicking on it with their mouse.Key-logging programs are a concern, admitted Sandra Quinn of Apacs. "Some money is being lost that way but we are confident that it's very low level. It has been increasing but only by a bit."The national hi-tech crime unit also recognises there are dangers from such programs, which may have been planted on unsuspecting customers possibly by using commerically available spyware."We know there are trojan programs which are downloading key-logging details," conceded a spokeswoman for the unit.
"About 41.2 million [PCs] were shipped in the quarter, a 16.5% increase from the year-ago period, according to Framingham, Mass.-based IDC. Gartner Inc, which uses slightly different measurement methods, reported that 45.3 million units were shipped, a 13.4% increase from the previous year," reportsAP."Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas, remained the worldwide PC leader, increasing its market share to 18.6% with 7.7 million units shipped in the quarter — 1.7 million units above the previous year, according to IDC."The top 5 worldwide suppliers were Dell, HP, IBM, Fujitsu, and Acer, which replaced Toshiba for fifth place. The top five in the US were Dell, HP, IBM, eMachines, and Gateway.
IBM, the world's biggest computer company, increased its first quarter sales by 11% to $22.3 billion, while profits grew by 16% to $1.60 billion, though asAP reports, "much of Big Blue's revenue gains came from weakness in the dollar".IBM hasn't quite solved the problem of the money-losing technology group responsible for PowerPC processors, among other things, but has put it into the systems group. "Combined, the systems and technology group showed an operating profit of $170 million in the first quarter. On its own, the technology group would have lost $150 million," reports AP. This was due mainly to poor yields from 300mm wafers in East Fishkill, New York, and a decline in intellectual property revenues, IBM toldEE Times.IBM's personal systems group -- essentially the PC company -- improved its performance. It lost $11 million on a quarterly turnover of $2.8 billion.IBM has published detailshere.
"AT&amp;T Wireless began offering its U.S. subscribers a service Thursday that uses mobile phones to identify the names and performers of more than 1 million popular songs. To use the music recognition service, users dial a three-digit code, then must hold their mobile phone for about 15 seconds near a speaker playing the tune that they want to identify. Moments later, the service sends a text message to the users' mobile phone indicating the title of the song and the name of the recording artist," reportsAP."San Francisco-based Musicphone and British company Shazam Entertainment, which owns the searchable song database, are behind the service."
Charles Cooper has written a lovelypieceon News.com about theemailed bid by Real Networksto pal up with Apple. He writes:"After Jobs and his entourage had a good chuckle and a restful weekend, they promptly leaked the contents of the proposal to The New York Times.The translation? Jobs to Glaser: Buzz off.If there's one takeaway from Microsoft's antitrust trial, it's that hot e-mails always come back to haunt the author. [...] Glaser also trusted Jobs to remain discreet about the offer. What was he thinking? Putting a revolver on the table while you offer terms may work in Tony Soprano's world--but not in Silicon Valley. In Jobs, Glaser faces an executive with an ego even bigger than his own. "You gonna' mess with me? No, I'm gonna' mess with you!" [...] If I'm Steve Ballmer, Glaser's blunder just reduced the cost of any possible settlement with RealNetworks by several hundred million dollars."(viaPaidcontent.org)
The rich Scots brogue of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle recounting how he came to create Sherlock Holmes is one of thousands of sound recordings from the British Library to be made available online to universities and further education colleges in a £1m programme.Sir Arthur's bemusement at the way the great detective took on a life of his own - attracting a stream of letters, requests for autographs and even a proposal of marriage - comes across to the listener in a way that words on the page may not, showing the potential of these historic recordings. The author also sounds pretty pleased with himself.The programme is being mounted by the Joint Information Systems Committee (Jisc) to digitise 12,000 items of sound recordings from the British Library's archive, amounting to nearly 4,000 hours of recordings.Examples held on the British Library site include a live recording of Paul Robeson in Othello, Florence Nightingale speaking in one of the earliest sound recordings, as well as the genesis of Sherlock Holmes.These historic recordings will be made freely available to further and higher education institutions in the UK and will include a wide range of materials, including classical and popular music, broadcast radio, oral history, and field and location recordings of traditional music.The sound recordings, funded by the funding council Hefce, are part of a larger £10m digitisation programme to put sound, moving pictures, census data and still images online for long-term use.Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library, said: "Sound recordings represent a massively untapped resource in the field of education. They are relevant to all subjects and we are delighted that this programme will bring wide access to rare, historic and hugely valuable sound resources. This partnership demonstrates the British Library's commitment to the sector and we are delighted to work with Jisc to deliver it."
The British-born scientist credited with inventing the world wide web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, has been awarded the first Millennium Technology Prize.The award, a &#163;600,000 cash prize, is among the largest of its kind. It was established in 2002 and backed by the Finnish government.The prize committee said that Sir Tim's contribution embodied the spirit of the award, given "for an innovation that directly promotes people's quality of life, is based on humane values, and encourages sustainable economic development".Pekka Tarjanne, chairman of the prize committee, underlined the importance of Sir Tim's decision to never strive to commercialise or patent his contributions to the internet technologies he has developed.Sir Tim is recognised as having created the world wide web while working in the 1990s for the CERN laboratory, the centre for nuclear research near Geneva, Switzerland.
Today'sNew York Times(reg reqd) reports that Real Networks has made a direct appeal to Apple, its digital music competitor, to form an alliance against Microsoft's WMA format. The newspaper reports:"The offer to create a 'tactical alliance' was made on April 9 by Rob Glaser, chief executive of RealNetworks, the Seattle-based Internet music and video service, in an e-mail message to Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chairman.But if an alliance with Apple could not be struck, Mr. Glaser strongly hinted in the e-mail message that he might be forced to form a partnership with Microsoft to pursue 'very interesting opportunities' because support for Microsoft's media-playing software seems to be growing."The fact the contents of a personal email to Jobs have been leaked suggests strongly that nothing will come of this - if Jobs thought this had any potential, he'd keep it secret.It's not hard to see why Jobs has been tempted to be dismissive. According to the NYT, the deal would essentially promote the iPod to Real Networks users, in return for Real being able to sell its content to the rapidly growing iPod community. Yet Apple, at the moment, doesn't need to promote the iPod - they're selling as fast as they can make them - faster, in the case of the iPod mini. And, frankly, if the deal involved putting any Real software on iPods, the whole proposal sounds more like a threat than a great deal - Real's software has, historically, been duff.Today, Real looks a lot like a company fishing around for friends. After years of antagonising users with crappy software and a website that deliberately buries its free player, I suspect most internet users wouldn't care much if it went the way of Pets.com.Yet Jobs turning his back completely on Real could be another, typically Apple-esque, miscalculation. I agree with Rob Glaser, the company's CEO, when he says Apple's proprietary strategy is a mistake that could condemn the company to the same defeat it suffered in the PC business. ANews.com report, following up on the NYT story, quotes one industry executive as stating (rather obviously, some might say): "Apple is not into interoperability... Steve's bet is that he can beat the big guys, Sony and Microsoft - with better marketing."That's a very big bet when two giant industries (entertainment and computing) are colliding, and where most players will see a close relationship, or ownership, of the means of delivery (formats, online stores, playback devices) as a key part of their strategy. If Apple isn't open, and Microsoft makes a show of welcoming all, there's likely to be only one winner - again. TheNews.comreport has a great quote towards the end that sums up the problem:"'Real understands how incredibly powerful the Microsoft music initiative will be,' said Richard Doherty, a computer industry consultant and president of Envisioneering. 'I don't think that Jobs understands this. He doesn't realize how big the juggernaut is about to get.'Is that the case, or does Jobs have an ace up his sleeve this time around?
SoftwareA Real advanceMedia software company Real has unveiled its latest player, which it claims is the most comprehensive of its kind. RealPlayer 10 not only plays the most popular audio and video formats, such as MP3 and MPeg-4, it is also compatible with the Advance Acoustic Coding (AAC) system used by Apple in its iTunes music download system in the US. The software is available on a free trial for 14 days and then costs &#163;8.50 per month. It enables users to burn CDs, tune into internet radio stations and organise music and video libraries on their PC.www.real.comDigital camerasMetal compactCenton, whose products are available in the UK via the Jessops retail chain, has unveiled one of the first digital cameras capable of taking five megapixel images to sell for less than &#163;200. The &#163;199.90 CENDC5 is a compact camera with a metal body and 1.5in TFT LCD screen. It also features a 3x optical and 4x digital zoom, an integrated flash, and can capture video footage. The camera, which is compatible with PCs and Macs, saves images to an accompanying 32MB Secure Digital (SD) card.www.jessops.comHardwareHarness the powerAfter a series of delays lasting the best part of a year, SD/IO Wi-Fi cards for Microsoft Windows Mobile Pocket PC 2002 and 2003 PDAs have finally gone on sale in the UK. The &#163;110 card from SanDisk, and &#163;125 card from Socket, enable owners of non Wi-Fi-equipped PDAs to harness wireless (802.11b) connections to access the internet, and send email at broadband speeds via hotspots and home networks. However, the cards are not compatible with all PDAs and smartphones running Microsoft platforms. Check with retailers such aswww.expansys.comandwww.blueunplugged.com.Street lifeA British company is proposing to use a network of lampposts and street signs to offer ultra-fast broadband internet across the UK. Exeter-based Last Mile Communications says it will place Wi-Fi transceivers in street furniture to deliver low-power wireless signals to homes and businesses. The company claims its WDirect system can offer connection speeds of at least 40mbps - approximately 80 times faster than standard UK broadband connections. LMC also claims the system could be used for telemetry applications, such as delivering information about the speed of cars to local authorities.www.lastmilecoms.comStat of the week:Get the (instant) messageFerris Researchsays instant messaging is growing rapidly in businesses. There should be 43m business users this year, rising to 182m by the end of 2007. But the Radicati Group also warns of a new menace: 1.2 bn IM spams will be sent this year.
An oak-beamed pub in a Cotswold village isn't necessarily where you'd look for the UK's future rivals to the brains behind Yahoo! and Google. But that's where Microsoft held the three-day "codeathon" final of the Imagine Cup student programming competition, now in its second year, designed to find the developers of tomorrow.Teams of students from all over the world compete to design, develop and present applications. As well as pocketing an Xbox apiece, the three winners from this UK round will compete in the final in Sao Paolo, Brazil, in July, hoping to walk away with the $25,000 prize money.The UK competition started in October with an online quiz that 4,500 students entered; the second round whittled the numbers down to 29 finalists. Not all are on computing courses: there were mathematicians and scientists with little programming experience and the mix of ages meant that several were first years who hadn't done any group programming projects. Psychometric personality profiling, used by the organisers to assign students and mentors into seven teams, seemed to compensate for those differences, and many of   the students found it easy to settle down to work in their team once they got to the event. They sorted out their own roles within the teams: one group described themselves as "Mr Algorithm, Mr AI, Mr Developer and Mr Free Thinker". (Sadly, all the finalists - and mentors - were male.)The previous two weeks of virtual teamwork via email and instant messaging were less productive in most cases, but that was often because the students had degree projects to work on. The pressure of the deadline kept them working through the night and turning to the programmer staples of chocolate bars and delivery pizza, ignoring the Xboxes and the bar in the next building to master their tools and finish their applications.Each team got a different brief, but they were all the kind of project that real-world developers are tackling: a tracking system for a courier company, a mobile system for scheduling service engineers working for a utility company, an ambulance tracking system that sends information back to the emergency department, and an in-car information system that combines maps and routes with alerts about traffic and speed cameras. The winning team - Ali Gardezi from the University of Sheffield, Andrew   Grieve from the University of Aberdeen and Mat Steeples from the University of Hull - might have had something of a home advantage as they were designing a student information system that covers everything from online timetables with links for ordering the right textbooks to reviews of local pubs and shops.The emphasis was on mobility: the    projects called for delivering information to smart phones and PDAs, and the team designing the ambulance tracker used Tablet PCs to let doctors scribble instructions on photos of incoming patients and send them back to the ambulance team. Microsoft was also looking for smart applications, and the students used neural nets and artificial economies to make their   applications learn as they go along, rather than trying to hard-code information like which roads are busy and which pubs are popular.Even the computing students didn't have much prior experience with Microsoft.net, especially not the .Net Compact Framework used for handhelds and mobiles, which had several of them muttering darkly. One Visual Basic fan was happy to admit the power of the C# language but planned to go straight back to VB at the earliest opportunity. They all found MapPoint particularly challenging, and the variable mobile phone coverage on the site was a timely reminder that mobile applications need to be designed to cope with a network that won't always be available.But they enjoyed tackling real-world problems rather than the abstract exercises they sometimes face at college, and working through the projects from start to finish in one go, rather than planning an application one term and coming back to code it months later. And they shared the industry enthusiasm for web services as a way of pulling together legacy systems with third-party information and linking the parts of their applications - a useful tool for team-based development whoever's doing the coding.Web services also make it easier to add more services and features in the future, and while some groups concentrated on a solution for part of the problem, the more successful teams produced frameworks that they could extend to deliver complex solutions or scale up to cope with more users. That's an approach that makes good business sense and all the students had grasped the importance of having a business model for their application. Some of them had certainly got the flavour of industry jargon, explaining that they'd fully exposed their application infrastructure through XML web services. In many ways it was like any normal product briefing, and it's good to know the developers of tomorrow have a little business nous as well as some good ideas.
The MIT scientist credited with inventing the world wide web, Tim Berners-Lee, was today awarded the first Millennium technology prize.The award, a &euro;1m (£670,000) cash prize, is among the largest of its kind. The prize committee said Mr Berners-Lee's contribution strongly embodied the spirit of the award, given "for an innovation that directly promotes people's quality of life, is based on humane values, and encourages sustainable economic development".Mr Berners-Lee is credited with creating the world wide web in the early 1990s while working for the Cern Laboratory, the European centre for nuclear research near Geneva, Switzerland. His graphical point-and-click browser, World Wide Web, was the first client that featured the core ideas included in today's web browsers.Pekka Tarjanne, a professor at the Finnish Academy of Technology and chairman of the eight-member international awards committee, underlined the importance of Mr Berners-Lee's decision to never strive to commercialise or patent his contributions to the internet technologies he has developed.The MIT scientist is the first recipient of the prize, which is administered by the Finnish Technology Award Foundation, an independent fund supported by the Finnish government and a number of Finnish companies and organisations. Future prizes will be awarded every two years.This year, 74 nominations were received for the award, which was established in 2002 and is backed by the Finnish government. Mr Berners-Lee was knighted in December last year. He is originally from Britain and continues to work at the standard-setting World Wide Web Consortium at MIT.
Apple Computer last night said that quarterly profits had trebled on the back of higher sales of its iPod digital music player, the must-have gadget of the moment.The company posted earnings for its second quarter of $46m (&#163;25m), up from $14m in the same period a year earlier. Revenues increased to $1.9bn from $1.5bn. The better than expected results pushed Apple's shares 6% higher in after-hours trading.Apple sold 807,000 iPods, an increase of more than 900%, reflecting how rapidly the handheld devices have become popular. Revenues from the iPod were $264m, up from $31m. Apple has sold about 2.8m since the gadget was first introduced in 2001.Sales were given added momentum after Apple launched its pay-per-download iTunes online music store in the US in April last year. The company was unable to keep up with demand at Christmas, leading to shortages.The iBook, Apple's distinctive white laptop, also performed well, reporting revenues of $223m, up 48%. Sales of the Power Mac computers rose 19% to $349m.The company is introducing a smaller lighter version of the iPod, called the iPod Mini.
Online retailer Amazon.com has quietly launched an internet search service, jumping into a marketplace already crowded with tools and promised offerings from Google, Yahoo and Microsoft.The service, in test mode for now, is operated by a Palo Alto, California-based subsidiary and branded separately from Amazon's retail business.Like its competitors, Amazon's A9.com offers both a website and an Internet Explorer toolbar from which users can enter search terms. Searches also can be limited to just Amazon.com products - as well as the text of books available at Amazon.com.Internet search tools - an industry now dominated by Google - will be a core component of any major Internet or operating system player in the future, analysts say. Microsoft is expected to launch its own homegrown search technology later this year.A9.com's service currently relies heavily on a partnership with Google, which supplies many of the search results, and Amazon's Alexa subsidiary, which provides traffic, other sites of interest and additional information on specific Web sites.Search results also include text advertisements from Google's sponsored links program.     Alison Diboll, an A9.com spokeswoman, declined to say whether the company eventually plans to create its own search technology. She confirmed that Amazon plans to use the technology to serve both its online store and the rest of the Web."Having this e-commerce search technology as a separate company is part of Amazon's continuing development from an online retailer to a technology services company," she said.     Google currently partners with more than 130 companies to supply search results, Google spokesman David Krane said."A core component of our business ... has been providing access to Google from a number of entry points on the web," he said.Some filtering does appear to be taking place. A search of the word "porn" on A9, for instance, returned links to articles on the war against pornography, documentaries and anti-porn groups. A Google search on the same term returns actual porn sites.Unlike other internet search tools, users sign onto A9.com with a username and password from their regular Amazon.com account. A9 also offers an anonymous site that does not require a username and password but lacks some features.A9.com's toolbar, which appears in Internet Explorer Web browsers, also provides a diary tool which allows users to jot down notes about a particular website. Once entered, the notes can be read from any computer, after the user has logged on. The service also stores the addresses of sites visited.A9.com made a strong effort to word its privacy policy in plain English, Ms DiBoll said.Beth Givens, director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse in San Diego, agreed."I will give them kudos for the privacy policy in terms of its format, its readability and the fact they're giving viewers examples (of how information will be used)," she said.She also said A9.com appears to be less invasive than Google's proposed free Gmail email service, which will electronically scan messages so it can distribute relevant ads alongside incoming messages."If we're comparing strategies here, what A9 and Amazon.com are doing is a lot less intrusive from a privacy perspective than what Google is proposing in Gmail," she said.
Rogue mailI'm sure that there are lots of us who are unhappy with being transferred from BT Internet to BT Yahoo!, not just because of the advertisements but because it is cumbersome - and more expensive on pay-as-you-go. Could you suggest an alternative please?Geoffrey SmithJack Schofield replies:I can't see any point in using either BT Yahoo! mail service unless you want to keep your BT email address. If not, you could sign up with Yahoo! directly, and pay the extra for POP3 access, or find an alternative. There are still a few free POP3 services that work with mail programs such as Outlook Express and Eudora. I did recommend Novell'sMy Real Boxbut it is no longer accepting new users. I've also recommendedGMX, but it has abandoned its English language interface. That leavesHotPOP, which I have not tried, and others listed atwww.emailaddresses.com.If you are willing to pay, look atRunboxandMailSnare. Runbox is a Norwegian company and the official email provider for TV 2, Norway's largest commercial television company. It offers 100MB of storage, POP3/SMTP, IMAP and web mail access for $29.95 a year.In the long term, it would be better to register your own domain name with a company that includes free email forwarding. That way you can keep your email address even if you change your ISP or email provider.Virus threatDoes using KaZaA mean I'm at risk from viruses?Charles HallJS:Any internet connection puts you at some risk, whether it is from email, instant messaging, a peer-to-peer file-swapping service, or anything else. You can minimise the risk by running a firewall, only sharing a single folder, checking downloads with an up-to-date anti-virus program, and making sure that you can see the full filename before running any file (hit F2 as if you were renaming the file). This is because Windows viruses often come with filenames that look safe (cheapthrills.jpg, cheapthrills.txt) because the real executable file extension is hidden (cheapthrills.jpg.pif or whatever). Go to Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Options, and click View. Make sure the box that says "Hide file extensions for known file types" is not checked. Of course, this won't stop you downloading and running viruses called Password Cracker.exe, Free Porn.exe and so on: lots of people do.KaZaA now includes a virus checker. KaZaA v2.1.1 and some earlier versions have BullGuard Lite, but it is turned off by default. Version 2.5 and above come withBullGuard P2P turned on, but your usual anti-virus program should find any nasties. If you are particularly worried about KaZaA, tryWinMXinstead.Closing WindowsOur company PCs run Windows 98SE and our IT supplier has written to say that "little or no new application or utility software supports either &#91;Windows&#93; 95 or 98," and "neither will 95/98 work with new USB hardware as these drivers have faults which Microsoft will not fix." Is this accurate?Jack CumminsJS:I would agree that Windows 3.1, 95 and 98 are past their sensible use-by date, unless they are stable installations used for specific tasks, and will not need to cope with new software and peripherals. Support for Windows 98SE and Me is certainly declining, but they could have a few more years of life. They can usually cope with USB peripherals if you make sure you install any drivers before you plug in the device. However, I expect that after Windows XP SP2 appears this summer, continuing to use these systems for business will be a false economy. It is time to move on. PCs that run 98SE/Me are usually fine with XP if you add enough memory, and memory is much cheaper than time. If you need to replace PCs, you can now do perfectly good corporate computing with, say,ASUS Punditbare-bones systems or cheap Dell PCs.Backchat&#183;Last week, Stewart Boyle wanted to listen to his music files on a decent hi-fi. Neil Mercer has taken the opposite approach, by upgrading his PC with noise-reducing features (quiet fan and power supply) and installing a TerraTec soundcard and hi-fi speakers. "It comes with a pre-amp/mixer input unit that sits in your PC's front panel. I can plug my old turntable/arm/cartridge straight into it," he says. TerraTec has5.1 and 7.1 versions.&#183;Three months ago, I mentionedMetronomy, which was offering free PCs in exchange for watching advertisements. Several readers have received a letter that says Metronomy is worried about people not following its terms, and "we have reluctantly decided to release only a limited number of PCs in the first instance, in order to fully test our security procedures and technical infrastructure before a wider roll-out in the autumn." So far, no one has reported receiving a free PC.
A huge Europe-wide IT project, which will involve issuing more than 160m smart cards by the end of the decade, has just been announced. It will dwarf David Blunkett's ID card scheme, but the chances are that you haven't even heard of it.Perhaps this is because it is European, and plans from this source often seem to catch Britain by surprise. Thirteen of the European Union's current and new members (joining on May 1) are introducing the European health insurance card from June 1. It will replace national health insurance cards used by everyone in countries including France and Germany. Previously, travellers had to apply for an E111 form or similar for access to EU countries' health services.The cards issued from June will not have a chip, but a smart card version will be introduced towards the end of the decade. A computer network allowing health insurance claims to flow between EU countries is also planned, using the smart technology."The European health insurance card will be another piece of Europe in your pocket," said European commission president Romano Prodi; a similar phrase was used for the euro. Like euros, the cards will have one side designed by the issuing nation and the other standard across the EU.Although it will be issued only to those who want it, the Department of Health says that it will start producing cards only by the end of 2005, the last date allowed by the EU. The UK will issue cards centrally, and there are no plans to move to smart cards.Projects and legislation affecting UK IT are often decided or heavily affected by European institutions. For example, the commission rather than the member states fined Microsoft   &euro;497m for breaking EU competition law, although the fine was agreed by individual countries. More significantly, laws affecting trade are often decided by European directives aiming to create a "common market" across the European Union. But when IT meets security, such as on the extent of state-sponsored bugging, countries make up their own minds - and the UK normally takes a much harder line than anyone else.Directives, which compel countries to enact laws but leave them to decide how, are agreed by the commission, European parliament and the council of ministers (the relevant government ministers from each member state), and those ministers havefinal say. The process can be slow: the data privacy directive negotiated in Europe from 1990-95, was implemented in the UK's Data Protection Act 1998, and came into force in 2001, 11 years later.Implementions vary widely, according to Shelagh Gaskill, head of information law for law firm Masons. She says the Spanish privacy commissioner is known to come down hard on those who break data protection law: "The fines can be huge: &euro;1m is not uncommon," she says.The UK information commissioner takes a softer approach, first asking organisations to change their ways, then issuing an enforcement notice and only then going to court - where the largest fine and costs Gaskill has heard of totalled &#163;5,000. Similarly, there are big differences in penalties for sending spam, although it has been banned in the EU.Gaskill thinks that those seeking to influence IT legislation must do so at the European level. "There's no point in lobbying London if you miss the boat in Europe," she says. "The room for manoeuvre is limited in London."So what is coming our way? On March 9, the European parliament passed a draft directive on enforcement of intellectual property rights by 330 votes to 151; if passed by the council of ministers (which is likely), member states will have to implement it by early 2006. Some civil rights campaigners compared it to the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which media firms have used to charge teenagers for illegally downloading music. It didn't help that the directive's rapporteur (member leading it through the parliament) was French MEP Janelly Fourtou, married to Jean-Ren&#233; Fourtou, chief executive of Vivendi Universal.Professor Sir Neil MacCormick, an MEP for the Scottish National party, voted against the directive. He says the directive gives more power to patent holders, which could hit producers of generic medicines, and extends patents to cover software, specifically that embedded in hardware. He says this is of concern, depending on legal interpretation. The US already allows software patents, generating many court battles, for example SCO's claims over open source operating system Linux.But MacCormick says there is not too much to worry teenage file-swappers. "You've got to stop counterfeiting and piracy - it's a serious problem - but what you want to do is deal with commercial-scale infringements," he says. Sections of the directive were altered to target commercial-scale piracy rather than individuals, although MacCormick thinks this caveat should have been applied to the whole directive.Those who see the June 10 European elections as irrelevant may note that MEPs do affect the UK's IT laws - possibly more than MPs.European health insurance cardhttp://europa.eu.int/comm/employment_socialDraft European directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rightshttp://www3.europarl.eu.intEuropean Parliamentwww.europarl.eu.intMEPs Malcolm Harbour and Arlene McCarthy support the directivehttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/3501964.stmIP Justice campaigned against the directivewww.ipjustice.org
Take-Two Interactive Software, the company behind the Grand Theft Auto video game, delivered a profit warning yesterday and announced the resignation of chief executive Jeffrey Lapin.Last month its founder and chairman Ryan Brant stood down amid an ongoing inquiry by the US securities and exchange commission into accounting practices.Take-Two lowered its earnings outlook for the second quarter, ending on April 30, and for the full year. Third-quarter revenue forecasts have been cut from $220m to $170m (&#163;93m) and the company expects to record a loss.Its shares on Nasdaq were 13% lower at $30.50 in mid-morning trade.The company cited a delay in releasing Red Dead Revolver, lower than expected sales of older titles and the severance costs for Mr Lapin, whose contract was altered late last year to give him salary, bonus and healthcare for 18 months after leaving.Chairman Richard Roedel was named interim chief executive.
In a leap for post-modern mankind, Julian Dibbell, a sane family man, reports today to the United States Inland Revenue Service that he's earned more in 2003-2004 by selling imaginary goods than he's earned as a professional writer. He has profited from the trade of - literally - castles in the sky, purchased for virtual cash and sold for hard currency. Dibbell is engaged in a potentially far-reaching philosophical digital exercise: the perpetuation of the economies of online games.Dibbell is a tradesman in Ultima Online, an internet-based game where people play together to propagate a virtual society. His progress, documented in the weblog Play Money, has followed his path from market obscurity to the number two seller on eBay Category 1654 - Internet Games - where people buy and sell items for everyday virtual life.The phenomenon of the online economies is symptomatic of the increasing age and maturity of players of interactive entertainment. According to calculations reported by Edward Castronova, an economics professor at California State University, people are taking internet games so seriously that since the beginning of the year, Category 1654 has racked up $6,404,668 in sales - real money spent on things that do not exist.The articles for sale are utterly removed from the physical realm. Dibbell has sold in-game currency, imaginary suits of armour and virtual real estate, for weekly profits of up to $1,086. Still, that's small potatoes compared to those who make six-figure sums a year trading virtual castles at $700 a pop, or specialist character accounts for more than $2,000.At their most rudimentary, the games are a simulation of the basic elements of capitalism: trade, barter and asset accumulation. Although it's not possible to "win" in the traditional sense, many strive to have the biggest pile of stuff. This takes time, a commodity scarce in modern life.Thus, the key to Dibbell's success is the time he spends in the game. The average player spends 22 hours a week in online games, but a professional trader such as Dibbell spends between 10 and 17 hours in the game per day. Thus, he accumulates more virtual wealth than "ordinary" players - virtual wealth he can trade for real money. "It's almost a cultural divide between people who have a lot of time and those who are able to buy their way into the game," he explains of his marketplace. "&#91;Success&#93; is not a matter of skill versus lack of skill, it's a matter of time invested or money invested." Through supply of   and demand for virtual time, a fluid real-world economy has grown up."I suspect that only a handful of players per game have this as a sole source of income," explains Castronova. "There are many hundreds more who supplement their incomes this way, though. A typical story is the college student who pays for books by selling items."This practice is not without controversy. "eBayers", or people who purchase fully created accounts or other items are accused of aiding schisms that reflect real-world concepts of haves and have-nots. Others are gaining from globalisation: virtual sweatshops have been uncovered in third-world countries with underpaid employees "grinding" accounts until they are fit for sale, for $200 each.Castronova runs a weekly analysis of virtual world markets where he calculates hourly wages, totals spent and US dollar values of in-game currencies. This week's priciest item was a rare Jedi character account sold for $2,025. Castronova's 2002 examination of genre leader EverQuest's virtual economy placed the fictional setting of Norrath as the 77th richest nation in the (real) world. By investigating the flow of currency and the cost of key items, he was able to determine that it had a   higher GDP than Bulgaria.The city of Alphaville in Electronic Arts' The Sims Online has become a hot spot for the study of the seediness that results from such transparent free enterprise. The city suffers from user-created intimidation, muggings, theft and red-light activities, including citizens engaging in sex chats for in-game currency. Most games have at least one Mafia who oversees the creation of new products, gets cuts for protection and financially benefits from real-life sales. There are also rumours that the Japanese Yakuza is involved in the buying and selling of virtual goods.Virtual trade also comes with complications of ownership. Throw in a global purchasing population and there arise questions of international trade and taxation regulations. Jamie Hale, co-founder of the Gaming Open Market facility, which provides an alternative system of inter-player exchange to eBay, believes their services don't step on the toes of any international treaty. "If we were brokering real-life currency trades, we would no doubt be subject to a whole boat-load of laws and regulations. Instead, we deal in "play money" - not legal tender - and hence are not regulated in the same sense that real   foreign exchange markets are."The major issue for games developers and publishers is potential copyright infringement and theft of intellectual property. Dibbell and others maintain he's not breaching any rights. Most games companies disagree. The most extreme case is an agreement made between Sony Online and eBay: items from EverQuest, the most popular game of the genre, are absent from category 1654.Others are more tolerant, but have the right to pursue recompense. "If you are selling in-game items in violation of a contract you have entered into with a game company, you should be liable in a civil suit to the game company," explains Greg Lastowka, a legal scholar who studies intellectual property and virtual worlds. Only one has attempted. The publishers of Anarchy Online sued Black Snow Interactive for grinding too many accounts. They lost.Dibbell doesn't envisage any issues with the tax office when he files his claim today. "The one ambiguity that I've come across is that the IRS wants to tax any economic transaction that involves gain for somebody." At deadline, all profits could easily be spent and the IRS told that the money, now invested in imaginary goods, doesn't exist. "At what point in the growth of   these games does the IRS wake up and say everyone who trades in these games has to file?"Since the first game was released in 1983, the genre has evolved from global versions of Dungeons and Dragons into something more worthy of investment. Several million people now gather online in more than 350 worlds, perpetuating systems that run 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In Korea, the world Lineage has a population of more than 4m, making it more popular than TV."If human society migrates into cyberspace, as many seem to think it will, the coin of the realm will be these shadow currencies. Rather, pounds, yen and dollars may become shadow currencies to the gold piece," explains Castronova. "It's a shocking vision, but eminently conceivable within the lifetime of a person born today."
Suspicions that Nokia's N-Gage "game deck" was a Trojan horse designed to give the company a foothold in the games industry were confirmed when Nokia yesterday unveiled the N-Gage QD, a major development of the N-Gage, just seven months after the launch of the original.The N-Gage received a critical hammering at launch, due to perceived design faults: you had to talk into its side, take it apart to change games and were lucky to get four hours' solid gameplay from a battery charge. Websites likened it to a Cornish pasty, and Electronic Arts president John Riccitello described it as a dog. But Nokia reacted quickly, and the N-Gage QD addresses all the criticisms.The N-Gage QD (Nokia says the name does not mean anything) has a smaller surface area, and is slightly more ovate in shape. It is also thicker, and has a rubber strip around its midriff. A flap in that rubber strip lifts up to reveal a slot that allows you to "hot-swap" game cartridges: put in a cartridge, and the game will launch automatically. You don't need to dismantle the QD to change games.When using the QD as a phone, you now speak into the top, as with conventional mobile phones, and Nokia claims battery life has been doubled. Pasi P&#246;l&#246;nen, director of games publishing at Nokia, says: "You should get up to 10 hours of gameplay. Power saving has been achieved by a bigger battery, techno logical developments and better power management." The QD also gets a new, more closely spaced, numeric keypad, and an extra button below the direction pad performs the Select function previously executed by pushing down on the direction pad.Nokia also announced that the original model will remain on sale.    P&#246;l&#246;nen explains: "There are two reasons. First, users are quite happy with it. Once you start using the N-Gage, a lot of the supposedly negative things are not so negative. And there are technical reasons: the N-gage QD is a dual-band, rather   than tri-band, phone, and has no MP3 player or radio."Nokia expects the N-Gage QD to go on sale in the middle of next month, and it should be &#163;10 to &#163;20 cheaper than the N-Gage SIM-free. It will also be supported by a much more impressive line-up of games than the original. Says P&#246;l&#246;nen: "I believe a lot of the unfortunate press we received with the N-Gage was due to the content."The games we have coming out take much better advantage of the machine's unique mobile communications capabilities. They include The Sims, Tiger Woods PGA Tour Golf 2004, and the exclusives - Tom Clancy's Jungle Storm, Ashen, Pathway To Glory, and Pocket Kingdom, a massively multiplayer online mobile game. With Tiger Woods, for example, you can send a text to three friends and play the same course against them, even if you are on the road. We are starting to extract full graphics performance from developers."
Dead Man's HandPC, &#163;19.99 Human Head/Atari&#42;&#42;&#42;Dead Man's Hand recalls Desperados, another cheesy western remake of a popular game. This back-to-basics first-person shooter dispenses with high-tech upgrades in favour of handguns, rifles and occasional sticks of dynamite. Your quest as former outlaw El Tejon is to bring in your eight ex-partners, collecting bounty as you go. There's also the nice touch of being able to gamble for extra ammo and health by playing a game of poker at the start of each level. It's a shame more wasn't made of this.Once you start playing DMH, the niggles stack up. For instance, there's no save function, forcing you to play the same unforgiving level again and again. This could perhaps be fixed with a patch, but it's a shoddy trick used to disguise a lack of depth. The other restrictions are most annoying to PC owners, already used to a finer degree of control. There's no ability to run, no fancy shooting and diving moves, no ability to lean out from behind cover. And that game of poker has no option to bet or fold. If this were a full-priced game, you might call it a busted flush. But at under &#163;20, it's more like a pair of Jacks.Mike AnderieszFallout: Brotherhood of SteelPS2, &#163;29.99 Interplay&#42;&#42;Dumbing down is understandable, especially with the huge growth in mass-market gaming. But dated   graphics, puerile scripting and tedious gameplay can't be forgiven. Fallout: Brotherhood of Steel is bad, although switch your brain off and the button-mashing action is enjoyable in small doses. The trouble is, Fallout is a fondly remembered gaming brand and a role-playing one to boot, having achieved success in the late 90s with two cracking titles.Set in the same post-apocalyptic wasteland, your aim is to prevent the surviving humans from turning mutant. As you'd expect, this doesn't involve a series of peace conferences. Instead, you get to run around, chat to important people and dispatch everyone else. As you solve quests - either by killing or item delivery - you can "level-up" your character, giving you access to better weapons and armour. Sadly, the flat graphics do little to encourage progression while the incessant combat soon grates. Brotherhood of Steel is a disappointing release that devalues the Fallout heritage.Greg HowsonR:RacingPS2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;29.99 Namco/Electronic Arts&#42;&#42;&#42;Although successful over the years, Namco's arcade-style racing game Ridge Racer was in undoubted need   of a serious rethink, as it fought to keep up with the likes of Project Gotham Racing 2. The result is R:Racing, which certainly feels as though it is a product of the 21st century, but does not entirely convince. R:Racing takes a kitchen-sink approach, clearly influenced by games such as PGR2.There is a Story Mode, for example, in which you take on the persona of aspiring racer Rena, which is the cue for two things: some of the corniest cut scenes ever and a sequence of races that take in high-speed oval tracks, a hilariously pumped-up (and realistically twitchy) Fiat 500, rallying and even drag-racing. There is also a Gran Turismo-style mode, in which you work your way up through the formulae, buying cars as you go.The best aspects of R:Racing are the cars' realistic handling (Japanese tin boxes, for example, display lift-off oversteer, while GT Touring cars are tail-happy and fearsomely fast) and the fact that, unless you turn them off, you are given more driver aids than any other racing game - which will please those who normally find racing games intimidating, but appal true petrol-heads. But the rallying part of the game is dire, and it often feels as though it has spread itself too thin. A decent effort, quite well timed as we still wait for Gran Turismo 4, but a mere footnote in the history of racing games.Steve Boxer
There are few things more absurd to behold than a politician on the warpath over a technology issue. There     are a few exceptions - the few who blog, or acknowledge openly that netizens aren't all perverts. But, still,     when it comes to the fast flowing waters of tech debate, most politicians still flounder.Proving the point this     week is California senator Liz Figueroa, who is banging her drum about Google's plans for an email service.In case you missed the news, Google is launching Gmail, the big feature of which is a gigabyte of storage,     and a search facility. Gmail is likely to offer a substantial improvement on existing webmail services. And the     payback for Google comes from advertising, for it plans to scan your email and serve targeted ads alongside     your correspondence - exactly as it does with its search pages today.It's here that the balloons go up. Figueroa says such ads will - brace yourself - be "like having a massive     billboard in the middle of your home." This might sound a lot like commercial TV, but Figueroa is "drafting     legislation" (read, "issuing a press release") to Stop It All.Meanwhile an open letter from privacy campaigners warns Gmail will "raise significant and troubling     questions". Scanning "violates the implicit trust of an email service provider ... Google needs to realise that     many different companies and even governments can and likely will walk through the email scanning door     once it is opened."Yet all the objections, including Senator Figueroa's, are based on two dangerous fallacies. First is the quaint     notion that Google's technology can be kept out of hands of governments, and that its use would set a     precedent companies and governments would follow.In reality, governments already scan communications, including email. Post 9/11, they don't need Google as     an excuse. Privacy campaigners should know this - after all, they've been fighting the legislation that makes it     possible. Plus, anti-virus software already scans millions of emails daily.The second fallacy is that, whether or not MI5 wants a peek, our emails are secure. The fact is, anyone     sending sensitive material via bog-standard email is taking a risk. Email is sent in the clear over the net, and is     stored for long periods - even when users think they have deleted it.Companies do this to comply with law,     protect themselves or just through sloppiness. Worse, corporate privacy abuse, whether sanctioned by     management or not, is rife. Armed with the right access privileges, anyone can browse mail archives.The only way to secure mail is to encrypt it - something few of us do because it's a hassle. And if we can't be     bothered to protect what we send, are we really that concerned? Probably not.Why? Maybe it's because we see email as a semi-public space, not a secret one. We know emails might be     intercepted by bosses. We know explicit or embarassing messages might be forwarded to millions by the     recipient - not a snooper. We moderate what we say.      In other words, we're realising the limits of the medium - limits the privacy lobby would do well to discover     themselves.
With heavy heart, I snap an ammunition clip into my Webley Vickers automatic and lead a trusted life-long companion out for a last walk in the woods.My companion is the memory of Ernest Henry Shackleton (1874-1922), Antarctic explorer. It's time to put the Boss out of his misery because he's been adopted as a role model for managers of IT projects in government departments, local authorities and the NHS. Go to any conference presentation with the word leadership in the title - there are dozens - and, sooner or later, up pops a slide of men pulling a sledge.In the commercial world, the cult of leadership seems to be in eclipse, after a run of scandals involving overpaid chief executives.   In government, which lags a couple of years behind industry when it comes to management fads, it's still going strong.The trouble is that leadership, by definition, relies on exemplars. And most of the outstanding leader personalities from history are, to put it mildly, dodgy role models for civil service managers. A motivational consultant preaching "leadership secrets of Napoleon" would be written off as slightly bonkers, even in France. Anyone doing the same with Hitler would, I hope, be locked up.Edwardian polar explorers apparently offer safer material. While several were maniacs, their victims were willing volunteers and wealthy, vain, funders. In general, the world's a richer place because of people like Amundsen, Scott and Mawson (who tends to be the   favourite of people who've actually had penguin poo on their boots).And the Boss, the charismatic Anglo-Irishman whose story of survival in the 1914-16 transantarctic expedition deservedly remains a classic. But let's not get carried away. The reason why Shackleton's qualities of leadership are remembered, and proselytised in best-sellers such as Shackleton's Way: Leadership Lessons from the Great Antarctic Explorer, is because his professional life was a disaster.Like his rival Scott, he never mastered the technicalities of ice and snow travel. His three independent expeditions all failed. Even the myth that Shackleton brought all his men back alive is untrue. Three men died in the ill-organised, though undoubtedly heroic, journey to set up supply depots for his   doomed Antarctic crossing.Certainly, this is the kind of operational record we have come to expect in government IT projects. But is it really what we want for the future?If we're to look to the past for Antarctic exemplars in project management, we'd do better to follow the dour Amundsen who, through relentless preparation and organisation, achieved two firsts: navigating the northwest passage and reaching the South Pole.This is not to knock leadership. Anyone who has worked in well-led and badly-led organisations will know the difference. But we should pick our exemplars with care. As role models for the IT-enabled reform of British public services, even the most brilliant Edwardian polar adventurers are about as useful as Walter Mitty.
Nokia's disappointing mobile phone sales figures highlighted its poor performance in the crucial mid-market sector. The company hopes to rectify that with the 7200, its first clamshell handset, which debuts later this month. However, the 7200 is not a traditional folding phone. It is thinner and lighter than many rivals and also sports soft textile covers, designed to appeal to the fashion-conscious.The handset is a delight to use, courtesy of Nokia's intuitive menu system and prominent, comfortable keys. Nokia hasn't shirked on features, either, so   the 7200 includes a VGA camera, video camera, integrated hands-free and FM radio. Also on board are some neat games and ringtones.The 7200 is, however, up against serious competition. In terms of design, it can't rival the "classic with a twist" styling of Motorola's upcoming V80 handset. Nor can it compete with the one megapixel camera and superb quality screen offered by the Sharp/Vodafone GX30. Yet, if you have been weaned on Nokia handsets, like the handset's quirky design and fancy a simple-to-use camera phone, the 7200 is a no-brainer.&lt;A HREF="http://www.nokia.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.nokia.co.uk
Forty years ago, when IBM launched its System/360 mainframe computer, it changed the world. It also gave IBM a monopoly of the computer business, which resulted in the US Justice Department launching an anti-trust suit in 1969, and trying to break it up. It failed, but eventually changes in technology helped redistribute IBM's old monopoly among a number of smaller players, such as Intel, Microsoft, Cisco, Hewlett-Packard and EMC.The S/360 was a massive project, even for a company with 150,000 staff. It required an investment of more than $5bn, of which about $4.5bn went on building factories. The total was almost twice IBM's annual turnover, which was $3.2bn in 1964. But it paid off handsomely.   IBM's revenues climbed to $12.7bn in 1974 (four times bigger) and $46bn in 1984 (14 times bigger). It was aiming for $200bn in 1994, and today it would be the world's biggest and richest company, if Intel had not invented the microprocessor, making computer power cheap and ubiquitous. (To be sure, IBM also set the personal computer standard with the IBM PC in 1981, but it no longer controls its suppliers.)The "age of the mainframe" may be long gone, but IBM is still the largest computer company, and its $89bn annual turnover is more than Intel, Microsoft and Cisco put together. IBM is also making a respectable $7.6bn a year in profits, though it was making $5.5bn a year 20 years ago - far more in real terms.And while mainframes are no   longer the masters in computing - they have become servers - they still run large parts of the real world. IBM mainframes used in Fortune 500 companies keep most of the big banks, insurance companies, retailers and government departments in business. They keep planes in the air and put food on your table. If Microsoft Windows disappeared tomorrow, it wouldn't make much difference. If the heirs of the S/360 disappeared, with all their Cobol and PL/1 code, western civilisation might struggle to survive. It's not that nothing else could do the job, but that it takes years and costs buckets of money to replace them. Software lock-in has ensured the hardware's survival.The IBM mainframe's longevity and compatibility has been a huge boon and, while we may take it for   granted, it was a revolutionary idea at the time. Computing was progressing so rapidly that moving to a new system usually meant starting from scratch. This was obviously destructive of companies' investments in data processing. However, with the S/360, IBM was the first to offer a family of (relatively) compatible machines with different levels of performance. Upgradability became practical, and so did the idea of plug-compatible hardware from rival suppliers such as Amdahl, competing with but reinforcing the standard.In his biography Father, Son &amp; Co, IBM boss Tom Watson Jr wrote that: "Once a customer entered the circle of 360 users, we knew we could keep him there for a very long time." But no one thought it would be this long.System/360 Announcementwww-1.ibm.com/ibm/history/exhibitsIBM Historywww-1.ibm.com/ibm/history/history/year_1964.htmlFather, Son &amp; Co: My Life at IBM    and Beyond by Thomas J Watson Jr and Peter Petrewww.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detailThe Maverick and His Machine: Thomas Watson Sr and the Making of IBMwww.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos
Nokia's Bluetooth-enabled pen has impressed everyone we have tried it on. First, write or draw on a pad with a ballpoint pen (with hidden micro camera inside). Then touch two spots on the paper with the tip of the pen - one to send it to a phone or computer - and the second to dispatch it. Within seconds, your phone or computer receives the text or image (in colour).It works with a compatible phone using a Bluetooth short-distant wireless connection. You could take minutes in a meeting as if just using a ballpoint pen and then put the pen in a small docking station to automatically save the text on your PC. Software is available to turn the image files into digital form to be picked up by a word processor.It works on paper with tiny dots on it (which can be duplicated). If the software that digitises the text works, it is easy to see this changing from an impressive gadget into a useful tool. It is perfect for those who want to join the information revolution without anyone knowing. Price guide: &#163;150.
Chicken runAs viral marketing campaigns go, Burger King's Subservient Chicken is one of the weirdest. The site takes the fast food giant's famous "have it your way" slogan to its most extreme conclusion: via a "webcam" you can view a man dressed as a menacing-looking chicken, who is none the less waiting to obey your every command.Type "do a handstand" in the command box and he's balancing on his wings before you can say chicken nuggets. He will also do the funky chicken and ballet. Not surprisingly, it's all the result of clever pre-recording and programming. Still, it's one viral ad that's bound to spread: TWiki already has a Subservient Chicken Request list, so you can see which commands work and which don't.www.subservientchicken.comhttp://dev.magicosm.netG-bombsWhat do waffles, clowns and weapons of mass destruction have in common? They have all been used as Googlebombs. The latest attempt to skew the results of search engines such as Google by linking to a website using a particular phrase is targeted at US Democratic candidate John Kerry. Pro-Bush law student Ken Jacobson is using his blog, Esoteric Diatribe, to spearhead a campaign to make Kerry's site the first link listed when a user types in the word "waffles" into their search engine. Googlebombing isn't just the domain of Republican pranksters: George Bush has been the subject of a couple, while Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi found his site Googlebombed so came up when searching for the word "buffone" - Italian for clown.Craig Silverstein, Google's director of technology, is fairly relaxed about the issue: as he recently told USA Today: "Our philosophy is that there's no need &#91;for Google&#93; to do anything." After all, anyone really searching for waffles online is likely to realise fairly promptly that John Kerry's site is not the place to find the best recipes. If   you have missed out on the Googlebombing phenomenon so far, Wikipedia has an excellent page charting its history.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Googlebombwww.esoteric-diatribe.blogspot.comwww.johnkerry.comwww.kerrywaffles.comBig on MacsAll things Mac-related will be under discussion at Wired's new weblog, The Cult of Mac. Leander Kahney, a reporter who covers the Apple Mac beat for Wired News, is behind the blog, which is surprisingly only the second official Wired blog: the first is Bruce Sterling's Beyond the Beyond. The Cult of Mac joins a whole raft of Mac-related sites, each with their own following, but Wired's considerable cachet in the tech news world should secure Kahney's blog a slice of the Mac faithful's attention.http://blog.wired.com/cultofmachttp://blog.wired.com/cultofmacMeet Microsoft"How therapeutic would it be for people to meet us?" That was the question posed by five Microsoft developers in setting up their new home for holding conversations with customers and other developers: Channel 9. Perhaps the best place to start looking at this site is the video of the five guys in question shooting the breeze about what they want Channel 9 to be. It's all a tad forced but it could be an interesting forum.It's impressive that Microsoft has given its employees what appears to be such a free hand, and Channel 9 is a truly multimedia affair, featuring videos of interviews with other Microsoft workers, wikis, moblogs and discussion boards all playing a part in building a conversation with users. Whether the site will prove just a little too worthy for Microsoft users to really let rip with their true feelings, only time will tell.http://channel9.msdn.comReithian valueFor the first time, the BBC is offering the annual Reith Lectures, in DRM-free MP3 format for free download on its site. This year's lecture series takes the theme The Climate of Fear and is presented by Nobel prize-winning playwright, poet and political activist Wole Soyinka. The first two lectures are already on the site as transcripts and audios, and the remaining three will be available in the next three weeks. In past years, the lectures have been available to listen to via RealPlayer, but the MP3 format allows the lectures to be listened to and passed on to anyone. You can also join in the discussion on the Open University's Open2 online community discussion boards.www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/reith2004www.open2.net/reith2004New &amp; notedGlobally Sweetwww.globallysweet.comKinja - the weblog guidewww.kinja.comAir America Radiowww.airamericaradio.comSix of the best: Science newsEurekalert.orgwww.eurekalert.orgAlphaGalileowww.alphagalileo.orgThe Why Fileshttp://whyfiles.orgSciDev.netwww.scidev.netPsci-comwww.psci-com.ac.ukAssociation of British Science Writerswww.absw.org.uk
Bitter experienceI've just read Joia Shillingford's article on Norton Internet Security (Second Sight, April 8). I was a customer of Norton for several years and recently upgraded to NIS 2004. Eventually, my computer became inoperable and I had to take it to an engineer. There was nothing he could do except reformat my hard disk and reinstall my operating system. He managed to save most of my data but I lost a lot of MP3s and photos (Lesson: always back up your data). I went on Google and typed "Norton experiences". It would not be an exaggeration to say that scores, maybe hundreds of people have had similar experiences.The irony of the situation is that Norton have stated that they do know there is a problem with the software, yet it is still for sale to the general public. I have not demanded a refund, Norton do not make it easy. Instead I have purchased McAfee Security Suite 2004. It's not as intrusive as Norton and it seems to be doing a good job. The bad news is that I would suggest that Shillingford gets her computer thoroughly checked! Norton Anti-Virus is notoriously hard to get rid of. I suspect that there are NAV files still on her hard drive. Sooner or later they will cause problems.Mike O'ReillyUse protectionJoia Shillingford asks, with understandable frustration, "How can a PC with a virus be worse than one that does not work at all?" Sadly for the rest of us using the internet, a computer with a virus is far, far worse -   as it can attempt to spread and infect our machines too.I can understand the frustration of trying to deal with Symantec on the phone only too well (been there, done that - far too often) but leaving an internet-connected computer unprotected against viruses can cause problems for many other people.Mark PackLondonAlternative solutionAfter reading Joia Shillingford's problems with Norton I think she and other readers would like to know about AVG Anti-Virus. It's available as a free download (for personal use) fromwww.grisoft.com. I've been using it now for at least a year and can't praise it enough, it has a small footprint, a great detection rate and has never caused me any trouble.Jon WardThe corporate viewJoia Shillingford's article held true for so many of my company's experiences with Norton products. Because Norton has a strong advertising presence and bundles as a 30-day trial with most new OEM PCs, the public are more aware of Norton than any other anti-virus product. If you want to slow down your PC, stop programs working, change file attributes to read-only and even stop your PC from booting then this is a great product!What Shillingford didn't experience was that it also doesn't detect viruses, as one of our clients discovered last week when the director's PC was found to have over 13,000 virus-infected files, only beaten by the server which had 16,000.For corporate anti-virus protection we would recommend Sophos, as described in Dave Moss's articleLocking out viruses(Online, April 8).Moss talks about creating scripts for downloading the latest Identity files. Sophos does have an easy-to-configure program called Enterprise Library to do this for you and Sophos has reacted to the influx of viruses this year by changing the default   installation for checking for updates to every hour. Another useful aspect of Sophos is the remote update program, whereby anti-virus installation and updates can be made available to remote or home users via a website.Home users without access to such advantages should, at the very least, download the AVG Anti-Virus, SpyBot and ZoneAlarm firewall.Darren CuttingSuffolkTrain, don't strainRoland J Young is right: BT Internet's old antispam system (operated by Brightmail) was excellent. It took out 80-90% of spam and (even more importantly) it never identified a single legitimate mail as spam in all the time I used it. The new BT Yahoo! system is more aggressive and generates a significant number of false positive identifications, which means you do have to check the bulk mail folder carefully before deleting messages.However, all is not lost, because it can be trained by consistently using the "spam" and "not spam" buttons to mark wrongly identified mail. This reduces false positives to an acceptably low level (though still not as good as the Brightmail system) and it is then quite a reasonable system - better than AOL's and much better than nothing at all.Alasdair BealBig questionsFollowing on from Michael Cross' amusing article on ID cards (Public Domain, April 8), while the discussion of which government department will run any such scheme is of interest, the more important question surely is: "Does anyone believe that any government department can run such a scheme efficiently ?"After all, the government's record over the years at large computer projects does not inspire confidence: NHS software and the Nimrod AEW project come to mind.CP Cosgrove
Scale upIntel has announced a new family of XScale (Arm-based) processors "designed to meet the multimedia, low power and security requirements of advanced cellphones and wireless PDAs," says the company. The PXA27x, formerly code-named Bulverde, supports GSM/GPRS, Wi-Fi (802.11b) and Bluetooth. It also includes Intel's SpeedStep technology for increased battery life, Wireless MMX for advanced video and games, and Quick Capture to support four megapixel cameras. Chips will be available at speeds from 312MHz up to 624MHz, with prices starting at $32 in 10,000 unit quantities.www.intel.com/pressroom/archive/releasesSpam and the CitySpammers may be illegally boosting stocks and share prices by offering bogus financial tips. Clearswift, an email management and security firm, says in its March Spam Index that a large number of spam messages offering advice may persuade enough people to buy and artificially boost share values. This would allow the spammers to buy, promote and then sell shares at a profit. According to Clearswift, financial spam more than doubled to 26% during March. "Pharmaceutical" emails, mainly promoting sex aids (56%), top the chart. Pornographic emails (8%) trail in third.Immersion lithoWater is the front-runner in the search to develop higher definition tools for microprocessor production. Researchers are looking for a fluid that can break the 45 nanometre limit for the lithographic etching process. Despite various oils being tested, Rochester Institute of Technology has found that water's refractive properties and its non-reactiveness with microprocessor materials makes it ideal for the job. Liquids have long been used in microscopy to improve image resolution and this advance reverses the process for projecting a microscopic image on to the semiconductor surface. Chip makers will require new tools for purifying the water and delivering it in an even, steady stream across the silicon wafer.www.rit.edu/~635dept5Roam dayWi-Fi users can have problems because it is hard to roam between different networks of "hot spots" from different provides. RoamPoint hopes to help by acting as an intermediary between network operators and service providers. "By connecting to RoamPoint once, service providers and hotspot networks can implement multiple roaming agreements between each other easily," it says.www.roampoint.netHomeland securityAmerica's National Cyber Security Partnership (NCSP) task force has launched a campaign to get companies, non-profit organisations and educational institutions to take responsibility for their online security. It points out that there are three elements to the problem - people, processes and technology - so it is not just a matter for IT but for "executive management and boards of directors". The NCSP has published a report on corporate governance on its site, and a paper on Awareness for Home Users and Small Businesses.www.cyberpartnership.org/init-governance.htmlShorter LonghornMicrosoft is limiting some of the features promised for the next version of Windows, codenamed Longhorn. The project aims to develop a radically new version of Windows by 2006, but plans looked too ambitious to meet the schedule. Analysts are speculating that the Windows File System (WinFS) may be a casualty. Instead of a company-wide search system that will cover any data source on a network, the service may be initially confined to individual computers. This kind of winnowing occurs during the development of every version of Windows, when Microsoft requires developers to decide what they will commit to delivering on a fixed schedule, even though they never keep to it.http://msdn.microsoft.com/ longhornBetter relationshipsSalesforce.com and NetSuite are continuing to refine their online application services to attract small- and medium-sized businesses. Salesforce has introduced features for its hosted customer relationship management (CRM) software to make it easier to customise without high-level programming skills. The previous version of the software provided generic tabs for displaying CRM details, but these are now customisable. Tabs can be created to show details for product sales by type, region, department or sales team. Competitor NetSuite provides similar customisation through its dashboard display, and is offering a money back guarantee if its online service does not meet its 99.5 % uptime commitment. Other application service providers offer 95% uptime guarantees.www.salesforce.comwww.netsuite.com
With the 2005 deadline for e-enabling public sector services fast approaching, a consortium of leading UK businesses is to publish its verdict next month on the progress so far.The report, which is being drawn up by the likes of Cadbury Schweppes, Rolls-Royce, Microsoft, Taylor Woodrow and Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young, is being presented as a framework for e-government and will be unveiled at Parliament in early May. It is intended to motivate senior civil servants and is likely to heap more pressure on those public sector organisations who are lagging behind.The companies behind the report form part of the BuyIT Network, which is an independent e-business best practice group. It was established to share practical experience and provoke discussion on key technology issues facing the UK.The framework document will provide an e-government readiness checklist for ministers to assess their progress. It will call for more customer-centred government services and more efficient technology-driven processes. The report's authors say the government still has work to do to get mechanisms in place and the e-business leaders insist that e-government services need to be faster and easier to use. The draft document, which has been seen by Online, refers to the UK social security system as a "maze" and argues that seamless efficient processes are an urgent priority."The purpose of the framework is to provoke a discussion," says Graham Colclough, vice president of Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young. "The purpose is not for it to be an interesting document that stays on the shelf." He stresses that the new framework initiative   should not be seen as the private sector telling government what to do. He says it is designed as an opportunity for collaboration and knowledge-sharing on the key outstanding issues.Colclough believes that customer-centric thinking is a fundamental change which the public sector still has to make in order for the execution of e-government initiatives to be successful on a large scale. "The second most important thing to fulfil customer needs is to think of the public sector as a series of processes to deliver services. It's not a whole bunch of vertical silos."Getting the public sector to "work as one" with streamlined services which look beyond departmental silos is one of the main messages the report's authors wish to get across. "When you talk about e-business, it's about changing processes as well as changing technology," says Tim Walton, director of e-business for Rolls-Royce.The fact that people buy books from Amazon and bank online demonstrates that the government can learn a lot from the private sector about how to deliver its own services electronically to the public, Walton says.The framework document will argue that government departments and public sector bodies need to develop more compelling customer propositions. The document acknowledges that the take-up of e-enabled services is currently below expectations and argues that marketing and   communications will become an essential ingredient of success.The private sector companies who are behind this report are refreshingly candid about their own shortcomings. "I think we have done purchasing very well. We have made inroads on the customer side but there is more to do there," admits Walton.The commercial sector is generally perceived to have made a fair amount of progress with the e-enabling of its supply chains. In the retail sector in particular, suppliers are being given more timely information and a more transparent and dynamic view of the ordering process so they can plan ahead. In contrast, government suppliers typically have to liaise with different departments in different ways. Using e-business technologies brings more consistent and time-efficient methods to both purchasers and suppliers, the report's authors argue.Coenraad van der Poel, managing director of Europe, the Middle East and Africa for EzGov, says the government did well to set targets for services going online, but he argues that the e-government agenda has moved on. "Today it's about uptake. It's about the user experience and joining up government in the interests of a customer-centric set of services."The report's authors are keen that senior civil servants recognise the role they can play in driving e-government reforms. Van der Poel says: "This is not something they should leave to the prime minister or their IT departments or a bunch of outside consultants. Senior civil servants can make a lot of this happen. Real success is achievable by their departments today and can by driven by them and their sponsorship."www.buyitnet.org
How would you sum up the ideas behind Smart Mobs?The good definition is that the Smart Mob is a group of people who use the internet and/or mobile communications to organise collective action. That covers a lot of things we've seen since I wrote the book: from the Dean campaign in the US to the Flash Mobs that swept around the world last year; the SMS campaign that happened after the Madrid bombings;MoveOn.orgin the US; and the growth of the use of the net and blogs for mobilising political action such as the anti-war protests a year ago. But you also have teenagers who meet up at a fast-food restaurant at the same time. In the UK, SMS has changed the way all sorts of things run, from which road has a traffic jam to which Tube station is under repair.In terms of technology, what is unusually powerful in comparison to prior technology is that we have billions of people carrying these things in their pockets. Each has more computing power than the first PCs, which people paid thousands for. These devices are linked to the internet, so we're seeing the merger of the personal computer, the mobile phone and the internet, and this is only the beginning of that.Wi-Fi?It's been patchy. For instance, it's very big in Seoul in South Korea, but in Stockholm a few years ago, there were only a couple of access points, although there are more now. There's the old saying that's sometimes attributed to William Gibson: "The future is here, it's just not distributed evenly."Are wireless networks secure enough?How many people think that when they send email, every system administrator along the way can read it? This is indicative of a larger problem and I reference it in the last chapter of my book about thePanopticon. One aspect of these technologies is that along with the convenience and radically positive changes they bring, they also make surveillance far more powerful than anything Orwell envisioned in Nineteen Eighty-four. It's not just "big brother", the state or law enforcement: it's someone who wants to sell you something; your ex-wife or neighbour who can stalk you now.I named the book Smart Mobs purposely, as "mobs" can also have a sinister connotation and I didn't want to just give the idea that utopia is at hand. With every technology, we're seeing amplified the capability of individuals to do good things and bad. Ditto for big organisations or states.Are we in the "too much information" age?Someone recently told me    that the first reference they'd found to information overload was in 1680. Plato warns inPhaedrusthat if we start writing things in these dead things called books using this new alphabet, then we won't remember things the way we used to. I think there is a trade-off with new technologies, and we haven't thought about what we're paying for what we're gaining.We're beginning to now and that's good. We're losing what we used to know as privacy and creating a world in which some people are always connected. Is that a good thing? I'm always on but I can do my work in my back garden, so it gives me a lot of freedom I didn't have before. It's eroded the boundaries between work and home, which is good for me but might not be for everyone.Should we look back to the work of the original "infonauts" to shape the future of IT?Some visionary decisions were made early on. The people who designed the basic way information moves around the internet knew that people would come up with   innovations that they couldn't. By the architecture of the internet they reserved innovation for the edges of the net. Tim Berners-Lee didn't have to ask permission to start the world wide web, he just spread it around.Now we're seeing an assault on that by vested interests - the recording industry saying it is "attacking piracy" when any musician will tell you that it is the worst pirate! It's about control of innovation. We have the extension of copyright laws by big copyright owners such as Disney and global corporations. We're seeing the development ofdigital rights managementbuilt into technologies so machines won't let you run certain software; the way the wireless spectrum is regulated according to the technologies of the 1920s. Some broadband providers don't want the kind of internet where people at the edges can innovate without permission, they want to change what is known as theEnd-to-End Principle.What it boils down to is: "Are we going to be active users who shape the media we use?"Bill Gates is now a monopolist and the richest man in the world, but was a 19-year-old dropout. He didn't have to ask permission from IBM to start his company. Tim Berners-Lee gave away what he invented. Will we be active users like that or will we be passive consumers who, because of the laws and the architecture of the technology, have only the choice of which brand to buy?I wrote the book to try to educate people because the people who make the laws listen to the people who pay them a lot of money to make them. They're not listening to the citizens. We're not powerless; the more we know, the more influence we will have. The US seems to be trying to export its laws to the rest of the world.The World Intellectual Property Organisationis trying to take some very stringent, innovation-limiting laws and make them international.Do we need to raise the bar for online interaction?There is a certain literacy about how you use online communication. We all have a lot of training in face-to-face verbal discourse, from   the moment our mother slaps our hand when we say the wrong thing at table, but online, people just start doing it. They don't realise there's a lot of ambiguity in the written word and there's a lack of inhibition online, which can be a good thing but it also means people who wouldn't be rude to your face will be rude to you online. Too much rudeness and making assertions without backing them up can pollute the online marketplace of ideas. I think it's great that free speech exists online and I would forever defend it, but free speech is not simply the freedom to say any stupid thing that comes to mind.How do we deal with spammers and virus-writers?Biologists will tell you that whenever any biological system evolves to a certain point of complexity, parasites will emerge. In our need to deal with spam and pornography that pollute the online world, we can't destroy what's valuable about the internet. Spam filtering on the desktop is probably where we're going to go. We'll lose a bit of the ease with which you can email, as you may have to prove you're human.With regard to virus writers, there have always been anti-social 15-year-olds, but now they have very powerful tools and can make life miserable for a lot of people. Law enforcement could do some good, as the worst of the virus-writers are organised crime.E-democracy?Voting online is a bad idea, as is governing by opinion poll. Modern nation states aren't democracies: they're republics or parliamentary representatives. We elect people who will debate, and if we cut out that deliberation and tighten the loop between public opinion and policy, then bad things will happen. The real hope for electronic democracy is alternative news sources and for people to have political discussions online. We need more people participating.Is that where blogging comes into its own?Absolutely. It's unfortunate that journalism in much of the world has become a wholly owned subsidiary of entertainment. It's not groceries these people are selling, it's opinions and beliefs and they are at the root of democracy.I blog a little atwww.smartmobs.com/archivesabout Smart Mobs but it's less opinion and more information. I also use a blog aggregator and look at about 100 blogs, such asJohoorBoing Boing, which is a source of great political information but also wild pop culture stuff.Visit:www.rheingold.comandwww.smartmobs.comLinks  Howard Rheingold's bookmarkshttp://news.google.comwww.blogdex.netwww.thefeature.com/mainwww.theregister.co.ukwww.thefeature.com/main
