&quot;Did Google fix Lok Sabha elections?&quot;asksthe India Times. Computer Business Review appeared more certain with the &quot;How Google search results are influencing elections&quot; headline forits version of the story.Even the Daily Mail joined in,asking&quot;Could Google fix an election?&quot;Only one thing: Google is not &quot;fixing&quot; the Lok Sabha elections. The company is absolute in its denial. &quot;Providing relevant answers has been the cornerstone of Google&apos;s approach to search from the very beginning,&quot; a spokesman told the Guardian. &quot;Our results reflect what&apos;s on the web, and we rigorously protect the integrity of our algorithms. It would undermine people&apos;s trust in our results and company if we were to change course.&quot;Indeed, Google has no intention of doing so; and its search results have not influenced the Indian elections beyond providing links to information that is on the web.So why the furore? The stories all lead back to a press release put out on 13 May by the &quot;American Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology&quot;, an independent – that is, unaffiliated with any major university – research organisation based in California. That release was headlined &quot;Could Google have fixed the Lok Sabha elections? A landmark new study in India shows it&apos;s possible&quot;.It&apos;s a pretty bold and arresting claim. Even amore detailed publication of the researchhad a similarly dramatic headline: &quot;Democracy at risk: how voters in the 2014 elections in India were manipulated by biased search rankings.&quot; Again, this seemed to imply that this manipulation had actually occurred.But it hadn&apos;t. On closer examination, both the media release and the longer publication explain that what the study actually looked at wasn&apos;t whether Googleisactively conspiring to overthrow democracy, but what would happen if itdid. And those are very different things.&quot;In the new study, participants were randomly assigned to groups in which search rankings favored either [Indian prime ministerial candidates] Mr Kejriwal, Mr Gandhi, or Mr Modi,&quot; thepress release(PDF) explains. &quot;Real search rankings and web pages were used, and people were asked to research all the candidates just as they would on Google. The only difference between the groups was the order in which the search results were displayed.&quot;Even then, the nature of the research remains unclear. It&apos;s only once you read the actual paper that the actual basis for the claims falls into place. (The paper is not yet published in any academic journal, and is only online in draft form. Some would consider it rather premature to issue a press release.)The original study involved creating fake search results for the Australian premiership, and artificially biasing them towards Julia Gillard or Tony Abbott. This was literally done by just making the first page very pro-Gillard for one set of viewers, and shoving Abbott to the back; and vice-versa for the other half.Sure enough, if you massively weight the information people receive in favour of one candidate, they go on to like that candidate more.Except, oddly, the original academic paper contains no mention of the Indian elections at all.So how has India come into it? The authors appear to have repeated their experiment online – as India went to the polls – by recruiting people living in various Indian states through Amazon&apos;s Mechanical Turk (which finds volunteers who will carry out tasks for small payments). They performed the same test with 2,000 paid volunteers, and found much the same results: by taking undecided voters and presenting them with mocked-up search results pages, they showed that people were influenced by how the results seemed to portray the candidates – to the extent of shifting their allegiance towards or away from one or the other.However, this is not the same at all as saying that Google has done any such thing, nor even that someone who tried to manipulate its search results could achieve the same. So no, Google did not, and isn&apos;t going to, fix or influence the Indian elections beyond linking to what&apos;s out there.In a coda to the press release, Robert Epstein, one of the researchers (who hashad his own, quite separate, run-in with Googlein the past over a malware warning relating to his personal site), says: &quot;Of particular concern is the fact that 99% of the people in our study seemed to be unaware that the search rankings they saw were biased. That means Google has the power to manipulate elections without anyone suspecting they’re doing so. To prevent undue influence, election-related search rankings need to be regulated and monitored, as well as subjected to equal-time rules.” It&apos;s a remarkable suggestion – but highly unlikely ever to be adopted in any country.
There is one thing Nintendo is really good at. No wait, there are lots of things, obviously, but one thing it does better than anyone else. It makes games that teach you about game design. The Super Mario Bros titles show us why pacing and power-ups are important in a linear environment and Zelda shows us how to direct a player within an open world.Mario Kart? Well, Mario Kart has always told us: hey,thisis why racing games are all about cornering. Its drift system is so sharp and exciting and nuanced. It also says that capricious systems can be empowering if players understand that they can all get lucky at times.Super Mario Kart, released on the Super Nintendo entertainment system in 1992, at the height of the 16bit console wars, was sort of perfect. The controls, the power-ups, the courses, the structure, the handling feel, the music, the characters. Perfect. And as great as the sequels have often been, they haven&apos;t quite got back there. Maybe until now.Mario Kart 8. The scores are coming in:Eurogamer: 10/10IGN: 9/10CVG: 9/10Videogamer: 9/10Joystiq: 4.5/5Out of the majors, only Shacknews and Gamespot have dropped down to 8/10.There are around 30 courses, half of them tweaked versions of classics, half newcomers. I love the picturesque Shy Guy Falls, which sounds more like a late-90s emo band than a racing circuit, but it looks beautiful. There are also 30 characters, each with their own abilities: mix in with the customisable elements of each kart and you get a wealth of speed, acceleration and strength combinations.Key amongst the game&apos;s qualities are its handling and, especially, its drifting systems. &quot;While the intricacies of drifting and boosting are rote by this point for long-time Kart players,Mario Kart 8drives home the brilliance of this system,&quot;writes Polygon&apos;s Philip Kollar. &quot;It&apos;s simple – you&apos;re just pressing one button and adjusting your angle to make sure you don&apos;t run off the track – but it looks cool and made me feel skillful when I pulled it off. It also forced me to constantly be engaged with a track. I couldn&apos;t just memorise a layout and be safe; I was constantly tweaking and improving my approach to each lap.&quot;Nintendo has also added to the list of power-ups, used to attack nearby competitors, either in front or behind, or elude their offensive moves against you. &quot;In addition to the Lucky 8, a rare gift that offers you eight items all at once, there are three new items,&quot;writes Simon Parkin at Eurogamer. &quot;The Super Horn, which emits a defensive shock wave and can be used to fend off even a blue shell; the Piranha Plant, which is held in the character&apos;s hand and bites down nearby rivals and items; and the Boomerang, which can be hurled three times to send a rival into a spin.&quot;The Super Horn may well prove the key addition, a defensive smart bomb that will counter the critics of the unstoppable blue shell, designed specifically to knock out the lead racer. &quot;Once you leave your competitors in the dust, you can stay in first place,&quot;writes Tom McShea for GameSpot. &quot;It&apos;s a strange feeling driving all alone, without anyone else nearby. In most other Mario Kart games, staying in front of the pack would have been impossible. The computer was never far behind, often passing you even when you were performing flawlessly. Or else you would be pelted by so many items that you wouldn&apos;t even know in which direction you were supposed to travel. That constant fight was maddening for me, so I welcome the loneliness of Mario Kart 8.&quot;There is four-player local racing, which halves the framerate to 30fps, but is as fun as ever. There is 12-player online racing, which is smooth and accessible but, according to GameSpot, may lack depth in the long run.But surprigingly perhaps – at least to those who ascribe aesthetic quality merely to processing power and texture resolution – Mario Kart 8 is praised for its beauty.&quot;The game&apos;s visual glory resides in its sense of scale, naturally: vast stadiums, giant seaside cities, titanic ruins,&quot; writes Parkin. &quot;Toad Harbour is San Francisco by way of the Mushroom Kingdom, complete with trundling trams and nosebleed descents. Shy Guy Falls sees you drive up two enormous waterfalls. Cloudtop Cruise is a spectacular tour through the heavens, accompanied by a joyful burst of Super Mario Galaxy&apos;s Gusty Garden theme. Sunshine Airport, set on Super Mario Sunshine&apos;s Delfino island (where you&apos;re waved on by tilting Piantas), has you glide towards jumbo jets on take-off, while Dolphin Shoals challenges you to drive along the back of a giant conger eel.&quot;Perhaps the most memorable track of the new set, Mount Wario, is a winding point-to-point race which begins when the karts drop from the cargo hold of a plane and ends, minutes later, at the bottom of a slalom-crossed mountain.&quot;Nintendo is a good teacher, and one of its most consistent lessons is that beauty and wonder have little to do with technology and so much to do with imagination. This old company has traded on its key brands for so long, resolutely, definiantly, perhaps almost destructively at times, but within the substance of them it finds ways to school other designers and studios. Mario Kart 8, it seems, isn&apos;t perfect; it still exhibits Nintendo&apos;s uncertainty about online social competition; it will still frustrate purists.But it is Mario Kart, and bundled with the Wii U, with the right sort of marketing, and with the luscious Super Mario 3D world hanging about in the background, it could provide that boost for Nintendo&apos;s troubled console. Games are about balance, and so is success. Mario Kart 8 may just drift delicately toward the tipping point of mainstream interest, and put its weight on the right side.• Our review of Mario Kart 8 will be posted later.• Nintendo&apos;s five ideas to save its future• Nintendo reports annual loss as Wii U stalls• Nintendo&apos;s rejection of gay characters gives fans a lot to be angry about
Just before its annual fanfest, the Icelandic game developer CCP made history. It wasn’t an earth-shattering event. It didn’t realign the cosmos or call off Vladimir Putin’s push towards the Ukraine, but it was significant nonetheless. It was a first of its kind.In front of an audience of players and developers in the wind-swept streets of Reykjavik, CCP and the city’s mayor, Jon Gnarr, unveiled Worlds Within a World. It’s a monument to celebrate the Icelandic developer’s game,EVE: Online, which, for the uninitiated is a game in which thousands of players navigate a galaxy in starships, forming alliances and fighting battles.The unveiling of the EVE Online monument.The occasion marked the first time a city-ratified statue to celebrate a video game had ever been unveiled – and quite a sight it is too. Struck in stainless steel, Worlds Within a World consists of three pillars standing each at over five meters tall on a platform of concrete, upon which is etched the thousands of names of every active player in the game.By the end of the weekend, it had been vandalised. Twice.First a sticker of a cigar-chomping cartoon bee in a helmet – the calling card for one of the game’s more powerful and anarchic factions, Goonswarm Federation – was stuck on it. Four days later a player’s name was scratched from the statue’s base by a member of a rival faction. CCP has since issued a statement condemning the actions and also permanently banned the players responsible for defacing the statue, but after attending Fanfest – the annual convention and booze-fueled knees-up for CCP and the EVE: Online community – I have to admit that the reports of vandalism didn’t surprise me in the slightest.This is not to cast aspersions on the game’s players. They’re a friendly bunch for the most part. Fanfest is an annual convention built to attract those who absolutely love EVE and CCP the most; and several thousand attend every year. There’s merchandise to buy, there’s a face-painting stall, there are panels, keynotes detailing in-game pro tips and tricks – and a makeshift tattoo parlour where you can have EVE art permanently etched on your flesh. There’s even a cage match where ten of CCP’s developers set about trying – and failing – to beat an undefeated MMA fighter.A mothership from one of the EVE Online expansion packsBut EVE: Online is less a video game than it is a highly competitive social experiment, in which backstabbing, scheming and double-dealing are the fundamentals of galactic society. In EVE: Online only those with a talent for realpolitik realities and a merciless streak a light year wide rise to the top. Rivalries bloom. Wars rage. Players hate each other in-game with a passion that borders on the murderous.It’s an extreme environment that CCP’s chief executive Hilmar Veigar Petursson and EVE: Online’s designer is all too aware of.“Players are brutal to each other,” he says. “But they’re also amazingly kind to one another too, because to win at EVE, you need trust. We’ve seen amazing feats of trust between players. The stakes are so high given the fact that you can put hours and years of time and monetary investment at risk, people can push the boundaries quite far.”“We’ve had complaints of people meta-gaming in reality to quite a large degree,” he adds. “People have posted satellite pictures of their rival’s real-world houses online. We’ve also heard rumours of people cutting the power to a rival’s house or knocking down their internet access.”“Of course, we have boundaries in place in the game, and we work with the Council of Stellar Management, which is a democratically elected body from the player base that helps us define the game’s rules. Our job is to enforce those rules, but we can’t really enforce law out there in society,” he laughs. “We’re not the cops.”Sectioning spaceSo why does an MMO involving starships inspire such destructive rivalries? Well, it might have something to do with the fact that, at its core, EVE: Online can be positively Darwinian. The game is divided into three main player areas. The first, High Sec (High Security) is patrolled by the AI-controlled security craft. It’s relatively safe and most players build up their resources and assets here with little friction. Then, there’s Low Sec. Here, the AI is less of a dominating force and players are able to get away with a little more. Finally, there’s Null Sec. This is bandit country and it’s completely player controlled.In Null Sec, players split into factions and corporations and alliances doing battle with one another for control of the sector. The tools combatants employ range from espionage (secreting agents within rivals factions for years at a time), to simple convoy attacks, to huge starship battles involving thousands of players.The most recent large-scale battle was the Bloodbath of B-R5RB, which raged for two days and saw over 7,500 participants hammer the hell out of each other. When the moon dust settled, players had racked up trillions of ISK (in-game currency) in damages, which equated to around $300,000. As with all of EVE: Online’s greatest and most memorable events, this was completely player-driven.Player agency drives everything in EVE: Online. The way Petursson tells it, the players aren’t just responsible for the game’s best storylines, they’re responsible for the different tweaks, tucks and improvements CCP makes to the game. The feedback they give is invaluable, he says, as well as humbling.“People ask me what it’s like to be the god of the universe of EVE,” he says, “and I have to tell them I don’t know. I’m not the god of anything in EVE. I’m more like the janitor.”The workings of the universeStripped to its core, EVE: Online operates more like a tabletop RPG, where players are handed some rules, some assets and a universe ripe with potential for storytelling, and then just allowed to get on with creating their own narratives. A lot of games developers add new villains, new monsters, new areas, new raids and new plots to their games. CCP add new toys – such as a mining ship with the ability to cloak – or the promise of everything in the game being destructible, which, when announced at the fanfest keynote, prompted roars of approval from the thousands of attendees.This is less rigid than most games development. In fact, it’s more akin to a child taking two insects, sticking them in a jar and then shaking the jar to see if they fight. EVE: Online’s senior producer Andie Nordgren says CCP’s job is simply setting up a rich framework for players to cut loose in.“Think of EVE as a big board game, like Settlers Of Catan with more moving parts and complexity,” she says. “A board game is something you have to play with other people. You can’t poke at a board game itself; it’s something you use to interact with others. You then build your own little stories in the world the game presents.”People powerThe player-driven stories in question represent EVE’s biggest drawcard. In a game where accumulation of wealth and power through a combination of diplomacy, espionage and brute force, inhabitants are able to play major roles in the unfurling lore of the game – and some even establish themselves as celebrities within its community.One example is Alex Gianturco, AKA The Mittani, the head of Goonswarm Federation and the coalition it’s tied to, CFC. His in-game alliance controls roughly half of Null Sec and he presides over around 40,000 other players.His past antics – such as the demolition of one of the game’s earliest elite factions, The Band of Brothers – have earned him and Goonswarm notoriety in EVE. They’ve also landed him on the pages of a comic book released by Dark Horse, detailing how he took out his opponents, which is something he’s found somewhat weird.“It’s sort of an alienating experience,” says Gianturco. “I mean, it’s wonderful – as a lifelong geek, to be written up in a comic book is really exciting. But having a comic to sign at Fanfest is kind of weird. You’re being told you’re a celebrity, but I’m still just Alex who happens to be this huge geek who plays computer games.”Players gather together into vast convoys of starships and epic space battles are commonGianturco rose to prominence through running an espionage network, but one of the most appealing aspects of EVE: Online is that the path to power isn’t the only endgame in it. During the Fanfest pub crawl I run into a member of a faction called the Disavowed. In the game, they’re a group of contract killers who base themselves in a wormhole, hiring themselves out to the highest bidder.Goonswarm may be in it for the Machiavellian intrigue, but the Disavowed just like blowing things up. Visit their website and all you’ll find is a forum and a list of the ships they’ve destroyed.Given the competitiveness of EVE players, I ask Gianturco whether or not he’s worried that he’ll return home after Fanfest to find his virtual empire in ruins. Alex doesn’t bat an eyelid.“No.”Why not?“In a word, ‘fear’,” he says. “We have team structures in place to make sure that there are no single-person dependencies. The trains still run on time, even when we’re here.”The Mittani then relaxes his guard and tosses out perhaps the single best reason that the EVE community descend on Reykjavik every single year.“The funny thing about Fanfest is that, generally, you can sit down and have a beer with your [in game] enemies,” he says. “If I was in a war with someone, we have a shared experience of those fights, those battles and those campaigns. That’s what generally makes for a good drinking buddy.”“Fanfest is kind of like holy ground in Highlander,” he says. “It’s where most of us put our swords down.”The Mittani’s top tips for Galactic Dominance.Ever wanted to take over the universe? The Mittani and Goonswarm managed it. Here the self styled King of Space reveals how best to go about it.Have a strong identity and cultureYou need to have a culture where people identify with their alliance – not with themselves or their corporation. Having a strong culture means that everything’s great when things are easy, but when everything’s tough, that tribal mentality is what holds everyone together. You need a banner to rally to.Know your historyMany of the issues in leadership, in management, in situations that crop up in campaigns, have historical allegories. If you know your history, you’ll have an advantage over those who don’t. Many of the mistakes people make are the same mistakes people have been making for thousands of years. Study military tactics and learn from the victors.When in doubt, do nothingA lot of the time people think they need to be seen to be doing something – and as a result, they often take steps that are unnecessary. If you’re in a card game, you want to be the last person laying down what you’ve got in your hand. So if you’re unsure of what to do, wait until the situation becomes clear. There will be a moment when you’ll have to act, but it will be obvious when that is.Diplomacy is everythingGenerating soft power, using influence and maintaining good relations, is everything. A lot of the time, you can win a conflict before you even fire a shot, simply by dividing enemies amongst themselves or befriending those who they’ve wronged in the past.
Let&apos;s get one thing clear from the start: I&apos;m not a hater of free-to-play mobile games. Yes, there are some bad examples: over-aggressive under-crafted monetisation systems that pull every psychological lever they can to make you buy virtual items.There are also lots of good ones, which are being played and enjoyed by a huge number of gamers of all stripes. Blame the bad game, not the financial model that it chooses to use.What I do worry about, though, is the pressure that many developers feel to adopt the free-to-play model: the concern that if they don&apos;t ditch the idea of charging up front, their games will sink like stones on the app stores, and they&apos;ll go out of business.Actually, paid games can make money still, even if – Minecraft aside – you usually won&apos;t find them in the upper reaches of the app store Top Grossing charts. They need support though: reviews and personal recommendations to help people get over that hump of having to pay before you play.With that in mind, then... Here are 20 of the best paid mobile games in recent times: the kind I bang on about to friends who are reluctant to pay up front to play on their smartphones and/or tablets.There are a couple of self-imposed restrictions. First, all these games are available for both iOS and Android, which leaves out some excellent iOS-only titles – recent stars like Kiwanuka, FTL: Faster Than Light and Leo&apos;s Fortune, for example, as well as the bewitching Year Walk and Device 6.Second, no in-app purchases allowed, which chucks out some &quot;paymium&quot; (yes, ugh at that word!) games like Baldur&apos;s Gate Enhanced Edition, Football Manager Handheld 2014 and many more. Oh, and everything&apos;s recent, which is why there&apos;s no space for Minecraft: Pocket Edition.The descriptions are adapted from my weekly best-new-apps columnsfor iOSandfor Android, where paid, freemium and paymium games are all given a fair shout.Read on, and please do make your own recommendations in the comments section. And one last reminder: NOT a free-to-play hater! I could (and likely will) happily compile a list of 20 freemium favourites that won&apos;t leave you feeling cheated.Monument ValleyThe word “beautiful” is hugely overused in connection with apps: usually it means “has nice menus”. Monument Valley really is beautiful though, almost as much an artwork as it is a game. It’s a really good game, mind: inspired by the art of M.C. Escher, it’s a collection of impossible-architecture puzzles, which you twist to explore.Android: £2.49/iOS: £2.49Threes!Threes! is another mobile game guaranteed to make you go deep down the rabbit-hole of just-one-more-go addiction. It involves swiping number tiles to make matches: adding 1s and 2s together, then 3s and upwards. It’s brutally simple, yet once you’re in, you’ll find it hard to put your phone down.Android: £1.20/iOS: £1.49The Room Two.The Room TwoThe original The Room was one of the best puzzlers on mobile devices, and its sequel continues the quality. “A physical puzzler, wrapped in a mystery game, inside a beautifully tactile 3D world,” as its developer puts it, this is carefully-crafted 3D puzzling posing a considerable challenge to your logic skills.Android: £1.99/iOS: £1.99XCOM: Enemy UnknownOne of the bargains on the app stores in terms of entertainment-per-quid, as this classic sci-fi strategy game makes its way to mobile. Your job is to fend off an alien invasion with a squad of tooled-up soldiers, with an emphasis on tension and careful tactics rather than simply blundering around shooting anything that moves.Android: £7.14/iOS: £6.99Broken Sword 5: The Serpent&apos;s CurseThe Broken Sword games are marvellous: engrossing adventures that have navigated the path from PC to mobile with aplomb. This latest game continues developer Revolution Software’s run, sending you on the hunt for a stolen painting with puzzles and a well-worked storyline to hold your attention.Android: £4.99/iOS: £4.99Super HexagonSuper Hexagon may just be one of the most hardcore mobile games ever: a &quot;minimal action&quot; arcade game with a punishing difficulty level – yet intensely rewarding once you got to grips with it. Its pulsating chiptune music is also a standout mobile-game soundtrack.Android: £1.99/iOS: £1.99Ridiculous FishingRidiculous Fishing is, yes, ridiculous: you lower your bait down as far as possible while avoiding a variety of creatures, then haul it back up again catching as many as possible along the way, hurl them into the air, and blast them to bits with a shotgun. Bad in real life, but fun virtually.Android: £1.99/iOS: £1.99HundredsCircular puzzle game Hundreds sees you tapping on circles in each level to make them (and the numbers inside them) bigger – adding at least 100 points overall without them touching. Which sounds slightly tortuous written down, but the game&apos;s genius is its stripped-down simplicity.Android: £3.25/iOS: £2.99Frozen Synapse.Frozen SynapseIf you like a real challenge with your mobile games, then Frozen Synapse is an essential purchase. It&apos;s a turn-based strategy game originally released for computers, as you guide your squad through a succession of levels. 55 missions to play by yourself plus five multiplayer modes. That Android price may be a short-term promotion, by the way: it&apos;s excellent value for under a couple of quid.Android: £1.80/iOS: £6.99BravelandBraveland is great fun: a turn-based strategy game in a fantasy setting, as you work your way up from &quot;humble warrior&apos;s son&quot; to an army chief. The gameplay includes building your force and developing your character, with neat graphics and simple controls adding to the appeal.Android: £1.49/iOS: £1.99Card City NightsThis is unusual: a game in a genre (card battling) that’s almost always freemium, but which uses no in-app purchases at all. More importantly, it’s really good: a mix of adventure-style storytelling and card battles, with 180 cards to collect as you play. The combo system, where you connect cards up, is a nice twist on similar games too.Android: £1.49/iOS: £1.49rymdkapselAn addictive, accessible game that offers a sci-fi twist on the real-time strategy genre. The emphasis is on building a space-base through Tetris-like block-placement, while fending off waves of enemies. It&apos;s simple in all the best ways, yet soon gets incredibly challenging: but not to the point of frustration.Android: £3.29/iOS: £2.49Bad HotelDeveloper Lucky Frame has been bagging awards and critical acclaim all over the world for this game, and justifiably so. It sees you running your own hotel, defending it from rats, yetis and other invading critters in a tower defence style, but with the music (brilliantly) synchronising with your actions. An indie classic.Android: £1.49/iOS: £1.49Mines of Mars“Procedural atmospheric mining” is a new genre to me, but Mines of Mars makes it very appealing. Claiming inspiration from Metroid and Motherload, it sees you exploring an underground world (well, planet: Mars) picking up weapons and items as you go. It’s got lots of depth (sorry).Android: £2.98/iOS: £2.99Impossible Road.Impossible RoadMinimalist racing game Impossible Road sees you zooming down an undulating track, with a pitch-perfect control system giving you plenty of latitude to find the best path (or, more likely, to mess up and crash embarrassingly). It&apos;s hypnotic, and challenging in the best possible ways.Android: £1.49/iOS: £1.49HazuminoHazumino is a great idea: part endless-runner game and part Tetris-style block puzzler, where you have to run, jump AND build. Cutesy graphics and a nagging chiptune soundtrack make it memorable, with simple gameplay but a big just-one-more-go factor to keep you playing.Android: £0.55/iOS: £0.69Ninja VillageJapanese developer Kairosoft’s Ninja Village sees you building a ninja clan and sending them into battle, while also building their village into a prosperous settlement. If you’ve loved other Kairosoft games, you’ll love this. If not, it may make the perfect introduction to their charms.Android: £2.99/iOS: £2.99Transport TycoonI was the world&apos;s worst transport mogul in the original Transport Tycoon game on PC, with a prodigious talent for messing up buses, trains and ships alike. I&apos;m just as bad on mobile, but there&apos;s no doubt that Transport Tycoon is impressively faithful to the original game, as you build routes, buy vehicles and stations, and try to master 49 scenarios.Android: £4.99/iOS: £4.99Tipping PointThe trivia genre is another area where in-app purchases are common, but ITV&apos;s Tipping Point is a paid app. Up to four people can play on a single device. It includes rounds like On The Buzzer, Against The Clock, Head To Head and Jackpot Push from the show, with more than 1,000 trivia questions to answer. Fun for fans.Android: £1.49/iOS: £1.49Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasThe latest GTA game to be re-released for smartphones and tablets is San Andreas, which came out in 2013. Developer Rockstar promises 70 hours of gameplay – if my memory&apos;s correct from the original console version, that&apos;s about right – with the usual gangster high-jinks in store.Android: £4.99/iOS: £4.99
A European judgment concerning personal privacy and the right to be forgotten is flawed, according to Google’s Eric Schmidt.The executive chairman told investors at Google’s annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday that there were “many open questions” over theruling by European Court of Justice(ECJ) that there is a “right to be forgotten”, which has serious implications for Google as it is not a media company, and so is not protected under European data protection law,.“A simple way of understanding what happened here is that you have a collision between a right to be forgotten and a right to know. From Google’s perspective that’s a balance,” said Schmidt. “Google believes, having looked at the decision which is binding, that the balance that was struck was wrong.”&apos;Disappointing&apos;Google’s chief legal officer, David Drummond, told investors that Google was still analysing the decision and the implications for the search engine, but described it as “disappointing” and that it “went too far”.Google has a dominant search market share in Europe claiming 93% of search ahead of Microsoft’s Bing with 2.4% and Yahoo with 1.7%, according to data from StatCounter.The ECJ ruling will force Google to remove links to content about individuals if it receives an application from said individuals to have information about them erased from Google’s index. Google will then have to weigh up whether that information is in the public interest and whether it should remain, likely placing a significant staffing burden on the company.The ruling has been called a “blow against free speech” in the US, but opinions in Europe are more balanced.• Explaining the ‘right to be forgotten’ –what does it actually mean and can anyone remove their data from the internet?
Researchers havedetailed the operationsof a group believed to be selling highly valuable attack code to prolific cyber espionage hackers, including the team that was linked to a2009 attack on Google.Whilst Symantec researchers admitted they could not be certain a computer exploit owned by the digital arms dealer, known as Elderwood, was used against Google, it has been operating since at least 2009, when the tech titan was hit.The Elderwood supplier has frequently been linked to the 2009 attacks, which Google blamed on China.One customer, known as Hidden Lynx, was also associated with the campaign against Google, which targeted a range of US organisations. Hidden Lynx was identified as the group that breached security company Bit9 in 2012 too.Elderwood exploits have been used against a large number of industries, including defence, technology and human rights organisations, throughout 2014 and before.It was previously believed only one hacker group used the attack code, known as &quot;zero-day&quot; exploits because they use unpatched vulnerabilities in computer software. But it has become apparent more than one threat actor is involved, pointing to Elderwood as a zero-day supplier, possibly a professional outfit selling to government entities.The dealer has been linked with various zero-day vulnerabilities this year, including ones found in Internet Explorer and Adobe software.Various links between the different teams and the Elderwood supplier have been uncovered. They include code being hosted on the same web server and common hacking tools across groups.Symantec's diagram showing the structure of a zero-day exploit.This has led Symantec to two likely scenarios. Either Elderwood is a parent organisation for many different but linked groups who are being handed the attack tools directly, or it is single arms dealer supplying any buyers who have their own separate agendas.There have been no signs of any technical links between Elderwood customers, such as shared command and control tools for their maware, said Gavin O&apos;Gorman, senior security response analyst at Symantec.That there is one central supplier providing such attack code is rare to see, O’Gorman added. “We haven&apos;t seen that kind of common exploit development before,” he said, comparing Elderwood to a professional software company.Despite leaving its footprint on the internet, O’Gorman is doubtful the Elderwood group will ever be stopped. “It&apos;s not one central thing you can shut down. Although there are kind of little bits and pieces [that we can tie together], they change things up enough so that it makes it difficult for us to detect them.“For these kinds of attacks, I&apos;d be surprised if you could arrest them... they&apos;ve been around since at least 2009 and they haven&apos;t slipped up and revealed identities. There&apos;s not a lot you can do.”
The creator of Wallace and Gromit and Shaun the Sheep is encouraging British children to learn to code, with a game-making contest backed by Nominet Trust.Shaun&apos;s Game Academy, which launched this morning, gets children to make games based on Shaun the Sheep using programming platformScratch.Aardman has developed five educational modules teaching children how to use Scratch, and is offering prizes for the best games created in two categories: children aged 12 and under, and aged 13 and over.The competition runs until September, when basic programming will become part of the UK&apos;s information and communications technology (ICT) curriculum. Aardman will provide resources for parents and teachers as part of its contest, while parenting website Mumsnet is also on board as a partner.&quot;Children are eager to make their own projects online, but many don’t have the opportunity to do so,&quot; said Nominet Trust chief executive Annika Small. &quot; Combining digital making with young people’s everyday interests is a great way to create digital activities that are relevant and fun.&quot;Speaking to The Guardian, Aardman&apos;s creative director for the project, Ricky Martin, said that Shaun&apos;s Game Academy was inspired partly by the success of theTate Movie Project– a collaborative movie-making project for 5-13 year-olds run by Tate and Aardman in 2010-11.&quot;Whenever we make a game for children, we do a lot of user testing with kids giving us feedback, and their ideas are always completely crazy, so we&apos;ve often thought about putting them all into one game made by kids,&quot; said Martin.&quot;We were so impressed by the response to the Tate Movie Project, we thought that if we actually put video game creation into the hands of kids, it would be amazing.&quot;A screenshot from Shaun's Game Academy's training modules.Martin said that Scratch was the logical platform to use for the competition. Developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Media Lab, it has become one of the most popular online resources for children learning to code, whether at home or at school.&quot;The great thing about Scratch is that there&apos;s a really big community behind them now, and every project is remixable: once a child has put a game out, other kids can look under the bonnet and see how it works,&quot; said Martin.&quot;We&apos;ve tailored the training modules to making platform games, but for the contest children can make anything they want: they can remix our games, make their own ideas and even put their own characters in.&quot;Martin added that if the contest goes well, it could be the spur for more ambitious projects from Aardman based on children and coding in the future.&quot;There is a glimmer here at Aardman that one day we could like to do a game where the actual story is created by kids, the characters are created by kids, and the coding is done by kids,&quot; he said. &quot;How Shaun&apos;s Game Academy pans out will influence whether that would be viable.&quot;•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps
HTC’s latest smartphone is not exactly “mini”, but condenses the best bits of the flagship One M8 into a smaller, more manageable package.The HTC One mini 2, despite an awful name, continues the Taiwanese company’s focus on premium materials and solid build quality that won it a GSMA Global Mobile award for best smartphone in 2013, and critical acclaim for thelarger HTC One M8.“We believe that one size doesn’t fit all,” Graham Wheeler, HTC&apos;s head of product told the Guardian. “We’ve seen people wanting a smaller, cheaper phone than the One M8, but when you go down a price point you shouldn’t get a product that hasn’t had as much time and detail put into it as the flagship.”Curved metalThe HTC One mini 2's curved metal back. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One mini 2 has the same solid curved metal back as its bigger brother, which felt great in my hand – more so than the One M8, because it is smaller and fits better in the palm.“One of the criticisms of last year’s One mini was that the touch points were plastic, despite being a unibody metal design underneath,” explained Wheeler. “We took that on board and managed to wrap the metal up round the sides as with the One M8, reducing the plastic frame as much as possible while still hitting a lower cost.”The One mini 2 replaces the original One mini, which itself was a smaller, cut-down version of the HTC One M7 from 2013. The new “mini” smartphone has a 4.5in high-definition screen, which makes it larger than an iPhone 5S and bigger than most other smaller phones.BoomSound speakers bracket the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt also has HTC’s BoomSound speakers, which are impressively loud and clear compared to most other smartphones, and are mounted above and below the screen for a stereo sound when held in landscape.&apos;We could have saved her $15,000 in plastic surgery&apos;A traditional 13-megapixel camera replaces that of the 4 Ultrapixel Duo Camera of the One M8, and should produce sharper pictures. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One mini 2 has a traditional 13-megapixel camera on the back, instead of the HTC One M8’s 4 Ultrapixel DuoCamera. That makes it capable of producing crisper, higher-resolution photos, though lacking the depth sensor that enabled refocus effects after taking the photo.A 5-megapixel “selfie” camera on the front captures better photos than some phones’ main cameras, and a suite of touch-up tools allow users to turn mundane photos into alien-looking images, or simply remove red eye and smooth out skin.A 5-megapixel 'selfie' camera is mounted above the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian“From our research we’ve found that these are the things that people want to change, to make themselves look better. Like that lady who spent $15,000 on plastic surgery to take a better selfie – we could have saved her a little bit of cash there,” Wheeler quips.Useful additionsThe One mini 2 has a smaller battery and uses Qualcomm’s less powerful Snapdragon 400 quad-core processor, but Wheeler says it offers about the same battery life as the One M8 (which lasted a good day of heavy use in our testing).HTC has customised Android with the same “Sense 6” version of Android 4.2.2 KitKat that the One M8 used, which looks and behaves exactly the same on the One mini 2 in my testing, with useful additions like extensive quick settings and HTC’s BlinkFeed social news aggregator apps.The One mini 2 has a plastic top and bottom, while the sides are metal. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC is hoping that the two premium smartphone offerings of the One M8 and One mini 2, combined with a suite of mid-tier and low-end handsets, will be enough to hold off falling sales as it struggles to recover from a lossmaking year in 2013 as its Android smartphone business dwindled in the face of aggressive pricing and promotion by Korean rivals Samsung and LG and Japan&apos;s Sony.The company has forecast a loss this quarter, on revenues that it said would be smaller for the period than at any time since it switched from manufacturing devices for others in 2009 to manufacturing smartphones under the HTC brand.Three colours will be available, gunmetal grey, glacial silver and rose gold, which will be exclusive to EE. Photograph: HTCThe HTC One mini 2 will be available in three colours from the end of May in the UK. Pricing was not released, but the smartphone is expected to cost around £250-300.•HTC One M8 - a five-star smartphone experience encased in metal
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamReconciling Mozilla's Mission and W3C EME &gt;&gt; Mozilla Hacks blogAndreas Gal:Instead of DRM schemes that limit how users can access content they purchased across devices we have long advocated for more modern approaches to managing content distribution such as watermarking. Watermarking works by tagging the media stream with the user's identity. This discourages copyright infringement without interfering with lawful sharing of content, for example between different devices of the same user.Mozilla would have preferred to see the content industry move away from locking content to a specific device (so called node-locking), and worked to provide alternatives.Instead, this approach has now been enshrined in the W3C EME specification.See alsoCory Doctorow's piece on this.At BlackBerry, a battle between device sales and enterprise services &gt;&gt; CITEworldRyan Faas:So now BlackBerry seems to be betting that it can sell more BlackBerry 10 handsets to enterprises if it doesn't require companies to use BES 10, the EMM solution for BlackBerry 10 and classic BlackBerry devices that also supports some iOS and Android management capabilities.Certainly, this will lower the cost of adopting BlackBerry devices. The cost of BES 10 not only includes the cost of the server hardware, but also the time and manpower to set up and manage the servers. If customers are already using an EMM solution from BlackBerry's partners to manage other devices, rolling out BES 10 just to manage BlackBerry devices is a hard sell.But this is still a risky proposition. BlackBerry 10 devices aren't selling well in the consumer market, and that market is largely dictating what devices are brought into the workplace, regardless of the management or ownership model.So BlackBerry's move could easily backfire: Removing this restriction may not do much to revive device sales, while also giving organizations one less reason to investigate BES 10 and its expected successor, BES 12.Transport regulation: if this were finance, Uber would be behind bars &gt;&gt; Nemo's BlogThere are other services out there that provide smartphone bookings to Taxis and do not flount the law: Ingogo, Gocatch, Hailo and others. The problem is that at this point in time not breaking the law is a major competitive disadvantage due to the numbers above and regulators seem to be in Uber's sweet spot of being too gutless or incompetent to regulate similar businesses in a similar way by getting rid of exorbitant rents, ensuring whatever safety / quality of concerns they have are addressed and then letting the market sort itself out. The confused response of the [New South Wales, Australia] state government to Uber adopting a Lyft like model is case in point.It will be very sad if regulators cannot see the forest for the trees here and do the right thing – it will set a precedent of telling regulators to get stuffed, getting away with it and being handsomely remunerated. I run an asset management business: I am guessing that if I decided I didn't want to file reports because I thought the filings were poorly formatted, arbitrary and of marginal value to regulators (they often are) then that would not go down too well even if I was right and made sensible suggestions about how "this would all be way better with my new API". Why is the regulation of finance so deadly serious and transport such a joke? To that end Transport regulators need to answer a few questions.Al-Qaeda's new homebrew crypto apps may make US intel-gathering easier &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAt least, that's the expectation - because they're abandoning the US-developer crypto for their own, and crypto software is notoriously hard to do well.Before Spotify bought The Echo Nest, it could have snapped up Last.fm &gt;&gt; MusicAllySpotify acquired music data firm The Echo Nest in March in a deal rumoured to be worth $100m. However, the streaming music service had also considered buying another prominent company in that space: Last.fm.Multiple sources have confirmed to Music Ally that Spotify talked to Last.fm's parent company CBS about buying the service in the past year or so – although opinions vary on who made the initial approach, and how much interest there really was from the streaming music service."Spotify did make an offer at some point for Last.fm," said one source. "There was an acquisition offer. It was certainly put on the block and I don't think Spotify came up with enough money. It was a low-ball offer."Or possibly that CBS (owner of Last.fm) pushed it forward but Spotify didn't want it. Hard to see any future for Last.fm now - it hasn't got a USP with any real value to the average listener.Motorola exec: all current smartwatches are 'crappy' &gt;&gt; Trusted ReviewsSpeaking exclusively with TrustedReviews, Mark Randall, Motorola's Senior Vice President of Supply Chain and Operations stated: "Moto 360 is a really cool device that we think solves a lot of problems that no one else has solved in the wearables space."He added: "We look at the 360 and we look at what everyone has done in that space. To be honest we think they are all pretty crappy."Detailing the 'crappy' nature of a device bracket which includes products such as the Samsung Gear 2 and Sony SmartWatch 2, Randall added: "We think the IDs aren't very sexy. We think people just don't want to wear a lot of the devices that are out there today."He also suggests the Moto 360 will also come in at a premium price.iPhone 6 with larger, sharper 1704 x 960 resolution screen in testing &gt;&gt; 9to5MacMark Gurman:Apple is preparing to make another significant screen adjustment to the iPhone. Instead of retaining the current resolution, sources familiar with the testing of at least one next-generation iPhone model say that Apple plans to scale the next iPhone display with a pixel-tripling (3X) mode.This means that Apple will likely be tripling the aforementioned "base resolution" (568 x 320) of the iPhone screen in both directions, and that the iPhone screen resolution will be scaled with an increase of 150% from the current 2X resolution of 1136 x 640. Of course,Apple tests several different iPhones and display technologies, so it is possible that Apple chooses to take another route for display specifications for the 2014 iPhone upgrade.A 4.7in phone with that resolution would be 416ppi; a 5.5in phone would be 356ppi. Bet Apple would rather sell a ton of 5.5in iPhones than 7in iPad minis.Nokia is loading Android apps into its store without developer approval &gt;&gt; Geek.comUpdate:thedeveloper in question was mistaken- he had given permission to a company called Handster to offer the app; Handster was acquired by Opera; Opera decided to publish the app (ADW.Launcher) in the Nokia Store, which it operates. (This will apply to other developers too. It pays to read your email.)(Thanks to @randomfellow on Twitter for the correction.)On the one hand, this could be seen as highly flattering. Nokia has decided that your app is so good that it has removed as many barriers to entry as physically possible in order for you to enjoy a new batch of customers. On the other hand, this is a scorched earth kind of tactic that could leave more than a couple of developers deciding to never do business with Nokia again. Nokia could have easily taken the Google route here and sent out Nokia X units for these developers to use and appreciate, but instead it created accounts in their name and uploaded their property without permission.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Amazon pays £4.2m tax on sales worth £4.3bn (Amazon boycott urged, 10 May). "An outrage," says Margaret Hodge, "we should shop elsewhere." Of course it is outrageous. Equally outrageous is the government's failure to legislate to ensure Amazon and its like pay their fair share of UK taxes. Calling for a shoppers' boycott is trite and ineffective. Consumers will buy where they find best value. Ms Hodge should call for the chancellor to end this form of tax avoidance. Amazon's subsequent tax contributions should then be truly amazonian. Shoppers simply shop. Parliament legislates. The public accounts committee monitors and advises parliament, not consumers. Ms Hodge should demand that legislation.Jeff HannaLondon• Margaret Hodge urges consumers to boycott Amazon. While Tory MP Charlie Elphicke calls its tax accounting "unfair". Of course, they can't be seen to be doing anything about it – that would be "anti-business". Better to get the consumer to do their dirty work for them.Neil DaviesWarninglid, West Sussex• Rather than a boycott, shouldn't UK business take a leaf out of the Amazon book? John Lewis, Tesco, PC World and all other big retailers should join Amazon by forming companies in Luxembourg that then own all of their stock and trademarks. After this, their UK store staff and warehouses merely provide sales and delivery services in the UK and get the same tax breaks as Amazon. Through the offshoring of soaring profits even bigger monopolies can be created, such as that developed by Pfizer. The problem of a much-impoverished UK Treasury may damage the brave new business model, with disintegrated roads inhibiting deliveries to increasingly sick customers failed by a cash-poor NHS. But surely Downing Street can come up with an answer?Martin GoldmanCambridge• Like many other authors, especially those who attempt to self-publish, I wholeheartedly agree with Margaret Hodge's comments on Amazon's tax avoidance. However, it is not only its tax avoidance which is abhorrent. Many&nbsp;Amazon customers don't realise the enormous profit margin it works on. Over the last two months my book, which I have self-published, has been purchased by Amazon at its usual 60% discount. This meant that for my book, which cost £7 a book to produce and market (not write!), I received, after the&nbsp;publishers took their 15% for storage&nbsp;and administration, the immense sum of £2.50.This hefty discount only works well for print runs of hundreds of thousands when the production costs per book are much less. The profit that Amazon makes from their non-productive work as an online retailer is not only greedy, but probably unique. It's not only time for customers to boycott the company, but also&nbsp;publishers as well. When a company, which doesn't produce anything, makes such an enormous profit and then avoids paying tax on that&nbsp;profit, it is doubly immoral.Anne McGarryManchester• Recommend boycott of Amazon and useWordery.cominstead.Brian RobinsonBrentwood, Essex
What happens when an irresistible force meets an immovable object? It&apos;s the classic conundrum of philosophy classes, but on Tuesday the European court of justice (ECJ) ruled on its equivalent form for the internet age: what happens when the right to privacy collides with the right to freedom of expression?In the judges&apos; view, the answer is fairly clear: the right to privacy wins, with certain allowances.The decision handed down by the ECJ in a dispute between a Spanish man, who was suing a Spanish newspaper (to be precise, its website), and Google Spain has sent shockwaves through the internet industry. In effect, the judges have reiterated that in Europe there is a &quot;right to be forgotten&quot; - which applies specifically to search engines but not to news websites (or other journalistic endeavour) - and that people can therefore ask to be removed from search indexes (for some search engines, as we&apos;ll explain).If you think the judges have taken leave of their senses, or that this means Google is going to wipe its index, don&apos;t panic. Neither is the case. But there are ramifications for EU citizens and for search engines which do business in Europe. Here we set out the answers to questions you might have.Q: What are the facts of the case?A:A Spanish man, Mario Costeja González, complained about some pages originally published in January and March 1998 in a Spanish newspaper (and later republished on the internet) which announced a government-ordered real estate auction following attachment proceedings to recover social securty debts that he owed.He argued that the newspaper and Google should remove the information about the auction, which came up prominently in searches on his name, because they infringed his right to privacy - they weren&apos;t relevant to his situation today.The ECJ ruled that the paper can leave the information on its website, but that Google has to remove the links to those pages from its index.Q: Why is it Google is being hit by this and not the newspaper?A:Because the newspaper gets the protection of being &quot;media&quot; under European data protection law (which offers various protections and exemptions for journalistic work). Google has explicitly opted out of being described as a &quot;media&quot; company.But the judges decided that because Google collects lots of data and then processes it, and that that data includes information about people, it is a &quot;data controller&quot; under the meaning of the EU data protection directive. &quot;Data controllers&quot; have special obligations in the EU - including the responsibility to remove data that is &quot;inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant&quot;.Q: This means that Google&apos;s index is going to be emptied out of anything about people, doesn&apos;t it?A:No. The ruling is carefully phrased: someone who wants information about them taken out of the index will have to apply to Google, which will then have to weigh up whether it is in the public interest for that information to remain.Q: But this ruling goes completely against freedom of information - that anything that&apos;s public should be recorded and kept.A:That&apos;s certainly how lots of American commentators have seen it. There&apos;s a definite cultural split in peoples&apos; attitudes to this ruling. Journalism professor and commentator Jeff Jarvis (of City University, New York)called it&quot;a blow against free speech&quot; - but was thenchided by Gerd Leonhard, from Basel in Switzerland: &quot;&apos;Everything that happens must be known&apos; - is that what you are proposing? I think EU decision on Google is a suitable first step.&quot;@jeffjarvis&#39;everything that happens must be known&#39; - is that what you are proposing?  I think EU decision on Google is a suitable 1st step&mdash; Gerd Leonhard  (@gleonhard)May 14, 2014(Switzerland isn&apos;t part of the EU, but Leonhard&apos;s views were echoed by a number of EU citizens.)Europe has a different approach, which is embodied in its data protection directives and laws: that people have a right to privacy, and that that privacy extends to information about them. It&apos;s seen most clearly in France, where privacy law often interferes with news organisations&apos; ability to publish information about the dalliances of politicians.More generally, Europe&apos;s data protection laws are meant to protect the integrity of information about people. It means, for example, that if a credit-scoring agency has incorrect information about you, for example, then you can legally demand that it makes it right.In the case of &quot;outdated&quot; information, this isn&apos;t new. There&apos;s a longstanding principle in the UK (under theRehabilitation of Offenders Act) that after a given period of time, many criminal convictions are &quot;spent&quot; - that is, need not be referred to in seeking a job, getting insurance or in civil proceedings. For someone who has a &quot;spent&quot; conviction, the existence of search engines which reach far back into the past is obviously a problem; what if they apply for a job and the would-be employer looks them up, and finds a conviction in their past? Even if they know it&apos;s spent, there&apos;s potential for that to be prejudicial to someone&apos;s jobseeking. France has a similar right -le droit d&apos;oubli, the right of being forgotten - for similar scenarios.Similarly, court reports about minors don&apos;t include their names, because society accepts that what happens in childhood may not be relevant to what you do as an adult. (This principle is respected in the US as well as Europe.)But Europe has decided that with the expansion of data processing, and retention, that that idea needs to be expanded; that everyone should have adroit d&apos;oublifor incorrect information, or outdated information. In the US, by contrast, despite having been built out of a distrust of rulers, everything is held to be potentially publishable - as embodied in its First Amendment (&quot;Congress shall make no law… abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press…&quot;).It&apos;s that sort of collision of the right to privacy (of information about you) and freedom of information (for people to know about what you&apos;ve done) that came to the fore in this case. And it is American onlookers in particular who seem to have been most outraged by it.Q: No ordinary person can understand the legal decision, will they? It&apos;s all going to be lawyers&apos; gobbledygook.A:Not at all. The legal decision is explained in plain English (there&apos;s neither a tort nor mandamus to be seen). There&apos;s thethree-page press release(PDF), which gives an excellent summary of the issue and its resolution. There&apos;s theofficial ruling, which goes through the conflicting elements (and essentially expands three-page press release into 21 pages of description). And there&apos;s theadvocate-general&apos;s opinion, which is 14 pages of discussion of the issues around the ruling, with seven pages of notes. They&apos;re all and each worth reading.Q: So does this mean that Google has to delete everything about people? Is it the end of history?A:No. It may however find that a lot of people begin asking it to remove old or outdated information about them from its index. Or it might not. While Google isn&apos;t commenting on the ramifications of this decision, it may have to put systems in place so that people can ask for it to be deleted. Google already has a system in place that lets copyright owners demand that links to infringing content is taken down; this might be similar.Note too that the information is still out there - it&apos;s just the personal indexing that is stopped. As Jonathan Zittrainpoints out:A document called “Jonathan Zittrain foreclosure of 123 Main St” might be (if I were an EU citizen) ripe for removal as a result under “Jonathan Zittrain”, but not under “123 Main St foreclosure”.As the judges say, there is a balance to be struck. And they strike it in paragraph 94 of their ruling, which reads in full:Therefore, if it is found, following a request by the data subject pursuant to Article 12(b) of Directive 95/46, that the inclusion in the list of results displayed following a search made on the basis of his name of the links to web pages published lawfully by third parties and containing true information relating to him personally is, at this point in time, incompatible with Article 6(1)(c) to (e) of the directive because that information appears, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, to be inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant, or excessive in relation to the purposes of the processing at issue carried out by the operator of the search engine, the information and links concerned in the list of results must be erased.Those are the key tests - &quot;inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant, excessive in relation to the purposes of the processing&quot;.But they then balance that in paragraph 97:&quot;those rights [to have the links deleted] override, as a rule, not only the economic interest of the operator of the search engine but also the interest of the general public in finding that information upon a search relating to the data subject’s name.&quot;&quot;However&quot; - and it&apos;s a big, big however -&quot;that would not be the case if it appeared, for particular reasons, such as the role played by the data subject in public life, that the interference with his fundamental rights is justified by the preponderant interest of the general public in having, on account of inclusion in the list of results, access to the information in question.&quot;So the judges are saying that there&apos;s a balance: right to privacy, balanced against freedom of expression (aka the public interest). It&apos;s not as simple as &quot;I want to be deleted.&quot;Q: But Google says it doesn&apos;t process the data in Europe. So why does the court think it&apos;s a &quot;data controller&quot; in Europe? Don&apos;t the judges understand the internet?A:The judges&apos; ruling suggests that they understand the non-location of the internet and data, and the operation of search engines, very well. Their concern is whether a company that provides a service available in Europe is covered by European law even if its headquarters are in California (as is the case with Google). They note that the location of Google&apos;s servers is secret, for commercial reasons, but that it has a subsidiary in Spain which sells advertising there. By that criterion, they say, Google&apos;s operation - including its service - falls under the European data protection directive.Q: Why Google? Why not other search engines?A:Other search engines are affected if they do business in Europe - so that also includes Bing and Yahoo. Ironically, it means that smaller sites (for example the US-based DuckDuckGo) aren&apos;t affected, because they don&apos;t have any operations outside the US, though you can get their services in Europe.Google was the test case here because Google is so dominant in search in Europe. And this is an important decision because it recognises that it is search engines - and in Europe, Google is the most popular of those - which decide what is known about you. Information about us has always been available, but it used to be in paper form, so that if someone wanted to find out about you they would have to visit various offices and expend effort. You had, therefore, a reasonable de facto expectation of privacy, just because it was hard for someone to find out where you lived, where you went to school, and so on.Now it might take them no more effort than a few hours with a search box. That changes the balance of the right to privacy in a way that the judges think is out of kilter. This, therefore, is their redress. Remember - the information about Mr González is still there (and will surely still be searchable within websites). It just takes a bit more effort to gather it.Q: Will Wikipedia have to remove pages or links as a result of this ruling?A:That is the concern expressed by Jimmy Wales. &quot;When will a European court demand that Wikipedia censor an article with truthful information because an individual doesn&apos;t like it?&quot; hetweeted. (Zittrain points to the example of two German killers who tried to have an entry about them on Wikipedia removed; you canread about it on Wikipedia.)This is potentially a knotty problem, but a few points seem to suggest that Wales&apos;s concerns are overdone. Is Wikipedia a commercial outfit? Self-evidently not. Is it a journalistic enterprise? In the sense that it has &quot;editors&quot; and that choices are made about what is and is not included, yes. As Alexander Hanff, a privacy advocate (he&apos;s chief executive of Think Privacy)respondedto Wales, &quot;it shouldn&apos;t affect Wikipedia articles as subjects usually have &apos;public life&apos; &apos;justifying a preponderant interest of the public&apos;&quot; - the test that the judges offered for deciding whether to keep information in the public domain (and the test that Wikipedia&apos;s &quot;editors&quot; apply on whether to delete personal profiles). Wales contends that &quot;it is a bad law. Plainly&quot; while Hanff disagrees: &quot;I believe this is good for EU citizens,&quot; he responded.@jimmy_walesshouldn&#39;t effect wikipedia articles as subjects usually have &quot;public life&quot; &quot;justifying a preponderant interest of the public&quot;&mdash; Alexander Hanff (@alexanderhanff)May 13, 2014It&apos;s probably telling that Wales hails from the US and Hanff from Germany - outlining again how this topic is a culturalshibboleth.Q: Will Facebook have to delete data?A:Facebook didn&apos;t have a comment on Tuesday, but it does already have mechanisms that let people remove data, and sources there say it &quot;already complies with the right to erasure set out in certain data protection legislation&quot;. The fact that much of Facebook&apos;s content can&apos;t be found on any search engine may help it in this case.Q: What if someone on Twitter or Facebook begins sharing the link to a web page that has been deleted from search engines&apos; indexes because of the &quot;right to privacy&quot;?A:This is another thorny issue. Is Twitter a &quot;data controller&quot;? It stores data that people provide it with, and puts it onto a web page to order. But is it collecting that data in the same way as a search engine? That&apos;s the sort of topic that would certainly exercise a judge. Based on Tuesday&apos;s ruling, a key difference is that Twitter isn&apos;t normally used to search for data about a person, in the way that you can with a search engine. But Twitter does have search functionality - so it&apos;s possible that it would have to disable searching for some names while leaving tweets about them in the timeline. Finding out for sure would definitely require another court case.Q: So will someone strike this article from Google&apos;s index? It mentions González.A:There is one huge irony in all of this case: in trying so very hard to get his name removed from Google&apos;s index over a 1998 event, Mario Costeja González has become newsworthy and noteworthy - and so is arguably a &quot;public figure&quot; because of the precedent that he has set. Google might use that argument to suggest that it doesn&apos;t need to remove him from its index.•What the Google ruling tells us about our digital delusion
Future versions of the open-source Firefox browser will include closed-source digital rights management (DRM) from Adobe, the Mozilla project’s chief technology officer, Andreas Gal, announced on Wednesday.The purpose is to support commercial video streams. But this is a radical, disheartening development in the history of the organisation, long held out as a beacon for the open, free spirit of the web as a tool for liberation.AsGal’s blogpostmakes clear, this move was done without much enthusiasm, out of a fear that Firefox (Mozilla’s flagship product and by far the most popular free/open browser in the world) was being sidelined by Apple, Google and Microsoft’s inclusion of proprietary technology to support Netflix and other DRM-encumbered videos in their browsers.In my long-running discussions with Mozilla’s most senior management over this issue, they’ve been clear in their belief that their userbase – and relevance to the internet – will dwindle unless they add support for viewing Hollywood movies in their browser. Not just Hollywood; the BBC has been one of the major “rights holder” voices calling for the addition of DRM to the web.This shift is part of a change in the way that browsers work in general. Since the early days of the Netscape browser, third-party plug-ins have been a common way to extend browser functionality. Users who wanted to watch DRM-restricted video could install proprietary plugins such as Microsoft’s Silverlight or Adobe’s Flash.The plug-in architecture is a security nightmare, and a source of numerous breaches through which buggy or malicious code was able to reach into users’ computers and compromise them. Now that browsers run in computers that we carry around in our pockets, connected to microphones and video cameras, and manage everything from our finance to our thermostats, abolishing plug-ins was an inevitable and welcome step.Plugged back inHowever, in the absence of plug-ins, the proprietary browser companies have privately negotiated with Netflix to add DRM. This shift to private negotiations – instead of industry-wide standards – spooked the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and its founder, web inventor Tim Berners-Lee, into a controversial plan to add DRM to HTML5, the next-generation web standard.The W3C’s solution is baroque: it is specifying something called “encrypted media extensions” through which the browser creates a “sandbox” within which a “content decryption module” (CDM) operates, receiving scrambled video, descrambling it and passing it out of the sandbox for display.At times, the W3C has insisted that this isn’t really DRM – it’s a thing that can beusedfor DRM. The fact that it was conceived in order to respond to demand for DRM from companies that insist on DRM for their business-models, and that its deployment and use is entirely concerned with DRM, makes this a pretty thin excuse.The fear of irrelevance that drove Mozilla to add DRM is a microcosm of the fear of irrelevance that drove the W3C to standardise DRM. By the same token, Mozilla’s roundabout description of its DRM plan also echoes some of the W3C’s not-really-DRM claims.Mozilla says it isn’t providing DRM; it’s providing a fully open utility that automatically fetches and installs DRM from Adobe’s servers. I am unconvinced that there is a meaningful distinction between “installing DRM” and “installing code that installs DRM”.Still, Mozilla has taken some admirable pains to minimise the harms from its DRM. The open sandbox in which Adobe’s software operates very strictly limits the DRM’s access to the computer’s other processes and systems. This is crucial, because the Adobe module is not only closed source, it is also protected by controversial global laws that threaten security researchers who publish information about its security flaws.These laws – the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the European EUCD, Canada’s C-11 and so on – prohibit revealing information that can be used to weaken DRM, and previous security researchers who disclosed information about vulnerabilities in DRM have been threatened and prosecuted.This created a chilling effect on the publication of vulnerabilities in DRM, even where these put users at risk from hackers. For example, when word got out that Sony BMG had infected millions of computers with an illegal rootkit to stop (legal) audio CD ripping, security researchers stepped forward to disclose that they’d known about the rootkit but had been afraid to say anything about it.This gap between discovery and disclosure allowed the Sony rootkit to become a global pandemic that infected hundreds of thousands of US military and government networks. Virus writers used the Sony rootkit to cloak their own software and attack vulnerable systems.The inclusion of Adobe’s DRM in Firefox means that Mozilla will be putting millions of its users in a position where they are running code whose bugs are illegal to report. So it’s very important that this code be as isolated as possible.By open-sourcing the sandbox that limits the Adobe software’s access to the system, Mozilla is making it auditable and verifiable. This is a much better deal than users will get out of any of the rival browsers, like Safari, Chrome and Internet Explorer, and it is a meaningful and substantial difference.Unhappy turnIt’s clear that Mozilla isn’t happy about this turn of events, and in our conversations, people there characterised it as something they’d been driven to by the entertainment companies and the complicity of the commercial browser vendors, who have enthusiastically sold out their users’ integrity and security.Mitchell Baker, the executive chairwoman of the Mozilla Foundation and Mozilla Corporation, told me that “this is not a happy day for the web” and “it’s not in line with the values that we’re trying to build. This does not match our value set.”But both she and Gal were adamant that they felt that they had no choice but to add DRM if they were going to continue Mozilla’s overall mission of keeping the web free and open.I am sceptical about this claim. I don&apos;t doubt that it’s sincerely made, but I found the case for it weak. When I pressed Gal for evidence that without Netflix Firefox users would switch away, he cited the huge volume of internet traffic generated by Netflix streams.There&apos;s no question that Netflix video and other video streams account for an appreciable slice of the internet’s overall traffic. But video streams are also the bulkiest files to transfer. That video streams use a lot of bytes isn&apos;t a surprise.When a charitable nonprofit like Mozilla makes a shift as substantial as this one – installing closed-source software designed to treat computer users as untrusted adversaries – you’d expect there to be a data-driven research story behind it, meticulously documenting the proposition that without DRM irrelevance is inevitable. The large number of bytes being shifted by Netflix is a poor proxy for that detailed picture.There are other ways in which Mozilla’s DRM is better for user freedom than its commercial competitors’. While the commercial browsers’ DRM assigns unique identifiers to users that can be used to spy on viewing habits across multiple video providers and sessions, the Mozilla DRM uses different identifiers for different services.And unlike the commercial browsers’ DRM, the Mozilla implementation does not intentionally leak any information about the user’s system or its configuration to video services.The Mozilla DRM is a very neat illustration of the difference between “free” and “open”, a distinction that often seems abstract to the point of meaninglessness for most people.Mozilla’s open-source sandbox can be examined and compiled by users who have access to its source code. It is fully transparent and “open” to them.But if users modify the sandbox in any way – if they add new features or improvements to it – the Adobe plug-in can detect the alteration and it will refuse to pass any more decoded video. The Mozilla sandbox comes with total openness, but without any of the freedoms that the free software movement cherishes.How the Adobe module validates the sandbox is a mystery – a proprietary technique whose workings are illegal to report, thanks to the same laws that ban reporting vulnerabilities in DRM.I was surprised to learn that there was a GNU/Linux version of Adobe’s module that will work with Firefox on systems running Ubuntu, Red Hat and related operating systems.This seems unlikely to work very well: whatever techniques the module is using to assure itself that the sandbox is behaving as expected ultimately depend on it asking the operating system questions about the sandbox (“is the sandbox running as a process that can’t access the hard drive?”).A user who can modify her operating system can easily get it to lie to the Adobe software – we do this all the time, such as when a cheap digital recorder pretends to be a mass storage device to your computer so that it can access its stored recordings.The Mozilla Project has been one of the internet’s most hopeful success stories, and the people who do Mozilla’s good works have been personal heroes of mine for more than a decade.The decision to produce systems that treat internet users as untrusted adversaries to be controlled by their computers was clearly taken out of a sense of desperation and inevitability.It’s clear that Mozilla plans to do everything it can to mitigate the harms from its DRM strategy and to attempt to reverse the trend that brought it to this pass.Like many of Mozilla’s longtime supporters, I hold it to a high standard. It is not a for-profit. It’s a social enterprise with a mission to empower and free its users.I understand that Apple, Microsoft and Google are for-profit entities that have demonstrated repeatedly that their profitability trumps their customers’ rights, and I fault them for this. But it’s not unreasonable to hold mission-driven nonprofits to a higher standard than their commercial counterparts.Mozilla says it’s doing everything it can to reduce the harm from what it sees as an inevitable decision. As a Mozilla supporter, contributor and user, I want it to do more. Here are some practical things that Mozilla can do to help:1 Protect security researchersMozilla has demonstrated that it has some negotiating leverage with Adobe – after all, it was able to fend off the demand for details of users’ systems to be leaked to video companies.It should demand that Adobe give it a covenant not to sue or threaten developers who report vulnerabilities in the Adobe decoder. Adobe does not need to give up the right to sue people who release cracks for their DRM or competing products in order to do this.In an era in which vulnerabilities are leveraged to expose users to identity theft, sexual exploitation and government surveillance, no one should fear legal reprisal for warning people about flaws in the software they use.Mozilla’s competitors don&apos;t offer this protection to developers. They should. Mozilla can shame them for not doing so, and be the leader we want it to be.2 Educate usersMozilla has a brilliant, far-reaching technology literacy programme that teaches users how to be makers and programmers and how to be safe and private on the Web.Mozilla should develop a curriculum about the way that DRM undermines security by making vulnerability reporting illegal and treating users as hostile adversaries.And it should teach would-be makers that DRM only allows you to be a passive viewer and not a tinkerer, because if you change the “open” decoder, it stops working.3 Research and publish the case for DRMWith both the W3C and Mozilla ready to add DRM in order to preserve their relevance in the face of Netflix, Hulu, BBC iPlayer and Amazon Video, we need some actual data on how users view these service and to what precise extent the lack of in-built DRM support is enough to drive away users.If Mozilla wants its supporters to accept that irrelevance was the inevitable alternative to DRM, it should have the data to back that up. We can use that data to inform anti-DRM strategies.4 Formulate and articulate a DRM policyThere are lots of industries that want the W3C to standardise DRM for them, too.The ebook people have asked for a W3C standard to lock up formatted text – basically, webpages – and I wouldn&apos;t be surprised to see paywall sites and others converging on this.Gal told me he didn’t think that users would accept DRM for text in the same way that they’ve accepted DRM for video, pointing out that most text is not DRMed.However, nearly all the video on the web today is DRM-free – YouTube users alone post 96 hours’ worth of DRM-free video every minute.It’s only a small slice of “premium” video that is locked up with DRM, in the same way that only a small slice of text – commercial books, paywalled newspapers – would likely be DRMed if the ebook people get their W3C DRM.The promulgation of DRM video on the web is the beginning, not the end. If Mozilla wants long-term support from its stakeholders, it can’t make decisions about future DRM fights on an ad hoc basis.We need a statement of principles that explains when DRM is the right answer – it’s certainly a debate I’d relish participating in.Mozilla won’t comment on whether its forthcoming Firefox OS for mobile devices will be born with DRM, and that&apos;s an ominous sign for those of us who were hoping for a free/open alternative to the existing mobile infrastructure, which is basically a global surveillance system that allows us to make the occasional phone call.Like many of Mozilla’s supporters – and like many of the Mozillans I know and respect – I am devastated by this turn of events. The free and open web needs an entity like Mozilla to stand on principle, especially when the commercial internet world so manifestly stands on nothing but profits.I fully accept that Baker and Gal have taken this decision reluctantly and unhappily. I disagree with their rationale, but I understand it. And I accept that they have gone to enormous lengths to devise a DRM with as few harms as possible.But there is more that Mozilla can do, and should do, even if they’re wrong that DRM is the only way – and especially if they’re right.
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) meets Thursday to discuss new rules for regulating the internet, bringing the debate about “net neutrality” back to the fore. The FCC was forced to rewrite the rules after its old ones were overturned in January following a court battle with Verizon. Protesters are camping out outside the FCC&apos;s offices and some of the world&apos;s biggest tech firms have written to the regulator expressing concern that the proposals leaked so far offer a “grave threat to the internet.”As is common on the information superhighway, a debate on an issue like net neutrality tends to lead to a great deal of shouting but not much actually being said. So, ahead of the latest in what will be a long string of protests, decisions, rulings and challenges, it&apos;s worth taking a step back and looking at what we&apos;re debating and how we got here.What is is net neutrality?The core principle of net neutrality is a simple one: that all traffic (data) traveling across the internet should be treated the same at each stage of the process.That roughly means that whether a particular packet of data is video from Netflix, HTML from the Guardian, or a P2P file being sent across BitTorrent, it&apos;s given the same priority along the same routes. No-one has priority access, or a &quot;fast lane&quot;.This is one of the key principles around the governance and structure of the internet, and one the FCC and Obama administration have both said they support, though people have their doubts about the FCC&apos;s stance in particular.Why it mattersThe more lurid of the pro-net neutrality posters and articles get very dramatic about what an abandonment on net neutrality would mean. One particularlydramatic viral imageshows an ISP bundle looking more like a cable subscription: charging additional sums each month for access to particular sites or services – $5 for online gaming sites, $5 for international, and so on.It&apos;s certainly scary – no-one wants to be hit in the pocket – but isn&apos;t really the most realistic idea of what an abandonment of net neutrality would likely mean (though it could, in theory, happen down the line). ISPs actually blocking all but permitted content, or even just directly charging customers for particular access would be particularly easy for the FCC, even under its watered-down rules, to challenge. The courts would likely have a similarly easy time against such rulings.What&apos;s more likelyInstead, the initial effects to consumers would likely be invisible. ISPs could rather offer prime deals to particular heavy users of bandwidth. The most obvious candidate is, of course, Netflix – a single site which often makes up as much as a third of all internet data usage. Where other video sites like YouTube try to optimise their content, Netflix will generally use as much of the pipe as it can: if there&apos;s lots of bandwidth going, it&apos;ll send UltraHD. Only if the pipe&apos;s slow will it compress and optimise.It&apos;s no exaggeration to say a single stream of one Netflix program can use the same amount of data as a million straightforward web pages, and it&apos;s the ISPs that have to manage that traffic.Why shouldn&apos;t they pay for that access, then?On the surface, it seems reasonable, then, to charge Netflix for their relatively free (or at least cheap) ride: if they&apos;re using so much more bandwidth than anyone else, why not charge them for priority access?Here&apos;s the arguments why not. The first is one of competition: allowing companies to charge for a fast lane completely reshapes how the marketplace works. Let&apos;s say Netflix is willing to pay every US ISP for a special &quot;fast lane&quot; for its data (it has, after a fashion, already cut one such deal).Later, a better competitor comes along: easier to use and cheaper, with better shows, better tech etc, but its relatively slow net connection means it can&apos;t stream at the same quality – its streaming might even be bitty and interrupted. As a startup, it can&apos;t compete with what Netflix is (hypothetically) shelling out to ISPs. And so despite the better tech and content, the challenger fails. An internet without net neutrality moves huge market power to the gatekeepers and the incumbents (of course, you could argue in that example it&apos;s only shifting the monopoly away from rightsholders to pipeholders, but that&apos;s a different issue).A second issue is merely one of fairness. In our homes, ovens use vastly more power each day than lightbulbs. Should, then, oven manufacturers pay electricity companies for all that burdensome work they have to do to keep ovens working – especially when lightbulbs are so low-strain? Generally, we&apos;d see such a concept as ridiculous: the customer pays once, and that&apos;s enough.What&apos;s the FCC doing?So now we come to what the latest challenge – there&apos;ve been many others – to net neutrality is. The agency had previously tried to come up with a fairly good guarantee of net neutrality, which most advocates were relatively happy with.However, this was struck down in January by the appeals court as overly burdensome: the FCC, they said, should specify some circumstances in which it might allow ISPs to prioritise traffic. The agency has responded with a proposal that would use Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act that would assess attempts to prioritise traffic on a case-by-case basis. The proposal either protects or undermines net neutrality, depending on how much you trust the FCC.The new rules would introduce an effective competition test which sets a bar ISPs have to pass in order to prioritise particular traffic. Senior FCC staff promise that bar will be set very high – any deal must prove itself “commercially reasonable”. The FCC is trying to reassure net neutrality advocates that neutrality is safe under such a regime. Critics seem unwilling to stake such a lynchpin of the open internet on assurances.Wise as that seems, the alternative proposal carries heavy risk. What many open internet advocates are calling for is for the FCC to declare that the internet is a utility, like electricity. This would be done under Title II of the Communications Act, which already covers telecommunications services but since 2002 has not covered &quot;information services&quot; – data travelling over the internet. If the FCC reclassified information under Title II, as in the earlier analogy, the data must flow equally, just as power flows across the grid. Such an effort would do much to safeguard net neutrality. If it worked.If it didn&apos;t – and opposition and lobbying against it from the powerful and connected cable companies is already fierce – the FCC has played its last card, its doomsday device. It would have nothing left in its hand: net neutrality in the US would likely be a lost cause.The FCC seems keen to avoid rolling the dice. It wants net neutrality advocates to trust that it&apos;s trying to protect the principle while keeping something in reserve. Advocates fear it&apos;s merely trying to kill neutrality with a whimper, rather than a bang.It all comes down to trust – the one thing everyone seems to be lacking.
It’s been fashionable to drop the phrase “Internet of Things” in tech circles for some time now, but what does it really mean? And just as importantly, what will its effects be in the years to come?The Pew Research Center Internet Project and Elon University Imagining the Internet Center have been wondering the same thing. They did something about it, too: canvassing more than 1,600 experts about where the Internet of Things will be by 2025.The resulting report, which waspublished this afternoon, is a balanced affair, giving plenty of space to Internet of Things sceptics warning about privacy and potential technical gremlins in a world of networked devices talking to one another, as well as exploring the potential benefits.Here are some of the key quotes and points that stood out when I read the report:1. A new definition for the Internet of ThingsThe next time someone asks you what the Internet of Things is, you could have this definition to hand:“A global, immersive, invisible, ambient networked computing environment built through the continued proliferation of smart sensors, cameras, software, databases, and massive data centers in a world-spanning information fabric known as the Internet of Things.”Possibly Sid to its friends.2. It’s about devices all working together“Most of our devices will be communicating on our behalf—they will be interacting with the physical and virtual worlds more than interacting with us. The devices are going to disappear into what we wear and/or carry. For example, the glasses interface will shrink to near-invisibility in conventional glasses,” said Paul Saffo, managing director of Discern Analytics.“The devices will also become robustly inter-networked (remember the first conversations about body networks of a decade ago?). The biggest shift is a strong move away from a single do-everything device to multiple devices with overlapping functions and, above all, an inter-relationship with our other devices.”Not forgetting their relationship with us. “We will talk to devices in essentially the same way we talk to other people. Yes, you will be permanently connected to the network via wearable devices. You will interact with these devices mostly by voice, as you would interact with another person,” said Google’s chief economist Hal Varian.“Centuries ago, rich people had servants, and in the future, we will all have cyberservants.”3. Get set to quantify yourself even moreThe “quantification of the self” is already a much talked-about concept, particularly around fitness tracking. It looks set to accelerate by 2025, and some of the consequences sound frankly terrifying.“Every part of our life will be quantifiable, and eternal, and we will answer to the community for our decisions. For example, skipping the gym will have your gym shoes auto tweet (equivalent) to the peer-to-peer health insurance network that will decide to degrade your premiums,” said social media educator Laurel Papworth.“There is already a machine that can read brain activity, including desire, in front of advertising by near/proximity. I have no doubt that will be placed into the Big Data databases when evaluating hand gestures, body language, and pace for presenting social objects for discussion/purchase/voting.”4. There are plenty of IoT scepticsIf all this has you reaching for the ragecomment button, remember that the research did manage to find sceptics about the Internet of Things’ likely impact – and indeed about whether that impact will be as big as some think.“The Internet of Things has been in the red zone of the hypometer for over a decade now. Yes, there will be many niche applications, but it will not be the next big thing, as many pundits predict. If the Internet of Things had any true validity, you would think you would start to see evidence of its presence on early adopter Internet networks,” said green-internet consultant Bill St. Arnaud.“No, yuck, we don’t need this, and most people aren’t asking for it. I’ve never been quite clear on where the demand is supposedly coming from,” agreed Open Tech Strategies partner Karl Fogel.“The scarce resource will continue to be human attention. There is a limit to the usefulness of devices that are worn in public but that demand attention because it is often socially and practically unacceptable to give those devices enough attention to make them worth the trouble of configuring and interacting with.”5. Privacy is a big concernWhen you see words like “pernicious” and “prison-like” in a debate, you know that it’s getting heated. Such is the case here.“The effects will be widespread but pernicious. We might as well inject ourselves into the Internet of Things. By 2025, we will have long ago given up our privacy. The Internet of Things will demand – and we will give willingly – our souls,” said college professor Peter Jacoby.“As Rivera’s film Sleep Dealer shows, the workplace plugged into the Internet of Things will be more productive and more prison-like (or, to be more accurate, more like an ‘ankle monitor’ of the mind that upgrades scanning not merely to location, but also to observable ‘outputs’ like typing and eye movements),” agreed law professor Frank Pasquale.“Jonathan Crary’s 24/7 is also an essential guide to this future. It sets the stage for extraordinarily targeted monitoring and manipulation of these individuals. There will be a small class of ‘watchers’ and a much larger class of the experimented upon, the watched. Rules that govern institutional research boards should be applied here, too.”6. But the Internet of Things could protect our privacy tooIt’s not all bad. Smarter, wearable devices could protect our privacy rather than just intrude into it, according to some of the surveyed experts.“We will wear smart clothes and smart things. The world will also be thick with smart things as well, including products for sale that communicate what they are, what they cost, and much more. Moderating between ourselves and the rest of the world will be systems of manners,” said Doc Searls, from Harvard’s Berkman Center for Internet and Society.“So, for example, we might wear devices that signal an unwillingness to be followed, or to have promotional messages pushed at us without our consent. Likewise, a store might recognize us as an existing customer with an established and understood relationship. Google Glass today is a very early prototype and has little, if any, social manners built-in, which is why it freaks people out. New manners-friendly systems, and the protocols to go with them, will be worked out over the next five or so years.”7. Interfaces will be about more than kung fu fightingWe’re already getting an idea of how we can interact with smart watches and augmented glasses, but what about a much wider range of connected devices?“We look like kung fu fighters with no visible opponents now, but soon, the personalised interface issues will settle on a combination of gestures and voice. Thought-driven? Not by 2025, but not yet out of the question for a further future,” said ibiblio.org founder and university professor Paul Jones.“Glass and watch interfaces are a start at this combination of strokes, acceleration, voice, and even shaking and touching device-to-device. The key will be separating random human actions from intentional ones, then translating those into machine commands—search, call, direct, etc.”8. Health tech will be a big beneficiaryFitbit is just the start of it, seemingly. “Health apps will be the most significant change. Things such as the Fitbit will evolve to allow passive monitoring of blood sugar, caloric intake, etc., as well as to be specialized for specific ailments in individuals—these will allow those who want to improve their heath to do so,” said Jim Hendler, professor of computer science at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.“Household objects online will have ways of being part of a broadcast network that can allow owners to be informed in case of recalls, problems, etc. Over time, there will be more direct inputs to the digital world. Technologies that can improve health monitoring will also allow a certain amount of signaling to computers—implanted chips for control will be just coming along in the 2025 timeframe (evolving in part from better prosthetic controllers), so I expect wearables, more than implantables, to be part of life by 2025.”By 2023, tech journalists will be writing countless stories predicting Apple’s first iBrainchip, in other words.9. All this stuff may break. Often.Warning: the Internet of Things won’t always be the Internet of Smoothly-Working Things…“I warned in my 2002 book Smart Mobs that a new kind of animism (first voiced by Mark Pesce) might arise: what child will be able to know that a doorknob that recognizes their face doesn’t also know many other things?” said author Howard Rheingold. “We will live in a world where many things won’t work, and nobody will know how to fix them.”He was backed up by Relationship Economy eXpedition (REX) founder Jerry Michalski. “The Internet of Things (IoT) is too complex. It will break, over and over… Most of the devices exposed on the Internet will be vulnerable. They will also be prone to unintended consequences: they will do things nobody designed for beforehand, most of which will be undesirable,” he said.“We aren’t evolved enough as a species or society to create apps and services that are useful to humanity in the Internet of Things. We’ll try to create efficiencies but be thwarted by nature’s complexity.”10. Don’t forget about the people whose Things aren’t connectedWe should think beyond the developed western world when considering the impact of the Internet of Things, pointed out some respondents.“The Internet of Things will add to the comfort of people living in developed countries by 2025. It will also have a measurable impact in utilities markets like energy and water. Unfortunately, it might not help people in developing countries with developmental issues, mainly because of the tendency in many developing countries to focus on the short term and not on the long term,” said Miguel Alcaine, International Telecommunication Union area representative for Central America.University librarian K.G. Schneider pointed out that even within countries like the US, there will be IoT-haves and have-nots. “Right now, Google Glass follows the pattern of other technology adoptions, where what I see are a handful of first-world white men touting their shiny new toys,” they said.“Just as students today are burdened if they don’t have home Internet—and at the university where I work, that is true of some of our commuter students, much as people might find that hard to believe—there will be an expectation that successful living as a human will require being equipped with pricey accoutrements… Reflecting on this makes me concerned that as the digital divide widens, people left behind will be increasingly invisible and increasingly seen as less than full humans.”•Beware the Internet of Things
iOS game Monument Valley has been a critical and commercial success since its release by developer ustwo in April. Now it has made the jump to Android.The game wasreleased today through Android&apos;s Google Play storewith the same price – £2.49 – as the version for iPhone and iPad. Its release came as ustwo announced that the iOS game has sold 500,000 copies so far, in aninterview with TechCrunch.At £2.49, that means £1.24m of gross revenues on Apple&apos;s App Store in just over a month, with just over £871k going back to ustwo after Apple&apos;s 30% cut.In aninterview with The Guardian last month, ustwo director of games Neil McFarland said that Monument Valley had made back its development costs in the first week after its launch, indicating that it&apos;s well into profit now.That&apos;s an encouraging sign for other developers making paid games, rather than adopting the dominant free-to-play (but funded by in-app purchases) model on Apple and Google&apos;s app stores.&quot;We’re not saying free-to-play is bullshit and we shouldn’t do it: with Whale Trail we have one of those games out there. But we want to make each game in the way that best suits that game, and Monument Valley wouldn’t have worked as free-to-play,&quot; McFarland told The Guardian.He confirmed in that interview that an Android version of Monument Valley was already in development, smoothed along by the fact that the game was developed using the Unity software, which runs across the two platforms.&quot;On the whole, Unity does an great job of smoothing over Android device fragmentation. There were some fundamental issues that we needed to address to make sure we could run on all the Android GPU families, but compared to doing an Android port of a custom engine it’s been remarkably easy,&quot; technical director Peter Pashley tells TechCrunch.&quot;We’ve probably spent more time ensuring that the game experience is well tailored to Android devices, integrating Google Cloud Save, supporting Samsung S-Pen, etc.&quot;ustwo has already confirmed that it is working on more levels for the iOS version of Monument Valley, to add to the 10 in the original game.&quot;We are making some more levels, but the reasons we’re doing it are artistic reasons: there are some ideas that we didn’t get to work so didn’t put in there, but which we’d like to see work,&quot; said McFarland.•Monument Valley: impossible architecture game builds success
First, the facts. The publisher Take-Two revealed itsfourth-quarter financial resultson Tuesday, beating analysts’ estimates with $233m (£139m) in sales but reporting a net loss for the period of $30.8m. However, revenue for the whole of fiscal 2014 hit an impressive $2.351bn, double the previous year.This was thanks in no small part to the arrival of Grand Theft Auto 5. Released by Take-Two’s subsidiary Rockstar Games in September, the game has sold 33m copies to retailers, becoming one of the biggest entertainment launches of all time.The most exciting news for gamers, however, was that Rockstar will release a game in this financial year, which means before the end of March 2015. Take-Two wouldn’t be drawn on what it will be, or whether there will be an announcement at E3 – although Rockstar rarely attends that event.So what is it? Naturally, speculation is already rife. Knowing the way that Rockstar tends to reveal major new titles – through a structured period of hands-off and hands-on demos over many months – we should perhaps not expect anything too Earth-shattering. But here are the possibilities currently being touted:Red Dead Redemption 2Red Dead Redemption – are we heading back to the wild west?The western epic was a hit for Rockstar in 2010, selling more than 12m copies and garnering rave reviews. Take-Two’s CEO, Strauss Zelnick,mentioned Red Dead in an investor call last yearwhen talking about his aim to establish “permanent franchises”, so it’s clearly in development. But we’d expect much more fanfare in the runup to release. GTA 5, for example, was officially announced in October 2011, almost two years before the launch date.AgentAgent – Rockstar’s mysterious conspiracyRevealed (rather precipitously it turns out) as a PlayStation 3 exclusive by Sony in 2009, this mysterious Rockstar North project is apparently a 70s-based conspiracy thriller inspired by movies like The Parallax View and The China Syndrome.Little has been said on the game since then, and obviously the studio has been sidetracked by GTA 5. However, Rockstar updated the trademark last year, so an announcement could be imminent – probably as a PS4 exclusive. Could Sony have this as the ace up its sleeve for E3 2014? Even if it has, a release in late 2014 is unlikely.Bully 2Bully – has Rockstar got a secret behind the bike sheds?While not a huge financial hit, the 2006 PlayStation 2 title Bully garnered a dedicated fanbase with its anarchic study of life in a New England boarding school.Filled with offbeat missions, interesting characters and a witty script the game sold in the low millions, and in June 2012 Rockstarassured gamersthat a sequel was possible. A month later, however, the studio responsible for the game, Rockstar Vancouver, was closed.Rockstar Toronto could take up the project, however, and again the trademark has been updated within the last year. Another potential candidate, then, but if any Rockstar game needs a long marketing leadup to remind mainstream gamers what it&apos;s all about, it&apos;s this one.Something brand newRockstar hasn’t announced a new intellectual property for a long time, so there’s always a chance those cheeky Houser brothers will spring a surprise on everyone. Let&apos;s face it, though, with less than 10 months before release it would have to be a smaller project. And Rockstar doesn’t do small. Unless you include Table Tennis.Grand Theft Auto 5 on PC or Xbox One and PS4A visually enhanced version of GTA 5, complete with all the additional GTA Online content and a few little extras, is the most likely scenario. Rockstar has often released PC versions of its console games months after release or produced new-generation console versions with extra content – Bully: Scholarship Edition on Xbox 360 and Wii, for example. This is the odds-on favourite for us.Red Dead Redemption on PCRumours of this conversion have been bubbling under for four years, butrecentlyeagle-eyed gamers noticed a listing on a Microsoft PC compatibility site mentioning Red Dead. This would be slightly more low-key than a GTA 5 update, but still a welcome announcement for PC owners, especially if those gorgeous visuals are updated for modern graphics cards.
In this edition of Tech Weekly, presented byAleks KrotoskiandAlex Hern, we tackle the rise of the crypto-currency Bitcoin.Drawing on expert analysis by the Guardian's economics correspondentPhillip Inman,Mark Lambfrom the Bitcoin exchange Coinfloor, leading Bitcoin community memberMike HearnandBen Edelmanfrom the Harvard School of Business, we ask why this digital currency has grabbed so much attention and whether it is a viable global currency or a risky fad heading for the rocks.To get the best out of this podcast we strongly recommend you watch our Bitcoin made easy video.
The number of women in key roles in the technology industry has remained roughly unchanged for 10 years, a study has shown.A report by the research firm Gartner on chief information officers (CIOs) and the challenges they face in the industry has shown that the percentage of women taking the role has remained largely static at 14% since 2004, when the firm started gender analysis.The situation in the EU is also worse than developing nations and the US, where the proportion of women in leadership roles is higher. Gartner’s data showed women occupied 11.2% of technology leadership roles in Europe, the Middle East and Africa compared with 18.1% in North America, 13.4% in Latin America and 11.5% in Asia.“The EU generally lags behind nations in Latin America, Asia and the US primarily because of a traditional hierarchy, in my view, with more institutionalised behaviour, which makes it harder for new schemes of working and thinking to break through,” said Tina Nunno, a vice-president and fellow at Gartner.‘Women have become very intolerant’Nunno said women were more likely to pick companies that aligned with their idea of good corporate values, but women who didn’t see those values followed through at every stage of the company were more likely to leave.In many industries, including technology, companies will recruit identical numbers of men and women but lose the women within a few years.“A lot of companies thought this was because women were leaving to have families, but more recent data tends to show that women have become very intolerant of situations where they feel men who are not as qualified as them have been promoted over them, frequently just leaving,” said Nunno.“Systematically we have to change the promotion structure so that women are promoted and kept engaged in the company. That could be as simple as changing the criteria under which people are promoted.”Lose the ‘hero mentality’Nunno explained that one of the issues is that promotion structure in technology is often focused on the “hero mentality”, where people work very hard to fix problems after they happen. Men generally associate with the hero mentality, but women are often better at identifying and rectifying problems before they happen – but that means they are seen to be doing less hard and crucial work.Losing women before they reach the upper echelons of technology companies is detrimental to good leadership, Nunno said. “Technology leaders often need the ability to work and collaborate across the organisation with people that they do not directly manage or have power over – something women are generally better at, according to recent research around organisational politics.”She said: “I don’t believe this bias towards men is conscious. Most people simply don’t say they don’t want to work with a woman, it’s just that on some unconscious level there’s a detrimental lean in the direction of men.”In an effort to level the playing field some companies in the US are experimenting with reducing job applicants to qualifications and experience only, removing personal information such as name and sex and replacing it with an identification code in parts of the recruitment process.“In Europe, compared to countries like the US, much more personal information is put on resumés like name, marital status and the number of children we have, which quite frankly is just information that inadvertently sets off stereotypes or biases,” Nunno said.The problems facing women in technology are not insurmountable, but Nunno thinks that no one organisation can do it alone. However, many organisations and groups are attempting to change the status quo, getting more women into technology, science, engineering and mathematics jobs, and helping to keep them there.What is the government doing?Recognising that women are significantly under-represented in engineering and technology careers, the government hasrepeatedly called for organisations and business to bring more women into the foldthrough its campaign Women into Technology and Engineering Call to Action.The campaign focuses on helping to remove barriers to science for girls and women, and builds on previous schemes includingwork on equality by the Research Councils.The Stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) diversity programme led by the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering is also funded by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, while the Equality Challenge Unit runs theAthena Swan schemesupported by the funding councils and Universities UK.Women 4 TechnologyFounded by the recruitment firm Bailey Fisher,Women 4 Technologyis an informal group of female business heads that meets via invitation only for networking, talks and presentations, in places such as the House of Lords.Women in TechnologyPart of the recruitment firm McGregor Boyall,Women in Technologyis a job board that only advertises positions with organisations that have stated an explicit commitment to increasing the number of women in technology working for them.The companies have to have gone beyond simple recruitment criteria by setting up schemes to retain women already in the company, addressing the issues that cause loss of women over time.BCSWomenAn arm of the British Computer Society (BCS),BCSWomenis dedicated to supporting the training and employment of women in technology, IT and coding jobs. It has identified that attracting women to IT jobs is difficult, but also that women find it hard to return to IT jobs after a career break.A BCS campaign throughout May will attempt to highlight women in technology and set the gold standard for diversity in the profession.Computing carousel day at schoolTo mark Ada Lovelace Day, Streatham and Clapham high school, part of the Girls’ Day School Trust, will be holding a “computing carousel” day of talks, careers coaching and coding sessions.The girls will be able to learn from coders, hear from Julie Dawson of Techhangout and Anne-Marie Imafidon of Stemettes, among others, and get an appreciation of what a career in technology could do for them.#5smallstepsA movementkickstarted by Danielle Newnham, the co-founder of We Make Play, #5smallsteps aims to get women already in technology noticed and prove that not all startups and technology companies are led by men. The idea is for women in technology roles to share their stories, reach out to journalists, mentor, do outreach and use the power of social networks to win influence, friends and work.Digital MumsOne organisation attempting to get women into flexible working online isDigital Mums. Its goal is to train and mentor women for work as online community managers. The idea is that social media outreach is a growing industry for business and mothers already have some of the skills needed, while the job allows flexible hours and can be done from home.Girls in TechWithbranches in the UK, China, Greece, France, Chile, the UAE and the US, Girls in Tech is a global network of groups that seeks to boost the visibility of women in technology jobs. It hosts events, provides resources and promotes the availability of jobs in technology.Women in Telecoms and TechnologyWomen in Telecoms and Technology(Witt) was founded in 2001 by executives across the telecommunications industry who realised they were often the only woman in their organisations at a senior level. The group educates and mentors members, allows women to share ideas and holds talks and meetings. It has 500 members scattered throughout companies including BT, Vodafone, EE, IBM, Ofcom and Reuters.Mothers of InnovationA conference aimed at exploring and celebrating the power of mothers to change the world, Mothers of Innovation (MoI) is part of the Family Innovation Zone, whose stated aim is to support, highlight and promote innovations that help make family life easier.TheMoI conference in Juneabout the things mothers are doing for themselves will showcase the ways mothers are changing the world around them in education, healthcare, finance and technology.WiseSet up 30 years ago,Wiseis dedicated to increasing the gender balance in science, technology, engineering and maths in the UK, aiming to raise the number of women from 13% now to 30% by 2020.Wise offers support services to business, education and women returning to work, and has HRH the Princess Royal as a patron.WiSETWomen in Science, Engineering and Technology(WiSET) is based within the centre for science education at Sheffield Hallam University. Its stated aim is to “widen the participation of under-represented groups in science, technology, engineering, maths (STEM) and the built environment”.It has been working with other equality and diversity groups, including Wise, and has taken a holistic approach to the diversity problem, starting at the individual level while targeting company and national culture.WiSET offers resources, information, reports, career advice and support, while setting up activities to help get women into technology and associated careers throughout education and employment.Scottish Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and TechnologyAnother university-attached organisation, theScottish Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and Technologyis the Scottish government’s arm dedicated to increasing the number of women in education and employment in technology and related industries.Part of Edinburgh Napier University, the centre offers support and information for addressing recruitment and workplace inequality, but also the retention of women in industry and their ability to return to work after having children.What are we missing?There are many, many other organisations in the UK and internationally dedicated to helping recruit and retain more women in technology and associated industries.If you know of any doing good work that we haven’t covered here, please post them in the comments below.• Amazononly employs 18 women out of 120 senior managers, with none reporting directly to the chief executive, Jeff Bezos
Tributes have poured in on social media to teenager Stephen Sutton,who died in his sleep on Wednesday.The 19-year-old cancer patient, hailed as an inspiration for his tireless fundraising efforts, raised more than £3m for the for the Teenage Cancer Trust charity. In astatement on his Facebook page, his family announced that Stephen had passed away peacefully in his sleep in the early hours of Wednesday morning.My heart is bursting with pride but breaking with pain for my courageous, selfless, inspirational son who passed...http://t.co/3FoImIZa1B&mdash; Stephen&#39;s Story (@_StephensStory)May 14, 2014&quot;RIP Stephen Sutton&quot;was soon top of the UK trends on Twitter as the public joined celebrities and politicians in adding their tributes.Stephen Sutton has died. But his name will be synonymous with determination and positivity for some years to come. Legend.&mdash; Ralf Little (@RalfLittle)May 14, 2014RIP Stephen Sutton. Incredible guy. Inspirational doesn&#39;t even come close to describing his story. What a legacy@_StephensStory&mdash; Chris Ramsey (@IAmChrisRamsey)May 14, 2014So sad to hear about Stephen Sutton. What a wonderful and inspiring man. RIP.&mdash; Sarah Millican (@SarahMillican75)May 14, 2014So sad to hear of Stephen Sutton&#39;s passing but he achieved more in his 19 years than most do in a lifetime. Live life to the full EVERY day&mdash; John Prescott (@johnprescott)May 14, 2014RIP Stephen Sutton. A true hero &amp; inspiration to us all.#stephensstory&mdash; Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais)May 14, 2014I&#39;m deeply saddened to hear that Stephen Sutton has died. His spirit, bravery and fundraising for cancer research were all an inspiration.&mdash; David Cameron (@David_Cameron)May 14, 2014RIP Stephen Sutton. What an inspiration: teaching us all to embrace life, look after each other, and have love and compassion no matter what&mdash; Owen Jones (@OwenJones84)May 14, 2014Comedian Jason Manford, who championed Stephen&apos;s cause and helped him surpass his fundraising goal, released a statement on Wednesday afternoon:Guardian readers have also added their tributes in the comments of the article about his death, with one reflecting on the way Stephen mastered social media in order to raise money for charity and document his story.MarkBate14 May 2014 12:29pmRest in Peace young man.This is what social media should be used for, bringing the public to the attention of a genuinely humbling courageous battle against the most frightening of diseases, not moaning about things that can be ultimately changed.shoey00014 May 2014 12:52pmSo many people pass without leaving a mark, it's certain to say Stephen left a mark that'll last for a very very long time to come.
TheHumble Bundlewebsite made its name by selling pay-what-you-want &quot;bundles&quot; of games online, with charities benefiting from the sales. Weekly sales of individual games and a download store followed, but now it is expanding again.The website has launched a &quot;14 days of bundles&quot; promotion, starting on 13 May and promising to offer a new deal every 24 hours for a fortnight.&quot;Expect some unique bundles curated specifically for this event. You will also see special deals on games packaged with great extras,&quot;explained Humble Bundle on its blog. &quot;We are also opening up the vault and bringing back some bundles for one-night-only reunion shows and kicking off this festival with one of our favorites.&quot;The first is the return of one of the site&apos;s best-selling offers – The Humble Deep Silver Bundle – which includes Saints Row 2, Saints Row: The Third, Sacred 2: Gold Edition and Risen 2.More games and downloadable content are thrown in for people who pay more than the average price ($6.30 at the time of writing) as well as another game, Dead Island: Riptide, if they pay more than $9.Humble Bundle has been a reliable revenue generator for independent games developers in particular, and the latest bundle is no different.In a little under 18 hours so far, it has generated more than 106,000 purchases and total payments of more than $672k, split between developer Deep Silver, charities the American Red Cross and Child&apos;s Play, and tips to Humble Bundle itself.The 14-day promotion follows a high-profile bundle earlier in 2014 for games developer Sid Meier, whichgenerated $1.7m of payments in its first two days, and ended up with more than $4.3m. Humble Bundle has also regularly offered bundles of Android games, providing a valuable source of revenues to indie developers struggling to make sales on the Google Play store.In August 2013,founder John Graham told Rock Paper Shotgunthat Humble Bundle had generated more than $50m in bundle revenue and raised more than $20m for charity since its first promotion in 2010.•Saints Row: The Third – review
There are two common responses to reports about Google&apos;s work on self-driving cars, the latest of which concerns the company&apos;s desire to have themavailable to buy within the next three years.One response: &quot;Woo! Yay! Driverless cars! At last reality is catching up with science fiction! I&apos;ll soon be spending my commute nailing inbox zero / finally finishing that Donna Tartt book / sticking my head out of the window, tongue flapping like an excitable labrador! Google moonshots FTW!&quot;The other response: &quot;Those EVIL bastards Google have found a new way to be evil! There&apos;ll be ads on the dashboard and your exhaust pipe will be a direct line to the NSA! Let&apos;s grab the flaming pitchforks and set fire to all the prototypes before it&apos;s TOO LATE!&quot;It&apos;s tempting to say that anything Google does generates these kinds of polarised views, but that would ignore the fact that these are extremes.Most people sit vaguely in the middle: happily using Gmail and Google Maps and Android smartphones, while occasionally worrying about issues like digital tracking, data security, government surveillance, copyright legislation and tax avoidance as and when they&apos;re in the news.Not Google evangelists nor Google haters: more Google agnostics. And while this group&apos;s voices may not be heard loudest in the debate about driverless cars, they may be best placed to ask the challenging and necessary questions about this and other new technologies coming out of the company.I say &quot;they&quot;. It&apos;s more like &quot;we&quot; because I count myself in the Google agnostics category too, albeit as a technology journalist who spends a lot of time thinking (and writing) about some of these issues.The first thing to say is that driverless cars aren&apos;t just a Google thing. Pretty much every automotive firm is working hard on what some prefer to call &quot;driver-assisted&quot; or &quot;piloted driving&quot; technology:BMW,Audi,Volvo,Hyundai,Nissan,Ford... The list goes on.The sensors and technology required for all these vehicles will create masses of data on where we go and how we drive. That data will be collected by the makers of these cars, and – if we don&apos;t ask the right questions – we won&apos;t have much idea of how they&apos;re using that data.Why be more wary of Google, then? The obvious answer is that it&apos;s the only one of these companies with a business model based on advertising rather than on selling things on wheels made out of metal, plastic, leather, paint and glass. And whatever it is that fluffy dice are made out of.Google doesn&apos;t make fluffy dice: it sells our eyeballs. But we should be asking Google the same questions as all the other manufacturers moving towards a self-driving future. What data are you collecting? How long are you storing it for? Who are you sharing it with? How can I access that data? And why should I trust you?Isolating one company or technology is missing the bigger picture, too. If we&apos;re worried about being tracked as we move around our cities, we should be taking as keen an interest in numberplate recognition and CCTV and facial recognition and credit-card cross-referencing and other technologies.Go too far down the paranoia rabbit-hole on that, and you&apos;ll end up only leaving the house at night, clad in surveillance-repelling clothing and flitting from rooftop to rooftop like a binbag-and-tinfoil clad ninja. That would be no help at all.(Even if it would be fun for a couple of nights.)Questions about our data aren&apos;t just for Google, nor are they just about cars: they&apos;re as relevant to smartphones, smart TVs, smart watches, tablets, augmented eyewear, fitness trackers, consumer drones, smart thermostats and smoke alarms.Google is involved (or getting involved) with every single one of those product categories, and more, so we should be challenging and questioning the company regularly, just as we should be Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon.&quot;We&quot; is us: the people who&apos;ll be using all these products and services. But it&apos;s also we technology journalists – some of whom have been firmly and persistently asking these questions for their entire careers, but others (I&apos;m in this category) who&apos;ve been given a timely wakeup call by the last year&apos;s NSA revelations to think harder about data privacy and security issues.Oh, and &quot;we&quot; as in our elected representatives: the people we vote into power who&apos;ll be making the laws governing these technologies and who should be holding the companies behind them to account. How would your MP set about casting a vote based on the complex technology and equally complex privacy issues around driverless cars, for example?There&apos;s an important role for evangelists in all this: getting excited about new technology, adopting it early, and explaining its potential benefits to everyone else.There&apos;s also an important role for haters: approach everything with the &quot;Why is this lying bastard lying to me?&quot; strategy –NOT coined by Jeremy Paxman, as it turns out, but by another journalist called Louis Heren – and sometimes you&apos;ll find out that yes, they really are lying.But agnostics have a reason to speak up too, participating in the debate about driverless cars and other emerging technologies while they&apos;re still emerging, rather than leaving it just to the tongue-flappers and tinfoil-ninjas.•Driverless cars set to roam Milton Keynes from 2017
1 "E-learning" is a very broad termIt refers to all internet-based education, which could be anything from a free maths lecture on iTunes to a colour-coded language app or even a fully interactive eight-week course in musculoskeletal anatomy from Harvard.2 It's been around for a whileTheOpen Universitybegan using an internet-based conferencing system as a learning tool in the late 80s and now offers entire degree courses online. Since 2000 the web has been used by schools and universities as a means of distributing audiovisual material and course documentation.3 It hasn't found its niche yetSome argue that the internet works best as a subsidiary to traditional studies, so-called "blended learning", but others think the main thrust of e-learning should be to provide free education to disadvantaged people worldwide who don't have access to university. Detractors feel feel it has no place in mainstream education and should only offer "learning for learning's sake".4 It comes in various shapes and sizesThe non-profitKhan Academyis a bank of free video lectures given by charismatic academics whereas popular software platforms such as Blackboard and Canvas allow teachers and students to connect more effectively online. Moocs (Massive Online Open Courses), which are free short online courses offered by reputable universities, are becoming immensely popular and often comprise multimedia material and interactive game-like environments.5 Moocs are free, but they have potential to be lucrativeThe biggest US Mooc network,Coursera, hosts courses from 100 universities worldwide, who hope the free courses will encourage people to sign up for paid modules.6 The UK is already being "Mooced"The British equivalent to Coursera,Futurelearn, now offers courses from more than half of the top 40 UK universities.7 Not all e-learning is freeIn a few universities Mooc certificates have been exchanged for actual college credit, which could become increasingly valuable in the job market. Full degree qualifications remain available only to the paying student.8 e-learning could threaten teaching as we know it…Mooc pioneer Peter Norvig argues it is easier to achieve a one-on-one teaching experience online than in a crowded classroom. Also, online forums and communities allow users to discuss problems in real time with fellow students stuck on the same issue.9 … But not everyone thinks it's fulfilling its potentialSome critics believe that a computerised environment will stifle creative expression and independent thought. Others point out that, although Moocs might theoretically offer schooling to disadvantaged students, so far almost all participants in the courses are already highly educated and hail from the developed world.10 Either way, e-learning's big data could be valuableMillions of people have signed up to hundreds of apps, lectures, tests, platforms and courses and because every right answer and every flunked exam will be documented, a huge quantity of data will be collected. These "learning analytics" could be used to provide teachers with agreater insights into  a deeper understanding of education as a whole.
&quot;Xbox One is Kinect. They are not separate systems. An Xbox One has chips, it has memory, it has Blu-ray, it has Kinect, it has a controller. These are all part of the platform ecosystem.&quot;Phil Harrison, corporate vice president, Microsoft Europe, quotedin CVG, August, 2013In some ways this has always been inevitable. On Tuesday afternoon, several weeks before the crucial E3 video game event in Los Angeles, Microsoft announced that it would beoffering a new Xbox One bundle, without the controversial Kinect controller.The new package will be $399, or £349, and will launch on 9 June. &quot;Since the beginning, we have focused on delivering great games and entertainment experiences for you,&quot; wrote Xbox head Phil Spencer ina blogpostannouncing the decision. &quot;Your feedback matters to us and it shapes the products and services we build.&quot;Consumers wanted a cheaper Xbox One option, and Microsoft has provided it. &quot;I think giving consumers a choice is a really important part of growing the installed based of Xbox One,&quot; Spencer told the Guardian. &quot;For me, this is about retail price and giving consumers the opportunity to buy a console that&apos;s obviously at a lower price point. They can choose to add Kinect later.&quot;The propositionXbox One, then, is now the same price as its rival, the PlayStation 4, which Sony chose to launch without its functionally similar camera peripheral. Right from the beginning, Sony fought on two fronts – it fought to be cheaper, and it fought to emphasise games over other entertainment features. Microsoft, at the Xbox One unveiling in Redmond in May, went for feature-set and feature-breadth. It talked up the revolutionary capabilities of Kinect and the revolutionary video-on-demand and live television services. In one way or another, it seems to have been on the back foot ever since.Because however bold the decision is to turn this into a price war, Spencer&apos;s blogpost has a somewhat familiar ring to it. Last June, in a post on the Xbox Wire site, entitled&quot;Your feedback matters&quot;, previous Xbox chief Don Mattrick rescinded Microsoft&apos;s commitment to controlling the sale of pre-owned games and its insistence that digital games be validated online every 24 hours. Its plans to allow the sharing of downloadable titles with friends and family were stripped out, its intriguingly disruptive break from high street retail and physical goods all but turned back.But Kinect stayed. Because Kinect was central to the experience, despite seeming consumer and developer indifference, and despite all sorts of consumer fears (accentuated by the NSA revelations) about having a corporate controlled camera in their living rooms at all times. Kinect stayed as an obligatory feature.But no more. &quot;The fact is that while the Kinect functionality is nice to have, for many its value proposition does not match up to the price increment of the Xbox One over the PS4 at this point of the cycle,&quot; commented Piers Harding-Rolls of industry analyst IHS Technology. &quot;This has been clear to see, with PS4 outselling Xbox One in Europe strongly and to a lesser degree in its home market of USA as well. As such, the move is primarily about removing friction from the buying process for the Xbox One.&quot;Freedom and demandThe concern with value proposition is also evident in the other big relevation from Tuesday afternoon – that most of the key video-on-demand and entertainment apps will be moved out of the premium Xbox Live Gold service and will be free to all Xbox One owners.Netflix, Twitch, ESPN and Skype will all be available without having to pay the monthly Gold subscription (although, of course with VoD services like Netflix, there will still be an in-app subscription charge). On top of that, Microsoft is extending the value of its Games with Gold initiative offering more free games as well as special discounts on new titles to Gold subscribers; it is also bringing the Games With Gold concept to Xbox One, with free copies of Max: The Curse of Brotherhood and Halo: Spartan Assault.In effect, this is all bringing Xbox Live in line with Sony&apos;s online service and PlayStation Plus programme. This is, at least to many observers, Microsoft catching up.Kinect Sports Rivals – the showcase title for Kinect 2.0 has received mixed reviewsAs for the future of Kinect, Spencer was keen, in his blogpost, to accentuate how much it has been used by Xbox One owners. &quot;More than 80 percent of you are actively using Kinect, with an average of 120 voice commands per month on each console,&quot; he commented.But then, if people are mostly using Kinect to switch their machines on and off, is that really worth the extra £50? True, there have been a few in-game implementations, but fewer than expected, and only a handful of studios are using Kinect capabilities to augment games. The device&apos;s showcase game, Kinect Sports Rivals, has drawn mixed reviews; despite technological improvements since the Xbox 360 version there are still problems with the accuracy of the motion sensors. The much-discussed biometric capabilities of the hardware, which allow it to ascertain the heart rate of the player are yet to be explored. The question now is, will they ever be?&quot;We will stay committed on the platform side to supporting Kinect in a very robust way, and continue to evolve the technology,&quot; Spencer told the Guardian on Tuesday evening. &quot;For us it remains a long term commitment to both games and platform.&quot;Kinect supportWhen we put it to him that the device will almost certainly become less attractive to third-party developers when it is not a mendatory part of the Xbox One package, he disagreed. &quot;What I&apos;ve found, and I&apos;ve been working with Kinect for many years, is that developers get most excited about the experience they find in the match of Kinect with a game that they&apos;re building. It hasn&apos;t really been about availability or installed base.&quot;We see today genres that were built on the back of Kinect – things like dancing games, some of the casual sports franchises - those developers have found a unique proposition in Kinect. I think that kind of passion will stay as part of part of our community and that to me is the real differentiation for Kinect in the long run.&quot;It&apos;s certainly true that Kinect has inspired some great titles. The Dance Central games from Guitar Hero creator Harmonix have been fun; there have been compelling family titles like Kinectimals and Disneyland Adventures, as well as oddities like Ubisoft&apos;s Child of Eden.But for many studios the complexities of getting the hardware to work, despite the proliferation of tools, libraries and sample code from Microsoft, prohibited serious investment. Even though Kinect 2.0 is much more advanced, even though it solves some key issues such as the space needed to play, you wonder how developers, with budgets at bursting point, will find extra room to support a product that many new console owners will simply chose not to purchase.There are also developers who bought into the vision of Xbox One and Kinect, who are working on projects with that link in mind, and who may now feel betrayed by the decision to make the device optional. Two reactions from Twitter last night certainly suggest this:While removing Kinect is the right decision, I&#39;m bummed at the work it makes for those who counted on the Kinect as always being there.&mdash; Mike Mika (@MikeJMika)May 13, 2014There are a number of developers right now that have bought into that vision: the deal was that every Xbox One has a Kinect.&mdash; Rami Ismail (@tha_rami)May 13, 2014We asked Spencer how many titles due to be shown at E3 would feature Kinect support as a prominent feature. He was, understandably perhaps, elusive. &quot;I think through this holiday you will see Kinect games come. Some of those are third-party games, we&apos;ll see when [the publishers] want to talk about them. But I know when I look at the road map of games to come on our platform, there are Kinect-exclusive games that I think will excite fans.&quot;A break from the pastWhat really is interesting about Spencer, who became head of Xbox after Don Mattrick&apos;s departure to Zynga, is that he seems keen to place a clear distinction between the old management and the new. He must see that elements in the gamer community will view the Kinect-free announcement as another U-turn, another seemingly staple element of the initial console vision being stripped away. He&apos;s not just marketing the decision as a response to consumer feedback, he&apos;s quitely pushing it as the beginning of a new regime.&quot;What I hope is that people see with the new leadership team we have in place that we&apos;re going to run this programme with the gamer and fan voice at the centre of what we do,&quot; he said. &quot;I&apos;ve had a lot of people ask me about different parts of the programme, giving me suggestions about what we should be doing with Xbox - I listen to that feedback. Consumer choice at retail was one of the first things I wanted to tackle when I became head of Xbox. The apps policy and making the entertainment apps available to all Xbox Live members was another one.&quot;I hope what people take away is that we&apos;re making the changes where we can to reflect the feedback that we&apos;re given.&quot;Sunset Overdrive – Insomniac's acrobatic shooter is a colourful hint at where games are going on Xbox OneSo Microsoft has listened, it has re-adjusted once again. And now, finally, the fight between Xbox One and PS4 is about games. At E3, Spencer will have a very decent line-up: Insomniac&apos;s parkour shooter, Sunset Overdrive, looks bright and energetic, the game creation package Project Spark is intriguing, and we can expect new additions to the Halo, Forza Horizon and Fable series&apos;.There are whispers of a new Gears of War, something fresh from Platinum Games, perhaps even a long-awaited Crackdown follow-up. Microsoft needs to pull out a selection of fan favourites and unexpected original exclusives to put all the uncertainty behind it and to remind gamers how it built Xbox out of nothing to compete with PlayStation. Phil Spencer seems confident that&apos;s what they&apos;ve got.When we put it to him that this E3 is utterly crucial to the company, crucial to the idea that next-gen consoles are very different technologies to their predecessors, there is some incredulous laughter.&quot;I think you&apos;re trying to make me nervous,&quot; he said. &quot;This is my first E3 as head of Xbox so for me there&apos;s a personal vibe to it that I&apos;m excited about. The content line up we have I really love, we&apos;ve been working hard to make sure we have the right beats to hit, the right assets to put on stage.&quot;I agree this is a critical E3 for us; both us and Sony have had great launches and I think fans of Xbox One and PS4 want to see what the next wave of games look like. I&apos;m confident we have a strong line up to put on stage... It will be a fun time in LA.&quot;• Xbox One: was Microsoft&apos;s reversal the right decision?• Xbox One&apos;s Phil Spencer: &apos;we&apos;re committed to the original vision&apos;
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJudgment in Case C-131/12: Google Spain SL, Google Inc. v Agencia Española de Protección de Datos &gt;&gt; European Court of JusticePDF ruling (3 pages): "An internet search engine operator is responsible for the processing that it carries out of personal data which appear on web pages published by third parties". And read thefull text opinion(text, 20 pages) andjudgement. Be one of the few to have actually read it."Each time we look at open source, Microsoft is cheaper" says local government CIO &gt;&gt; Computing NewsStuart Sumner:Local government CIO Jos Creese has come out in favour of Microsoft over open source alternatives, explaining that it has always proved to be the cheaper option when he has examined the alternatives.Speaking exclusively to Computing, Creese said: "We use Microsoft [for our desktops]. Each time we've looked at open source for desktop and costed it out, Microsoft has proved cheaper."He explained that this is because most staff are already familiar with Microsoft products, and that they work well with the thin client model employed at Hampshire council. But it's also partly down to Microsoft itself."Microsoft has been flexible and helpful in the way we apply their products to improve the operation of our frontline services, and this helps to de-risk ongoing cost."Clayton Christensen should be told.BlackBerry officially unveils the Z3 "Jakarta Edition," its $200 Foxconn phone &gt;&gt; TechCrunchBlackBerry's future, especially in the hardware biz, is uncertain, but it did take the wraps off a new handset today (via MobileSyrup). The Z3 "Jakarta" edition is unique to the Indonesian market at launch, but it's also BlackBerry's first phone co-created with Foxconn, one of the largest Asian manufacturers of electronic devices.The $200 device is decidedly entry-level on the specs page, but that's BlackBerry's goal; make something with a touchscreen that competes with low-cost Android devices for a market where it has already ceded a lot of ground to cheap hardware running Google's mobile OS. BlackBerry used to count Indonesia as one of its most important international strongholds, and the Jakarta is an attempt to renew the siege to get it back.Unfortunate that it did this on exactly the same day that Motorola unveiled the Moto E, which has a better screen and costs less.Apple plans to match Microsoft Surface with split-screen iPad multitasking in iOS 8 &gt;&gt; 9to5MacIn addition to allowing for two iPad apps to be used at the same time, the feature is designed to allow for apps to more easily interact, according to the sources. For example, a user may be able to drag content, such as text, video, or images, from one app to another. Apple is said to be developing capabilities for developers to be able to design their apps to interact with each other. This functionality may mean that Apple is finally ready to enable "XPC" support in iOS, which means that developers could design App Store apps that could share content.File under "rumour". Split screens might not be essential, but inter-app communications feels like a huge gap in getting the iPad to really take over computing functions.Introduction to the Quorum Programming Language &gt;&gt; Quorum Programming LanguageTraditional programming languages have been designed predominately with technical concepts and machines in mind. While such concerns are obviously critical, human beings ultimately use such tools in the broad development community. In evidence-oriented programming, human factors evidence takes a first-class seat in the language's design. All factors related to programming are considered, up for debate, and are subject to change if a community member shows rigorous evidence that another approach is better. This is true both for technical and human factors considerations. To our knowledge, Quorum is the first programming language to attempt this.Designed essentially for scientific use, so that programs can be peer-reviewed.Windows 8.1 Update requirement extended &gt;&gt; Windows Experience blogBrandon LeBlanc (no relation we assume to Matt..?)Wow! I can't believe it's been almost a month since we released the Windows 8.1 Update. Over the last few weeks, people with Automatic Update turned on in Windows Update have been receiving the Windows 8.1 update on their devices. It's been great seeing and hearing from people enjoying all the new improvements.While we believe the majority of people have received the update, we recognize that not all have. Having our customers running their devices with the latest updates is super important to us. And we're committed to helping ensure their safety. As a result, we've decided to extend the requirement for our consumer customers to update their devices to the Windows 8.1 Update in order to receive security updates another 30 days to June 10th.For better and for worse, Chromebooks have become PCs &gt;&gt; TIME.comJared Newman:The positive way to look at this is that you've got lots of choices, and choice is good. Not tickled by the design of Acer's Core i3-powered Chromebook? Maybe you'll like Dell's version a bit better. Not comfortable with just 16 GB of storage? Asus has you covered with 32 GB options.Here's the downside: choosing a Chromebook will become needlessly complicated, as the performance gap between low- and high-end Chromebooks grows wider. Nevermind that the justification for a Core i3 Chromebook is kind of thin–Intel says you might want it for Google+ Hangouts or 3D games–or that 2 GB of RAM can be a drag on multitasking, or that 32 GB of storage is overkill for a cloud-based computer. These are all factors you'll have to consider when buying a Chromebook now.The old Chromebook mantra was "speed, simplicity, security," the implication being that all Chromebooks are fast gateways to the Internet. But that message is muddier now. Instead of making hard choices about what makes a good Chromebook, PC makers are taking the shotgun approach and leaving buyers to sort through the mess.Why radio and music should take the iTunes/Beats deal seriously &gt;&gt; Edison ResearchEdison Research's "The Infinite Dial 2014," released when iTunes Radio was four months old and fielded as Beats Music debuted, had signs of encouragement for both. Awareness of Beats was already 9%. Meanwhile, iTunes Radio had been listened to by 8% of respondents in the previous month, making it third to Pandora and almost tied with iHeartRadio (9%).The rumoured deal in which Apple will buy Beats for $3.2bn has been characterised in one report already as a sign of Apple's desperation to stay relevant in a streaming world. Some broadcasters will try to minimise the story by positioning it as  the combination of two underwhelming entities. And some don't see  this as a streaming music play at all.Whatever Apple's intent, there are still significant implications here for broadcasters and labels. Besides giving Apple a subscription streaming music operation without building one from scratch, Beats Music and iTunes Radio very nicely fill in each other's vulnerabilities, not just by putting iTunes on Android, but from a radio/audio programming standpoint.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A group of activist investors are calling on other Google shareholders to press the company to adopt a code of conduct on tax that would bring its corporate structures back in line with its "Don't be evil" motto."A set of principles to address misalignments between Google's tax strategies and its commitments to employees, communities, shareholders and the environment would help protect long-term value," they argue ina proposalto be voted on at Google's annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday.The proposal has been made by Domini Social Equity Fund, which has close to $1bn of assets, and five other investors in the internet firm. It is opposed by the Google chairman, Eric Schmidt, and his board.Google paid £3.4m in tax in Britain in 2012 despite its UK revenues amounting to £3.2bn. The group's UK sales are booked through a company in Ireland. Much of the group's profits ultimately arise in Bermuda, where Google's intellectual property is owned and where no corporate taxes are levied.The shareholders point to a similar set of principles adopted by Vodafone in the wake of criticism of its tax planning, and to Johnson &amp; Johnson's"Credo", inscribed in stone in at the group's New Jersey headquarters, promising to "bear our fair share of taxes".The activists are urging other Google shareholders to consider how the search firm found itself at the centre of damaging criticisms in the UK and France, in particular, and note Schmidt'scomments in the Observer newspaper a year ago, saying: "We understand why Google is at the centre of the debate".Recommending shareholders vote against the activists' proposal,  Schmidt says the company is in favour of tax reform efforts being pursued by the G20 group of leading industrialised countries and others, and does not want to pre-empt this work by publishing its own principles unilaterally.In January, the Guardian revealed that Google was one of a number of US firms which, through an ad hoc umbrella body called the Digitial Economy Group, had beenaggressively lobbying OECD tax experts against targeting tech firmswith new tax rules."Enterprises that employ digital communications models do not organise their business operations differently as a legal or tax matter," the DEG claimed.
It's Wednesday.
Google has put its Glass headset on sale to anyone in the US who can pay the $1,500 price.The eyewear-mounted device, which is still at the beta development stage, would be on sale until stocks ran out, Google said.The company said on a blogpost on Tuesday that it had &quot;decided to move to a more open beta&quot; in the device&apos;s development.Google opened sales of Glass to the US public for one day in April, making it briefly available to people other than just a previous select group of users such as app developers.Google said it was still working to improve hardware and software. It did not specify how many glasses would be sold or whether it would make any more once sold out.The consumer version is expected to go on sale to the general public towards the end of 2014.A stamp-sized electronic screen mounted on the side of a pair of eyeglass frames, Google Glass can record video, access email, provide turn-by-turn driving directions and retrieve information from the web by connecting wirelessly to a user&apos;s phone.Google Glass has also raised privacy and safety concerns, prompting legislators in some jurisdictions to propose bans or limits on its use including when driving.Reuters contributed to this report
Travellers across Great Britain can now use Google Maps to plan their journeys on public transport as the tech giant extends train and bus information across England, Scotland and Wales.Users can currently access public transport information for London and the south east, but from Wednesday users on iOS and Android apps and on the desktop version will all be able to search National Express and Traveline data, as well as 1,500 local and national operators such as Centro and Merseyside. Nearly 17,000 routes are included and 34,000 stopping points, ferry ports and stations.Options include searching for routes, departures and interchanges, including how far the distance is between each station, which route has the fewest transfers, and what time the next departure leaves. The update is one of Google’s biggest integrations of public transport data.“In Britain, public transport is part of the national psyche,&quot; said David Tattersall, product manager for public transport in Google Maps. &quot;The biggest changes will be on mobile, as devices are becoming more and more powerful and they’re things we spend a lot of time with. We’re aiming to really improve users’ lives.” Mobile is an increasing focus for Google Maps, with roughly one third of Google Maps use taking place on mobile devices.Tattersall said that data for Northern Ireland will eventually be added, but that those data sources had not yet opened up.The update comes as competition increases in the mapping space. London-based app Citymapper recentlysecured $10m fundingand is building a following among commuters, though Google estimates that more than one billion monthly users access its maps service.•Google Maps updated to include Uber integration
The top lawyer at the Federal Communications Commission confirmed on Tuesday that the regulator is considering treating cable companies like utilities as it fights off a wave of protest over the future of the internet.In a live chat on Twitter, Gigi Sohn, the FCC senior counsel for external affairs, said the regulator’s “open internet” proposals, to be published on Thursday, will seek comment on whether broadband internet access should be treated in the same way as electricity, telephone calls or water, where consumers have equal access to the same service.Sohn’s comments give the clearest indication yet about how the FCC is proposing to rewrite the rules on broadband access in the US, following a January court defeat in a case involving Verizon that challenged its powers to regulate the web.“Chairman knows free market won&apos;t protect open internet. That&apos;s why he&apos;s proposing new#FCCNetNeutralityrules – none exist today,” wrote Sohn, as thousands of Twitter users bombarded her with questions.The FCC has faced a mounting backlash from consumer groups and tech firms after chairman Tom Wheeler appeared to signal he was preparing to formalise the creation of a “fast-lane internet” for those able to pay for it. Wheeler has denied that is his intention, but critics charge he has signalled the end to “net neutrality” – the principle that all traffic online is treated equally.Sohn said the FCC was looking at two legal options for protecting an open internet. The first is Title II of the Communications Act, which would regulate companies like Comcast, Verizon and AT&amp;T to “common carrier” rules.Common carrier regulations cover telephone communications and require companies to offer the same service to everyone. In 2002, the FCC reclassified broadband as an “information service”, not a “telecommunications service” – paving the way for a decade of legal battles. In January, the FCC’s previous set of broadband rules was struck down in a case with Verizon, a move that paved the way for a tiered service, with cable firms offering faster service for big companies like Netflix.Apple, Facebook, Google, Twitter and a host of other large and small tech companies have written to the FCC arguing that the current proposals offer a “grave threat to the internet”, in a campaign organised by tech lobbyist Engine Advocacy and New America&apos;s Open Technology Institute.On Tuesday Julie Samuels, executive director of Engine Advocacy, wrote to Wheeler: “The only way to provide the certainty that startups need, and to preserve the internet as an open platform for innovation and economic growth, is to enact a bright­line ban on pay­-to-­play paid prioritization and discrimination against applications. In light of the Verizon decision, reclassification under Title II is the only option that provides a clear path to such a rule.”“[The] chairman has always been clear that Title II is a viable option,” said Sohn. But Sohn also confirmed the FCC is also looking at Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act, which gives the FCC authority to regulate broadband on a case by case basis. Wheeler has said he would block any deals that are not “commercially reasonable”.Reclassifying broadband under Title II will inevitably lead to further legal battles with cable firms, which are already pushing for less regulation and are likely to get the support of the two Republican commissioners on the FCC’s five-member panel.But critics charge that using 706 will be a weaker option and is likely to lead to legal challenges on individual cases as cable firms push to offer tiered, premium priced services like the one Netflix recently struck with Comcast.Craig Aaron, the chairman of Free Press, said: “The cable firms will sue either way. My concern with 706 is that I don’t think it will allow the FCC to stop online discrimination. I just don’t think it’s legally sustainable for the FCC to block deals on a case-by-case basis.”Sohn said the FCC was considering 706 because the Verizon decision “gave us a roadmap, and the chairman believes it can be an effective path forward.”But she confirmed the public backlash had led the FCC to look more closely at all its options: “Draft proposal reflects public input several ways, most noticeably more fulsome discussion of Title II,” she wrote.The FCC has been inundated with comments and emails before Thursday’s meeting. Over 1m people have emailed the regulator calling for tougher rules to protect net neutrality. Protesters have set up and Occupy-style camp outside the FCC’s headquarters.During Sohn’s hour-long Twitter conversation, the regulator’s hashtag, #FCCNetNeutrality, became the highest trending hashtag on Twitter. Thousands of questions and comments were submitted. Senator Bernie Sanders tweeted: “We must not let corporations turn profits by putting a price tag on the free flow of ideas.”Broadband for America, a lobby group for cable companies, tweeted: “28 broadband CEOs urge@FCCto protect#openinternet: Title II will impede investment.”Sohn said the FCC would use Twitter again to discuss the proposals once they have been published.The FCC’s commissioners will discuss the new proposals Thursday. If adopted, the public and other interested parties will have until the end of September to comment and a decision is expected by the end of the year.• This article was amended on Wednesday 14 May to clarify that Craig Aaron is the chairman of Free Press, not Common Cause.
If China is the world's workshop, then Shenzhen is its hi-tech manufacturing hub. It is home to Foxconn, Apple's main supplier, whose gigantic factories are just outside the city, and thousands of other production lines churning out thousands of other hi-tech products.Workers are housed in dormitory and high-rise blocks. Shenzhen's permanent population is just 2m - but that is boosted to nearly 11m by migrant workers from all over the country who often travel hundreds of miles for short-term work.But there is a flipside to China's ability to mass-produce complex goods at a low cost for ravenous western consumers – and it is visible on any carriage on the Shenzhen metro.As the train doors close, Ian Fogg, senior electronics analyst at research company IHS, notes the number of what appear to be iPhone-wielding commuters. Many, however, are fakes assembled from commercially sensitive blueprints – a time-honoured gripe among western businesses in China. "You can't be sure," says Fogg. "You have to get much closer to spot the fakes."Hours later, Peter Richardson of Counterpoint Research, who was also visiting Shenzhen, pulled a phone from his pocket: "Look at the iPhone 5S I got for 800 renminbi [about £75]."Workers assemble smartphones.The price is alluring, but it is fake. The phone is convincing enough at first glance: it looks real and the home screen icons look familiar. But open the settings menu and the font is different – fatter and fuzzier – while some items (notably "privacy") are missing. And looking closer at the phone itself, the top has been glued on and imperfectly finished. It is a fake, running AOSP, the open-source version of Android."When I used to work for Nokia and came here, we had to recast how we counted product in the market," says Richardson. "We had to start taking account of the fakes in how we counted sales and penetration because there were so many."But times change. "This time, the only fakes I saw were iPhones, a few Samsung Galaxy S5s and some Vertu models" – the latter being the costliest phones in the world, with starting prices of around £4,000.Richardson acquired his fake phone from a tower block complex of independent retailers and little shopfronts: Huaqiangbei (pronounced Hang-shao-bay).Inside you can buy anything electronic, as one-offs or in industrial quantities. One glass-topped stand held what looked like film reels – dozens and dozens of them. Wondering why an electronics mart would sell celluloid, I looked closer – and realised that what I had taken to be the cels of the film were actually chips embedded in protective plastic. The reels were thousands of integrated circuits – dedicated chips for functions such as voltage regulation, or signal processing, or any task you can perform with microelectronics. But it's the fakes that draw the eye. Richardson took photos of an array of fake iPhones in one of the glass displays. Fogg, meanwhile, pointed to another set under a glass counter: "Look at the 'i' in 'iPhone'," he said. Closer examination showed that the initial letter was very slightly askew - the telltale indicator of a fake. In another shop, people were assembling phones. In another, they were repairing.The shelves are packed: iPhones, Samsung phones, as well as headphones – some bearing the "b" logo of  Beats by Dr Dre – and LED lights, disk drives and memory chips. Adapters bearing the Apple logo – but almost certainly not the real thing – abound. A UK website recently did a comparison of the safety aspect of acounterfeit and real iPad charger: the fake was far cheaper, but actually only generated half the power, and lacked a number of key safety elements."In rough terms, we think around one quarter of the 1.1bn smartphones shipped in 2013 originated in Shenzhen," says Richardson. "Most of these are perfectly good, high-quality products, including real iPhones made by companies like Foxconn." But he adds that there are probably tens of millions of "illegitimate" handsets – fakes or unbranded products with no IMEI (international mobile equipment identity) numbers.Some of those are exported, but the chances of them ending up in Europe or the US are slim, due to tight customs checks.But, says Richardson, the fake business may be peaking: "The economic incentive to make them is fading." Whereas Nokia or BlackBerry phones used to be clearly differentiated, most smartphones now are near-identical black slabs running AOSP. That makes it more profitable, and less risky, to manufacture them for any of the dozens of local handset makers, who are seeing demand explode from a population that has bought nearly 200m smartphones in the past six months alone."Legitimate Android smartphones are falling in price fast," says Richardson. "They're easily less than $50 wholesale now, and could hit $25-30 by the year-end."• This article was amended on 16 May 2014. The earlier version referred to "microprocessors" where it should have said "integrated circuits", and "any task you can perform digitally" where it should have said "any task you can perform with microelectronics".
A Spanish man who has spent the past five years waging a legal battle against Google over the "right to be forgotten" on the internet has applauded alandmark European Court ruling against Googleon Tuesday."Like anyone would be when you tell them they're right, I'm happy," Mario Costeja González told the Guardian over the phone from the north-western city of A Coruña. "I've been saying to people, if Google was good before, now it's perfect."The ruling says that Google and other search engines must remove data from past results if requested to do so by a member of the public.Costeja González's battle began in 2009, when Costeja he discovered that a Google search of his name pulled up legal notices from the late 1990s, and after a fruitless conforntation with the publishing newspaper he eventually found allies at Spain's data protection agency.Tuesday's ruling has implications for all online search engines, in that it notes that European privacy law allows the public to request that links to private information be removed. The court specified that search engines operating in Europe must find a balance between offering information in the public interest and protecting people's rights to privacy and protection of personal data. When an agreement cannot be reached, the ruling said the matter can be taken to a local judge or regulator.Complaints will be addressed on a case-by-case basis, an approach that should appease any worries Google might have had about freedom of expression, said Costeja. "They don't have to get rid of everything."I was fighting for the elimination of data that adversely affects people's honour, dignity and exposes their private lives. Everything that undermines human beings, that's not freedom of expression."He framed the ruling as a decisive victory in a long-running battle over an idea. "People ask me how much I spent on this. It did cost me money but at the end all that's important is the fact that ideas won out." He refused to even estimate what he had personally spent on the case, saying that a number would only "dirty what was a fight for ideals".For his lawyer, Joaquín Muñoz, a key point in Tuesday's ruling was the recognition that search engines are involved in processing data. "When you search for something in Google, they don't scour the entire internet for you and then give you a result. They've stored links, organised them and they show them based on a criteria they've decided upon." This act of processing information confers upon them responsibilities in certain cases, he added.The ruling would now be used to address the more than 200 cases waiting in Spanish courts, he said, the majority of which involve asking Google to eliminate links. The cases will likely test the limits of this ruling; in one case, a plastic surgeon in Madrid has asked Google to remove a link to a 1991 El País report about a malpractice lawsuit launched against him after an allegedly botched breast surgery.It's one of the many questions about the ruling to be answered in the days to come, said Muñoz. But on Tuesday he was content to bask in the idea that Abanlex, his tiny law firm based in Madrid, had taken on Google and won. "The resources Google has at their disposal aren't like those of any other citizens."
Microsoft is releasing a cut-price version of its Xbox One console which excludes the Kinect motion-tracking system, to match the price of Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4.The new console version will cost $399/£349 and go on sale from 9 June as the latest stage in the console war heats up.It marks a departure from Microsoft&apos;s initial insistence that it would make the Kinect part of the default setup for the Xbox so that games developers could target it for development. Instead, it seems to have decided to fight on price rather than features.Microsoft has shipped 5m Xbox Ones globally since November, while Sony has sold more than 7m PS4s in the same time, giving it the lead in the all-important install base which console manufacturers need to attract key developers to their platform.The difference in sales of the Xbox One and PS4 has been put down to cost. The PS4 was launched without Sony’s motion-tracking PlayStation Camera at a price of $399/£349, $100/£80 cheaper than the Xbox One with Kinect. The PlayStation Camera was available as a $60/£50 optional extra.End of mandatory KinectAt its launch, Microsoft said that shipping every Xbox One with Kinect would make the motion-tracking system the &quot;default state&quot; of play, so that game developers could take advantage of it.On Tuesday, Microsoft reiterated its commitment to Kinect, with Phil Spencer, its head of Xbox,saying in a blogpostthat “Kinect remains an important part of our vision” and that more than 80% of Xbox One owners used it actively. “Many of you are using Kinect for Xbox One every day,&quot; Spencer said, claiming that there were an average of 120 voice commands per month on each console – which would be an average of four per day.“We will continue to offer a premium Xbox One with Kinect bundle to deliver voice and gesture controls, biometric sign-in, instant personalisation, instant scanning of QR codes, and enhanced features only available with Kinect in games such as Kinect Sports Rivals, Just Dance 2014, Project Spark and more.&quot;A standalone Kinect system will be offered at a later date so that buyers of the Kinect-free Xbox One can buy it as an accessory.The Kinect was originally offered as an add-on for the Xbox 360 in November 2010, and it sold 8m units in its first 60 days, making it the fastest-selling consumer electronics device ever. But sales slowed after that point, and total sales hit 24m by February 2013, against a total of 76m Xbox 360 units sold.• Hands-on with the future of console gaming –Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4 virtual reality headset
Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook, turns 30 on Wednesday. But as its founder notches up another decade, is the social networking site he has been running for 10 years maturing with him?Few publicly traded companies are as strongly influenced by one leader as Facebook. Zuckerberg still owns 29% of the company, constituting a hefty chunk of his estimated $26.6bn net worth. But his voting rights in Facebook, thanks to possession of a special class of shares, stand at 57%; even after all these years, what Zuckerberg says, goes.For at least a time, according to Facebook data scientist Dean Eckles, product managers at the company were required to read Snow Crash, a science fiction novel by Neal Stephenson published in 1992, when Zuckerberg was eight. That novel posits a world in which the internet is replaced with the Metaverse, a shared virtual reality where business is done, socialising occurs and games are played.It&apos;s not hard to see the direct connection between that and Facebook&apos;s plans for Oculus, the virtual reality company it bought for $3bn in March. &quot;This is going to be a massively multiplayer online game where we want to put one billion people in VR,&quot; Oculus&apos;s chief executivetold TechCrunch Disrupt in New Yorka month after the deal was finalised.But as Zuckerberg ages, so too will his reference points. Hestill listsone science fiction work among his favourite books: Ender&apos;s Game, Orson Scott Card&apos;s 1985 novel about child soldiers preparing to battle alien invaders. His favourite TV shows now include The West Wing and Game of Thrones. And, intriguingly, the Greek philosopher Plato and Roman poet Virgil have appeared among his favourite authors.We may already be seeing the effect of that maturation. Zuckerberg has thrown himself into his Internet.org project, devoting his time to making affordable internet access available to the two thirds of the world not yet connected.His efforts are not entirely selfless. Facebook is now so big that the population of the earth is a limiting factor in its future expansion plans. With 1.23 billion monthly active users, more than half of the connected population of the world is online.But Zuckerberg does have a point: internet access is good for things besides being able to get on Facebook. &quot;They’re going to use it to decide what kind of government they want. Get access to healthcare for the first time ever. Connect with family hundreds of miles away. Getting access to the internet is a really big deal.”Rather than looking through his media library, though, there&apos;s a better explanation for where the Facebook founder is heading: he will be aware of the brevity of the period in the limelight most tech CEOs enjoy, so at 30 he&apos;s entitled to have a mid-life crisis. Perhaps we are seeing signs of this: after all, he&apos;s gone on a spending spree; had a sudden realisation about his need to give back to the world; and got married. Admittedly that last event wasn&apos;t a company thing, but the timing was linked to the his company&apos;s maturation: Zuckerberg married Priscilla Chan, his girlfriend of nearly a decade, the day after Facebook went public.As the CEO settles down into the rhythm of married life, will his company follow? It&apos;s already possible to see the trappings of a mature, blue-chip company in what Facebook has become over the past year. With the purchase of WhatsApp, Moves and Oculus, Facebook seems well on its way to becoming a GE-style conglomerate, with Zuckerberg happily at its head, steering it to a prosperous future.Or maybe he&apos;s just waiting for another sci-fi story to catch his eye, and guide the next 10 years of Facebook. In which case, I can recommend Brian Vaughan and Marcos Martin&apos;s comicThe Private Eye, about a future which has sworn off the internet after a catastrophic release of personal information showed everyone&apos;s secrets to the world. It could be enlightening indeed.
The artist HR Giger, who has died after a fall in his Zurich home, only worked directly on two computer games – the horror adventure Dark Seed and its sequel – but his influence over the medium cannot be overstated.There are, of course, the many tie-ins with the Alien movies, for which he provided one of the most provocative monster designs in the history of cinema. Titles like Argus Press Software&apos;s 1984 strategy game, Alien, and Electric Dreams&apos; 1986 shooter, Aliens, revelled in the opportunity to terrify players with Giger&apos;s hyper-sexualised creation, playing on the fear and tension inherent in the movies to dramatic interactive effect.In turn, the Alien movies would go on to inspire a whole generation of game designers and artists. The first-person shooter Doom mixed demonic monsters with claustrophobic sci-fi environments, and Giger&apos;s weird organic interior designs doubtless inspired the game&apos;s miles of intestinal corridors and womb-like interiors. The influence was surely there too in Valve&apos;s atmospheric Half-Life adventures, with their repulsively transmogrified humanoid creatures, and face hugger-like Head Crabs.Post-human horrorBut Giger&apos;s influence extended beyond the Alien franchise. His surreal biomechanical art, which explored the fusion of human, machine, sex and environment, provided the games industry with a new palette of Freudian horror.Capcom&apos;s Resident Evil series must surely have looked to Giger for its mutated human enemies, often loaded with strange sexual imagery. The lickers, the ooze, the Medusa-like Uroboros and the invasive Duvalia all played on the themes of bodily transgression and oral sexuality that Giger explored.Giger&apos;s mecha-organic approach was enthusiastically appropriated within the 2D shoot-em-up genre. Irem&apos;s horizontal scrollers R-Type and X-Multiply feature weird pulsating landscapes – part geography, part living beings – as well as giant swollen-headed aliens with phallic extrusions. There is similar imagery in Konami&apos;s Gradius series, as well as modern indie titles Hellbound and Galshell from Akira Hut Original, which max out on the sexual undertones.Irem's R-Type was clearly inspired by Giger's biomechanical styleGiger directly designed art for the Dark Seed series of psychological horror point-and-click adventures. Arriving on PC and Amiga in 1992, the original title is set in a mansion somehow connected to a parallel universe rendered in typical Giger-esque style: hive-like environments, psychosexual horror and visual references to the Kleinian Archaic Mother concept. The two titles received mixed reviews at the time, though they are notable in their use of high-resolution visuals (which the artist insisted on) and the bizarre appearance of the lead designer in the lead protagonist role.Fantasy, horror and sexImportantly, Giger provided a connection for video game artists between the fantastical horror of HP Lovecraft and the science fiction visions of authors such as Arthur C Clarke and Robert Heinlein, and illustrators Chris Foss and Ralph McQuarrie. His art visualised the human-machine interfacing of cyberpunk, and it saw the crossover as one of sexual rather than intellectual-technological coupling. He gave game designers permission to play with erotic, even perverse, imagery within the sometimes staid, antiseptic confines of popular science fiction. Through Alien, he sent designers and gamers scuttling to the library to look up Kleinian and Lacanian preoedipal mothers and Barbara Creed&apos;s monstrous feminine. He said machines were sexy, but not in the way that car manufacturers wanted us to think; and he said monsters were really about sex. He wasn&apos;t the only one, of course, but he showed it in a way that a very visual, very kinetic artform could appreciate and understand, and he said it through two of the greatest most influential science fiction films ever.His weird vision changed a lot of things in popular culture; games are a key example. Right now, the UK developer Creative Assembly is putting the finishing touches to its horror game,Alien: Isolation, a title that promises a rediscovery of the fraught tension and stylistic vision of the original movie. The xenomorph is only seen in terrifying glimpses, accentuating its initial power to shock and seduce.As long as there are game designers, there will be well-thumbed copies of Giger&apos;s Necronomicon book, and dark ideas for monsters that don&apos;t really come from outer space but from ourselves.•Shock and gore: why video games are failing at horror•Resident Evil 6 review
My husband, Alan Sutcliffe, who has died aged 83, was a pioneer of computer arts and co-founded theComputer Arts Societyin 1969. As well as being an accomplished software engineer, he spent a great deal of his life creating art: electronic music, sound, graphics, computer-generated poetry and audience-participation pieces.Alan was born in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, the son of a mill engineer and a dressmaker. Although he failed the 11-plus, his parents were able to pay a modest fee to allow him to attend the local grammar school. In 1949, he won a scholarship to study mathematics at Bristol University. He entered national service with the West Yorkshire Regiment in 1951, which took him to Egypt and Malaya. He left the army in 1953.Alan then applied his mathematics training to the design of packaging containers. It was during this time that he started working with computers. He was hired by English Electric in 1963, where he helped to develop the operating system for the KDF9 computer. From 1966 he was a research manager at International Computers and Tabulators, which later merged into International Computers Limited (ICL), where he remained until 1972.At the 1968 congress of the International Federation for Information Processing, Alan proposed the formation of the Computer Arts Society. He founded the society together with George Mallen and John Lansdown. The society's bulletin,PAGE, was at first edited by the artistGustav Metzger. More recently, Alan edited PAGE until he died.From 1973 until 1979, Alan was part-time director of Mallen's software company, System Simulation, where he produced one of the computer animation sequences used in Ridley Scott's 1979 film Alien. At the same time, he was also part-time director of Peter Zinovieff's company, Electronic Music Studios (EMS). He was introduced to Zinovieff by their mutual friendDelia Derbyshire, of the BBC Radiophonic Workshop.In 1978, Alan was elected vice-president of the British Computer Society and was chairman of their specialist groups committee for four years. He made several contributions to a parliamentary all-party group on IT and privacy.In the following two decades, Alan found many varied roles working on IT contracts. Perhaps the most interesting of these was a project funded by Unesco, developing computer-aided design systems for a hand-woven carpet factory in Vietnam.A dedicated father and family man, Alan is survived by me, our son, Mathew, and daughter, Alice; two daughters, Karen and Victoria, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce; five grandchildren, Thomas, Sophie, Amy, Florence and Emily; and a great-grandson, Jake.
The UK&apos;s four largest internet providers have urged parents to check which websites their children visit, audit their online profiles and switch on filters blocking inappropriate content in an industry-wide response to the government&apos;s push for better child protection online.BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media on Tuesday launched the child internet safety organisationInternet Matters, with a portal offering advice on shielding families against cyberbullying, online grooming, sexting and pornographic content.One in four children have seen sexual images online by the age of 12, while 60% of teens have been asked for a sexual image of themselves, and 28% of children do not tell their parents when they are being bullied online, often for fear of having their phone taken away, according to research by the telecoms watchdog Ofcom, the NSPCC and the market research agency Opinion Leader.Carolyn Bunting, general manager of Internet Matters, said her portal offered a single authoritative resource on child online safety, and hoped to become a &quot;household name&quot; by focusing the technology industry and policy makers on a sensitive issue.“Internet Matters will help parents to understand the issues children can face online whether they&apos;re five or 15,&quot; Bunting said. &quot;We believe this is the first time that the major broadband providers in any country have joined forces for such a venture. The UK is therefore leading the way when it comes to child internet safety.”Launched by the singer-songwriter Sophie Ellis-Bextor and her mother, the former Blue Peter presenter Janet Ellis, at London&apos;s Museum of Childhood, the portal will also advise on how to manage online reputation. Children&apos;s social circles can be larger online than at school, with the average eight-to-11-year-old collecting 92 social network friends.The initiative has cross-party support, with the prime minister describing it as a “significant step forward in our mission to protect children online”. David Cameron called internet companies to Downing Street for acybersummitin November, to secure stricter controls over online material. Labour leader Ed Miliband and deputy prime minister Nick Clegg also voiced their approval.The portal will help parents to operate filters, including those on Google and other search engines. It follows the introduction of optional online filters from each of the four internet providers in recent months.Internet Matters recommends parents manage, rather than block, their children&apos;s access to the internet. It advises them to check the websites visited by looking up internet browser histories; install parental controls on computers, but also on phones, tablets and games consoles; delete profiles on social networks that children are no longer using; and encourage children to ignore and block online bullies.Ellis-Bextor said: “Today&apos;s parents need to deal with issues that didn&apos;t even exist when we were growing up. I&apos;m careful to keep an eye on my two boys, especially my 10-year-old, who is at that age when he&apos;s starting to explore the internet on his own.”Internet Matters&apos; top tips for child safety online1. Encourage your child always to use child-friendly search engines, such as Swiggle, Ajkids or Kids-search. Safe search settings can also be activated on Google and Bing. Don’t forget to opt for the safety mode on YouTube, iTunes and Google Play.2. Parental controls should be installed on every device your child uses: mobile phone, tablet and games consoles (both home and handheld).3. Cyberbullies are looking for a reaction, so make sure your child knows that by deciding not to reply they are making an active choice not to give power to the bully.4. Use the built-in tools on social networks and mobile services to block anyone who is cyberbullying your child.5. Remind your children that even though people they’ve met online might feel like friends, they may not be who they say they are.6. Make a habit of checking the information that’s online about your child. Keep an eye on the social network pages and other sites your child uses.7. If you see inaccurate information about your child, ask the person who posted it to correct or delete it. If they won’t, ask the site administrator to do so.8. When your child stops using a social networking profile or website, it’s a good idea to deactivate or delete their account.9. Look in the browser history at the search terms your child has been using and the sites they’ve visited. Keep an eye on the apps they’ve downloaded on their phones too.10. No filter is 100% effective. Make sure you talk to your child about online pornography as well.
From instant messaging and email to browsing and downloading apps, most of your activity - as you probably already knew - is monitored and tracked.That may be benign – communications being intercepted by the companies that own those apps, with the full knowledge of their users – but last year&apos;sNSA revelationshave done much to raise awareness of unwanted digital surveillance.Oh, and let&apos;s not forget the ever-present threat of nosy hackers. But there&apos;s also a counter culture of developers making apps that aim to protect you against this snooping: a mini-boom in secure communications.Caveat: the apps that follow claim to be &quot;secure&quot;, but actually achieving complete security is a risky business – as the last year has shown. Even so, there are apps available that at least provide an above average level of security for your mobile communications.Alongside my picks, I asked Sony developer and part-time hacker Russell Newman (@smlehbleh) to give his expert opinion on each.Obscuracam (Android, free)Whilst most secure photo apps focus on password protecting your treasured gallery of memories, Obscuracam comes at photo privacy from a different angle.It may or may not surprise some that pictures you take with your smartphone are tagged with identifying data. Aside from the make and model number of your phone, your exact location when the snap was taken is usually in the photo too.When you share a picture on Twitter, in other words, you also may be sharing some very private information. What Obscuracam does is wipe the photo clean of anything identifying before posting it to your desired social network.Whilst some smartphones offer the ability to remove geotagging for your photos, this is usually hidden in the settings menu and it will apply to all photos. If you want to only remove any identifying data from individual photos, then Obscuracam gives you that option too.You can also pixelate automatically detected faces in both video and pictures. Although, the video function doesn’t work very well if the clip is fast-moving.The app itself looks a bit dated, but it works exactly as advertised. I used the app on a recently taken photo and uploaded it to a website that lets you see where pictures have been taken using their geotag data - and the website found nothing.The entire photo wiping process took no longer than 10 seconds. The ease of finding out where a photo was taken shows the importance of removing that identifying data too.&quot;The automatic face detection and pixelation feature is a no-brainer use, but it will only auto-detect people looking directly at the camera. Also, unlike Google’s street view, vehicle registration plates and door numbers are not automatically pixelated, which means its down to the user to spot these potential risks,&quot; says Newman.&quot;Removal of location metadata from photos is a good privacy feature, however, any social networking apps which are granted access to the phone’s GPS could re-introduce new location metadata into any uploaded images.”Cryptocat (iPhone, free)The burner phone of instant messaging, Cryptocat lets you drop in and out of group or one-to-one conversations with strangers or friends without a single character recorded. There’s no sign up process, nothing is stored on your phone and you’re not required to submit any identifying information to use it.I chose this app because it’s significantly easier to use than its competitors. Similar services likeXabberorChatSecureneed a decent level of technical knowhow and the patience of someone with a decent level of technical knowhow to get them to work.Cryptocat has the retro look and feel of early noughties chat rooms, a concept it&apos;s clearly based on. Conversations are created by making up a chatroom name, which you then share with friends – preferably not over a less-secure communication service. They can then join by entering the chatroom name in the search field of the app.Cryptocat uses the Off The Record (OTR) protocol to encrypt its messages. Essentially, every message is uniquely encrypted. So any method of decryption can’t be used on two separate messages. It’s also impossible to tell who sent what messages since they aren’t digitally signed.&quot;Cryptocat provides a unique level of encryption because only the end users have the decryption keys, and not the server,&quot; says Newman. &quot;While eavesdropping parties cannot decrypt the messages in a reasonable timeframe, they can detect that the message is encrypted and where it came from, which might attract unwanted attention to the sender.”MyKolab - (various, £6.36 a month)Secure email for mobile is anything but straightforward. For a start, there’s only a handful of secure mail services available, and most don’t have a mobile option - let alone a user-friendly app.After spending a couple of frustrated afternoons fiddling with theRiseUpandNeomailboxemail clients, I settled on the relatively easy to use MyKolab.MyKolab does what its competitors don’t do and that’s utilise Microsoft&apos;s old ActiveSync functionality on your smartphone (available on most platforms apart from iPhone). What this means is that you can sync all of your emails and contacts from your MyKolab desktop email to your mobile.MyKolab is a Swiss product, the mecca of privacy and neutrality: the hope being that it won&apos;t be strong-armed into submission by governments, as Lavabit and Silent Mail were last year.There is risk, however. Whilst the method of sending emails back and forth through the Perfect Forwarding Secrecy protocol protects the email from being intercepted, and any identifying information is stripped from the email header, the actual emails stored on its Zurich-based server aren’t encrypted.Essentially that means MyKolab can read your emails if it wants to. It explains that it doesn’t encrypt the data stored on its server because even if it did, it would still hold your password and encryption key anyway, so there’s no point pretending that it can’t with pointless encryption. You have to love that Swiss directness.&quot;The MyKolab email software suite justifies its claims for email privacy by holding all of their customers data within Switzerland. Unfortunately, in doing so, they give up the ability to have worldwide data centres like Google and other mainstream email providers,&quot; says Newman.“This could limit the service’s capability for delivering data to worldwide customers at the speed and responsiveness people may expect from mainstream email providers.&quot;F-Droid (Android, free)F-droid is the marketplace for all things secure on Android: it is the place where those in theknow go to get the apps you (mostly) won’t see in the Google Play store.Founded in 2010, F-Droid is a registered not-for-profit volunteer organisation run by 45 people, existing solely as a software repository for free and open source Android apps – complete with a rule that they cannot have any &quot;anti-features&quot; like tracking or advertising.F-Droid itself doesn’t require setup or any sort of registration or your email address: you simply install and start browsing apps. It isn’t available to download from the Google Play Store, but you can download it directly from its website.F-Droid isn’t as slick or accomplished as its mainstream rival app stores, but it does has some very useful features. For example, you can select which version of each app to install, rather than being forced to install the latest version.So, if you’ve read that the latest version of an app is causing issues for other users, you can avoid it all together. So far, thousands of apps have been featured in its store.Whilst it doesn’t have some of the slickest big budget apps available, it does have lots of useful apps like driving feedback and firewall apps that you know are secure and have been vetted (unlike, for example, the recentVirus Shield app, a nonfunctional anti-virus app uploaded to Google Play in what its developer described as a &quot;foolish mistake&quot;).&quot;While F-Droid’s anonymous access to open source android software is a victory for privacy, you will lose the convenience of having your apps and apps settings backed up by Google,&quot; says Newman.“The open source nature of F-Droid’s software library allows anyone feeling generous to regularly add features or fix bugs in any of the software. The possible dark side of this is that any security holes or bugs in the code are visible to anyone and everyone, such as in the recent case of the Heartbleed bug.&quot;
Android has two more conversions of classic PC games this week – Half-Life 2 and Portal – but for now they&apos;re only available on one device: Nvidia&apos;s Shield.The gaming handheld has the exclusive on both games, which were converted to Android by Nvidia&apos;s own team under licence from their developer, Valve.Both games are available on Android&apos;s Google Play store, but are Shield-only for now – although in the past, such exclusives have supported more smartphones and tablets within a few months of their initial release.Nvidia said in Marchit was porting Portal to its Shield, but the appearance of Half-Life 2 alongside it is a surprise for gamers. &quot;We’re huge Half-Life fans. So bringing it to Shield was a labor for love for more than a few members of the team,&quot;explained a post on Nvidia&apos;s corporate blog. &quot;Using the utmost care, we paid attention to every detail to ensure gamers get the full PC versions natively on Android. The graphic performance is sharp; the controls are precise and natural.&quot;The releases are part of Nvidia&apos;s efforts to ensure there is a wide catalogue of games available for its handheld, which went on sale in July 2013. There are now more than 300 available for the $199 device, which isn&apos;t yet available in the UK.Nvidia hasn&apos;t given public sales figures for the device, although in August 2013 its senior director of investor relations, Chris Evenden,said sales had been &quot;great&quot;, adding that &quot;everything that we shipped so far has sold out, but we&apos;re just starting to ramp production&quot;.Early indications are good for the two new Shield games.Half-Life 2has an average review score of 4.9 out of five on the Google Play store based on 91 ratings from players, whilePortalis averaging a perfect 5.0 from 60 reviews.Nvidia also recentlylaunched a remote-streaming featurefor the Shield, enabling owners to play games running on their PCs even when they&apos;re away from their home. The company pitched its GameStream feature as a way to play games including Titanfall, World of Warcraft and League of Legends on the device.•Project Shield: Nvidia enters the portable console battle
Motorola launched a cheap but solid smartphone on Tuesday that is available for just Rs 6,999 (£70) in India, aiming to undercut the competition.The device is aimed squarely at first-time smartphone buyers who might ordinarily have bought a feature phone, offering a durable, basic Android smartphone for a sub-Rs 7,000 price,available only from the online retailer Flipkart.Motorola, which is being acquired by Lenovo but is at present still owned by the search giant Google, has set the price to compete directly with smartphones from home-grown brands such as Micromax and Karbonn.“People often spend a month’s or more salary to buy their smartphone,&quot; Charlie Tritschler, senior vice-president of products at Motorola told the Guardian. &quot;We’ve made the Moto E almost 40% less expensive than the Moto G, so for people on a budget that will make the difference.”Delhi-based Neil Shah of the analysis company Counterpoint Research,said on Twitterthe Moto E &quot;adds further fuel to the fire in already heated-up sub-US$100 wholesale smartphones. [The] quality engineering and brand will favour Motorola.&quot;Motorola hopes that the Moto E can continue the momentum that its last budget offering,the Moto G, generated in developing markets like India. The Moto G was launched in February in India, also sold only through Flipkart, at Rs 12,499. Its allocation of 20,000 phones sold out within hours of its debut. Indian user reviews of the Moto G on Flipkart gave it an average rating of 4.6 out of 5; most of the negative comments related to supply shortages rather than the smartphone itself.The Moto G was the 12th best-selling smartphone in India in the first quarter of 2014, behind devices from Samsung, China&apos;s ZTE and Nokia. A total of 247,000 of the phones were sold, despite only being on sale for two of the three months, according to data from IDC. The Moto G was Motorola&apos;s first smartphone launched in India for two years, but was a “very strong competitor in the midrange at a very attractive price”, according to Francisco Jeronimo, a research director for IDC.‘Looking for durability’Motorola Moto E for India Photograph: MotorolaThe Moto E runs the latest version of Google’s Android software and has a 4.3in display which the company says is the “sharpest in class”, a 5-megapixel camera and claims an all-day battery life. It also has dual SIM slots – a key feature for the Indian market – along with 4GB of built-in storage and a microSD card slot which can be used to add as much as 32GB of storage for movies, music and photos. The Moto E has 1GB of RAM, double that of most phones have in the sub-Rs 12,000 category.“What people, especially in emerging markets, look for in a phone is durability,” said Tritschler. “With Moto E there are some things we’re doing which you just don’t see in this tier of product, like Gorilla Glass 3 to protect the screen from scratches and breaking with an anti-smudge coating. We’ve also included the same splash-proof P2i nano coating of the Moto G, as well as an all-day battery, so you don’t have to worry about recharging the phone.”Motorola has been working on the phone for two years, said Tritschler. Its aim has been to cut the cost of processes – such as reaching the market – without compromising device quality, so that it can “disrupt” the budget smartphone market. The Moto G succeeded in carving out a new segment of the market for Motorola, especially in India and the UK, where itpropelled Motorola to a 6% marketshare from practically zeroand became its best selling smartphone ever.The Moto E has the same 5-megapixel camera as the Moto G. Photograph: MotorolaTritschler said: “One of the things we really focused on first for Moto G, but even more so for Moto E, is to design the phone to be very low cost from a construction perspective; how it&apos;s built on the line, from a warranty perspective, all the things which really drive the cost of the phone. We architected that into the product; you can’t just cut the price.“For India, for instance, we decided to go online to keep the cost low to the consumer. Traditionally if we went in through national and local distribution, by the time it gets to the user our exceptional phone isn’t so exceptionally priced anymore.&quot;As with the Moto G, Motorola is guaranteeing that the Moto E will receive an upgrade to the next version of Android – which most other smartphones in its class do not. Motorola is also using a version of the Android software without the modifications typically made by other manufacturers like Samsung and HTC, which are often considered to slow the performance of cheaper smartphones.Motorola will guarantee software updates to the next version of Android. Photograph: MotorolaIndia has a population of around 1.2 billion, of which about 13% or 156 million people owned a smartphone by the end of 2013, according to the analysis company MediaCells. It forecasts that smartphone penetration in India will rise to 30% by the end of 2014, with 224m sales, making it the second biggest market in the world for smartphones, ahead of the US but behind China. Of those sales, 207m smartphones are expected to be to new users, making it the second largest market after China for first-time smartphone buyers, while developed nations like the UK and USapproach smartphone saturation.“Moto E is the phone for folks who would like to have a smartphone but just can’t afford it,&quot; said Tritschler. &quot;That’s our biggest market, people who have been on the edge for a while but just didn’t think they could afford one. Now they’ll have a product that offers a great smartphone experience that allows them to shift off a feature phone.&quot;•Motorola Moto G – the best budget smartphone available
The top European court has backed the"right to be forgotten"and said Google must delete "inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant" data from its results when a member of the public requests it.The test case privacy ruling by the European Union's court of justice against Google Spain was brought by a Spanish man, Mario Costeja González, after he failed to secure the deletion of an auction notice of his repossessed home dating from 1998 on the website of a mass circulation newspaper in Catalonia.Costeja González argued that the matter, in which his house had been auctioned to recover his social security debts, had been resolved and should no longer be linked to him whenever his name was searched on Google.He told the Guardian: "Like anyone would be when you tell them they're right, I'm happy. I was fighting for the elimination of data that adversely affects people's honour, dignity and exposes their private lives. Everything that undermines human beings, that's not freedom of expression."The European court judges ruled that under existing EU data protection laws Google has to erase links to two pages onLa Vanguardia's website from the results that are produced when Costeja González's name is put into the search engine.The European judges made clear that in their view the EU data protection directive already established a "right to be forgotten". This appears to pre-empt lengthy negotiations within the EU over a new data protection directive which could establish a limited "right to be forgotten".The judges said they had found that the inclusion of links in the Google results related to an individual who wanted them removed "on the grounds that he wishes the information appearing on those pages relating to him personally to be 'forgotten' after a certain time" was incompatible with the existing data protection law.They said the data that had to be erased could "appear to be inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant or excessive … in the light of the time that had elapsed". They added that even accurate data that had been lawfully published initially could "in the course of time become incompatible with the directive".In technical terms the ruling establishes that a search engine such as Google must be regarded as a "data controller" under the data protection laws in those EU countries where it establishes a branch to promote and sell advertising.They also made clear that there is a balancing public interest defence against deletion, especially if the individual is involved in public life. But the judges say that it is the role of a search engine in being able to create a "ubiquitous" list of results that can easily provide a 'more or less detailed' profile of the private life an individual that "heightens" the interference with privacy rights.The case is the first of more than 200 cases in the pipeline against Google in which Spanish citizens want the search engine to delete personal information about them from their search results.The ruling makes clear that a search engine such as Google has to take responsibility as a "data controller" for the content that it links to and may be required to purge its results even if the material was previously published legally. Data protection lawyers said the ruling meant that Google could no longer be regarded legally as a "neutral intermediary"The EU judges pointed out that they were requiring Google to remove its links to two pages on La Vanguardia's website even though the Spanish data protection agency had rejected Costeja González's complaint against the newspaper and said it had published the information about him lawfully.Legal experts said the ruling could give the go-ahead to deletion requests of material including photographs of embarrassing teenage episodes and even insults on social media websites and could lead to a rethink in the way they handle links to content on the web.The EU justice commissioner, Viviane Reding, welcomed the court's decision, saying it was a clear victory for the protection of the personal data of Europeans. "The ruling confirms the need to bring today's data protection rules from the 'digital stone age' into today's modern computing world," she said in apost on Facebook.Google said: "This is a disappointing ruling for search engines and online publishers in general. We are very surprised that it differs so dramatically from the advocate general's opinion and the warnings and consequences that he spelled out. We now need to take time to analyse the implications."The British justice secretary, Chris Grayling, has been a leading opponent of Reding's proposals for an explicit EU "right to be forgotten".The Ministry of Justice has estimated that the European commission's proposals could cost British businesses, which include many leading data and tech firms, £360m a year. The information commissioner has called the "right to be forgotten" proposals "a regime that no one will pay for".
The Decoded Fashion hackathon on 10-11 May took place at the Innovation Loft in London. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaShazad Awan, technology director at Condé Nast International, gives a talk to the hackers prior to the unveiling of the hackathon brief. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaFollowing a panel discussion about the hackathon brief between Gemma Ebelis, head of press at the British Fashion Council, Jen Rubio, global head of innovation at All Saints, and Alexander Giantsis, head of sales at Mary Katrantzou, hackers get into teams and commence hacking. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaDecoded Fashion founder Liz Baclear chats to participants during the hackathon. Mentors were on hand to advise the teams. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaA team practises its pitch before presenting an idea to the judges. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaShazad Awan, technology director at Condé Nast International, speaks to a team at the hackathon. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaA group pitches to the judges. 150 hackers made it to the end of the 24-hour hackathon and 30 apps were created. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaJudges included representatives from Lyst, British Fashion Council, Wired.co.uk, Condé Nast International, Net-a-Porter,  Partner, Silicon Valley Bank,  All Saints,  Mary Katrantzou and Stylus. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaParticipants at the Decoded Fashion hackathon hang out at the Innovation Loft after presenting to the judges. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg MediaThe judges discuss which five teams will make it through to the next round. The overall, to be announced at the Decoded Fashion summit on Tuesday, will be flown out to San Fransico by All Saints to meet top tech and retail industry players. Photograph: Dan Taylor/Heisenberg Media
Twitter is rolling out a feature that lets usersmute other users without unfollowingthem, a halfway house between blocking and unfollowing. But what use is a mute button? Why not just unfollow or block someone?There’s some debate as to whether theofficial Twitter mute function, which has been available in third-party Twitter apps like Tweetbot for the iPhone and Mac for sometime, is actually useful.While blocking (which stops the person interacting with you by following, or sending an @ or direct message) or simply unfollowing are probably more useful for most people when dealing with abuse or people they don’t want to see in their timeline, there are some scenarios where muting is the best way to go.Muting allows you tostill receive mentions or @replies from users, although they will not be pushed to your device if you have that feature enabled. That allows you effectively remove a user from your Twitter stream without alerting them to the fact that you have them muted and are not seeing their normal tweets. Here are examples of times when muting is the best policy.I really like you but don&apos;t want to listen to youFollowing people can be a sign of respect, friendship or even love, but you don’t always want to actually read the inane drivel or shouty-rants some people spit out into their Twitter streams.Muting those people, as long as you&apos;re careful, should work fine. Just be sure to check their streams every now and again, in case they said something you need to respond to, and to keep up the illusion that you read their every word.I hate you but I’m afraid of youSome people on Twitter are a dangerous unknown. They’re the kind of people who could do anything, like go on an all-out personal attack, and you can’t tell how they will react to being unfollowed or even blocked.Muting could be the best strategy, as that person will see that you still follow him or her while you don’t have to listen to their tweets, thus avoiding making an enemy of them.I want you to follow me but I don’t care about your tweetsMany people will not follow people who do not follow them. That means you have to follow people to be followed by them. (This chicken-and-egg problem is, incidentally, Twitter&apos;s biggest barrier to new users.) People often initially follow others just to get them to follow back and then unfollow them – but that runs the risk of them finding out and unfollowing you.Muting is the safer option. In future we could see people who follow thousands of users, but only actually listen to a small minority of them.I want my following list to look impressiveWho you follow on Twitter can be a sort of status symbol. Like books that you buy to look good on your bookshelf but never read, following a group of users on mute could make your online presence appear more high-brow or connected than you really are.Of course, that falls down when others ask you what you thought of someone’s muted tweet, opinion or landmark statement, but it could be better than having to read a legion of incredibly dull tweets.Stop tweeting about footballOne of the uses Twitter suggests for the mute button is a temporary silencing of people you follow. Football fans who otherwise don’t talk about football go nuts during big games or cup finals, and with the World Cup kicking off next month, the mute button could come in handy.Just remember to unmute them after the World Cup ends, or England/their favourite team are out.The temporary Eurovision blockAnother classic example of people tweeting about an event or subject that some other people loathe is Eurovision. Though the contest is over for this year, the mute button could have been ideal for temporarily removing Conchita Wurst references or Graham Norton barbs for the few hours that Eurovision took over the airwaves. (This will also work for the X Factor, the Voice, cooking programmes, and – perhaps – spoilers relating to Games Of Thrones, Mad Men and others.)It&apos;s not me, it&apos;s your tweetsSometimes people&apos;s deathless tweet prose turns to breathless turns to dead. They haven&apos;t become less interesting, and you’d rather not offend them, but you can’t be bothered to read their tweets anymore.Muting them, but not unfollowing them, could prove the perfect solution.The breakup muteLess a problem on Twitter than it is on Facebook, but when a relationship dissolves then muting your former partner could be the kindest solution. Remove their painful reminders from your Twitter feed without looking as if you hate them by unfollowing or blocking them; even if you do.Current work colleagues muteIn some jobs there is almost an obligation to follow your colleagues. Some are bound to be interesting, others not so much. Mute the dull ones, and just hope they don’t say anything that might affect you at work.Possibly worth checking out their streams occasionally, just in case.Mute old work colleaguesDo you continue to follow old work colleagues you were obliged to follow before you left their company? Many would unfollow or even block old work colleagues, but just in case you can’t afford to annoy – but don’t want to listen to their endless drivel about canteen prices any more – muting could be the best solution.Mute a ranterThere’s been some debate as to whether Tweetstorms – individual rants that extend over dozens of tweets – are the worst thing to happen to Twitter since Justin Bieber joined. But while your opinion may differ, most don’t want to see or have their streams filled with rants, or even rapid-fire output that monopolises any Twitter stream.Short of unfollowing frequent ranters, muting them just as they start ranting could be the answer, just for an hour or so, until they’ve calmed down and start tweeting interesting stuff again.Stop someone appearing in retweets without blockingWhen you don’t follow someone, their tweets don’t ordinarily show up in your Twitter stream. But if a user you follow retweets someone you’re trying to avoid, their tweet will be blasted into your carefully managed stream.Muting those users will stop their retweets appearing in your stream, forever, and they’ll never know.&apos;Trial muting&apos; as a precursor to unfollowingFor some, the choice to unfollow someone is a big decision; will your stream be better off without them, or do they actually enrich your Twitter experience on the whole?Muting someone who is on the borderline will show you how your Twitter stream will look and feel without them, before going the whole hog and unfollowing.You could simply unfollow them, but if you change your mind and want to follow them again, they’ll get a new-follower notification from you revealing your betrayal. Better to try it out on the quiet first.•#AmazonBasket allows users to add things straight to online shopping cart from Twitter
Bitcoin has been slowly fighting its way to mainstream respectability in the past year.A summit on digital money in Downing Street last Septemberandofficial recognition from the Federal Election Commissionthat US politicians can accept donations in the cryptocurrency are the fruits of tireless lobbying.But not everyone in the bitcoin community is happy with this state of affairs. Amir Taaki, a bitcoin developer, says: &quot;The whole point of bitcoin is that it&apos;s here now, it&apos;s working, we don&apos;t need to ask [for] anything.&quot;Taaki, 26, is part of a faction fighting for the heart of bitcoin to remain in the anarchistcypherpunkcommunity where it started, rather than complete its transformation into a professional, but ultimately neutered, digital currency.&quot;There&apos;s this attitude right now that bitcoin is just this investment, or a superior way to do payments, or something that&apos;s going to make it more efficient to do commerce,&quot; says Taaki. &quot;It&apos;s the idea that bitcoin isn&apos;t something that&apos;s fundamentally different, but something reformative, to paper over the cracks in the system.&quot;A lot of people are asking regulators to give them regulation, and proactively censoring themselves to please people with power. It&apos;s unbelievable, people are afraid to say anything because of the perceived threat.&quot;Instead, we need to be bold with these things. There&apos;s a lot that&apos;s possible with bitcoin. There&apos;s a lot coming up.&quot;DarkWallet is Taaki&apos;s way of being bold. At its heart, it&apos;s a bitcoin wallet, similar enough to the software he denigrates as being about &quot;making it easy for grandma to use&quot;. But rather than focusing on ease of use, DarkWallet differentiates itself by amping up the features which made bitcoin so tempting to those trying to opt out of normal society.&quot;There&apos;s a certain group of bitcoin people, who always talk about it as a &apos;payments innovation&apos;. They say we need to sacrifice some of our integrity to get the money in, and take this plaything away from the anarchists who invented it,&quot; Taaki says.StealthWhile payments made with bitcoin are far harder to trace back to an individual than those made with credit or debit cards, they aren&apos;t fully anonymous. Conventional bitcoin wallets open up the prospect of identification by looking at other payments made from the same wallet: for instance, a user who sends money to a known drug dealer with the same wallet they use to buy computer hardware from Overstock.com is easy to track down.DarkWallet builds in functions that overcome that possibility. For instance, users can share &quot;stealth&quot; addresses, which let transactions occur between wallets known only to the sender and receiver. The secret address is shared cryptographically, ensuring that no third party can eavesdrop on the transaction.Another feature lets users automatically &quot;mix&quot; transactions. When users make mixed payments simultaneously, the money gets put in a central pool, and then paid out to the receiving addresses from there, making it impossible to tell which user was paying which receiver.And, once the software is made, it&apos;s nigh-on impossible to shut down. Like bitcoin itself, DarkWallet&apos;s special features are decentralised, meaning that there&apos;s no central server to take out, and no easy way to close off access to the network.Naturally, such features can be used for nefarious ends too, but Taaki says that&apos;s the price to be paid for freedom. &quot;There&apos;s a new future that&apos;s possible, but everyone&apos;s just worrying this thing will be used for paedophiles, or drugs, or crime. That&apos;s what liberty&apos;s about. My message is: step out in any direction you choose. There&apos;s so much more to this tool. The values are in it being uncensored – its privacy aspects. There are things deep down in bitcoin that we haven&apos;t yet explored.&quot;But as well as enabling an unstoppable vision of anarcho-capitalism, Taaki argues that bitcoin and DarkWallet can create whole new forms of trade. One feature, built into bitcoin but only fully implemented in DarkWallet, allows for transactions which can only be finalised with consent from a set number of bitcoin users. &quot;Imagine,&quot; says Taaki, &quot;you can create a fund between 10,000 people and watch the hive mind decide how to use that money. It would be the world&apos;s first co-operative bank.&quot;Or say I want to start a business but don&apos;t have trust from the community. I can very publicly partner with someone who does, and make it so that I can only spend the firm&apos;s money with their permission. It&apos;s not always practical that you have to go through the legal system.&quot;As for the risk of being shut down for enabling crime? Taaki isn&apos;t worried. &quot;If the government want to try and close it down, that&apos;s a very odious act of censorship against people creating works of art. DarkWallet is art. When I write code, I encode my values, just like when someone makes art or music.&quot;•US politicians can accept bitcoin donations
Men can take a very personal pride in a lawn, so I'm finding it uncomfortable discussing mine with the PR forMiimo, a robotic lawnmower, and the man from the manufacturer, Honda, who has come to set it up. Following a whispered conversation, Graham hands me his BlackBerry: "Graham says it's tiny, too tiny to work properly," says Maddy, the PR, down the phone. "Also, it's a funny shape." She pauses. "What shape is it exactly?"I explain it's sort of semi-circular, with a longer bit, completely normal for London."It's not a micro-lawn?" she asks."No, it is not," I reply. The thing is, now I've seen the thing out of its box – a bit smaller, and squatter than the business end of a Flymo; but why didn't they make it green? – I want to see it in action. In fact, I want it. Already I'm flushed with the desire of every suburban man down the ages: to see a machine performing one of my chores while I sit and do nothing.After I've begged Graham, he reluctantly begins the laborious process of pegging a wire loop around the whole lawn that will demarcate the Miimo's operating boundaries. It doesn't seem very hi-tech  – I'd hoped for GPS or sensors or something – but Graham is more concerned my loop is so small, Miimo may just sit immobile in the middle of the lawn. He also assures me the wire disappears into the grass soon enough and is also low voltage, so not hazardous.The next issue is where to position the base station/charging unit, which doesn't exactly fit my lawn either; indeed it dominates the whole vista, though someone with a bigger garden could lose it behind a ha-ha or a shed. We opt for slap bang in the middle.Then, following some fiddling with the onboard programmer (doesn't seem much harder than setting up a new printer), the Miimo gives a peremptory beep and suddenly darts from its base, gliding fully two yards straight across the garden. But is it mowing? The neighbours, who have gathered, think not. I explain that Miimo takes only tiny 2mm clippings, which form a mulch on the lawn and even help to suppress weeds. (Graham has just told me this.)  But it turns out it's not actually mowing.Further slight adjustments to the boundary wire settings and the rotor blade motor hums into action (Miimo's lithium ion battery controls three motors all together: the 56-watt blade motor and the 25w motor for each wheel, which allow it to yee and yaw over humps and bumps) and suddenly we're mowing. The neighbours and I watch agog as it beetles round randomly, really very quietly (if you shut the kitchen windows, you wouldn't hear it; it can even be operated at night) and  after just eight minutes, my lawn is done – though I still have to do the edges.We're impressed, the neighbours and I, and treat ourselves to a drink on the strength of it. Then I set Miimo to go again, this time taking 1mm. Apparently most owners do this, inviting neighbours round for a drink to watch. Quite possibly this over-the-fence appeal is worth £2,200 in itself. But I imagine these machines will soon be  commonplace – not to mention cheaper.
In what could be a landmark case for internet privacy,a European court has ruledGoogle must amend some of its search results in an advisory judgment stemming from a Spanish case.The test case has been seen as an important test of the &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;. It was brought by a Spanish man, Mario Costeja González, after he failed to secure the deletion of an auction notice of his repossessed home dating from 1998 on the website of a mass circulation newspaper in Catalonia.According to the advisory judgement from the court of justice of theEuropean Union, individuals have a right to control their private data, especially if they are not public figures.More and more individuals are claiming they have a &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;, particularly when the internet pulls up personal information which may appear one-sided or unfair. Last year, we asked you to share your stories about attemptingto delete yourself from the web. A year is a long time on the internet and in light of today&apos;s ruling, we&apos;d like to hear from you again.Have you ever tried to have some information about yourself deleted from the web? How successful were you? Perhaps you&apos;ve got rid of Facebook or sworn off all social networking completely. Let us know in the comments below.
Beats Music, the streaming service set up by Dr Dre as part of his headphones brand, had just 111,000 subscribers in March, according to a leaked royalty report.Since its launch in January in the US, Beats Music has added 49,371 individual accounts and 61,621 &quot;family&quot; accounts, which can have up to five users, according to a royalty statement published by themusic industry blog Trichordist.But because the US mobile phone provider AT&amp;T has been offering a 90-day free promotion, it&apos;s unclear how many of those Beats accounts are paid-for.Appleis said to be pursuing an acquisition of Beats, including its headphones, speaker and streaming music brands, for $3.2bn. Dre seemed to confirm the purchase last Friday, stating on video that he had just become the “first billionaire in hip-hop”. But the deal has yet to be confirmed either by Beats or by Apple.Beats Music individual accounts cost $9.99 (£5.93) a month, while family accounts bought through AT&amp;T for $14.99 a month for up to five users.Number of users is unclearThe number of users is small compared with Spotify at this stage, which currently has more than 24 million active users globally, of which more than 6 million are paying subscribers, with the remainder using Spotify’s ad-supported streaming service. In the US, Spotify had 1 million paying subscribers as of March last year.The Beats Music family plans were all offered with a 90-day free trial, which meansit is unclear whether many of them are actually payingfor the service, given it only launched in January. It is also unclear how many users each family plan has; the 61,621 family accounts could account for up to 308,105 people.Beats Music has since added options for in-app subscription payments to its iPhone app, which has propelled the app up the App Store charts behind other US music streaming apps Pandora, Rdio, Slacker and Rhapsody. That could indicate a surge in subscribers.Low royaltiesBeats Music pays artists $0.000126 per play, according to the report, which is significantly less than the average payout to rightsholders for a single play of a track made by Spotify, whichis between $0.006 and $0.0084. Beats Music has often been hailed as friendly to music artists and striving to make music streaming profitable for artists; the royalty figures from the report suggest a different story.The report also suggests good engagement by users, with 49,371 individual subscribers playing 116.4m tracks in March alone – an average 2,357 songs each, or 76 a day.It is still unclear whether Apple has bought Beats for the reported $3.2bn, butmany have speculatedthat Beats Music and the company’s ties into the music industry is the jewel in the headphone maker’s crown for Apple, and could be used to bolster the company’s iTunes Radio streaming music offering.•What does Apple stand to gain from snapping up Dr Dre, Jimmy Iovine and their Beats headphones?
San Francisco&apos;s technology scene has long been regarded as the centre of the free economy, where offering a service at no charge can, one day, lead to a business worth billions.Take Twitter, which allows users to broadcast SMS-length messages on the internet to a self-selecting group of followers. Biz Stone was one of the co-founders of Twitter in 2006, along with Evan Williams and Jack Dorsey. His new book, Things A Little Bird Told Me, starts with what he learnt before then, while creating Blogger in 1999; it was bought by Google in 2003 and Stone was made very wealthy when Google floated in 2004.The obvious first question is whether his book is a response to Hatching Twitter, the history of the company written by the New York Times journalist Nick Bilton. Based on extensive interviews, it recounts in unflinching detail the creation, jockeying for position and boardroom inveigling that the messaging service has gone through.“We were writing at the same time, so I didn&apos;t know what he was going to write when I was writing,&quot; Stone says. &quot;He didn&apos;t want to share it ahead of publishing. All I could do was write my own experience.&quot; He adds that he hasn&apos;t read it in detail – though one gets the impression that he has looked at it in more detail than he describes.Stone adds: &quot;There&apos;s a lot... my experience is my experience. I didn&apos;t do research, I based it on my life. I didn&apos;t go researching board members about meetings I wasn&apos;t in.&quot; One particular strand of Hatching Twitter is how Jack Dorsey, the first CEO who was eased upstairs in October 2008 to be chairman, and replaced as CEO by Williams, appears in the book to be akin to a Bond villain, planning a Machiavellian return to the company that threw him out. He eventually became executive chairman in March 2011, and Williams was replaced by Dick Costolo, who remains in place.Stone, the peacemakerSo is Stone&apos;s book a rebuttal? “This isn&apos;t an attempt to refute anything – if you read both then I confirm certain things as true. What you might take away is that in my version of reality Jack Dorsey is an incredibly generous and empathic and helpful and wonderful friend of mine. Not some classic Machiavellian-Mr-Burns-Count-of-Monte-Cristo plotting revenge in a cave. That&apos;s drama whipped up to make a page-turner.&quot;Then he effectively denies reading it: &quot;I only skimmed the section about me to make sure I&apos;m not portrayed as a fool. My wife says it makes Jack seem very Machiavellian. My version is, what I experienced was, that every single person who had stock in Twitter all had the best of intentions. Whether &apos;the best&apos; and &apos;aligned with each other&apos; could be questioned, I guess. But everybody thought that they were doing the right thing. Nobody was trying to do harm. It was, &apos;If this thing benefits me, it benefits us all.&apos; Though there were people who came late to try to get as much wealth as they could...&quot; His voice drifts off and he lets the comment – which sounds as close as he’ll get to an accusation – hang.Stone’s depiction of himself in his book tallies well with Bilton’s: self-deprecating, a peacemaker, but also someone who gets things done. As he says in the introduction, it’s about “making something out of nothing, about merging your abilities with your ambitions, and about what you learn when you look at the world through a lens of infinite possibility&quot;.Four degrees of separationAnd Stone is very good at that. The idea behind his his latest startup,Jelly, is that you pose a question which is then sent out over your social network (on Facebook or Twitter) where, you hope, someone will know the answer. But people on those networks can pass the question on to people ontheirnetworks, which suddenly multiplies the number of people who might see your question enormously. In effect, it’s using the idea of the “six degrees of separation” – that everyone is just six acquaintances from everyone else on the planet – to try to find the person with specialist knowledge.“Now is the perfect time for Jelly,” enthuses Stone. “It’s based on the premise that you will network, via social and mobile.” The core idea is very like Aardvark, a “social search engine” which Google bought for $50m in February 2010 but shut down in September 2011, but “nobody had mobile” then, says Stone.“People now are hyperlinked by mobile phones,&quot; he says. &quot;And now, the six degrees of separation, because of our social networks, is less than four – there arenew scientific paperswhich show that the average connection is just 3.8 people now.” Thatresearchcomes from a team at Facebook, though it hasn’t had formal scientific confirmation yet.&quot;Most people have a modest network on Facebook or Twitter. Jelly combines them into one network and routes questions to a certain percentage of people and to people nearby, via location… You can go from a few followers on Facebook or Twitter, and route your question to almost anybody on the planet.”It could be something as simple as finding someone in the park where you’re sunbathing who has some suncream; or solving a complex equation. In future he hopes to include gigantic mobile messaging networks, including Chinese ones such as QQ or Line.Startup game has changedBut having two big successes behind him is no guarantee of success this time round, and Stone has discovered first-hand how much the startup game has changed since he last did it eight years ago. “There are so many companies starting out on a shoestring now. I get the impression that kids today don’t want to be massive stars, they want to be entrepreneurs. When we launched Jelly, we had twice as many accounts created in the first 24 hours as we did in the first year of Twitter. That’s because of social networks. This sounds negative, but — new apps can blow up like a tick on a dog. You can go to 100 million users in days. It’s an amazing new world.”But, he notes, you have to keep giving people value. He picks out Snapchat – the temporary picture app– as important: “They’re changing the way people communicate, and making it useful. You’re sending pictures about what’s up, rather than a text… it’s joyful, people laugh about it. The ephemerality [because the pictures vanish after a few seconds] is interesting, but pictures are interesting too – it makes it not about language.”He contrasts that with games, expressing reverence for play more broadly. &quot;But when your measurement for success is people staring at ascreen for eight hoursa day, versus having people coming to the app 60 times a day for15 secondsbecause it helps with their day – there’s a metric I prefer.”He&apos;s reserving judgment on Secret and Whisper, the two apps that allow people to leak secrets anonymously to a broad social network. &quot;I’m not sure how I feel about anonymity and not having to take responsibility for your actions.”The joys of volunteeringStone and his wife Livia, a writer and artist, have already set up afoundationto support charitable environmental and animal welfare work. The multimillionaire does volunteer work himself, and says that volunteering, even for two days, is a way that young people can get experience and have something to share in job interviews. &quot;It’s an interesting thing to tell a prospective employer, and you also are networking with people with jobs. You see,” his voice kicks up a notch in enthusiasm, “it’s more foryouthan the people you are helping. You have to think about what you’regaining, rather than whether you’re giving something up.”Much of the discussion in San Francisco recently is about tensions between wealthy young tech entrepreneurs and developers pushing up housing prices, while native San Franciscans are being forced out of the area. Twitter has taken some heat for this, creating 1,600 millionaires since its IPO in November 2013, adding to the perception of a pampered tech elite detached from the soul of the city.The fact that a lot of the would-be entrepreneurs face the same problem – renting is hard, purchasing impossible – hasn’t stopped resentment bubbling over, with attacks on the private buses operated by Google and Yahoo, and owners of Google’s Glass device – a head-worn camera and video screen – are too scared to wear them in some bars for fear of assault.Stone says: “It seems that in boom times, it should be good times with a lot of jobs being created and wealth being created, right? It baffles me that it isn&apos;t good. What&apos;s the alternative, a ghost town? So how can we turn this boomtown into a boomtown for all?” He has begun talking to technology leaders and non-profit organisations to try to understand the situation, but is also politically averse.“The divisions between people are getting worse and worse, though. It seems that lot of arcane city regulations need to be changed but can&apos;t be changed overnight.” The challenge is complex in an industry where immense wealth can be generated by so few people. WhatsApp, bought for $3bn in cash and $16bn in Facebook stock, employs 55 people. In contrast, the giant Detroit car factories of the 1950s employed more than 100,000 people and created billions of dollars of value every year.&quot;But the technology is being built now by people all over the world,&quot; says Stone. &quot;People in China are building these phones in giant factories – we don’t have factories in San Francisco building them… people don’t want to do that, either. It’s a different sort of industrial revolution. Enormous wealth can get generated by very few people and then doesn’t get spread around.“The problem is it’s not in any one person’s basket. It’s a bit like climate change – no one person did it, and it’s a whole that’s greater than the sum of its parts. It has massive effects on the whole world, though. That’s a negative effect.”Typically, he looks for a path to an upside. “You can harness the same effect for positive ends. So it seems to me that it’s a solvable puzzle. The pieces are there.”•Hatching Twitter by Nick Bilton – review
