Google's plans to launch a free email service were thrown into confusion last night by an AIM-listed British investment research house which claims that it has been using the name Gmail for the past two years.The Market Age, which floated four years ago but is only now clawing its way out of the red, yesterday vowed to fight its corner against the US internet firm. Chief executive Shane Smith said the company started using the Gmail name in June 2002. Its Gmail service has allowed its investment clients to pass on The Market Age's research to more than 80 countries worldwide over the past two years."It seems to me as a layman ... that we must have the right to the name since we were the first to use it. I do not think we want to give it up, we're not a charity."Last week Google announced trials of a free email service called Gmail providing greater capacity than existing services from Yahoo! and Microsoft's MSN Hotmail. It hopes to provide subscribers with one gigabyte of space - equivalent to 500,000 email pages.Last night Google said it was unaware of any dispute over Gmail. Its lawyers had failed to find any registration of the name by The Market Age.News yesterday that The Market Age could scupper Google's 
 plans, sent shares in the British company soaring 155% to 25.5p. Even with that performance The Market Age is only valued at &#163;4.4m. Google is expected to come to market later this year with a price tag of up to $25bn (&#163;13.5bn). Mr Smith took the opportunity of the share price rise to sell 300,000 shares at 22.5p each. He still owns 51.4% of the company.The Market Age specialises in delivering analysis of global markets for the professional and institutional investor market. Its initial products covered the foreign exchange, interest rate and other exchange-traded derivatives markets. Recently it has started providing investment advice and analysis to the hedge fund, corporate and retail markets.Its Gmail service - which stands for Graffiti mail - allows clients to add their notes to The Market Age's research and send the whole document on to their customers as a web-based email. Mr Smith said he visited the US patents and trademark office website on Saturday and registered the Gmail name.The Market Age said yesterday that it is making a profit before exceptional and financial charges on a month by month basis. "We are just starting to deliver on the things that we always planned and we certainly do not want to find ourselves tripped up by Google," said Mr Smith.
Nokia, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, shocked investors yesterday by warning that sales had dropped over the first three months of the year despite a boom in the overall market.Traders, who had expected the Finnish company to beat first quarter forecasts, sent shares in the company down more than 15%. The shock reverberated through the technology world, sending telecom stocks lower on both sides of the Atlantic.The warning was especially surprising as the market for handsets has been experiencing a resurgence over the past six months with camera phones, including colour screens, flooding the mature markets of Europe, and new markets in Asia opening up.Nokia's chief executive, Jorma Ollila, admitted that the company suffered from a lack of attractive handsets aimed at the middle of the market -around &euro;150 to &euro;250 per phone."We have not been able to grow with the market in the US and Europe, where our share has been very strong," he told investors.Analysts believe the company has also been squeezed at the cheap end of the market by strong competition from Siemens, while sales of new high-end concept phones such as the N-Gage gaming platform have been disappointing.The company said yesterday that first quarter turnover   dropped 2% to &euro;6.6bn compared with its previous guidance of growth in the region of 3% to 7%. As a result the company said profits, to be announced next week, would be at the bottom end of expectations."They are still the undisputed leader of the market, but they are coming under pressure," said Ben Wood, senior analyst at Gartner Dataquest.He reckons that Nokia had a 35% share of the global handset market at the end of last year, with Motorola in second place on 14% and Samsung third with 10%.Nokia has long held an ambition to retain a 40% share of the global market place, but Mr Ollila did not mention this yesterday. A spokeswoman for the company said more details about the outlook for the second quarter would be given with its results next week, but added "we did not change the forecast either".Nokia is coming under increasing pressure from revitalised competitors in the form of Motorola and SonyEricsson, both of which had lost their way in the dotcom crash. It is also suffering as new entrants such as Samsung come into the market with lower margins.The company has found itself excluded from some of the cheap phone deals Europe's networks have introduced to lure new customers. Mr Wood said he expects Nokia to come out with phones aimed at the gap in its portfolio soon.
Vodafone and Warner Bros have signed a deal that will offer mobile phone users new ways to enter The Matrix.Vodafone Live! subscribers will be able to upload games, screensavers, alerts and information from Warner Bros. brands such as The Matrix, Harry Potter, Looney Tunes, and Friends.Jim Noonan, the general manager of Warner Bros, said future collaborations with Vodafone will include exclusive "made for mobile" entertainment such as video material compiled especially for mobiles.Like other Hollywood studios, Warner Bros, a Time Warner company, is using mobile technology as a potentially lucrative channel to deliver popular cartoon, television and film characters to fans.Warner, one of the world's largest entertainment groups, has already worked with US company Sprint mobile phones to promote its feature animation, Looney Tunes: Back In Action. The film was released last December in the US, and Sprint mobile phones carried Looney Tunes images and ring tones.Film fans are a potentially lucrative area for the telecommunications industry: Orange announced a three-year initiative with the UK cinema industry last week. Orange customers will be able to send a text and buy two cinema tickets for the price of one on Wednesdays.They will also have information on film releases during 2004, as well as film-based downloads, ring tones, games, reviews and gossip.More than 4.5 million Vodafone users in 16 countries will be able to receive the service.
"A significant or total switch from Windows to Linux by most mid-sized or large organisations would be 'prohibitively expensive, extremely complex and time consuming, and would not provide any tangible business gains for the organisation,' a new survey by the Yankee Group claims."Also from the report inThe Age: "In large enterprises, a significant Linux deployment or total switch from Windows to Linux, would be three to four times more expensive and take three times as long to deploy as an upgrade from one version of Windows to newer Windows releases," Laura DiDio, the group's application infrastructure and software platforms senior analyst, said.Techweb,CNetand many other news sites also have versions of the story.
"The Microsoft tool set, called WiX, for Windows Installer XML, is intended for building Windows installation packages from XML source code," reports theIDG News Service."WiX is being offered under the Common Public License, an open source license originally authored by IBM, says Jason Matusow, Microsoft's manager of shared source initiatives."
Last week's ruling by the  federal court of Canada that music  fans who download  music for personal use  via peer-to-peer services,  such as Kazaa and Grokster, are not  breaking its local copyright law highlights  the risk the music business is  taking in deciding to sue music filesharers.Add to that the fact that new  research from Harvard Business  School contradicts the record industry's  central claim that file-sharing  via such services seriously damages  record sales, and you start to get a  sense of the huge task facing the  industry. But the International Federation  of Phonographic Industries  (IFPI) and its UK sister body BPI are  both taking this challenge to music  fans outside the US. The IFPI is  suing 247 fans in Canada, Denmark,  Germany and Italy for online piracy,  while the BPI is sending out messages  across P2P sites warning fans  to stop illegal activity or face the legal  consequences.When it comes to figures on how  record sales have been reduced by  illegal downloading it has always  been a case of lies, damned lies and  statistics. The music industry is  convinced that since the early days of  the original Napster it has lost revenue.  Jay Berman, chairman and  CEO of IFPI, has no doubt that there  is a strong link between CD sales and  the availability of illegal content. "It's  clear-cut to me," he says. "If there are  800m files &#91;IFPI research&#93; being  shared for free then it is less likely  that they would pay for music."But the research from Harvard  and the University of North Carolina  says that, on the contrary, file-sharing  helps music sales. The authors,  Felix Oberholzer-Gee and Koleman  Strumpf, conclude that file-sharing  had no effect on the sale of popular  CDs in the second half of 2002.  They go on to say that for the top  25% of albums (with sales of more  than 600,000 copies) they found a  positive effect: 150 downloads were  said to increase sales by one copy.Berman is scornful of the research,  pointing out that it was carried out in  the record industry's traditionally  strong second half of the year - when  Christmas boosts sales."If I listened to that study my business  would have improved," he says.  The one thing that the report claims  which he agrees with is that tracks  from the most popular albums are  those most likely to be downloaded.  For Berman, this explains a worrying  trend, which has seen a "substantial"  fall in the number of albums sold by  the biggest artists. He points out, for  example, that in the period the Harvard  report covers, 2002, only one  album (by Linkin Park) sold more  than 5m copies.But Wayne Rosso, chair of the US based  lobbying body P2P United and  CEO of Optisoft, supports the Harvard  research and claims that despite  legal action in the US, P2P traffic  numbers have remained healthy."The recording industry is so completely  misguided in its use of fear  tactics that it can only engender even  more contempt from fans. And  what's even more ridiculous is that  they're all profitable and their business  is up, in part due to the free marketing  they get from P2P networks.  They should be paying us!"And the artists, too, are not so certain  that the stats being bandied  about by the record companies stand  up to scrutiny. Dave Rowntree, the  drummer of Blur, told the industry  weekly New Media Age last week he  was furious that the BPI had followed  its US counterpart RIAA by  threatening to sue music fans  blamed for online piracy."It's preposterous," he said. And he  wondered how the researchers could  know for certain if people spent less  money on CDs because they downloaded  music. "How do they know  that? The BPI isn't speaking on  behalf of all the industry."The study, based on 3,667 adults  in the UK, found that 8 million people  in the UK download music, with  92% of them doing so illegally. The  study also claimed that downloaders  spent 32% less on albums and 59%  less on singles than before they  started downloading.BPI spokesman Matt Philips says:  "We could have taken legal action a  year ago but we were surprised as  anyone when the in-depth research  came through. The scale of the problem  has been masked by the fact that  we sold more albums in the UK than  we've ever sold before."Interestingly, at the new paid-for  Napster its internal figures show that  the biggest purchasers of downloads  to burn on to CDs via its on-demand  service are the same people who pay  $10 a month to listen to as much  music as they like via its streaming  service.Though Napster is reluctant to say  that this supports the claim that  access to music via P2P services  could boost record sales, a  spokesman accepts that: "People  given a wide access to songs are more  likely to buy than others."Whatever the reasons for the dip  in record sales, it seems that the days of top performers, such as Prince or  Michael Jackson, shifting tens of millions  of albums might well be behind  us. But some feel that the music  industry should learn to turn the current  challenges facing it to its advantage.At legal P2P service Wippit, which  recently signed deals to distribute  music from EMI and BMG, CEO  Paul Myers feels strongly that the  record companies are sending out a  one-sided message. Referring to the  BPI research, he says: "For me this  just says there are 8 million who are  familiar with download services who  want to buy music."Myers also believes they should be  thinking long-term: "This message  would be much more powerful if it  was also backed up by a campaign  encouraging legal downloads. A TV  commercial for the new Outkast CD  or a personal message to a P2P user  could contain the message, 'If you're  going to download it, download it  legally from Wippit'."The fact that people outside the  US are finally showing some interest  in legal services is backed by figures  put out by Peter Gabriel's OD2,  Europe's largest digital music distribution  service. It has revealed that  over a million digital downloads  were bought via its retail partners  across Europe, includingmycokemusic.com,HMV.co.uk,MSNandTiscali, in the first quarter of this  year.These figures are impressive if you  consider the relatively low profile of  the OD2 services, apart from  mycokemusic.com. This augurs well  for the arrival of Apple's iTunes and  the new Napster in the UK.  Berman is very keen to get the services  up and running in Europe. "I  want iTunes, Real and Napster here  as soon as possible. I'm trying more  than ever for a licence on behalf of all  these services."How long does he think his industry  will still be about selling CDs?  "Five years from now we'll still be selling  CDs, but I think a substantial part  of our business will be digital sales."&#183;Yinka Adegoke is deputy editor of New  Media Age
Over the next 12 months, Vodafone and its rivals will have their work cut out to try and convince customers that they need to upgrade their mobile phones to 3G handsets.It's a tough task, because there does not seem to be a great deal of evidence to demonstrate that consumers have much enthusiasm for 3G's supposed "killer applications", such as football videos and person-to-person video calling.Not surprisingly, then, Vodafone has taken the easy route first, developing a product that it hopes will claw back some of the £13bn invested in 3G networks across Europe.The Mobile Connect 3G/GPRS data card for laptops was launched to both consumers and businesses on Friday (it is available with a secure VPN - or virtual private network - often used by businesses to give their workers remote access).The card, which  fits in a laptop's PCMCIA slot, is essentially a version of the company's existing Mobile Connect GPRS card, but with go-faster stripes. Instead of accessing the web at  GPRS speeds of around 50kbps, Vodafone promises that the 3G card can download data at up to 384kbps."The shift from 2G to 3G is like that from dial-up to  broadband", Vodafone's new UK CEO, Bill Morrow, told a press conference on Friday.The company's demonstration certainly looked impressive, with good quality video streamed on a PC via 3G at around 300kbps.Users will apparently be able to listen to an internet radio station, while accessing web pages and video conference calls via a webcam also becomes a possibility. The company also claims that a file as large as 10MB could be transferred to a PC in less than 10 minutes.Vodafone has even sweetened the pill by delivering tariffs which, while not exactly bargain basement, are  certainly competitive. Providing that users sign up on the company's medium tariff by October, they can download up to 50MB of data a month for a fee of £20.For many users, that should be more than enough to cater for speedy website access, email and  reasonable-sized file downloads. Heavy users pay £85 for one gigabyte of data on the so-called power tariff.The price for additional data ranges from 50p to £2 per megabyte, depending on the package. The card itself costs between £50 and £80, depending on which tariff the user chooses.Bearing in mind that BT charges £85 a month for unlimited access to its Wi-Fi service OpenZone - a  service limited by the fact that users have to find a hotspot each time they go  online - Vodafone's 3G deals seem reasonably good.Another plus, especially for  business travellers, is that users will be able to roam with their laptops in other European countries while still downloading data at 3G speeds. Vodafone has announced that the 3G card will be compatible with eight European countries, including France, Germany, Ireland and Spain, by the end of May.In theory, at least, upgrading to 3G should be a no-brainer for many mobile workers. Yet, for the short-term, there are likely to be issues with the 3G network.Vodafone's 3G coverage is nowhere near nationwide. It claims to have 30% of the UK population within its  reach, including those living in major cities such as London, Manchester, Cardiff and Birmingham, as well as the M4 corridor from London to Newbury, which is - coincidentally - Vodafone's HQ. On Friday, the company promised that around 60% of the UK population would have access to its  3G services by the autumn.However, given other  providers' problems with perfecting GPRS, let alone 3G networks, it will be a  minor miracle if Vodafone's 3G network is as robust as the company claims.A key issue could be what happens when a person moves from a 3G area to a GPRS one. Apparently, the card  automatically diverts to GPRS yet maintains the connection - essential  if the user is in the middle of a download. However, given the difficulties Three has had with its GPRS to 3G handshake, it remains to be seen whether this will work in practice.There is also the question of  the number of users on the network. At the demo, held at the Savoy hotel in London, it was easy to display streaming at speeds of 384kbps because no one else was using the 3G network.However, when that bandwidth starts to be shared among many users, speeds could slow significantly. Vodafone, however, has promised that it will not dip below 200kbps.Another issue is the upload speed of the card. While the download speed is impressive, uploads are a much slower 64kbps - around half the speed of broadband. Vodafone executives have murmured promises about ramping this up to 128kbps soon but, for early adopters, actually  sending large files will still take a considerable amount of  time.Finally, there is the impact that the 3G card has on the battery life of a laptop. Vodafone claims that it is analogous to using a Wi-Fi card - and, as anyone who has ever used one will know, Wi-Fi cards are notorious sappers of battery life.Someone with an older PC and limited battery life might find that the mobility Vodafone  promises is a myth, because their screen will go blank after less than an hour of surfing.So am I prepared to ditch  the Wi-Fi card in favour of the 3G Mobile Connect card? Well, yes and no. Ultimately, the win-win scenario would be to have both options available and pay for them on the same bill from the same company. You guessed it  - Vodafone, which works with BT on its Openzone hot spots, will launch a joint Wi-Fi/3G card, along with a combined tariff, later in the year.Vodafone has also promised  that, unlike the Three network, owners of its 3G handsets, which are due for release in the early summer, will be able to use their phones as modems to enable web surfing at 3G speeds on laptops, presumably with a similar tariff.It will also be interesting to see how the other networks respond. Three could certainly threaten Vodafone, because its 3G network is more widespread than that of its rival. As a company that prides  itself on its data traffic, O2 will almost certainly be thinking about launching a similar product.If it works as billed, though,  the Vodafone 3G Mobile Connect card should be a must for anyone with a  laptop who spends more than a couple of days a month out of the office. I can't wait to get my hands on one.
The latest in a long line of bizarre items to be listed for sale on the auction website eBay is the last remaining boring machine used by Eurotunnel to drill the cross-channel link.With a reserve cost of &#163;1,000 and weighing 580 tonnes, it is not going to appeal to everyone. Delivery is not included, and the machine currently sits outside the Eurotunnel terminal in Folkestone, Kent.A Eurotunnel spokesman said: "We're hoping to get interest from mines or museums, but there's also a chance that eccentrics might want to buy it. But we don't really 
 know if it's going to sell for &#163;1,000.01 or if it's going to go into the tens and thousands of pounds."Maybe no one will want it. It's not operational, so it's got more of an ornamental value really. Delivery isn't included, so if an individual does want to buy it, then that could be tricky. They are also going to need a pretty big garden."The machine, B6, has 227 double-headed rock picks tipped with tungsten carbide, and a revolving speed of 2.38 revolutions a minute.Along with 10 others it munched through millions of cubic metres of chalk and soil to dig the tunnel, which celebrates its 10th anniversary this year.After two days on the website it had received no bids. The auction closes on April 12. The proceeds of the sale, if any, will be shared by Macmillan Nurses, Demelza House Hospice and Pilgrims Hospice.The eBay site has featured a piece of toast partially eaten by Justin Timberlake, which was sold for more than $1,000 (&#163;550), and a pair of dentures described as being in "gross condition" which went for almost $40.There are rules about what can be sold - human organs are among the banned items. But nothing is without the chance of a sale, an item described as "absolutely nothing" having been sold.
A website that claims to monitor paedophiles in internet chat rooms has come under attack from children's charities which believe it could inspire vigilantism and put children in danger.ChatNannies offers a confidential email service where paedophiles can ask for help, which states: "We do not judge you. But if you don't seek help, we will catch you ... its &#91;sic&#93; not your fault you feel this way ... but if you don't act you won't be the only one hurting."The website, launched a month ago by Jim and Eleanor Wightman from Coven, near Wolverhampton, also recruits people to work as "chatnannies" in chat rooms for young people, although the couple admit they do not vet them to check that they are suitable to look after children.Mrs Wightman, 26, said it was possible that there was a tiny proportion of paedophiles among the 6,000 volunteers she claimed had already registered as chatnannies, but thought this would not put children at risk.There was no vetting process because they did not believe that would effectively screen out paedophiles, she said. "We are relying on concerned individuals like ourselves."If we got a few paedophiles registered with us and putting reports in &#91;about chat rooms&#93;, in comparison to the number of genuine users that won't make any difference at all."Mr and Mrs Wightman liaise with the chatnannies via email and do not have telephone contact numbers for them.John Carr, internet safety adviser for the children's charity NCH, said the messages given out by ChatNannies were "completely inappropriate and wrong".He added: "This is a kind of vigilantism. It's absolutely wrong to have a message to paedophiles that they can speak confidentially. Amateurs should stay away from this field."Donald Findlater, manager of Stop It Now!, a national helpline backed by child protection charities which provides advice to people concerned they pose a risk to children, said people monitoring children's chat rooms had to be properly vetted."It's a dangerous domain to dabble in. They could be extremely well intentioned, but they could be compounding the problem rather than alleviating it."ChatNannies says it will donate 10% of any sponsorship money it attracts to the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) and Barnardo's, but says it is not affiliated to either charity.Both charities have criticised ChatNannies. A Barnardo's spokeswoman said it had asked the Wightmans to remove its name from their website.The charity has also asked the Internet Watch Foundation, which regulates the internet industry in the UK, to examine ChatNannies.The NSPCC's internet safety adviser, Christine Atkinson, said: "There has been no organisational endorsement of this website. Offences are a matter for the police and other professionals."Critics are concerned that ChatNannies is using the fear of internet paedophilia to persuade people to donate money to the project, an accusation which the Wightmans reject."We do not demand payment of any kind. No one needs to donate or sponsor us or advertise with us," said Mr Wightman.Mrs Wightman said that while neither she nor her husband had any child protection training, they were concerned parents. Anyone who expressed a sexual interest in children to them would be referred to a therapist or doctor.She said they had been "a bit overwhelmed" by the response to ChatNannies. The website received 15m hits last month, and they were getting 1,500 emails a week - "a few too many to cope with".
"The launch of TV's first-ever soap for the tiny mobile phone screen might not suit everyone's taste, but it is living proof that the TV and digital worlds are merging," reportsAFP."With this convergence due to transform the average consumer's entertainment fix, a record number of mobile-phone operators, including heavy-hitters such as Vodafone, Nokia and Telefonica, turned up in large numbers at this week's international MiPTV and MILIA trade shows."
"Hundreds of technophiles Saturday wired their computers together in an attempt to generate computing power on a par with the world's strongest supercomputers. The experiment organized by researchers at the University of San Francisco was designed to determine whether a gymnasium full of off-the-shelf laptops and desktops networked together can muster enough power to process the most complex research problems," reportsAP."Organizers failed to break into the ranks of the world's top 500 supercomputers as they had hoped, but said the event, which they called "Flashmob I," was a success nonetheless."TheMercury Newsalso has a report.
"Digital camera makers Canon Inc and Eastman Kodak Co gained in the rapidly growing and fiercely competitive global market for digital cameras in 2003, but failed to displace Sony Corp, according to industry data. In its Digital Still Camera 2003 report, research firm IDC said Sony held an 18 percent share of units shipped. Canon, with its 16 percent share, passed Olympus Corp, which had 13 percent. At a 12 percent share, Kodak rose to fourth place, leapfrogging Fuji Photo Film Co Ltd." SeeReuters.Comment: an impressive result for Sony. Electronics companies took an early lead in the digital camera market, but traditional camera (Canon, Olympus, Nikon) and old-style film manufacturers (Kodak, Fuji) have staged a comeback.
In and around the Googleplex - the name given to the Silicon Valley offices of the internet search engine Google - it's a source of great corporate pride that the company's name has become a verb. But if Sergey Brin and Larry Page had yesterday googled the name of the company they founded, they might have been disturbed by the first item retrieved.'Google's Email raises Privacy Fears,' declared the Indian Express, a headline echoed around this world last week after the company announced it is to offer a free email service called Gmail. A few years ago, when Google was viewed as a radical underground internet experiment, Gmail would have been viewed as evidence of its energy, foresight and public spiritedness. In the new world, with Brin and Page on the cover of Newsweek and their company on the verge of the biggest public stock offering in recent American corporate history, Gmail has been decried as the final proof that Google has gone over to the 'dark side', occupied by Bill Gates and his fellow corporate suits.On a technological level, Gmail (which will start as a pilot project) is far superior to similar services currently offered by the likes of Yahoo and Microsoft. The initial analysis was that Google had continued its tradition of besting the competition.And then people read the small print. There, lost beneath the folksy explanation of why Google was offering the service - a user had 'kvetched' (complained) about spending all her time organising her email account, according to Brin - the company revealed it would be employing technology that would search through the contents of its users' emails, thereby enabling it to place related adverts alongside those emails. If, for example, a user mentioned DVDs in the text of his or her email, then Google could attach an advert for a company selling cut-price DVDs.At the Googleplex this idea was simply a question of commercial imperative: web advertising currently generates $4 billion in revenue each year - a figure which is expected to triple over the next four years. Google, with 25 per cent of that market, is seeking to expand its share in the face of aggressive competition. But for America's army of privacy protection lobbyists the arrival of Gmail was the worst idea since the Pentagon dreamed up Total Information Awareness - a computer program which would track the activities of America's 300 million citizens. (It was subsequently abandoned due to the political outrage it caused.)'It's absurd that using a communications medium should subject one to privacy-invasive advertising,' said Chris Hoofnagle of the Electronic Privacy Information Centre. 'Why not put an operator on the phone to listen to your conversation and pitch things to you while you're talking? You'd say that's ridiculous. Well, this is ridiculous. We have a norm in this country not to allow commercial interests to interfere with our communications.'Richard Smith, a privacy and security consultant, was even more succinct. 'It's one of the creepiest things I have ever heard of,' he told Wired magazine. 'Can I, as a pro-life person, for example, target email messages that seem to be about abortion?'Jordana Beebe of the San Diego-based Privacy Rights Clearing House said: 'The privacy implications of going through and perusing a customer's email to display targeting advertising could be the Achilles' heel for Google's service.'Google, which has enjoyed an almost slavishly admiring press since its launch, is unused to dealing with criticism. It was hardly surprising, therefore, that its response to last week's onslaught veered from unconvincing ('The ads would be akin to coupons that shoppers get at grocery stores, based on what they've just purchased') to apologetic ('We'll learn. I'm sure our users will tell us frankly when we don't get it right, and we'll adjust accordingly') to simply bemused ('I am very surprised that there are these kind of questions,' said Larry Page.)Page had better get used to answering tough questions. Now Google has announced its intention to take on the established might of Microsoft and Yahoo, he is about to discover that wealth and power in the internet age come with drawbacks - the most troubling of which are the enemies you make.Silicon Valley has been woefully short of success stories over the past few years. Google (the name comes from the noun googol, which means the number 1 followed by 100 zeros) is proof that the internet can deliver the life-improving innovation its earliest advocates promised it would.Eight years ago Larry Page and Sergey Brin were two PhD students at Stanford University with a project. 'BackRub', as they originally called their search engine, operated by counting the number of links to a webpage and then presenting the most 'popular' at the top of the ranking in any search query. Even in its nascent stages the search engine quickly become popular among staff and students at Stanford.The pair abandoned their studies and launched a company out of a garage rented to them by Susan Wojcicki. 'My reaction was, "OK, good luck, the rent's $1,700 a month and don't forget to separate the recycling,"' Wojcicki recalled.Within a year the company had outgrown the garage and moved to new offices close to the university. Six months later it had raised $25m in venture capital.This wasn't a lot of money in those heady days, when internet companies selling pet food were valued at $500m. But Google had an advantage over the vast majority of dotcom companies - it was offering something the public actually wanted.Now it deals with more than 138,000 queries every minute, in 100 languages; that's over 200 million searches of six billion webpages over the course of a day. Such is the power of Google that it no longer simply reflects what is happening on the web - it influences it. Many internet consultants now make a living advising clients on how to build their webpages in a way that will ensure them a high ranking when their field of expertise or commerce is 'googled'.Wojcicki, who left her job at Intel to work for her former tenants, is one of more than 1,000 employees at the Googleplex, the sprawling campus 50 miles south of San Francisco that not only houses Google's operations but sustains its reputation as a benevolent presence in a cut-throat world. In the wine bars and restaurants of Silicon Valley, the Googleplex has achieved legendary status - from the company chef (a former employee of the Grateful Dead) who cooks free food for the employees, to the unlimited ice cream, the pool and ping-pong tables and complimentary massages. In an industry where 14-hour days are the norm, Google employees are encouraged to spend 20 per cent of their time in the office on outside activities. 'Larry and Sergey built Google to be their dream environment,' Wojcicki says.Many people would kill to land a job there, but for most it's too late. Those like Wojcicki who signed on early are about to be rewarded for their foresight and loyalty. The company's stock offering later this year will make multimillionaires out of many, and billionaires out of Brin and Page, who were included on Forbes magazine's most recent list of America's richest people.On the downside, at least from the point-of-view of the company's two iconoclastic young founders, the stock offering will wipe away the last vestiges of Google's reputation as a renegade operation. No longer will it be seen as the plucky young upstart out to tweak the tail of the business establishment.As Google discovered to its cost last week, corporate adulthood means never being given the benefit of the doubt, no matter how well intentioned you might be. A warm and fuzzy office culture is no defence against accusations of eroding civil liberties. Nor will it help when the big cats of the hi-tech world finally get their corporate act together.Already Yahoo has spent an estimated $1bn on new search engine technology aimed at eating into Google's share of the advertising market. And even more worryingly for the folks at the Googleplex, the biggest beast of all has finally stirred. In a recent interview, Bill Gates conceded that Microsoft had been complacent in developing search engine technology but added: 'We recognise that, and now we're on the job.'Google has professed itself indifferent to the Microsoft founder's apparent intentions, but given his history of crushing all opposition, Gates's remarks are surely enough to put anyone off their bowl of ice cream - even if it does come free.Google FactsGoogle started life as a university research project called BackRub. Today 138,000 people around the world search the web using Google every minuteGoogle PeopleCo-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin are described by friends as eccentric. Page's principal claim to fame before Google was that he built a working computer printer out of Lego.Google CultureThe Googleplex houses more than 1,000 employees and provides them with free meals (cooked by the Grateful Dead's former chef), free ice cream, free massages and a fleet of Segway scooters.Google Philosophy: 'Volleyball courts, masseuses, all of these things - they are all pretty well thought out. It saves time - people don't have to drive off campus, park somewhere, wait in line for food'Sergey Brin
'This is one about my son,' Lynn Gomm said as she spellchecked another portion of her life in Stoke-on-Trent. 'He's 14 and has Asperger's syndrome. He's not expected to do that much around the house, but his only chore is to empty all the small bins into a big black sack, tie it up and put it out. He's supposed to do it immediately after he's had his dinner, but often he might say, "I'll do it later." Yesterday, I confiscated a new computer game he's just bought with his pocket money and he's very unhappy. So I've just blogged about it.'Gomm clicked on publish and save and checked to see if her entry had been uploaded on her blog for the world to read. 'There it is!' she said. In part, it read: 'It has been confiscated. It is an untouchable. And this outcome is non-negotiable. He is distraught &#91;so he says&#93;. He has begged, coerced, sought help from fellow siblings, offered money, been nice, been not so nice, cried, pleaded, attempted reparation, sulked, moaned and finally wished he were dead. I am immovable on the subject.'Lynn Gomm is 43 and is not Belle de Jour, the north London Jewish call-girl blogger who may or may not be a man, and may or may not be a minor novelist. Like most bloggers, Gomm is extremely bored with Belle de Jour and the attention she has attracted, to the point where her own blog now sports a little rectangular logo with the phrase 'BdJ - I Don't Care'. Gomm hosts the Blogging Brits web-ring that contains more than 600 other bloggers who also may or may not be Belle de Jour. Thankfully, most of them are not. Instead, they are people who write some of the most engaging, trivial, thoughtful, rambling, reactionary, self-obsessed and shamelessly disturbing material of the present day.If you want to know what ordinary, literate and computer-savvy people are thinking and doing today, you can wait an age for the mythical great British novel or you can speak to a random sample of strangers on the phone, but it's simpler to log on to the UK Blogs Aggregator to find that last Thursday between 9am and 11am, 66 people had updated their blogs with recent news. These included the sites Rogue Semiotics, funkypancake, holygoat, the Coffee Grounds, Foe Romeo, Linkmachinego, My Deep Thoughts and Memetank. Among them you could find observations on loud phone users on trains, the Today programme's April Fool, the new Batman film and the killings in Fallujah ('Why are these people being called "defence contractors" and not mercenaries?').And then there is Lynn Gomm's site, Bacon, Cheese and Oatcakes, updated most days from the small extension overlooking her garden. Her blog contains emotional entries about her current state of mind and thoughts about her work, family and home. I visited her at the beginning of March and soon became aware that it is difficult to enter a blogger's life without also appearing in their blog. My arrival in Stoke was anticipated with some trepidation: 'I find I'm not even vaguely prepared for his arrival,' Lynn Gomm wrote for her readers under her nom-de-blog 'Moi'.'Wanting to show at least a tidy house, I had hoped to do a bit of polishing around the place. However, a couple of family crises have left me seriously behind schedule and I don't think I'm going to manage it. Do you think he'd notice if I sprayed a bit of furniture polish around and kept the lighting low?'One reader of her blog then left the comment: 'Watch you blogging? Isn't that a bit bizarre? Maybe it's just me but when I blog I sit, type and stare into space quite a lot ... is this what The Observer wants to observe?' After I had left, Lynn blogged that the interview went well and that she thought I looked a bit like Louis Theroux.Six days later, she typed the following entry under the heading 'It's Been a Long Road': 'Emotionally I'm just too exhausted to write the whole gamut of what's been happening regarding Son #2 and his Asperger's diagnosis. Basically, it's been 10 years of fighting, crying, pleading, arguing, pushing, cajoling, screaming and begging to get someone to take us seriously and give him the help, support and treatment he needs. Ten long, stressful and exhausting years. Today, we finally heard someone say that she is convinced that he does, indeed, have Asperger's syndrome. All I could do was cry.'I cried for each time a teacher labelled him as lazy, stupid and defiant.'I cried for each time he spent hours and hours pacing up and down because his routine had been changed.'I cried for each time I had a school report that had not even one good word to say about him on it.'I cried for each time he was bullied by his peers because he was "different".'I cried even more for each time the teachers said it was his own fault.'I cried for every birthday when no matter how many I invited to his party, no one showed up.'I cried for every time he asked me why no one liked him.'I cried for each time he sat, frustrated, in his classroom because he didn't understand what he was doing.'I cried for the time he was beaten in the school playground and the parents of the perpetrators said that he'd provoked the attack.'I cried for the year he was school-phobic and could barely set foot out of the house.'I cried and cried and cried.'He's now being referred, and is on the waiting list for the specialist autism unit in Birmingham.'Please, let this be an end and a beginning. He deserves that much.'The phrase 'blog' is an abbreviation of web log and is best defined as a frequent, chronological publication of personal thoughts and web links. It may combine diary, rant, noticeboard, photo gallery and CD playlists. It may be simple black-on-white page of text or the text may be the excuse for the graphic design. There are no rules to blogging, but most tend to contain lists of other favourite blogs, and often a facility for the reader to comment on what they have just read.For some, the blog is the easiest way for family and friends to keep in touch. Parents discover more about their children through the surreptitious reading of their blogs than over the dinner table. Inevitably, there are 'adult' blogs. At the last count, the website Technorati had tracked 1,944,106 unique weblogs in the world, and there is only one theme common to all: they are all about ego, about wanting to be heard.Along with pornography and vain attempts to secure tickets for this year's Glastonbury, it seems that blogging is what the internet was invented for. Discovering that initial great chain of blog links is comparable with the excitement of going online for the first time - the joy of unlimited possibilities.Reality dawns in much the same way - there is as much bad stuff out there as good. Those already bored with the phenomenon - particularly the techies who started blogging years ago as a way of sharing boring stuff about computer code - claim that the golden days of blogging are over, that what passes for blogging nowadays is the most banal wash-up of aimless lives, millions of pages slowing the internet and clogging Google.What they really don't like is that publishing on the internet is not just for geeks any more. This means that you can work in a call centre taking phone orders for ridiculous gadgets and tell the world about it as each call ends. Last Tuesday, the blogger known as Call Centre Confidential received a complaint from a customer: 'It's cheap. It's nasty. I don't know how you have the nerve to sell such shoddy workmanship.' Our hero writes that he resisted the urge to reply: 'What did you really expect when you ordered the "Fifties Style Television &#91;with space for a DVD player and VCR&#93;"? Chippendale?'Blogs have been around for more than a decade, but we used to know them as home pages. Home pages marked the democratisation of the worldwide web, but they were a struggle to maintain and usually a struggle to read. Conceived with the spirit of enterprise and a fat manual on hypertext mark-up language (html), many homepages progressed little beyond a scanned photograph of the family pet and a dead link to a sci-fi convention.By the time digital cameras and publishing software became affordable, there was a new game in town. The blog came of age five years ago with the emergence of blogger.com and LiveJournal.com - two publishing sites from where even the most technobasic could unburden their thoughts within a simple template and then update with one mouse click.Suddenly, everyone was Pepys. You could print your journal, your complaints about the phone company, your Osama jokes, and your links to politically agreeable sites in one entry; as with the mass-observation social science research organisation of the 1930s, we had 'an anthropology of ourselves'.An alternative journalism sprang up and the news agenda shifted a little from the one imposed by the traditional media to whatever was hot in the blogosphere. In the United States, criticism of Bush and the war in Iraq was solidified in weblogs long before the mass media risked being 'unpatriotic', while in Iraq, Salam Pax, the pseudonymous gay Baghdad Blogger, maintained a powerful insider's voice throughout the conflict. As John Naughton noted of blogging in The Observer last year: 'Something really serious is afoot: the net has once again demonstrated its capacity to unleash disruptive innovation on a complacent establishment.'Two weeks ago, the search for 'blog' on Google yielded 28,600,000 results; last Thursday, it was 29,700,000. The search will also throw up a large choice of commercial sites keen to help you and themselves exploit the blogging phenomenon. There is vivablog.com, motime.com, squarespace.com, 10QuickSteps.com and Blogging.Help-for-Me.com, all promising the easiest way to get your blog online and software to improve its design. Most of them come free, but at a price: until you learn to hide it with clever graphics, your new blog will often appear with a banner advert at the top. A popular trend is to replace it with a link to your wishlist at Amazon; if you like this blog, you can show your appreciation by getting me this book. These lists are already featuring books by bloggers themselves.Last year, a survey of 3,000 blogs by the software company Perseus concluded that in the United States 91 per cent are maintained by those under 30 and 'the typical blog is written by a teenage girl who uses it twice a month to update her friends and classmates on happenings in her life'. It estimated that by the end of this year there will be a million web logs, although most won't last a year and, like clasped diaries in the physical world, the majority will be abandoned within a month.As with real-life relationships, many run the natural course and burn out, closing with a moving note. Last Sunday, the following message appeared on the widely admired British site 'A Teenager Blogs': 'Well this is the end. When I started writing "A Teenager Blogs" in September 2002, it was with the intention that one day the memories kept here will be a lovely nostalgic look back at some of the best days of my life. It was just a bonus that people from Cowlyn Bay to Berlin, and Liverpool to Singapore read and liked the entries I wrote about me, people I care about, music and football and things I do and dream of doing.'But I've reached a point where I feel I won't blog any more. The reason being is one main thing - I've realised the meaning of life. Or, as everyone's different, the meaning of my life. It is to make people, including myself, happy. Otherwise, simply, what is the point? It's time  to get my head down and work my socks off if I'm going to have any sort of a successful future. Thanks for reading. Smile, and see you round. Max.''A Teenager Blogs' won a  Guardian British Blog Award and was shortlisted for an international Bloggie. Last month, the Bloggie for Weblog of the Year was awarded to BoingBoing.net, a site which bills itself as 'a Directory of Wonderful Things' and recently included the following request for a fake girlfriend with a nice bottom, originally posted by a member of an online community in San Francisco:'I'm having my parents come visit me sometime in the next two weeks and have lied and told them I am dating someone I am in love with. You will only have to come to one dinner. In exchange for this, I will buy you an iPod. Let me know if this interests you, and if you want to be in a loving relationship with all the benefits it brings. I want to pretend we are totally in love. I am 24, a grad student, Italian-American, &#91;not a guido&#93;, athletic build. Send pics and I will send you mine. Note I check email basically every three hours. You should be in your twenties and athletic &#91;great butt and legs are my main interest when I say athletic&#93;.'Everyone has their own reason for putting their lives online. When Lynn Gomm became a pagan two years ago, she was advised to keep a record of the changes in her life and she saw no reason to keep this private. 'When you start keeping a blog you go in with one purpose and it tends to evolve into something else,' she told me. 'You begin doing it for yourself, and quite soon it becomes an interactive tool, and it's a way of communicating with others. It's exciting to get that initial feedback. You know, me a middle-class mum, and people want to read my blog and return to it and maybe link to it.'She said that her writing style and content has been influenced by the reading of other blogs and from the occasional adverse reaction. She doesn't reveal as much personal detail as she once did and she doesn't name her children or post many photos. 'I had the bad experience that someone who I knew read what I was writing about and they misinterpreted it and took it personally. And it wasn't worth all the hassle. So I took that site down and reinvented myself with less detail.'As with internet chatrooms, reinvention has become the blogging norm. Before I met her, Gomm sent me an email suggesting that in real life she may not be what I expected from her blog. She was, she warned me, 'a middle-aged Dawn French lookalike, with a wazillion kids and three psychotic dogs' (in the offline world, she works the evening shift at a Post Office sorting depot, deciphering illegible or inadequately addressed mail).When we did meet, she told me there was a reason she had had only one personal encounter with her many blogging friends, a visitor from the United States. 'The meeting was OK, but the real person isn't of course the same person who writes. I think I'm more comfortable with the person I put onto the computer - I don't have to put on make-up and make a social effort. I tend to blog with people who blog like I do, but their lifestyle or educational background might mean that if we met we'd probably have nothing to say.'Gomm told me the story of the blog written by a 13-year-old, recently orphaned British boy who was living with his 56-year-old grandfather. 'His grandfather had bought him this laptop and he was documenting his life. Lots of people were actively going to his blog and reading it, because this was a very articulate boy. And then he blogged that his grandfather had punished him, given him a spanking.'There was uproar. I was confused. I thought that no modern 56-year-old would spank a boy - this was an intelligent man. I then found that the 13-year-old was actually a woman in the UK who was using the blog as a form of creative writing. She then became distraught that people were taking it so seriously. Some were talking about calling in the social services.'A few days later, I met a 20-year-old man called Rob Hamilton at a Pizza Express in London's West Hampstead. He is a second-year law student at King's College and his blog, entitled 'Honestly, I'm Sober', keenly documents his pursuit of the four cornerstones of undergraduate life: alcohol, music, work and women.I was attracted to it by its frank and funny stories (waking up on a night bus miles from home after too many Southern Comfort and lemonades at the Law Ball) and by one particularly disarming remark in his online biography.'Relationships-wise for myself, there's nothing at all happening in my life on that front, and there hasn't been for over three years. Afraid I'm still virginal as well; 20 years old, and still a virgin. Not good.'This may be the modern route to the sympathy lay, but I doubt it. In a long post last month, he wrote about his relationship with a fellow student and principal crush he calls Girl, and it has all the authentic fumbling uncertainties. He told me he was a fan of reality TV, and believes that blogging appeals to our desire to observe without contact. His blog began a year ago with his thoughts on Iraq, but 'since then it's just developed into just me'. He said that everything he wrote held true at the time, and he made a point of not editing his writing before he posted it; he saw no reason to put across an image.'I think if I kept a private diary it would be pretty much the same. Some of my best writing comes from my more negative emotions; when I'm depressed or upset I write lots and it's generally the most interesting stuff. I always have been and always will be a very closed person - I get it from my dad. But in the blog, I can get things out of my system, bashing things out of the keyboard. There are other times when something really exciting has just happened and I have to rush home to write about it.'Hamilton has a tracker installed on his site to record the number of daily visitors, and he gets about 25 hits a day (the big names - Belle de Jour, plasticbag.org, Troubled Diva, Scary Duck - get many hundreds, and the American news/politics blog InstaPundit.com, billed by  Wired magazine as the most visited in the world, is viewed by more than 100,000 people daily.)Recently, Hamilton's site acquired a new reader: Girl. 'I have a couple of lectures with her at King's,' he told me. 'One day, I got to the lecture early and I was scribbling a draft of my next post in a notebook and it was quite depressing because I'd had a bad couple of days. She asked if I wrote poetry, so I then explained to her about the blog and I gave her the address, which perhaps wasn't the best career move, and she started reading. I found out one day that she's been online and read through the whole archive. And so when I saw her after that I felt very strange, because she knew everything about me and I knew virtually nothing about her.'How did she react?'We're still friends. Something may happen. She reads it most days and it's hard to know how to phrase things sometimes.' Hamilton's other regular visitors are clearly hooked on the saga, and send him comments such as 'Got lucky yet, mate?' and 'That beard is prob stopping you getting laid, seriously, bet you're a good lad, so shave it off and get some decent clothes and don't wear the glasses so much'.Regrettably, Girl is not keeping a blog of her own.The best blogs and how to start your ownBacon, Cheese and Oatcakeshttp://bellis.blogon.comHonestly I'm Soberhttp://gooneruk.blogspot.comGreenFairywww.greenfairy.comGina Snowdoll's Eeeeeks! It's a blog!http://gina-snowdoll.blogspot.comCall Centre Confidentialhttp://callcentrediary.blogspot.comBridget Who?www.bridgetwho.blogspot.complasticbag.orgwww.plasticbag.orgIt's Wrong to Wish on Space Hardwarehttp://spacehardware.blogspot.comUK Blogs Aggregatorhttp://aggregator.weblogs.co.uk/Blogging Britswww.bloggingbrits.co.ukHaddock Blogswww.haddock.org/blogsBlogspotwww.blogger.comLiveJournal.comwww.livejournal.com
A quiet revolution is underway in the popular politics of Northern Ireland. Even while conventional battle lines seem to remain firmly drawn in the real world, boundaries are being broken down every day in cyberspace, as nationalists and unionists alike debate the latest news in online forums, and increasing numbers of outsiders gain a real understanding of the issues and tensions.In this borderless context, NI unionists are discovering they share common ground with others in the republic. Discussions tend to break out of the historical framework of political discourse in the island: they talk about geopolitical tensions, economics and the merits of an independent civil society.Even within the confines of Northern Ireland politics, tolerance and understanding are growing among some for each other's traditions, as Orangemen explain the social benefits their organisation brings to isolated protestant communities and GAA aficionados explain the roots of their passion for their own chosen sports.In the case of my own website (sluggerotoole.com) readers can respond immediately with their views and interpretation of what that news means to them. It results in something that's more of a conversation or series of conversations than a dialogue. And it draws in knowledgeable individuals from all sides.In such circumstances, cross-party friendships can flourish much in the way they might in the Commons or D&#225;il bar. Alex Kane, a political columnist for the unionist-oriented  Newsletter : 'It includes people who are DUP, people who are republicans, people who are genuinely interested in politics as well as some who are quirky and certifiably barking. There's nothing I know of quite like it.'Ian Parsley, one of the movers behind thepolitics-ni.comwebsite notes: 'There's something impersonally personal about talking on the internet.'And it breaks stereotypes: 'There's the idea in Northern Ireland that because somebody is a republican, a unionist or a nationalist, they must therefore think this, this and this. The advantage of online forums is that points have to be responded to by an individual rather than a party.'Northern Ireland has been a hot topic on the net for nearly 10 years. For several years in the mid-Nineties the late Vincent Hannah, a BBC journalist, used an independent internet forum in conjunction with his weekly radio phone programme. However, the ball was most likely started rolling among the Irish diaspora in the US.Julie Brown, who set up the Debate Central bulletin board after a visit to Northern Ireland in 1994-5, notes some particular changes that have taken place since those early days. 'In the beginning a lot of Americans tried to carry the republican message on the board.These people were activists who were quite familiar with slogans but less familiar with the reality over there. Once the board was taken over by people who actually lived in NI, the Americans moved on.'Increasingly for journalists and politicians, the internet is the research tool of choice. Danny Morrison, writer and former PR for Sinn Fein, explains: 'I've had a lot of stories inspired by trawling the net.'And it multiplies the number of readers. 'If my stories appeared only in the hard copy of the  Andersonstown News, then only people in West Belfast would see it. However, on the net within a space of hours it's being read and circulated in North America.'And in turn influence can also move the other way, with journalists and politicians reading some sites on a daily basis. At least one major story originating on slugger emerged into the national broadcasting and print press via a local journalist.For politicians it's probably most useful for flying kites, or taking soundings of how people outside their own constituency are likely to read their policy detail.As one Alliance party insider pointed out: 'It may be that people actually like some aspect of your policies, but you discover that the problem is often with the presentation. On the net you get the feedback quickly and directly.'Whether the internet can drive change out in the real world is open to question. After all, the technology is only just more than 10 years old, and in the case of Irish politics that time has coincided with some seismic events.But as Frances Cairncross of the Economist has said: 'Most people overestimate the effects of change in the short term, underestimate them in the long term and fail to spot where change will be greatest.'&#183;Henry McDonald is away.
There is a risk, I know, of once again annoying all the Christians out there by making another deliberately slighting reference to their joke anti-lives.Not much of a risk, as I know from the last set of letters - forgiving, understanding, disappointed, all swimming with the big brown hurt eyes of a kindly labrador you've accidentally kneed in the temple. Occasionally, there's the refreshingly snippy one, asking why it's seen as fine to sneer at Christians but the height of bigoted intolerance to criticise Islam - and so, for the record, let's remember here that modern Islam is a comprehensively more cruel and stupid religion than modern Christianity, its more inadequate adherents (of which there are many too many) significantly more capable of twisting the psychobabble of their laughable 'scripture' into a lip-flap of parroted justification for crazed prejudice, medieval self-delusion and psychopathic moronism than any number of dancing fools in cassocks - but in general the Christians just get hurt, rather than trying to hurt me back, so I'm terribly sorry to do it again but the phrase 'so horribly Christian ' was the one I first thought of this week, reading about this nasty internet dating stuff.According to one report, one in five single adults in Britain now uses dating services. It's tosh, of course, statistically; it was put out by someone's lying marketing department and so originally read one in 5,000 or 50,000 or something before some bright lying marketing spark said hey guys why don't we just lose the zeroes that would make it more like, you know, what's the word, true - but still, even one in 5,000 makes for a lot of worryingly dysfunctional people in the country.The main reason to loathe and fear online dating, and worry a little about the continuation of the human race, is the idea of compatibility. You can find out, even before you meet your inamorata, even before you see a picture of them, what you both like and dislike, and pick accordingly, and - here's the thing, the thing they get wrong - for some hideous misguided reason they think the answer is go for the person who likes the same things.Wrong: tragically, lovelessly wrong; christianly wrong. In the same way that you can't really ever set out to look for love - it comes almost always when the one thing you're actively doing is not looking for it, when you're backing away from someone else and bump into it and even then don't recognise it until you're in bed grinning at each other - you certainly can't plan how it will go by just liking the same things. I  want fights. I want, one day, the wonderful feeling of success, after 10 years of arguments, for her to turn round suddenly and say: 'You know, you were right all along: Dido  is dreck.' I want, by her, to be made to read things, to think things, I'd never have read or have thought in my stuck old ways. I want nothing in common apart from a vague sense of kindness and a fierce sense of lust.This time last week I was, pleasantly enough, sitting in the bar in Rio where 'The Girl From Ipanema' was written, having a drink with ... a girl from Ipanema. Tall and tanned and young and lovely, she was. I managed to do rather good small and white and old and ugly. QED: could there ever have been a more perfect match?
Sun Microsystems yesterday reached a $1.6bn (&#163;870m) settlement of its legal disputes with Microsoft and announced plans to cut another 3,300 jobs, reflecting the company's continued woes.The announcements were accompanied by a warning from the computer server and software maker that its losses in the third quarter would be worse than anticipated. The struggling company has reported 11 straight quarters of declining revenues.Sun described the deal with Microsoft as a "broad cooperation agreement". Microsoft will pay Sun $700m to resolve competition issues that arose from the government's anti-trust investigations and will also pay an additional $900m to resolve patent issues.Sun had been fighting Microsoft for years, alleging it had tried to sabotage its Java software. It sued Microsoft for $1bn in August 2002."It's a huge step forward," said Sun chairman and chief executive Scott McNealy. "Everywhere we go our customers say, 'we have both Sun technology and Microsoft technology - we need peace'."In addition, Sun and Microsoft have agreed to pay royalties for the use of each other's technology.For Microsoft, the settlement is further hurdle cleared in its attempt to clear up the mass of legal actions it has faced in recent years. The company has reached similar co-operation agreements in the settlement of disputes with the likes of Time Warner."Our companies will continue to compete hard, but this agreement creates a new basis for cooperation that will benefit the customers of both companies," said Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft.The job cuts are the latest in a series designed to return Sun to profitability. Mr McNealy had initially been reluctant to cut jobs in the wake of the dotcom crash because of the difficulty in replacing talent once the economy recovers. But at the end of 2001, he bowed to the pressures on the business and cut 3,900 jobs.About 18 months ago, the company shed a further 4,400 employees. The job cuts announced yesterday amount to about 9% of the remaining workforce.The Microsoft settlement and the attempt to gain a grip on costs appeared to outweigh the latest profit warning. Shares in the company were trading 10% higher at $4.61 in early trade.Sun said it expects a loss for the third quarter of up to $810m on revenues of $2.65bn.
"Sun Microsystems Inc and Microsoft Corp resolved their legal issues in a $1.6 billion settlement announced Friday that calls for the two companies to work together over the next 10 years," reportseWeek.The settlement "will include Microsoft continuing to support [Sun's] Java Virtual Machine and payments of $700 million to Sun by Microsoft to resolve pending antitrust issues and $900 million to resolve patent issues. Meanwhile, Sun and Microsoft have agreed to pay royalties for use of each other's technology, with Microsoft making an upfront payment of $350 million and Sun making payments when this technology is incorporated into its server products."Sun has also agreed to license the Windows desktop operating system communications protocols under Microsoft's Communications Protocol Program."Also Friday, Sun said it will cut 3,300 jobs and take a $475 million charge. And the company said it will spread the charge over several quarters, including $200 million in its third quarter. In addition, Sun said that it has promoted Jonathan Schwartz, who had been Sun's executive vice president for software, to president and chief operating officer. The COO position had been vacant since Ed Zander, now the chairman and chief executive of Motorola Inc, left Sun in 2002," says eWeek.Comment: Today, Sun also announced itsprovisional quartery results, saying "it expects revenue for its third quarter ended March 28, 2004 to be approximately $2.65 billion. Net loss on a GAAP basis will be in the range of $750 million and $810 million." Sun has been in decline and shedding jobs since the dotcom bust. It had 43,683 employees at the end of fiscal 2001 and 39,100 at the end of fiscal 2002. It cut another 1,080 last Semptember, so it's probably down to about 35,000. Sales of Sun "computer systems products" fell from $12.4bn in 2001 to $6.2bn in 2003 as many companies switched from Unix to GNU/Linux.
"Taking the game plan implemented so successfully by Linux proponents, IBM will open up its Power microprocessor platform to enable other companies to innovate on top of the architecture," reportseWeek."We need a whole community of innovators to help us bring Power everywhere we want to take it," Irving Wladawsky-Berger, vice president for technology and strategy at IBM, told a room of more than 100 reporters and analysts. "Only through collaboration can a technology become a platform for innovation."
Freeserve, the internet service provider that helped introduce many British households to the web in the late 1990s, is ditching its name three years after being bought by France Telecom.The company, which was founded by Dixons in 1998, is changing its name to Wanadoo, bringing it in line with the rest of France Telecom's ISP businesses. Customers will be able to retain their existing Freeserve email addresses.The move, which has been widely expected for some time, is part of a general restructuring of France Telecom's businesses. Including Freeserve, Wanadoo has 9.15m customers across the continent and is now part of France Telecom's "home" division. That restructuring also saw the departure of Orange's chief executive, Sol Trujillo.France Telecom bought Freeserve in late 2000, a year after Dixons floated the business in London, and injected the ISP into Wanadoo, which was partially listed in Paris. France Telecom is in the process of buying back the 29% of Wanadoo it does not own. It is also buying back full control of Orange.Jan Dawson, senior analyst at technology consultancy Ovum, said the rebranding was a logical step as the Freeserve name no longer made sense for the company and was something of a hindrance.At launch Freeserve gained customers by offering a "free" service contract, but metered call charges. With the advent of broadband this plan no longer makes sense."The 'free' in Freeserve's brand has become something of a liability," said Mr Dawson. "Its usual positioning as a low-cost provider means that it is suffering. Rebranding would allow the company to move away from the Freeserve millstone."
Google, the company that emerged from nowhere to become the dominant internet search engine, yesterday turned up the heat further on rivals Yahoo! and Microsoft by announcing plans to launch a free email service.The service, Gmail, will provide far greater capacity than the existing services from Yahoo! and Microsoft's MSN Hotmail as well as a series of additional features. The company is in the course of testing the service with a handful of users.A user account will have one gigabyte of space, roughly 500,000 pages of email. Gmail users will be able to receive up to 10 megabytes in a single e-mail - more than the free services of Yahoo! and Microsoft's Hotmail allow for storage in an entire mailbox.Google said Gmail users would be able to search emails by sender, topic or other keywords and organise them according to conversational threads. Google claimed it would have better anti-spam filters than its rivals, a key selling point for all providers.But there will be a drawback. Google hopes to make money from the service by programming its servers to pick up key words in emails and deliver related advertising in the messages. An email about a concert might include a link from a ticketing agency, for instance.The company insisted it would closely guard the content of emails but the plan could raise privacy concerns.Google co-founder Larry Page said the idea to launch a service had emerged from a complaint lodged by a user of the search engine who was frustrated by her email service."She kvetched about spending all her time filing messages or trying to find them," he said. "And when she's not doing that, she has to delete email like crazy to stay under the obligatory limit. So she asked, 'can't you people fix this'?"MSN offers a free 2MB of storage and charges $59.95 a year for 100MB. Yahoo! makes 4MB available free and charges $49.79 a year for 100MB.Microsoft, which has 170m MSN accounts, noted Gmail was still at an early stage. "It will be interesting to see how Google's trial develops and what they ultimately will deliver broadly to consumers."Google is still privately owned but is expected to float this year with a valuation of up to $25bn (&#163;13.5bn). The Gmail service could be seen as an attempt to beef up the business ahead of that offering. It is also aggregating online news services and recently began promoting its Froogle retail business. Mr Page and co-founder Sergey Brin set up Google in 1998, while they were at Stanford university in California. The service grew rapidly, and by December last year it accounted for more than 50% of all searches. It handles more than 200m searches a day.Its chief revenue stream is from sponsored searches - the classified advertising that appears alongside results.There was evidence of the threat Google now poses when Yahoo! recently stopped using it for searches. Yahoo! is using its own technology following the acquisition of Inktomi, Overture and Altavista.Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer recently admitted that the software firm had made a mistake in not launching its own search engine. He said the group was investing in a service that he promised would be "absolutely the best".The financial muscle of Microsoft and Yahoo! is reason enough for Google to avoid complacency. Its role was previously occupied by firms like Inktomi and Altavisa, picked up by Yahoo! for nothing like the valuation they once commanded.
"Two years ago, when Rick Carey was chief technology architect at Merrill Lynch, he was crazy about Linux and especially about Red Hat, the leading Linux distributor. At the time, he was leading the charge to migrate all of the computer systems at Merrill to Linux. But these days, things have changed. Carey, who is now chief technology architect at Bank One, says that although he still likes Linux, he's not rushing into any deployments of the open-source operating system," according toForbes.The story says customers like Carey resent the Red Hat policy of charging per processor which will significantly boost the cost of using Linux: "The companies that are trying to treat Linux like it's regular software and have a business model based on per-CPU or per-desktop licensing worry the heck out of me," Carey says. "For us, that makes Linux prohibitively expensive. And it makes a stronger case for us to go Windows."Another danger is emerging. Although dozens of Linux distributions exist, switching from one to the other could become more difficult as companies like Red Hat and its rival, SuSE, which is owned by Novell, attempt to differentiate their Linux distributions by developing new features. Once applications are written to work with a certain set of features, moving them to a different Linux distribution could require a lot of difficult and expensive rewriting. "That's what makes me cautious," Carey says. "There's a risk there. I have the right to switch, but it could be costly."
Google plans to offer free Gmail with a gigabyte of storage so you won't have to delete it -- and you will be able to search it using Google. The catch is that you may have ads (based on Adwords) added to your e-mails. According to theAPversion of the story: "I don't think (the ads) will be annoying at all," Google co-founder Larry Page said during an interview Wednesday. "We think this will give us a business model that will work and allow us to provide a high-quality service."Also seeCNetand Google'spress release.Comment: I kept thinking this could be an April 1 spoof, like a lot of people, according to this BBC story,Timing makes Google an April Fool.
I know I'm being meanbelow, but T&amp;Cs asideKinjais a very interesting service. The concept of a blog aggregator is nothing new - there are lots of desktop applications and websites that do this already. I can't say I was enthralled when I heard about the concept, pretty much because I couldn't see what value it would add - after all, until now the Gawker stable has dealt - very successfully - in original content.But, having had a play this afternoon, The Point is clearer. What makes Kinja different is the elegant way it collects and arranges the truncated posts from your chosen blogs, interspersed with little text ads. The key is the tidying-away of the guts of syndication to somewhere the user doesn't need to see. Like a blog? Enter its main URL (or use the little bookmarklet to log the address while you surf) and you've got it in your list. No need to fret about RSS feeds, or Atom, or whatever. The site does the heavy lifting in the background, and that's only a good thing. I'm sure we'd all prefer to know nothing about syndication formats if we could help it.(Update:Playing around some more, it seems there are some bugs still to iron out (It's a beta, mind you). Adding new sites to your favourites is a simple process, but it appears to lead to the new blogs dominating the list, knocking off sites which were there before. I'm not quite sure how the time-stamping on individual entries is working...)And finally, of course, there are a whole bunch of interesting things to be done with the aggregated details of people's preferences, later on. Nick Denton explains more on - of course - hisweblog.
Maybe I have far too much time on my hands. But when signing up forKinja, Nick Denton's newly-launched weblog aggregator (see New York Times piecehere), I decided to take a look through theterms and conditionsbefore clicking on submit. Leafing through the legalese on the importance of respecting copyright and intellectual property, the rules on resale of the service and so on, I was surprised to see Yahoo!'s name crop up in two places:"17. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES YOU EXPRESSLY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT: YOUR USE OF THE SERVICE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK. THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" BASIS.YAHOOEXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND,"and..."YOU EXPRESSLY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT KINJA SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, GOODWILL, USE, DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES (EVEN IFYAHOOHAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES)"(my bold emphasis) Indeed, if you pop over toYahoo!'s terms and conditions page, it seems long passages of the two documents appear to be quite similar. One or two bits are missing completely from the Kinja terms, mind you - like the line, under point 24 of Yahoo!'s agreement, that begins: "Yahoo! respects the intellectual property of others".
Consumers were warned today to be wary of possible internet scams, after an online sweep found 176 UK websites were making claims "too good to be true".The trawl of the net, carried out  by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and trading standards departments,  raised concerns about 90 offers to work from home, 52 get-rich-quick schemes, 20 lottery scams and 15 "free" prize offers.Websites suspected of breaching consumer protection regulations will now be contacted by officials with a view to taking further action.The sweep was part of an international initiative involving agencies from 31 countries. It identified a total of 1,847 suspicious sites.Christine Wade, director of consumer regulation and enforcement at the OFT, said: "The internet is used by fraudsters who seek to take advantage of international boundaries to avoid detection. Cross-border cooperation is therefore important for combating this area of consumer detriment."The OFT offered the following tips to people tempted by such sites:&#183;avoid promises of instant wealth, 'free' gifts and incredible discounts and bargains&#183;be wary of personal accounts claiming astounding results&#183;read all the terms and conditions&#183;research the business, do a internet search on the product/company name and verify any contact details.
Search engine giant Google has fired the latest salvo in a fierce fight for web supremacy by announcing it is to launch a free email service that will provide between 250 and 500 times more storage space than the market leaders, Yahoo and Microsoft.However, there is a catch to the new service: Google's computers will scan emails to deliver targeted advertising.The Google service, called Gmail, will offer 1 gigabyte of storage space, which equates to roughly 500,000 pages of email. Gmail users will be able to receive up to 10 megabytes in a single email, more than the free services of Yahoo and Microsoft's Hotmail allow to be stored in an entire mailbox.Gmail will also enable users to type a keyword into a built-in search box and find information contained in their email boxes within seconds."We think email is one of those things that is not as useful and as well organised as it should be," Google co-founder Larry Page said. "People have been asking us to do this for a long time."Officials at Yahoo, and at Microsoft's Hotmail division, declined to comment on Google's announcement.Yahoo and Microsoft recently announced plans to challenge Google's dominance in the internet search field. Google's technology is behind almost four out of every five web searches, and the privately-held company has recently unveiled a series of improvements designed to protect its supremacy.Google hopes to make a profit from Gmail by programming its computers to dissect topics being discussed in emails and deliver text-based advertisements related to them. An email discussing a forthcoming concert, for example, might include a link to a ticketing agency."I don't think &#91;the ads&#93; will be annoying at all," Mr Page said. "We think this will give us a business model that will work and allow us to provide a high-quality service."Mr Page added that Gmail should not raise serious privacy concerns, because Google plans to guard the content of email messages closely. Advertisements were unlikely to accompany most emails, he said.However, a New York Times report previewing the launch of the new service claims that Gmail has sparked an "intense debate" among Google staff."Many people inside the company are worried that users might fear that the content of their email messages could be used to tailor individual advertising messages, much as ad messages are now placed on pages tied to specific responses to search inquiries", the  report says.Confusingly, Google issued a jokey April 1 press release announcing the email service, headed: "Search is number two online activity - email is number one: 'heck, yeah,' say Google founders".The release goes on to quote co-founder Sergey Brin as saying that "while developing Gmail was a bit more complicated than we anticipated, we're pleased to be able to offer it to the user who asked for it". Nevertheless, the email offering is real.Analysts said that Google could shake up the free email market, which is led by Yahoo with 52.6 million unique users a month in the US, according to a February survey by online research firm comScore Media Metrix. Hotmail is next, with 45.4 million users, while AOL has 40.2 million paying users.For now, Google is opening up Gmail only to invited users, but expects to make it accessible to everyone within a few weeks, Mr Page said. People interested in signing up for an email account are being encouraged to register athttp://www.gmail.com
You know what the web is like. It's that thing full of pages that you flit between, clicking on linky thingys to see more pages. You read, and move on.It wasn't supposed to be like that. When Sir Tim Berners-Lee came up with the idea of the World Wide Web, he imagined a system where people wouldn't just "browse" pages, they would "edit" them as they went along.Imagine: a web where anyone can add opinions or facts to your carefully crafted musings. It'd never work.Well, it does exist, it does work, and it's called theWiki Wiki Web.Put simply, a wiki is a website that can be edited by anyone. All you have to do is click a link on a wiki page, usually one saying "Edit this page", type something and click save.Such a relaxed system could be a recipe for disaster but, on the whole, wiki sites work well. There are incidents of wiki vandalism, but the larger community of wiki users can clean up damage faster than the abuser can commit it.Wiki started out as one site, created by Ward Cunningham. His   site was called "WikiWikiWeb" but, these days, it is more casually dubbed Ward's wiki or just WikiWiki.The word "wiki" came from a phrase in Hawaiian - "wiki wiki" - which means "quick".It's quick because the process of editing is entwined with the process of reading. Both are done using a standard web browser. Unlike most websites, there's no need to edit a file, upload it to a web server, then reload the original to check it looks OK.It's easy to feel confused on your first browse around a wiki. Some might be tempted to dive right in and start editing every page they find, but like other electronic communities (think newsgroups or mailing lists), it's probably a good idea to lurk unobtrusively for a while first. Once you have a good sense of the right tone to adopt and the accepted way of using the site, you can start making changes.The confusion is compounded when newcomers realise there's nothing to stop them behaving badly. Wiki sites are not usually protected and there's nothing to stop someone trashing pages, deleting good content and replacing it with rubbish. And, sadly, this does happen. Changes to wiki pages are stored in a database. If some one vandalises a page, the last "good" version of it is still available and can be restored with a click.The consequence is that most of the time, wiki sites can only be vandalised one page at a time, and as long as there is a community of well-behaved users prepared to sort things out, problems can be fixed quickly and with little fuss.Very rarely, a wiki might find itself the subject of repeated attacks. One individual did just that on WikiWiki, and Cunningham was forced to act."Every wiki develops a set of norms of behaviour," he says. "When people post something that is clearly way out of line with the norms - like pornographic pictures - then it gets dealt with swiftly."Last year, we had to deal with an individual who was posting slightly outside the norms, yet so close to what was acceptable, that people were unable to agree on whether or not his contributions should remain."In the end, I had to take action because this one person was making hundreds of changes every day. I implemented some code to prevent any one person making more than a certain number of changes in a 24-hour period, and it seems to have worked."I didn't want to ban the person, partly because I didn't think I could do so effectively, and partly because I didn't want to get into an arms race I could never win."Wiki sites that work include the impressive Wikipedia, a collaborative encyclopaedia covering every topic imaginable. It puts the wiki concept to practical use, drawing on the combined knowledge and experience of all its contributors to create something informative and authoritative.Then there's Wikitravel, a travel guide written by travellers. You can use it to plan a trip, and if it doesn't have the information you want, you can add it when you return.There are wikis about almost everything: wikis about books, London, Tolkien or even juggling. Some people use a wiki as part of a personal website. Others are so excited about wiki technology that they predict a bright future for it.Lion Kimbro, geek and wiki afficionado, says that wiki is central to a concept he calls "the public web"."The internet has a public side," he says. "It's composed of instant messages, blogs, wiki entries, email, all sorts of things. It is not composed of corporate websites, static web pages, or one-way interaction. The public web has institutions, but they are public institutions."It is publicly adjustable. It consolidates thinking, organises people, and   is self-organising. Wiki is the document facility of the public web."A wiki's strength is that it is a form of communication based on documents, rather than messages. Since it is document-based, it becomes much easier to maintain a discussion between a group of people, and to edit and re-edit the page until it becomes coherent and helpful to all.Like Lion Kimbro, some members of the wider wiki community believe there's a good argument for expand ing the use of wikis, so they become as widespread as email.Cunningham also has confidence in wiki's future. "I think wiki is a miniature version of science. Science is a process for organising and explaining nature. Wiki is a process for organising and explaining experience. I ask people to tell me their stories, and people like to tell stories. It's a natural, social thing. Wiki provides the machinery for weaving together those stories."
Freeserve, one of the internet's most iconic brands, will be consigned to a footnote in the industry's short history this summer when it will be replaced by the name of its French parent company, Wanadoo.The company, which remains the UK's largest ISP with 2.6 million customers, transformed home internet access in September 1998 when it was launched by  electronics retailer Dixons using a then-revolutionary pay-as-you go business model.The so-called "Freeserve Four", led by former chief executive John Pluthero, convinced the high street giant to gamble on a new way of selling web access to the masses.The three other original team members were Rob Wimot, Mark Danby and Ajaz Ahmed, a shop manager who dreamt up the idea of charging subscribers per minute rather than forcing them to pay a monthly subscription with additional access charges on top. All four have now left Freeserve.Having established Freeserve as the first pay-as-you-go ISP, a fifth of the company was spun off from Dixons in July 1999 at the height of the dotcom boom.At one point the company was valued at £9.5bn - more than Dixons itself - and the parent company made £300m from the float and a further £312m from selling shares since.Freeserve was sold to France Telecom's Wanadoo for £1.65bn in December 2000 and the telecoms giant has prevaricated ever since over whether to change the name of the service.Although well known to consumers, the Freeserve name means little in the broadband world and Wanadoo is keen to make the change to harmonise its branding and marketing across Europe.The move is likely to coincide with a major new push for customers from Wanadoo as it pours money into marketing the high-speed broadband connections that are becoming increasingly popular throughout Europe.Wanadoo is the second largest ISP in Europe behind Deutsche Telekom's T-Online with 9.1 million subscribers, including 2.4 million broadband customers.In the UK Freeserve has lagged its competitors such as BT and AOL in converting its customers to broadband, which offer an "always on" connection that allows users to download high quality music and video onto their PCs.To coincide with the name change Wanadoo is expected to slash the price of its broadband packages in the UK to under £20. It will also launch a large scale rebranding campaign showing the hippie characters used in Freeserve's existing campaigns becoming cooler and more switched on.It has written to customers to reassure that their email addresses will not change unless they specifically want a new Wanadoo address.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Tuesday April 13 2004In the article below, we mistakenly wrote that Josh On, of the web designer collective Future                                                     Farmers, was responsible for the satirical website Political Friendster. It was, in fact, the                                                     work of Doug McCune, a senior at Stanford University. The site was                                                     developed for a class at Stanford, taught by Amy Franceschini of Future                                                     Farmers, but was not a Future Farmers project in any way and we apologise                                                     for the confusion.Ties that bindIn 2001, Josh On, a designer with the Future Farmers collective, created the They Rule website. It allowed you to track the directors of the top 100 US companies, according to Fortune Magazine, and map the relationships between them. The site showed how 92 of the companies were interconnected through a small elite of board members. It won Future Farmers a Golden Nica at the Ars Electronica, and the respect of graphic designers, activists and intellectuals. Now, On is back with a site that also allows you to map connections between politicians and powerful lobbying groups. It takes just a few clicks to map the connections between Al Gore and Phillip Morris or the Dalai Llama and Michael Moore. You can add people and suggest possible connections. This is an excellent example of social software with a sharp journalistic edge.http://politicalfriendster.stanford.eduwww.theyrule.netwww.futurefarmers.comParis callingTiger Shush is a Parisian record label with its own net radio station, which serves up hip-hop, abstract electronica and, er, Johnny Cash. A lovely addition is the embedded radio player that displays the sleeve of the record playing and links to sites that sell it.www.tigersushi.comBig conversationThe twice-daily press briefings held by the prime minister's spokesman in the bowels of No 10 are crucial for the "lobby" journalists that attend. But few outsiders enjoy much more than a slither of the stories generated. Summaries of the daily briefings have been online for the past two years, but now a group of five volunteers - including Tom Steinberg of FaxYourMP fame - has built an unofficial site that lets you add comments and read those of others. Steinberg says that none of them belongs to a lobbying organisation or a political party, and that their political leanings   span the spectrum. The site reads: "It's not just government spin, remember. The journalists who attend the daily briefings also add spin to the stories they write ... sometimes carelessly, sometimes brazenly, sometimes malevolently."www.downingstreetsays.comwww.pm.gov.uk/output/Page746.aspwww.number10.gov.ukTurning the tideLast Thursday, Noam Chomsky, who is sometimes referred to as an "American dissident", began a blog called Turning the Tide (TTT). As you might expect of a man who is professor of linguistics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, his blog is a high-minded affair, but it is readable. The first week has seen discussions on the IMF, the US presidential election and the ethics behind the Hippocratic oath. The blog is the first of a series called Z-Blogs "for people committed to social change". Sadly, unlike Downing Street Says, there is no room for debate, and you can't leave comments directly.http://blog.zmag.org/tttwww.chomsky.infowww.zmag.org/chomskyBaghdad bloggerUntil recently, Fiona Katie was a lighting and sound engineer working in TV studios and theatres in the UK. Last week, her job was to install a new TV studio in the war-torn Palestine Hotel in Baghdad. Katie considered the event remarkable enough for her to turn her short mission into a blog. Wires: Desperately Rebuilding Iraq is an eloquent snapshot of the experiences of an ordinary person living through the extraordinary experience of contemporary Baghdad. One day she was awoken by a bomb blast, the sound of gunfire and GIs shouting at her: on the next, she was smelling the roses and eating dinner at the Sheraton. Life behind the metre-thick concrete walls of the western compound (like sitting ducks, she says) has become common currency, but Katie's inexperience brings freshness to the table. Sadly for us, Katie is back home, but is planning to return soon.www.blogjam.com/wiresApril foolsThe Swiss enjoy a bumper spaghetti harvest, Microsoft bids for Catholic Church, Burger King to produce a left-handed Whopper, and President Nixon's bid to run for a third presidental term. There are dozens more. Just be vigilant with what you read today.www.museumofhoaxes.com/aprilfoolwww.2meta.com/april-fools
A website designed to improve the way local councils treat the historic environment has been launched by the government's heritage agency.The Historic Environment Local Management project (Helm) is designed to prevent inappropriate development and encourage councils to make the most of their local heritage.The £500,000 project by English Heritage comes after a series of studies found that councillors and council officers tended to have little knowledge and awareness of conservation.The new site includes several case studies of successful conservation projects in each English region. It reminds councillors of their duties to their local environments and explains the principles of the heritage protection rules.It also points councillors and officers to funding schemes for heritage projects and further information to improve decision making that impacts on the historic environment.The site is part of English Heritage's plan to establish so-called "historic environment champions" within each local council. The agency is concerned that conservation officers currently do not have enough clout within local government, and believes that heritage would be taken more seriously if it was championed by an individual councillor or senior officer.Launching the site, the chief executive of English Heritage, Dr Simon Thurley, said: "Local authorities have an important role to play in the protection and management of the historic environment. Helm is one of the initiatives we are launching over the next few months to make the work of local authorities easier."
It's not hard to see why bookmakers love the Grand National. On Saturday, the kind of mainstream consumers who normally walk past high street bookies will wander in for a flutter. And barring a win by a heavily backed favourite, the bookmakers will make serious money from them.The downside is that very few of these punters will come back for more, at least not until next year's race. In the past, the big bookmakers have tried re-designing their high street operations to broaden appeal. But for most people, bookies remain slightly seedy and very blokey.However, the net and interactive TV may succeed where retail makeovers failed. Online gambling is one of the success stories of the e-commerce sector. Recent controversy over supposedly thrown races has obscured the huge success of online betting exchanges.Betfair, the market leader, was in profit in 2001, a year after going online. In terms of traffic, it's now the leading gambling site in the UK, serves around 200,000 customers in 85 countries, and had a turnover of around &#163;50m during the recent three-day Cheltenham festival.The high street bookies have used the net to expand into profitable areas such as online casino gaming. Ladbrokes now runs the most popular online poker site inEurope. The site is growing by 20% per month and draws around 6,000 players every day. One sign of the strength of online gambling is the arrival of mainstream operations such as Virgin in the sector. The company will open Virgin Games, an online gambling portal, in the summer."The majority of online gambling    customers are new," says Andrew Tottenham, chairman of theInteractive Gaming, Gambling and Betting Association (iGGBA), an industry body representing remote gaming companies. "They would never dream of going to a betting shop. But they will place a bet online or try an online casino. It's about accessibility, being able to do this from the privacy of their own home, in a non-intimidating environment."There are parallels with online porn sites, which let punters "consume" in private. Similarly, the net liberates gambling from spaces such as bookies and casinos. Many have argued that net porn has brought pornography closer to the cultural mainstream. Some might argue that online gambling could have a similar normalising effect for gambling in general.But the reason online gambling is doing well has more to do with the way the general attitude to gambling in the UK has changed over the past decade. Thanks to the National Lottery and the government's relaxed attitude to regulation, gambling is now seen not as a social ill but as mainstream entertainment (and a lucrative engine of growth and jobs). Crucially, technology has also matured, so playing on the net is fun and not frustrating (or dangerous).Given this, it's no surprise to see Virgin arriving in the arena. Oscar Nieboer, managing director of Virgin Games, says its site will feature an online casino, but will be more about "light, bright games for people on their lunch breaks". This translates as fixed-odds games that are easy to play - low-risk with high entertainment values. Players will win significant prizes, which could be cash   other Virgin products or services. Nieboer says Virgin's move has been driven by government deregulation, which is bringing the "democratisation of gambling. It's moving away from being a minority pursuit and is becoming a more rounded entertainment proposition, like Las Vegas." As deregulation opens up the sector, opportunities arise for "trusted entertainment brands that present gambling as fun and grant 'permission to play' to people who would gamble if they felt comfortable with the brand offering the service".Virgin will focus on gaming rather than betting says Nieboer, who argues that traditional bookmakers' online offerings are tired and samey. They havn't really grasped the potential of the net, he suggests.That can't be said for betting exchanges such as Betfair, which use the net very cleverly to enable transactions between customers and then, eBay-style, take a small commission on those transactions. In other   words, Betfair doesn't run a book - it lets customers bet against each other, taking a small cut of winning bets. Betfair's founder, Andrew Black, was apparently inspired by the Nasdaq.In a way, the betting exchanges represent the arrival of stock market-style complexity to sports betting. Just as you can trade in complex financial products, you can now back a horse to win, then cover yourself by also betting that it might lose. You can then take other positions that balance or build on your original bet.As a result, Betfair spokesperson Caspar Hill says, they attract a different, more knowledgable customer than the high street bookies. "We're growing the market," he says, pointing out that although Betfair had a turnover of &#163;5.2m for the recent Cheltenham Gold Cup race, it expects to make only &#163;3m for the mainstream Grand National.As with previous e-commerce pioneers, Betfair's innovations have upset established interests. Tradi tional bookmakers argue that by allowing people to lay bets (ie back horses to lose), the exchanges open the door to potential abuses - hence recent scandals, in which apparent favourites have unexpectedly lost after being heavily backed on the exchanges to do so. Betfair suggests that this kind of thing has always happened, but the exchanges make it more visible and hence easier to police.The bookmakers also argue that exchange users who profit from laying bets are acting as bookmakers and should be licensed and taxed as such. This is heavily resisted by Betfair - Hill says this would seriously damage its business model. "The fuss is commercially driven by traditional bookmakers because we have a product that is more accessible and gives the punter more choice, more control and better value," he says.Moving against the exchanges will be difficult, says Andrew Tottenham. "The genie's out of the bot tle now," he says, suggesting that exchanges will go offshore if regulation goes against them. He thinks that ultimately, traditional bookmakers will set up their own exchanges. "They will see it as an additional product. You won't move traditional gamblers to it. This will be a new market that opens up for them." Ladbrokes.com spokesperson Damian Walker rejects this. "We have no plans at present to do that."Despite this, Ladbrokes is doing well online, especially in casino gaming and internet poker. Walker says company research indicates that around 2.9m adults in the UK are interested in playing online. "Worldwide, the potential audience for this is huge. Globally, $15bn was staked in online poker games last year."Online poker is successful because it's easy to learn the rules and try it out, says Walker. You don't need to stake lots of money and if you do win, you get to keep more. Ladbrokes only takes a 1.5% cut, along with its registration fees. Safeguards are in place to stop players chasing their losses beyond a certain pre-specified limit.At the moment, poker draws young men - 60% of Ladbrokes' players are under 30, many attracted by televised poker tournaments on Sky and ITV; Vegas chic exemplified by the movie Ocean's Eleven and TV shows such as Hustle; and success stories such as Chris Moneymaker, an online poker player who won $2.3m at a real world poker tournament last year. "Ladbrokes is probably the best known bookmaking brand in the world. People trust the brand and hence trust the service," says Walker.That said, as the net brings gambling on to office desks and   home PCs, public concern will grow.IGGBA's Andrew Tottenham says his organisation has been proactive, working with gambling charityGamCareto establish codes of practice that protect consumers and make sure children can't use their services. "We have no interest in children gambling - and it is a very, very small problem anyway. You need credit cards, which aren't issued to people under 18."IGGBA is working with banks to find ways of checking whether a debit card is being used by someone under age. Parents need to take some responsibility in this area, he suggests.These concerns will grow as gambling arrives in the living room via interactive TV (iTV). According to Arash Amel, an analyst atScreen Digest, Sky sees gambling as central to its iTV strategy. Last year, 60% of Sky's overall &#163;275m turnover for iTV came from gambling services. Screen Digest predicts strong growth in the sector, suggesting that by 2007, turnover from gambling via iTV will be up to &#163;1.75bn. Amel says this will come from live sports betting and from an expansion into casino-style gaming, which should become possible once legislation in the area is clarified.If e-gambling becomes mainstream entertainment, then the likes of Sky and Virgin will win out, says Virgin Games' Nieboer. "Traditional high street bookies have done well as they've moved to the net. But I think the market will favour not bookie brands trying to become entertaining, but entertainment brands that offer some gambling credentials."
Perhaps you didn't notice, but this week, Google redesigned its home page. The main difference is that the reversed-out tabs that let you search for images, news, Google Groups and so on have been replaced by simple words. On the downside, the column of "sponsored links" (adverts) on results pages has become more intrusive, though it's still much better than the banners, pop-ups, pop-unders, crawl-overs and other rubbish that infests the web.Also on Monday, Google Labs, the research division, unveiled two interesting experiments: Personalised Web Search and Web Alerts. These add to the ever-expanding list of Google services, from Answers to Wireless, which you can now find by clicking the prominent "more" by the search bar. Noticeably, this page doesn't include links to Blogger, the weblog system that Google bought, or to Orkut, its social networking site.Web Alerts is just like Google's existing service, News Alerts. There, you enter your topics of interest, and Google emails you either once a day or whenever a relevant story comes up. Web Alerts does the same thing, except that instead of entering topics, you enter a web search.Personalised Web Search is much more interesting, and it's widely considered to be the next big thing in the search community. Personalisation is not only useful, in providing more appropriate results, it's a way to encourage people to stick to your site instead of clicking off to the competition.Google's great leap forward is based on its purchase of Kaltix last year. However, Kaltix and Google are not exactly strangers: both came out of Stanford University, where Google's founders, graduate students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, started. Indeed, Kaltix's three founders were working in the team formed around the PageRank algorithm that was the basis of Google's success."The future of search technology will incorporate various personalisation techniques," says Craig Silverstein, Google's quietly spoken director of technology. "Today's announcement ... brings us one step closer to the ultimate search engine: one that delivers the information users want as quickly as possible."I met Silverstein in London last week while he was en route between Madrid and Dublin, on a grand tour of European offices. He was Google's first employee, having been at Stanford with Page and Brin, where he co-authored papers with Brin and his own thesis supervisor, Rajeev Motwani.Right from the start, Silverstein has   been involved with creating the infrastructure that supports the search engine. This includes quite a lot of proprietary in-house software: they even wrote their own web server.What was once a few grad students with a great idea has grown to an impressive size. Google now has more than 1,000 staff, more than 10,000 Linux servers, and searches more than 4bn web pages more than 200m times a day. The Google search page is available in 97 languages using 96 domain names, fromArgentinatoVietnam, viaLiechtenstein.In the US, according to Nielsen//NetRatings, Google is now the leading search site with 59.3m unique visitors in January. This compares with 45.8m for Yahoo Search and 44.7m for Microsoft's MSN Search. In Europe, Nielsen reckons Google had 55.6m users, which is twice as many as MSN Search, and more than four times the 12.7m people who used Yahoo Search. And Google says it is doing even better in the UK: the number of users has grown by 57% in the past year to 13.5m, while the number of searches originating here has grown by 77%.Of course, this is just the beginning of Google's ambition, which, as Silverstein says, is to provide access to   all the world's information, not just the stuff already in electronic form, and certainly not just web pages.However, even digital files can be a problem. Google can handle Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint and Word documents, MacWrite and, most importantly, Adobe Portable Document Format (pdf) files, but many documents are still inaccessible."Often it's because the owners of that content won't let us have access, or it's because you need to fill in a form or have a password or do something our computers aren't capable of doing. Flash and animations are   other areas where search engines have traditionally been pretty poor. It's a challenge for us to search that type of content better, and our goal is certainly to do that," says Silverstein. "At the moment, no one can do it. The time will come, but the way you get information out of the web today is mostly verbal."Google already offers to search for images, though it searches the text rather than the images themselves, and this sometimes leads to humorous juxtapositions ..."Part of our goal is to associate text with images, and I think we do an   amazing job of that," says Silverstein, "but sometimes it's very difficult to see what text should be associated with an image on a web page. I find it works for the kinds of things where you think, 'Oh, I should do an image search for this'. But if you were to type in a proverb, for instance, and see what images pop up, then I'd expect the results to be pretty random. You can get some entertainment value out of that, and that's fine: we're happy to have Google function as an entertainment and social vehicle as well as an information vehicle."To a great extent, Google's success has been its ability to deliver good results to people who are not expert searchers - who don't have the ability to construct complex Boolean searches of the sort that worked well with earlier search engines such as Alta Vista.This isn't the same as a "natural language interface", where users type sentences and the interface software parses them. Researchers and some game developers have been working on those for the best part of three decades. However, Silverstein reckons that "if you type a natural language question into Google, we do as well as anyone at answering it, even though that's not our goal. Our goal is quite clear within the company: eventually we want to make &#91;searching&#93; as natural as possible, so you describe what you want as you would to another person. Sometimes it's just a few words - 'When was the Suez Canal built?' - but it might be a whole paragraph. It's a goal of ours for the computer to understand a query as well as a person. I think that's 200 years away. Even if I'm wrong, I won't have to eat my words!"Sometimes Google's results are not very good, either because of bugs in the way the algorithms operate or because some people have manipulated them, as in the widely publicised cases of "Google bombing". One example: if you search for "miserable failure", the first result is: Biography of President George W Bush."There are a lot of people doing research for us," grins Silverstein, "to point out where our search engines could be improved! Certain queries get spread around and it's easy to get a non-representative view. When you have 200m queries a day, there will be one or two you are going to be amused by, or confounded by. We want to understand why &#91;they happen&#93;, to see if they are affecting a lot of queries, but we have to make sure we concentrate on the vast majority of queries, and how to make them better."The acid test for us is always: 'Does it really help the user get the information they need faster'."
Screen timeI have a Packard Bell computer that is five years old. However, it gives me eye strain although I have 20/20 vision. Have you any advice about selecting a screen that would be easier on the eye?Richard RobinsonJack Schofield replies:Most PC companies supply at least two types of conventional (CRT or cathode ray tube) monitor. The first type is bundled with the system and built down to a price. The quality varies dramatically and while you can get a good sample, many are not suitable for extended use. The second type is the optional upgrade, which is generally of a reasonable quality, and usually supports a higher screen resolution at a faster refresh rate. Those are good numbers to look at, even if you don't plan to use them. There's also a third type of monitor, which uses a shadow mask. The Sony Trinitron was the original, but many other firms now use the technology, often with "tron" in the name. Diamondtron is a highly regarded example.Some people love these monitors, including me, but they do not seem to be as good at displaying very small text. However, good quality CRTs are big and heavy, so they are hard to move around and take up a lot of space. Therefore, they are rapidly being replaced by flat LCD screens, which have finally become affordable in sizes suitable for desktop use. (A 15in LCD has roughly the same viewable area as a 17in CRT.) LCDs are generally not as good as CRTs in terms of colour display or at handling rapid movement in games, but they are good enough for most   purposes.As with conventional monitors, the quality can vary dramatically. In the end, there is no substitute for trying a monitor before you buy it, which can be difficult if shopping by mail order. In that case, it is better to avoid the cheapest options, and look at companies that specialise in monitors, such as iiyama and Eizo, or companies with a good reputation for monitors, including Sony and Hitachi. LG and Philips often have good options for price-sensitive buyers.Linking inWe are an agency with more than 50 self-catering properties in Suffolk. Recently we lost a prominent position on Google to about 8th page, yet other smaller sites are up there on pages one and two. Any thoughts to get our position back?John Hammondwww.suffolkcottageholidays.comJS:Your site seems to have all the things that should result in a good position on Google, such as good text, alt tags to identify pictures, and useful non-commercial content. It is much better than some of the sites that appear higher. However, it has at least one major weakness: there are not many external links pointing to it. (Searching Google for link:www.suffolkcottageholidays.comreveals the problem.)Google's PageRank system evaluates incoming links, and the quality of the sites that contain those links, as a way of rating your site. This is based on the idea that if you put good content on the web, other sites will point to it. I'd suggest contacting sites in related areas, whose visitors would be interested in what your site has to offer, to see if they would like to link to your site.Create some attractive new content to generate good inbound links and promote this content to holiday magazines and tourist agencies, with a view to obtaining further links. It is also worth trying to get intoYahooand the Open Directoryhttp://dmoz.org, and, of course, a link from the Guardian could help.For further    information, see the links atwww.goldranking.com/link-popularity-pagerank.htmland, in the spirit of the day,www.google.com/technology/pigeonrank.htmlBackchat&#183;Chris Cleverley's hard drive failed and he asked if he could "install another hard drive and have it operate as a hot standby". As Gordon Nevill and others pointed out: "What Chris wants is a mirrored disk. He can implement this in hardware, a Raid 1 controller, or software with Windows 200 and XP. If he does this, then everything that is written to his hard disk is copied to a backup drive at the same time. If the hard disk fails, then the system continues using the backup automatically." Bernard Treves Brown, from Umist, added: "More expensive motherboards have the hardware needed, but there are PCI cards to do this for less than &#163;50. Some of the cheaper plug-in cards have given trouble after about a year, usually dropping disks from the mirrored pair, but I have Adaptec 1200A cards (&#163;50 or so) running reliably in several PCs. It's important to remember that this isn't a backup. If a file is deleted, it vanishes on both disks."&#183;Simon Brooksbank wanted a way to find out if someone was trying to call while he was on the net. Phil Ireland says what he needs is an ISP that supports the V.92 protocol for 56k analogue connections. "I use a Zoom 3025 PCI modem and this comes bundled with software called NetWaiting. You need the phone to have Caller ID and Call Waiting enabled for it to work. You get a pop-up window showing who is calling and you can either accept the call or reject it. If the call is accepted, you get two minutes conversation before the net connection is dropped," says Ireland. Seewww.v92.com/about/modem-on-hold.html.
Final Fantasy: Crystal ChroniclesGameCube, &#163;39.99 Square-Enix, &#42;&#42;&#42;Once upon a time, Square's phenomenally successful Final Fantasy franchise was closely identified with Nintendo. Then along came Sony (which still owns a stake in Square-Enix), and the games migrated to the PlayStation and PlayStation 2. Despite its return to a Nintendo console, this role-playing game (RPG) has a much more limited scope than any of the lavish Final Fantasy epics that have emerged on the PS2 in recent years.Set in a typical Middle Ages-style, RPG world enveloped in "miasma", you embark on a quest to fill a chalice with myrrh and keep your village safe from the miasma for another year.What ensues is a mix of combat, spell-casting, character development   and puzzle-solving. All fairly standard, apart from the first two, which work pretty well once you work out how to time combo attacks and charge your spells properly.Unusually, Crystal Chronicles has been primarily designed for cooperative play by up to four people - using Game Boy Advances as controllers, rather than the GameCube's standard pad. The game makes more sense this way. The single-player game is enjoyable, although it never feels innovative. Youngsters should enjoy it.Steve BoxerMarcel Desailly Pro SoccerandSabre WulfN-Gage, Game Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Gameloft, Rare&#42;&#42;&#42;Forget Snake and Tetris: mobile gaming has come a long way. Take Marcel Desailly Pro Soccer on N-Gage, for example. With impressive graphics and surprisingly in-depth tactics, this is a world away from moving blocks and monochrome reptiles.There are plenty of teams but the slow pace, which allows you to string together good moves, is the real appeal. Assuming you master the controls, that is. With seven keys to use, it gets very fiddly in the heat of the action. Get used to these, though,   and you have an enjoyable portable footy game, especially when playing an opponent over Bluetooth.A different but equally enjoyable handheld release is Sabre Wulf for the Game Boy Advance. Marking the reappearance of a franchise last seen in the mid-80s, this highly polished platform game is something of a return to form for developers Rare.Unlike its meandering 80s predecessor, the new Wulf is tight and focused, and the use of animal companions to solve puzzles sustains interest. Sabre Wulf is short, simple and enjoyable.Greg HowsonSilent Scope CompleteXbox, &#163;29.99 Konami&#42;&#42;&#42;Silent Scope was big in the arcades once, due to its impressive sniper rifle attachment. On the Xbox, you lose such precision hardware, but this version makes a good try at compensating, fitting in all three previous games plus a new one.You get the familiar mix of high-pressure arcade situations. Once the level starts, you have seconds to identify enemies from civilians before they open fire, and then it's all down to aiming fast and knowing when to use the zoom function.Enemies come thick and fast and, as with all games of this genre, memorising the layout of levels is the key to a high score. However, with more than 50 levels, there is still plenty of old-school action to enjoy.However, this is strictly a game for lightguns - preferably a force-feedback one where you can feel the recoil. Trying to play it on an Xbox joypad is an experience not unlike chasing a pea around a plate with a knife. Konami's real problem is in creating a hugely enjoyable arcade game that most people don't have the hardware to appreciate.Packing four Silent Scopes into one box is a nice idea to kick-start the genre. However, we'll need a lot more to convince people that owning a gun is essential or desirable.Mike Anderiesz
Pontypool Pacers now have a website. The self-help group for people interested in healthy hearts is one of several community groups lodging atwww.webster.uk.net. This is the newly launched community web portal for Torfaen, a local authority covering Pontypool, Cwmbran and Blaenavon in south-east Wales.Webster was launched last week under the stirring slogan "by the people for the people". It's part of a larger effort to encourage individuals, community groups and small firms to get on to the web.Quite a few local authorities have similar ideas. In north-east England, the burghers of Hartlepool also launched a community portal this month.Hartlepoolis a useful first port of call for information    from the borough council, local NHS services and regeneration agencies. Not to mention the north-east England portalwww.n-e-life.com.Community websites are good news, especially if they promote digital inclusion in deprived parts of the country. But they also pose interesting questions for e-government strategy. In particular, they mark a new escalation in the number of publicly funded websites and a proliferation of brand and domain names.E-government enthusiasts will have noticed that none of the sites mentioned uses the .gov.uk domain which, according to the office of the e-envoy's web guidelines, is the suffix for "local and regional government bodies ... and other associated and non-departmental public sector organisations and projects".There's a simple reason: public   agencies trying to reach out to people tend to see .gov.uk as a turn-off. For example, the drugs advice website Talk to Frank adopts .com to disguise its links to the Home Office and the Department of Health. Likewise, the sexual health site playingsafely hides behind .co.uk.At least one county council, Rutland, eschews .gov.uk for its official site, the pioneeringwww.rutnet.co.uk. Partly, this reflects the spirit that kept England's smallest council alive despite the efforts of Whitehall planners. It's also a subtle boast that Rutland has been on the web since 1996.Other places in Britain where web addresses perpetuate administrative boundaries that have little to do with popular identity, might do well to follow suit. London, for example, is crying out    for a functional portal to replace the dismalwww.london.gov.uk, which doesn't even handle congestion charge payments. You have to go towww.cclondon.com.Does this matter? Perhaps not: unlike in the dotcom boom years, urls are no longer seen as crown jewels. People find government sites, like other sites, through a search engine. Explaining what a site is for should be the job of the home page.The Phillis report into government communications suggests that government should try to impose more discipline on local government websites. There may be a place for this. On brand names, however, it should relax. After all, one of the best e-government sites in the world, serving Coquitlam and Port Moody in British Columbia, has the wonderfully daft name citysoup.ca.
The European Commission's decision on Microsoft's Windows Media Player (WMP) may harm consumers and has already been attacked by the US Justice Department, US politicians and think tanks such as the Pacific Research Institute and the Cato Institute (links above). It may also represent a huge missed opportunity.By playing the tough guy, the EC's competition commissioner, Mario Monti, got much further than America's Justice Department. Microsoft was so desperate to settle the European case that it offered to bundle three rival media players on a worldwide basis, thus helping Microsoft's enemies and offering consumers more choice.Microsoft has fought this type of bundling for years, and refused to cede to the US government when it involved Netscape's web browser. (The argument was that "Coca-Cola is not forced to distribute Pepsi. McDonald's is not forced to sell Burger King hamburgers" etc.) But Monti spurned this ground-breaking concession. He settled for less than Microsoft offered, as Goldman Sachs pointed out.Instead, Monti chose a path that is either harmful to consumers or will make no difference at all. The EC decision says: "Microsoft is required ... to offer to PC manufacturers a version of its Windows client PC operating system without WMP," but adds: "Microsoft retains the right to offer a version ... with WMP." In Europe, manufacturers can therefore ship PCs with or without WMP, or do both.If manufacturers offer PCs without WMP, users get an operating   system where, says Microsoft, about 20 features don't work, such as sub-titling for the deaf. Since Microsoft does not have to charge less for this version, there is unlikely to be any cost saving to compensate. These PC manufacturers will limit the damage by installing alternative players that fill some of the holes. However, this will increase their costs - because of the overheads involved in testing, installing, advertising and supporting an extra version of Windows - and is unlikely to increase their sales. I can't see many rational and informed consumers choosing a less functional PC in preference to a more functional one.Consumer demand will therefore ensure that nearly all manufacturers will continue to offer PCs with WMP installed. They may also install other media players as well,   but there is nothing to stop them doing this today. In this case, Monti's decision achieves nothing.Of course, Monti's as-yet-unreleased arguments may not stand up in court. Microsoft is almost certain to appeal to the Court of the First Instance, which has recently thrown out several of the commission's cases, harshly criticising its research "vitiated by errors and omissions" (the Schneider case) and "manifest errors of assessment" (the Tetra Pak case).Meanwhile, the Americans are annoyed because the European case has covered the same ground as the US courts, and chosen remedies that have already been rejected as badly flawed. The EC is thus making Microsoft look like a persecuted victim - an unexpected image makeover that could even be worth &euro;497m.Links  Jack Schofield's columnCommission concludes on Microsoft investigationQuestions and answers on decisionUS Department of Justice statementLetter from the House of Representatives' International Relations CommitteeA Welfare State for Aggrieved Market Losers, by Robert Levy, Cato    Institute, in the Financial TimesWho Decides What Innovations Go Into Your PC? by Bill Gates, in the Wall Street Journal
VoIP satisfactionI really enjoyed Victor Keegan's article (Online on the web, March 26) on voice over internet      protocol (VoIP). But what he described is a reality in the UK already.       I am based in the UK and have a business here, but I have also launched a US-based business where      I use the Vonage VoIP service.While I used to spend fortunes calling the US via BT or dialling 10 digit access codes with OneTel or      similar, I am now on the phone to the States everyday for $34.99 a month (less than £20). It's      ironic that I can also call "back" to the UK for just two cents a minute anytime, cheaper than my      BT landline.The other great thing about the Vonage service is that I can easily "patch" calls through to my      colleagues as if we were all sitting in an office together. In reality, they are in New York, Virginia,      San Diego and Los Angeles. Messages arrive by email and you get a nicely laid-out control panel      where you can configure just about everything.My US-based friends can stay in touch with me for the cost of a local call (for them) and it routes      to me wherever I am. I also have an 800 number for business calls for the princely sum of $5 a      month.       The quality is good, even at peak broadband usage times. The only downgrading of quality happens      when I am downloading large files at the same time. VoIP, as delivered by Vonage, is a brilliant      consumer-centric service that regulators will not be able to slant in BT's favour.Godfrey IngramLutonMini maniaI understand the enthusiasm about the launch of the iPod Mini, but I hope we can look forward to a      more balanced review than that of Ashley Norris (Pretty in Pink, March 25), who, like many iPod      enthusiasts, seems to be so enthralled by the aesthetics of the device that he forgets its primary      function is to play music. Nowhere does the article mention what it sounds like.In my view, the Creative Zen sounds better than the iPod, though there isn't much in it. Since      Apple seems reluctant to publish any objective information about the iPod's audio performance      (such as signal to noise ratio), it is difficult for music lovers to make an informed choice.A quick surf around Apple's forum devoted toiTunes for Windowswill show that iTunes is probably not "easily the best MP3      software even for Windows". On my XP computer, iTunes tends to lose its connection with my iPod      for no reason (a common problem, apparently). I have given up trying to get iTunes to rip CDs in      MP3 format, tag them properly and add them to my iTunes library (it works OK with AAC format).iTunes will not monitor media directories and update its library automatically - a standard feature      in most media management applications.       Although the iPod is a design classic and a desirable piece of kit, it is far from perfect, especially      for PC users. An objective review of the iPod Mini when it is launched or, better still, a wider      comparison of MP3 players, would be very welcome.Gary JamesLincolnA matter of balanceThe fragment Jack Schofield (Column, March 25) quotes from the e-envoy consultancy document      on open source software - "if no commercial or community shared exploitation route is used for      publicly funded R&amp;D software an Open Source Software (OSS) default will apply" - refers not to      procurement policy, as he states, but to the terms under which software developed with public      funds is licensed. Regarding procurement, the document states: "UK government will consider OSS      solutions alongside proprietary ones in UK procurements. Contracts will be awarded on a value for      money basis, which is exactly the "unbiased" position the article claims is lacking.It's hard to believe Schofield has read the document he cites, or done more than a cut-and-paste      job on the output of an advocacy group for monopoly rents larded with some lightweight and inept      historical analysis. Your readers deserve better.John KozakOpenOffice testDr Paul Dixon (Feedback, March 25) rightly states that recent versions of OpenOffice includes a      PDF export facility. Unfortunately, it's not very good.       A quick test using a one page file of text and text boxes: original Word (.doc) file: 54K. PDF      printed from Word using Acrobat Distiller: 11K. PDF printed from OpenOffice using Distiller: 9K.      PDF exported from OpenOffice using the built-in export: 61K. The latter was produced using the      "Screen optimised (smallest file size)" setting.Additionally, the outputs from OpenOffice (using either method) are not as faithful to the original      layout as the output from Word. This often is not very important on a small, mainly text,      document, but I have found problems with more complex documents.       Admittedly, these results are for documents of MS Office origin rather than native OpenOffice      formats. However, saving the word file as .sxw first made no difference. This is a shame, because      OpenOffice is generally impressive and the inclusion of a PDF export is a good idea.Antony HawkinsUniversity of Sheffield
A high profile global positioning system compatible with Palm OS-based handhelds is the &#163;300 GPS 4460 from Navman. It consists of a playing card-size GPS receiver that connects wirelessly to a PDA via Bluetooth.Sadly, this limits compatibility to the PalmOne Tungsten T2 and T3 and several recent Sony Clies.After installing the application on the PDA, users transfer maps (discs covering Europe are supplied with the package) to a 128MB Secure Digital or MMC card.The GPS 4460 accurately displayed locations via colour maps, and offered voice instructions on how to reach a destination. The maps were particularly readable on the Tungsten T3's large high-resolution screen. Battery life of the receiver was almost 30 hours.If you own a Tungsten T3, the GPS 4460 is well worth considering. If you don't have a PDA and GPS is your priority, try the &#163;400 Medion Satellite Navigation system sold by Halfords.www.navman.co.uk
Your earliest encounter with computers?I was probably one of the first in the business to use a computer because when BBC TV News switched to a mainframe computer system in the mid-80s, I was editing and presentingNewsround. We were elected to test it and make sure it worked. So we were the first TV news bulletin to use computers in a serious way.Do you wish you'd had access to snazzy computer graphics back then?Oh yes. When I started doing Newsround, the graphics were cardboard. People would cut out, say, a map of Africa and stick it on a piece of blue cardboard. If you wanted "animation", people pulled little bits of card from the side in real time. We did well considering the limitations. The first electronic thing I used was a light-stick. You'd point it at a TV screen and it would circle what you'd pointed at. It wasn't reliable, though. I co-presented the 30th anniversary edition of Newsround - the graphics and animations they can access so quickly is a different world.Broadband?I don't use the internet enough to warrant it, but the village in which I live in Oxfordshire recently got enough names to get the local exchange enabled. My computer is more of a glorified typewriter.Is there a growing desire to get broadband into rural areas?It depends on the demand in each area. I met a couple that run a travel agency from home and they would certainly benefit from broadband. If I were still   doing interviews from home, it might have been worth it, but a digital phone line is usually good enough for radio.What about the environmental problem of obsolete computers?There seem so few secondhand computers or laptops for sale. I could do with a laptop but don't want to pay &#163;1,000. But I'd be happy to buy one a few years old for &#163;350. I assume they go into landfill sites, which is a tragedy as they'll be there for millions of years!Is the rising number of mobile phone masts still a problem in the countryside?There is a lot of concern about the safety of mobile-phone masts, just as there is aboutRailtrack's proposed microwave signalling systemwith masts erected all along the railway. I was in North Devon and people are very concerned about emissions.And you're partial to digital photography?Yes, working out my digital camera and how to store the pictures on my hard drive and email them was a triumph! I have a Canon PowerShot A60  and several bits of software such as Canon ZoomBrowserEX, QuickCam 5.4.1, ArcSoft Photo Impression and HP Photo and Imaging Gallery. Every year we do theCountryfile photographic competitionand more and more are now digital. Patrick Lichfield, who helps judge, hasn't used film for four years. He says it's saved him thousands of pounds. Our main problem now is whether people have enhanced the pictures, as it's so easy to use Photoshop and cheat.Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/nature/environment/programmes/countryfile
Microsoft talksMicrosoft has announced version 5.0 of its Windows CE consumer electronics operating system, used in handheld organisers, smart phones, cars andother devices. The new version offers a telephony user interface (TUI) in sample code, SIP phone facilities, and a basic call control stack, which Microsoft calls the VoIP Application Interface Layer (Vail).Several manufacturers are planning to use the new system in IP browser phones, screen phones and WLan phones (which work via a wireless local area network, such as Wi-Fi). CE5 also integrates with Microsoft's Exchange Server software to provide free/busy information and other features. Users can now download a "technology preview" of the system.Microsoft has also launched Microsoft Speech Server software, which combines speech processing services and telephony in one system. Microsoft says that with Speech Server, "companies can deploy speech-enabled solutions that can be accessed by telephone, cell phone, Pocket PC, Tablet PC and other devices". More than 60 companies are developing packaged applications through the Microsoft Speech Partner Programme.http://msdn.microsoft.com/embeddedhttp://www.microsoft.comExpanding frameUnisys is refreshing its mainframe series with the addition of the ClearPath Plus Libra 500. The company is introducing new features to its mainframe customers, such as a pay-per-use metering system and support for Java 2 Enterprise Edition. The pay-per-use system is controlled by Utilization Sentinel, a management module that allows managers to access extra system resources on demand and record usage statistics for billing. Unisys claims that pay-per-use will offer greater flexibility so that the Libra can grow and shrink according to need, or grow with the business. Java support is a multi-year project that will extend the mainframe's web capabilities alongside the native MCP operating system.www.unisys.comFlexible FlashMacromedia is broadening its Flash format to enable developers to create eye-catching interfaces in computer languages with which they are already familiar. The process is controlled by Flex, an application that takes scripts written in common programming languages such as Java and .Net and converts them into XML. The XML dialect, devised by Macromedia, can be read   by the Flash Player to create the web page interface. The company says that Flex means Java and .Net programmers do not have to learn Flash to create animated interfaces. Macromedia is also working on its own development tool, but many developers will probably prefer to use their existing scripting tools and editors.www.macromedia.com/software/flexSwift justiceSpeeding drivers in Wiltshire and Swindon will be able to view their exploits on the internet under the local authority's Safety Camera Partnership (WSSCP) Notice of Intended Prosecution (NIP) system. Evidence of offences will be available through a web portal linked to the NIP database. This is the first UK portal to allow online access to evidence of speeding offences, but more are due to follow under the forthcoming Freedom of Information bill in 2005. The site will also carry information and statistics to discourage drivers from speeding. The portal, being developed by Compuware, is expected to provide a return on investment within a year.http://www.safetycameras-wiltshire-swindon.co.ukUnApril FoolBlackSpider Technologies calculates that of the 63.25m spam messages sent daily to UK businesses, 632,500 are Nigerian 419 scam emails. These missives, first seen in 1999, ask for help to release vast sums of money from a Nigerian bank account/government cache. When a sucker replies, the scammers start to ask for more money ("advance fees") to be sent to them, or for personal bank account details. Despite being exposed on television, through newspapers and websites, the emails still flood in to boxes in the UK.www.BlackSpider.comBritish diseasedIn the UK, small businesses are at risk of virus infection and being a source of worm distribution, according to a report by McAfee, Network Associates' anti-virus division. In a survey of 500 European small and medium-sized businesses, only 39% of the UK sample said they update their anti-virus software every week. France did only slightly better at 40% and even in Germany, only 51% update frequently. Spain topped the poll with almost three quarters of its SMBs showing sufficient caution. McAfee points out that virus emergencies during the first three months of this year already outstrip the number of total outbreaks last year.
Mobile phonesLimit to fashionVivienne Westwood has designed a limited edition cover for the Motorola V600. Timed to coincide with the fashion designer's retrospective exhibition at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London this month, the floral camouflage handsets might be a tad more Laura Ashley than Siouxie and the Banshees. The 99 handsets will only be available at Vivienne Westwood stores and the V&amp;A museum shop. More collectors' item than couture accessory, the phones are a snip at &#163;300.MP3Caught shortThose waiting to buy an Apple iPod mini are going to have to hang on a little longer. Due to "stronger than expected demand" in the US, Apple has put back the worldwide launch until July. Brits can, however, get their hands on an iPod Mini via import sites such aswww.ipodmini.co.uk, or from auction sites such aswww.ebay.co.uk. Expect to pay much more than the iPod mini's expected launch price of &#163;200.www.apple.com/ipodSoftwareOpera singsOpera will add voice recognition to its free web-browser software later this year, using IBM's ViaVoice technology. The Norwegian software firm says the functionality, which will not be in the next release, could be used to navigate, request information and fill in online forms. It will be added first to desktop computer versions, but will be incorporated into Opera's software for mobile phones and palmtop computers.www.opera.com/pressreleases/en/2004/03/23Digital camerasSanyo enters fraySanyo, once a leading player in the UK digital camera market, is hoping to re-capture that position with the launch of a range of new models under the Xacti banner. Due first in early summer, the Xacti J4, right, is a compact model, capable of taking four megapixel images. It comes with interpolation software that   can apparently double that resolution. The J4 also boasts a VGA, 30 frames-per-second video capture facility. Sanyo claims it can take up to 21 minutes of "DVD-quality video" if the camera is paired with a 512MB Secure Digital (SD) card. The J4, which is like the Sony DSCU40 in design, will be available in three colours and is expected to retail for around &#163;300.www.sanyo.co.ukEnthusiastsSony has announced the first in a range of digital cameras designed to appeal to enthusiasts. The Cyber-shot W1 features a Carl Zeiss Vario-Tessar lens with a 3x optical zoom in a tough aluminium body. It can capture five megapixel images, which can be previewed on its 2.5in LCD. It will be launched next month, but there are no details yet on price. Sony has also unveiled a trio of point-and-shoot compact digi tal cameras - the Cyber-shot P43, P73 and P93. The first two models take four megapixel images, while the P93 takes five megapixel images. The P73 and P93 also have a 3x optical zoom lens. All three reach the stores in early June.SoftwareBiometric billionBy 2015, more than 1 billion people could find their biometric details supplied to the governments of countries to which they travel. The International Civil Aviation Organisation is considering adopting the US standard for countries in its visa waiver programme, including the UK. This means passports contain contactless chips holding biometric data, such as finger print, iris or facial scans. Civil rights groups warned the organisation that by adopting the US model, it is "enabling the creation of a global surveillance infrastructure".BroadbandMarket 'stifled'The UK wholesale broadband market "remains stifled by a lack of competition", according to firms including Tiscali and Cable &amp; Wireless. Five of BT's rivals last week wrote to the Financial Times, saying that BT retains a "monopolistic 99% share" in providing broadband through digital subscriber line (DSL) technology. BT says the letter ignores 2m users of cable broadband, dozens of internet service providers reselling BT's wholesale DSL products and the firm's work in extending broadband's reach within the UK. UK analyst Point Topic last week said that UK DSL subscriptions rose 70% in the second half of last year, compared with a 25% increase for cable connections.www.point-topic.comHardwareGoodmans laps it upBritish audio-visual manufacturer Goodmans is to enter the UK computer market with a range of laptop and desktop models. Due to arrive in June, the computers will be marketed as entertainment devices and will be bundled with movies, music, games and educational software. Set to retail for around &#163;700, the first PCs will feature an LCD   screen, wireless keyboard and mouse and Windows XP Home Edition. Goodmans' parent company, Alba plc, has dabbled with computer-style products before. In 2000, it launched the short-lived internet TV, while in 1999 it unveiled, but never delivered, an enter- tainment-style PC for the living room.www.goodmans.co.ukCapture the voiceOlympus is to extend its portfolio of digital voice recorders with the release of the DM-10, below. Available this month for &#163;200, the small upright recorder enables users to capture voice in both DSS (Digital Speech Standard) and WMA (Windows Media Audio) formats, with storage times of between four and 22 hours. Files can be reviewed via the recorder's earphones, or through the DM-10's built-in speaker, and transferred to a PC using the recorder's docking station. The DM-10 comes with a remote control that has an integrated microphone. You can listen to music stored on the player in either WMA or MP3 formats.www.olympus.co.uk
Psst! Wanna make free phone calls? This is the promise of services such as Skype that let users make free voice calls over the internet. But now the big boys - phone companies such as BT and AT&amp;T - are fighting back with their own "voice over broadband" (VoBB) services. Will this be the death of the free-call bonanza, or is there still life in DIY voice over internet protocol (VoIP)?A new report from research consultants Analysys suggests that such DIY services have the "long-term potential to damage the value of all fixed-voice services".Skype's free software has been downloaded 9.2m times fromwww.skype.comand, with the addition of headphones, microphone and sound card, it can be used to call similarly equipped PC users for nothing. Or, if you can't be bothered downloading software, a $59.99 (&#163;32) handset that plugs into the USB port of a PC will do the same job for you, and a cordless one from Siemens will be available in September.Skype's system is based on peer-to-peer technology. Its founders, Niklas Zennstr&#246;m and Janus Friis - who started KaZaA before selling it to   Sharman Networks - claim it provides better voice quality than ordinary phone calls, with the added security of encryption.Michael Powell, chairman of the US Federal Communications Commission told Fortune Magazine: "When the inventors of KaZaA are distributing for free a little program that you can use to talk to anybody, and the quality is fantastic, and it's free - it's over. The world will now change inevitably."Lining up against Skype are services such as BT Communicator, developed with internet portal Yahoo. This will provide free PC-to-PC voice calls but charge for VoIP calls to ordinary phones. The service will be available for trial next month.Tiscali, the Italian internet service provider, also plans to offer VoIP over its international network covering the UK, France, Italy, the Czech Republic, Greece, Switzerland and Spain.The jury is still out on whether retail voice over broadband services such as BT's, AT&amp;T's or that planned by Verizon Communications of the US, can make headway, or whether so-called DIY VoIP services will continue to generate more excitement.Skype is growing faster than Hotmail, the web-based email   service, did in its heyday, according to Steve Jurvetson, of Silicon Valley venture capitalists Draper Fisher Jurvetson. He has invested in both.Another encouraging sign for the DIY VoIP camp is that, earlier this month, Skype attracted $18.8m in second-round funding. However, BT has described Skype's service as "primitive", compared with the retail VoBB offering it plans to launch in September.Rupert Wood, of UK-based Analysys, says BT's service could be   "a bit of a spoiler to discourage VoIP services like US-based Vonage's catching on here".But greater use of retail VoBB could stimulate the take-up of broadband. A recent trip by a team from Brunel University's Broadband Research Centre to find out what the UK could learn from Japan discovered that free VoIP was what made many people sign up for broadband in the first place."The prospect of cheap (or free) telephone calls, and other add-ons   like teleconferencing and video conferencing, have proven tempting for Japanese consumers," says Dr Jyoti Choudrie, operations director at the centre.She argues that: "The UK is lagging behind in the transition from circuit-switched &#91;ordinary fixed-line&#93; networks to IP voice traffic, whereas Japan is charging forward and broadband suppliers are promoting Voice over IP to their users. As a result, there are more Japanese broadband users - over 10m of them. This enables ISPs to offer huge reductions in voice over broadband prices, boosting demand and providing a catalyst for new services."However, Wood, author of the Analysys report, the Impact of Voice over Broadband: forecasts for Western Europe, is not so sure that retail VoBB - for which a monthly subscription is often charged - will take off here. He argues: "Telephone call costs are much higher in Japan, making free or low-cost voice calls over the net more attractive. Penetration of broadband access is low, too, at 5.2 per 100 people in western Europe."Moreover, he adds, UK broadband services are often provided by incumbent telecoms operators who have little interest in seeing VoBB succeed, because it could cannibalise their existing fixed-line revenues. In Japan, by contrast, the biggest telecoms operator has less than 30% of the DSL market."Another obstacle," says Wood, "is that third-party internet service providers who could bundle in free or cheap voice with internet access have little clout in the UK, with only a few exceptions."He expects spending on retail VoBB to grow to around &euro;1.3bn in 2007, with slightly greater impact in the small business sector. "The threat to mainstream voice is not apocalyptic," says Wood.None the less, he says: "DIY VoIP should not be lightly dismissed by operators" and that "the long-term disruptive potential to operators of closed-user-group voice applications is high".
Once, lifetimes ago from the age of the internet, computers came with programming languages built in. ZX Spectrums, BBC Micros, even PCs came with versions of Basic, and many of today's top programmers cut their first teeth with these simple systems. Packing full-length games into less space than an average web page JPeg took skill, subtlety, and an early start: and those sub-&#163;100 devices from Sinclair and Acorn provided it.But in the past few years, mainstream devices - ordinary off-the-shelf PCs - have become expensive and programming language-free. There's nothing to play with, and little for this generation of 13 year olds to get the bug (or, more to the point, learn what bugs are).But the answer might have been obvious all along. What &#163;100 device sits in the pocket of all technically minded teenagers, providing internet access, challenges of size and interface, provides all the latest buzzwords, like social networks and location services, and has both colour screens and multichannel sound? Mobile phones, of course.At last month's O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference, in San Diego, the chief technology officer of Nokia, Pertti Korhonen, announced that series 60 Nokia mobiles will soon come with Python, a popular programming language, built in.Mobile phones have been programmable for a few years, usually with a mobile-specific variant of Java, called J2ME. But what makes this new advance different is that writing a Java program requires the   use of another machine. You would write your game or application on a PC, and then transfer it on to the phone.Nokia's implementation of Python can be entered directly into the phone, without the need for a PC. The language is also arguably much easier to learn than Java. Furthermore, while J2ME is only used on mobile devices, Python is used all over the place: many dynamic websites are based on Python code. Programs written on a Nokia will run happily on a Python-enabled PC and vice versa.But why bother? The answer is that mobile phones are no longer just simple devices for making voice calls. They are fully fledged members of the internet, and because they are carried around in the pocket of only one person, they offer all sorts of interesting additional ideas. They know who you are, where you are, who your friends are and can tap into any data source on the internet. With a few lines of Python, the perfect little application you've been hoping for could be yours.In this way, providing one of these popular "scripting" languages on its phones is a very smart move for Nokia: features that would once have to be built into the phone's system by its designers can now be added by anyone."Scripting on handsets will allow people to heavily personalise their phones," says veteran mobile phone consultant Robert Hamilton. "It's important, however, that the manufacturers expose enough functionality to make it useful."Handset manufacturers, Hamilton   says, are prone to leaving out the useful bits, such as features to dial the phone, access the address book or send text messages. But if they include them, the potential is truly exciting.Nick Richards, a London-based techy and self-confessed mobile phone obsessive, says: "It would allow you to connect anything to anything, to populate a game world with names from your address book, to lower the bar to making everything play together."It's like sharing all your sweets but getting twice as many," he says.There are risks, however. For years, anti-virus researchers have been warning about the unchecked programmability in mobile phones. Mobile phones are perfect vectors for potential viruses - although none has been seen yet - with their connectivity and their list of valid numbers in the address book. An infected phone reprogramming your partner's number to that of a premium rate line, or gradually destroying your data, is perhaps more of a risk with your mobile than with your PC.But those risks are perhaps overblown: we know about them already. The revolutionary idea is giving something new to the generation most likely to want to play with it.As the old cyberpunk adage has it, the street finds its own use for things. The trick is to let it.www.nokia.com
Bridget Jones can chuck out her diary: today, the place to keep track of those v. bad habits is online.HealthSpace, a section of the NHS Direct website, allows people to create their own secure electronic health record in which they can keep track of their weight, doctors' appointments and other useful information.HealthSpace is set to play a big part in the electronic NHS being created under the &#163;6bn IT modernisation programme. The NHS last week revealed that it is to become a window on NHS electronic records. By 2010, if all goes well, we will all be able to log securely into HealthSpace to view - and amend - our own health records.The idea is to help patients take charge of their health. Enthusiasts say it could change the nature of medicine. "It will become a patient-doctor partnership," says Oxfordshire GP Cecilia Pyper, whose practice, Bury Knowle, is a pioneer in helping patients read their records.This is a relatively new idea. Traditionally, NHS medical records were assumed to belong to the Secretary of State for Health, partly because they were written on government prop erty stationery. These assumptions are now changing. Patients have had the legal right to see their notes since 1991. Today, says Pyper, the assumption is that electronic data belongs to the individual concerned.In a trial carried out under the slogan "Trust me, I'm the patient", Bury Knowle has already allowed 1,000 patients to view electronic records in computer booths at the surgery. To view the record with a web browser, they identified themselves with an electronic fingerprint-scanner and controlled the screen with a light pen (chosen as more accessible than a mouse.) They could print out the record if they wanted to.Disturbingly, nearly one quarter - 23% - of patients found something wrong with their record. Sometimes this was a misunderstanding: the NHS abbreviation DNA for "did not attend" caused alarm, Pyper says. "They thought we were doing genetic experiments on them." Others disagreed with doctors' comments. "There was a debate about what constituted heavy smoking." However, Pyper says that some errors were serious. "One patient found that penicillin allergy was not on the record."Patients seemed to like the idea: 68% said they would like to share re sponsibility for their records' upkeep. Only 7% thought their records would be too difficult to understand.One patient, Ted East, a 76-year-old retired policeman, welcomes the change. "People of my generation remember when patients were kept in the dark, everyone seemed to know about your health but you, the patient." The practice gave him access to 50 years of his records. "With a bit of a crib-sheet supplied, I was able to crack the code. From that time on, I felt much more in charge of my health."The practice also tested putting records on the web. Patients were ambivalent: 14% were extremely enthusiastic, 10% extremely unhappy, while most of the rest, 54%, had "some concerns", Pyper says.Some caveats emerged from the research. One was that test results   bearing bad news should not be posted on the record for patients to find out by themselves. "Most wanted to be told first by a professional," says Pyper. Patients also felt that sensitive records such as on mental health, sexual health and abortion, should not be posted on the web.How to take account of these concerns is a big issue being tackled by the NHS national programme for IT. The first components of the national electronic record "spine", also known as the care records service, will come into service this summer, to allow doctors to meet targets for electronic appointment-booking.Patients will not have access until later. However, Dr Steve Bentley, head clinician on the NHS care record project, told the Healthcare Computing conference in Harrogate   last week that this is coming. Patients will also be able to amend their records, to include such things as self-prescribed drugs. This is important, as more and more pharmacologically active substances are becoming available without prescription (and ordered illegally over the internet).Patients will be able to opt out of the NHS care record - though Duncan McNeil, head of the programme's technology office, revealed last week that this would not mean their record would be deleted. "That would be silly. It's not deleted from the system, but it's not accessible by the system."At Bury Knowle, of the 14 patients who did not want to see their records, 11 changed their mind once they had seen the system in action. "Patients are moving on all the time," Pyper says.
"Some excellent presentations on the panel I'm on. But it's tough to be on a panel and blog at the same time, so please pardon my sketchiness... " SeeJohostarting March 29.For a list of projects from the Social Computing Group at Microsoft Research, gohere.
"The music industry announced legal action Tuesday against 247 people accused of illegal file sharing outside the United States, taking its war against Internet piracy abroad for the first time. Recording industry associations in Denmark, Germany, Italy and Canada have filed lawsuits or taken other legal action, aiming mainly at heavy users accused of offering a large number of songs online," reportsThe new York Times[free reg req'd]."This is not a U.S.-only problem," said Jay Berman, chairman of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry in London. "We always knew we would have to take action outside the United States. At some point, you have to ask yourself when. That moment was now."The article also says that Gerd Gebhardt, chairman of the German Phonographic Industry Association, "conceded that the campaign would do little to stem the main piracy problem in Germany: CD burning. Last year, according to a market survey, Germans copied music onto 325 million CD's. The German recording industry sold 133 million CD's with recorded music."
"Vonage has sued AT&amp;T over the long-distance company's new Internet-based phone service, saying AT&amp;T's "CallVantage" name was too close to Vonage's brand name," reportsReuters."Vonage claimed AT&amp;T was trying to confuse potential Vonage customers with the CallVantage name. Vonage also claimed AT&amp;T bought several Web addresses with 'vontage' in the name, such as callvontage.com, which are too similar to Vonage's callvonage.com address."
When I became the ICT coordinator at Stoke College, I was automatically given the job of handling      the Tesco Computers for Schools voucher scheme. I must admit that I hadn't given it a great deal      of thought, but when the new campaign catalogue thumped on to my desk recently, I leapt upon it,      because our digital camera had recently shuffled off its mortal zoom.I turned to page 11, the digital camera section, and opted for the Sony Mavica CD500 at 23,000      vouchers. Excellent, thought I, and wrote 23,000 in large letters atop the posters, built the      collection box and plastered my materials around the school.That evening, my wife asked me how many vouchers the camera required, and when I told her, she      asked me if I knew how much the voucher contributors at Stoke College would have to pay in order      for us to get it. In fact, they would have to spend £230,000 in Tesco participating outlets.I looked at the proffered voucher with new interest. "Collect one voucher for every £10 you      spend!" it said on the front. And on the rear: "Over £84m worth of computing equipment has been      donated to schools nationwide since the scheme began in 1992."That means that for the princely outlay of £7m a year - presumably at retail prices - plus      overheads for promotions etc, Tesco has collected something like £50bn at the tills over the past      12 years. That assumes a value ratio similar to that shown by our potential camera purchase, and      values do vary, but it is probably in the right ball park.I can see how this scheme works for large comprehensives with 1,000 or 2,000 pupils. If they can      persuade the majority of their parents to shop at Tesco - and given the financial straits that      schools find themselves in, I'm sure they will be proactive - they must be awash with vouchers. But      my local village school only has about 40 pupils, so what can they realistically expect?For our school to obtain a PC, the 40 sets of parents would have to spend £237,300 at Tesco.      That's £5,932.50 each. Perhaps Tesco should introduce a sliding scale whereby vouchers collected      by small schools buy more than those from large ones.Should I be uneasy about suggesting that our parents rush off to Tesco to spend £230,000 so we      can get a £400 camera, when an alternative approach could be to ask parents to send their      children to school with a bright shiny £2 coin in their pocket?That's not something we would do: like other schools, we raise funds through events, shows and so      on, each with a clearly stated aim. But it does make you think, doesn't it?
Classic episodes of ITV's The Bill are to be screened on the internet in a pay-per-view television experiment, with other shows to follow if there is an appetite among viewers.The first episode to be shown will be one broadcast last year in which the Sun Hill police station went up in smoke. One classic episode a month will be available on a pay-per-view basis to broadband subscribers.If it works, other programmes made by production company Fremantle Media - including classic episodes of Baywatch - could soon follow. The production company is also planning a "whodunnit" game with a prize draw for online fans.Internet viewers will be invited to look for clues in the show that will be embedded in the plotline.When they spot the clues, viewers will press a button to "collect" them, and at the end of the programme move into a separate game, where successful players will be entered into a prize draw.Claire Tavernier, the head of interactive services at Fremantle, said the game would keep viewers interested in the plot without taking them away from watching the programme for too long."It's a very fine line to make an interesting interactive addition without distracting viewers from the plot or taking them away from the broadcast stream," she said.The idea has become viable because there are now more than three million broadband subscribers in Britain, creating a mass market for internet television.The deal takes advantage of BT's recently announced Rich Media product, which allows broadcasters and film studios to deliver a huge library of tele vision shows and features to broadband users at a quality said to be equivalent to digital TV or DVD.Although BT insisted last month it would never become a content provider to rival the BBC or BSkyB, it claimed its Rich Media product would make it much easier for broadcasters to offer pay-per-view services to subscribers.ITV's previous attempts to produce interactive services supporting its programmes were impeded until 2002 by its involvement in ITV Digital, when shareholders Carlton and Granada refused to go on the Sky Digital service.
