Early in the gamesblog's life I proposed that videogames cost as much as they do for severalgood reasons. Almost immediately, the deluge of outrage descended and we racked up more comments that day than we'd received in the months we'd been posting to date.Forbes.comhas taken a closer and perhaps more objective look than I did back in the day, explaining why the popular title Gears of War costs $60 USD,and why most new generation games will set you back almost 20% more than previous generation titles. They break it downthis way:The remaining $59 per game goes into many hands. The biggest portion--nearly 45%--goes toward simply programming and designing the game itself. Then the console maker, retailer and marketers each get a cut. Add in manufacturing and management costs, and depending on the type of game, a license fee. Some gamemakers also have to pay a distributor to help get their titles in stores.Now, it seems that most people who don't play games cite greater concerns with wasting time more than wasting money, but the price hikes - combined with increasing industry resistance to second-hand game sales - mean that costs will surely become an important issue in the great scheme to involve wider audiences.Surely most new recruits to the Wii will resist splashing out their hard earned for a piece of software, instead piggybacking on the decisions of more convinced gamers. If the new recruits happen to be the money-winners in the family unit, they'll pay for the games recommended by their playing progeny (this is one of the reasons the purchasing statistics which industry bodies spinout as "age of gamers" are misleading, and player-centred analyses likethe BBC's 2005 reportare better predictors).Same goes for new PS3/Xbox 360 media centre owners. New gamers (read, people in the same house who happen to benefit from the purchasing decision of the console owner) are unlikely to go out and spend wads of cash on a great unknown when it costs more than some mobile phones.Thankfully, the savvy console manufacturers are aware of this, and their efforts to market to the casual gamer will ensure that the machines are in place when someone decides to take that dive deep into their pocketbooks. Until then, prices for the more traditional games will continue to increase, and platform holders will make ends meet with cheap game/music/movie downloads via their internet connections.
One of the highlights of the recentFuture of Web Appsconference in London was hearingSimon Willison, formerly of Yahoo, proselytise about the benefits of OpenID.I'd heard a lot about OpenIDbefore, but never really understood it - or at least why it was worth knowing more about.Simon's presentation was clear, quick and not only told developers (the audience) about the project, but opened the door to the people who might actuallyuseit as well.As part of a series of interviews I did with the conference speakers, I spoke to Simon about his thoughts. The original video and transcript arehere, but thanks to the wonders of YouTube you can watch it right here.
Videogames aren't messy enough. This thought struck me as I stepped out of the Future Publishing offices yesterday lunchtime and was confronted with the apocalyptic site of Bath's Marchant Passage shopping centre being razed to the ground by gigantic diggers. The unsightly Sixties mini-mall is being replaced by the shiny new Southgate development and crowds of people gathered to watch the destruction. I can't be the only games journalist who passed by and thought, 'hey, wouldn't that make a great videogame? Driving bulldozers into soulless brutalist shopping arcades - endless sand box fun!'But it wouldn't make a great videogame, because videogames are crap at mess.Player-controlled environmental destruction has been around for years, but in the past it has largely been limited to the odd bullet hole (admittedly effective in Goldeneye), or smashed rows of wine glasses on a bar. Very precise, very controlled and very little, if any, debris.THQ's Mars-based first-person shooter Red Faction is often credited as the first title that let you blow-up huge chunks of the scenery, but again, there were restrictions imposed by the linear narrative - you could blow up what you wanted, unless it was, say, a crucial locked door you didn't have the key to.Black and Mercenaries were perhaps the ultimate current/last-gen examples of destructible scenery, Criterion's blaster filled with exploding barrels, falling plaster and shattering glass. But still not intrinsically messy enough for me. If shooting the ceiling brought down individual panels, exposing the sub-structure of the building, the water pipes, the miles of electrical wiring, then maybe...But mess is expensive in programming terms. Creating buildings that contain mess that just might become visible if a player shoots in that general direction is computationally wasteful and memory-sapping. Also, remembering where the player has made a mess, then retaining that mess when they go into a new area and then come back again is another prohibitively costly endevour when you're working with a teeny amounts of video RAM.Perhaps PS3 and Xbox 360 will solve the mess problem. When I went up to see Evolution Studios a couple of months ago, one of the artists there told me that no-one was aiming for beauty in environment design anymore - beauty is easy. The aim these days is squalor, wear and dissolution. This is why the Motorstorm artists have spent so long creating realistically deformable mud, why the programmers have developed realistic splatter effects, why the cars disintegrate into a thousand molten parts when they crash. But then, have you seen the crashes in Motorstorm? The bits all sort of fall out, as though they were kept in a bucket in the back of the vehicle - you still don't get the feeling of sickening impact, the weird unknowable result of metal machine hitting metal machine at 180 MPH.At least next-gen games are looking to do interesting things with mess. In both Battlefield Bad Company and Mercenaries 2 we're promised tactical destruction - the ability to blow stuff up to further your strategic efforts. In the former, for example, you can use a grenade launcher to blow a hole in the side of a building, then use the resulting covered position as a sniper post. The John Woo endorsed shooter, Stranglehold, promises to take aesthetic destruction to the next level - it uses Midway's proprietary Massive D physics 'engine' to bring rag doll-like physical plausibility to environmental damage - everything in the game, they tell us, can be broken.That's not what I'm getting at really, but it'll do - sometimes scale is a good stand-in for detail. Ultimately, though, in the age of near photorealism, intricate, plausible mess is important to get right. Mess is life.
Red ink shows missing links in CitizendiumSix months ago I wrote that "One of Wikipedia's founders, Larry Sanger, says he plans to rewrite it -- as Citizendium, a "citizens' compendium" (Wikipedia reaches a fork in the road -- and takes it).Well,Citizendiumhas now opened its doors to the general public, following a four-month pilot project.The original plan was to "fork" Wikipedia, with Citizendium taking updates from Wikipedia until their articles diverged. However, very little of Wikipedia has been carried over, and there are plenty of red links in the Citizendium.Note: Citizendium requires contributors to use their real names. You can consider this part of the backlash against the widespread abuse of anonymity on the net. I expect more sites to take the same line....
Larry Sanger has already gone down in history for some web wonks as the other guy from Wikipedia (the one who isn't Jimmy Wales). But, as we reported in ourinterview with him last year, he wants to make a new impression with a new version of Wikipedia.Looks like things are moving forward, withCitizendium. It is, so the site claims an attempt to "improve onthatmodel by adding "gentle expert oversight" and requiring contributors to use their real names."First impressions aren't bad - but they're not that good either. Not only does it have a god awful name (which is at least as bad as Wikipedia) but it's decided to opt for the basic wiki look, and therefore bears a striking resemblance to its major rival.A quick browse around showed the articles were OK - but plenty of them seemed remarkably close to the Wikipedia version (cf thisGeoffrey ChaucerandthatGeoffrey Chaucer).It's more likely that the real test will really come after a longer period of time when the public's allowed in to muck around.What do you think?
The official Euro DS launch event in 2005 was memorable - Paris, Girls Aloud - but the console appeared to be an ungainly oddity. Back then most of us - will me anyway - thought it would get demolished by the far sexier PSP. Oops. Two years on and the DS - plus the redesigned DS Lite - has shifted an impressive 3 million units in the UK alone. Thanks to Brain Training, Animal Crossing and the rest the DS was the biggest selling console in 2006 and apparently accounts for 68% of the handheld market so far in 2007. Yes Nintendo have released these figures as a PS3 sales figure spoiler, but 3 million sold in 2 years is worth shouting about. Perhaps more interesting will be this time next year, when the PSP has had a year of PS3 association, but for now the DS is the undisputed king of the handhelds.
Less than a week after its splendiferous UK launch (free £2,500 TVs!), one supplier hasalready dropped the priceof the PlayStation 3. According to GamesIndustry.biz, "Aria.co.uk has slashed the price of the console to under £400 -- more than £25 below the recommended retail price."Managing director Aria Taheri says:the price cut is part of Aria's attempt to secure a foothold in the gaming market and not a move to shift excess PS3 stock, adding, "We have regular stock coming in."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Blogger Kathy Sierra of Creating Passionate Users has protested thatDeath threats against bloggers are NOT "protected speech" (why I cancelled my ETech presentations). And, in fact, she's been subjected to extremely nasty abuse on other sites.Frank Paynter (who didn't make the threatening posts) has apologisedand taken the offending sites down.Robert Scoble hasstopped blogging for a week in protest. "The Internet culture is really disgusting," he writes.Sure, we knew that already. We knew it from Usenet, even before the great tide of everyday inhumanity hit the web. However, nowthere's a debate, so people will at least think about what, if anything, can be done....Update: Jemima Kiss has postedBlogs gone bad: the misogyny of web abuseover at out OrganGrinder blog.Kevin Anderson has also alerted me to the fact that Chris "Rageboy" Locke has outlined his (non) involvement in the case inre Kathy Sierra's allegations. He says:First off, I need to preface this by emphasizing that if Kathy Sierra was receiving "death threats" in *anonymous* comments to her blog, they did not come from me or, to the best of my knowledge, from anyone I know. That she would make such an inference based on no evidence whatsoever is outrageous, no better than the comments she so forcefully objects to that were made about herself. And *none* of the statements or graphics she quotes were made by me, as I'm fairly certain she already knows. However, as a co-author of The Cluetrain Manifesto -- which she explicitly refers to twice -- I guess my relatively high profile suited her purposes better than the truth.He concludes:I did write two comments on the "Bob's Yer Uncle" site, which I am happy to repeat for the record: 1) "Kathy Sierra is a hopeless dipshit."; and 2) "The only 'passionate users' I know are crack heads." I do not like Kathy Sierra. I like her even less after her post of Monday. If she is waiting for me to apologize for something I did or said, she is going to have a very long wait.I've interviewed Chris Locke in The Guardian (Rebel without a pause), and had dinner with him. We've emailed each other over the years. He is, I think, one of the good guys. Death threats are not his style...
A few weeks ago I made an offhand remark ina columnabout dressing up as a giant panda and running a marathon backwards around a track for charity. I was, of course, being facetious. Unfortunately,a kind MrCod took me to task on the commentand suggested that gamesbloggers organise a petition to get me to do this foolish thing inSecond Life, where I'm doing myPhD research.I've agreed. I've signed up to be team captain forThe Guardian'sSecond Life Relay for Life run, and I'm running for my Uncle who died last February and my Aunt who died the year before. The event takes place on 28 July in Second Life. All money raised is for the American Cancer Society, which last year accumulated over $40,000 (that's USD) in the virtual world through sponsorship and other activities.The problem is, I forgot to read the fine print. It's not just 26 virtual miles I've got to run, but24 non-stop hours of running. Backwards. In a giant panda suit. Hello RSI.Now here's where you all come in.First, vote on the best panda suit for me to wear! Leave your comments at thegamesblog's flickr siteunderneath the panda you choose. I'll wear this avatar on the 28th of July.UPDATE: I will donate 100 Linden Dollars from my own account for every vote I receive on any of the pandas before Friday. To vote, simply click on theflickr linkand comment (yay or nay) on the bear you'd like to see me wear!Second, there are several ways to join in the fun!Run With Me!If you're already in Second Life or have had intentions of joining (for free), you can be part ofThe Guardian's relay team. We'll take turns running so we can keep our team going for the full 24 hours. You can Instant Message me in-world for joining details. My name there isMynci Gorky.UPDATE: I will donate 200 Linden Dollars from my own account for anyone who signs up for SL to run with the gamesblog team! Please let me know in the comments below or Instant Message me in-world.Sponsor me inside Second Life!If you don't fancy running but you're in SL and have a few spare Linden Dollars, you can drop it into the Relay for Life kiosk at my in-world research lab (The Social Simulation Research Lab), which you can get to fromhere. Make sure you Instant Message me to let me know you've donated and I'll add your name to the panda suit - everyone who sponsors me will have their names listed on my person for the duration of the event (thanks to ward10 for this veryclever idea).Join me outside of Second Life!You can raise money with the gamesblog's team even if you're not running in Second Life by goinghereandclicking on "Join".Sponsor me outside of Second Life!If you're not inside the virtual world but would like to give some money towards a good cause and our gamesblog effort, you can headhereand pay in USD. Let me know that you've donated in the comments of this post or email me at gamesblog+at+gmail.com so I can add your name to the panda avatar.Thanks to everyone in advance!
Dan Crowis Google'sproduct manager of crawl services- overseeing of the Googlebots that go out and find what's on the web. We asked him about the problem with indexing Web 2.0; whether Google is working with Adobe; the dark web - and the future for robots.txt.BJ: There are lots of developments in the way content is delivered on the web over the past few years. What are the biggest problems with crawling at the moment?DC: We do a really efficient job with HTML, but with Flash we could improve. If we hit a web page with a Flash movie on it, we just extract the text out of it and index that text. But a Flash movie is much richer than that. So one of the projects I'm working on is to try and improve our Flash processing - that's an example of an area where we could be better. But it's not unique to us.BJ: There's an irony in the fact that you're unable to do any complex crawling of the videos on YouTube, despite the fact that it is owned by Google. Do you have to try and analyse the content of Flash videos, or find a way for it to include a lot of metadata?DC: At the moment our advice is that webmasters need to give us a lot of help - a Flash movie is basically a set of virtual pages. If you used HTML for the links, then we'd be able to see the overall structure. The content will still be in Flash, but we can at least get some of it. Ultimately we'd like to be smart enough to look inside the Flash movie. We're not quite there today.BJ: Are you working with Adobe to build better crawling data into applications like Flash?DC: I can't talk about that.BJ: Because Flex and Apollo would offer a new chance to find a baseline.DC: Absolutely. That's not an unsensible observation. We clearly need to figure this out... it's not been the highest on our priority list, but in the last six months it has become more so.BJ: Do you think there are formats which could emerge that are completely uncrawlable?DC: I don't know of any emerging formats that fundamentally change what we're doing. Ajax is probably the closest thing to that. Of course, it's always possible, and we try to keep our ears to the ground. But so far our model of crawl, index, search has fundamentally sound. My guess is that it will stay that way for a while.BJ: What about the dark web - sites that are unlinked, and therefore invisible to you? How good is Google at understanding what else is out there?DC: Well, crawl certainly has limits - the physical limit to how fast we can crawl, both on our machines and on the machines we are indexing. What that means is that we can build a seed list of sites that's bigger and bigger, and crawl them at different frequencies.But we don't quite know how much of the web our seed list covers. We've got a good estimate, and but we can't be sure of exactly what percentage of information online we are covering.BJ: We've heard a lot recently about copyright, and the recentBelgian rulingshowed that companies are concerned that indexing their content is unfair. Do you think companies concerned about your indexing simply use robots.txt to block spiders?DC: We could certainly do a better job of educating people about how they can use robots.txt. It's a technology everyone knows about, but it's not always immediately obvious how to use it. There are lots of ways you can employ it. It's surprising how sophisticated a policy you can create with robots.And it's a robust system. The nice thing about it is that it's a standard that everybody uses - Google, Yahoo, MSN and others.BJ: What about using robots to tell Google to destroy information in its index? The Belgian case revolved around cached news stories that had disappeared behind a registration wall.DC: We've heard that request before - "after date X no longer show this in the index". It seems like a reasonable request and I can see that there's something that could be done in the future.It's not formally a web standard. I think we might eventually revive that effort.Ultimately it is in all the search engines' best interests, and the public interest, to have a good mechanism. I think we're doing a pretty good job so far.
Deep down, you knew, didn't you, that this would happen. ChartTrack has this evening apparentlyconfirmed to Gamesindustry.bizthat PS3 shifted 165,000 units in its first two days on sale, beating Wii's 105,000 units and Xbox 360's 70,000. Now, before we get into the semantics of terms like 'shipped' and 'sold', the Gamesindustry article goes with the latter, so that's what I'm using.Of course, direct comparisons are troublesome here as both Nintendo and Microsoft experienced chronic stock difficulties with their British next-gen launches - Sony, however, flooded us with 220,000 machines. More telling perhaps is the latest software sales Top 40, released by ChartTrack -from Gamasutra:"According to software chart data, the PS3 release has also pushed a number of launch titles into the UK's top 10 best sellers. Resistance: Fall of Man took the top slot in ChartTrack's top 40, with Motorstorm Evolution coming behind at number two, and Virtua Tennis 3 at number four.Formula One Championship Edition, Ridge Racer 7, Virtua Fighter 5, and Genji: Days of the Blade also debuted on the top 40 chart at numbers seven, 11, 14 and 16, respectively."Like Microsoft said, let the games begin...
German indie developer,Pixelate, is working on a clever series of interactive guides tackling basic videogame theory. Entitled Understanding Games, the first three episodes are already available and they deal with issues such as simulation, representation and motivation by looking at, and allowing you to play, key game types.It is very basic stuff, and sometimes frustratingly slow, but often just re-visiting the foundations of design can make you think about games in different ways. Anyway, have a look for yourself - all three episodes available so far can be found at Kongregate - gohere. One more is on the way.
Veteran developer Dave Perry has unveiled more details of his "secret project" - the one wherepunters can get involvedin the creation of a game. Apparently 24,000 people have already signed up - cheap labour or the future of games development? It doesn't say on the site but the game is a racing MMO. Maybe something likeTrackmania? So interesting stuff then, and along with LittleBigPlanet perhaps proof thatGame 3.0is more than just marketing guff.
One of the things that's madeFlickrso successful has been the number of toys that people have built using it. Plugging into your account, taking your pictures and messing about with them is a doddle.The best around, as far as I'm concerned, isFD's Flickr Toys, which lets you do all sorts of things, but today, thanks to a friend, I sawDumpr, which has a fun little tool that lets you show off your pictures in museum surroundings.Here's a mirrorshot of me in Moscow last year, and given my horrific camera skills, Dumpr is clearly the closest I'll ever get to having my photography in an art gallery.Sorry to subject you to that.Any other fun Flickr mashups out there?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Rael Dornfest, photograph byDuncan DavidsonLast year I met up with Rael Dornfest and the team fromValues of N, a Portland-based startup which says its mission is "to help people collaborate and get organized". Their main product,Stikkit, was just about to launch, and they were both enthusiastic and interesting.Stikkit's premise is fairly simple - it parses short notes in order to create address book entries, to-dos and calendar events. It's developed a lot in the past few months and I've been using it on and off with some success.Now they've announced another forthcoming product,I Want Sandy, aimed at helping you organise your email. Although I had a horrorshow of Clippy in my mind, it seems I'm mistaken: the essential idea seems to be that you copy "Sandy" in on your emails, and it (like Stikkit) parses the data for useful information. Of course, I haven't used IWS yet, and so I've no idea whether it will work.But I like VoN's concept of trying and build intelligent software that integrate into the way you already work.In a world where everyone is trying to come up with the next killer app, there's a good argument to be made that we shouldn't be trying conquer the world - but applying some intelligence to the apps we've already got.
Get a PS3 on Friday? Succumb over the weekend? Have a go in the store or at a friend's house? What do you think then? Better/worse than you thought? Agree that Motorstorm is by far the best launch game?I've spent a lot of time this weekend watching Blu-ray movies and downloading stuff from the store - basically stuff I couldn't do with the pre-release machine I've had. The film quality is comparable to the 360 HD-DVD add-on - I really didn't notice any difference in picture quality etc - but actually finding and buying game downloads is much easier than the 360. While there is nothing to match the majesty of Castlevania on Xbox Live the store layout and customer experience is far superior to XBLA. PS3 - how has it been for you?
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room to print. So here's what we picked from to producethis week's Letters and Blogs..FITTER, HEALTHIER&gt;&gt; If there is no local benefit, there will be no buy-in, and little progress. Think local, act local, and you get local achievement. The other side is that if you impose a central system, security is correspondingly weaker. Hello, ID card....http://opendotdotdot.blogspot.com/2007/03/its-got-to-be-local-and-open.htmlOTHER GUARDIANSReading your article "The unsung guardians of the internet" (March 15), we noted that you mentioned a case of fraud on eBay, with money transmitted via Western Union. At Western Union we take this problem very seriously and we have a number of policies and procedures in place to detect and prevent criminal activity. However, we would like to emphasise that the Western Union money transfer system was designed to send money to people you know and trust. It was never designed to be used to transfer money to strangers or persons you cannot identify. We are in regular communication with large auction houses like eBay, working together to discourage customers from paying for their online shopping via Western Union. Since 2006, eBay does not allow payments to be made via Western Union. Western Union is committed to educating consumers about the issue of consumer fraud. Unfortunately, this is an issue that not only concerns money transfer providers, but the entire financial services industry, as well as customers all over the world. Rajiv Garodia, Country Director, UK, Ireland and Nordics, Western UnionTWITTERIFICGood article, i'm glad that a UK newspaper has picked up on Twitter! Just a quick one - I use twitter a bit, and occasionally put links to photos on there. Walking in the street with my girlfriend the other day, a random guy stopped me, and said 'hi iestyn!' - i had no idea who he was. Turns out he recognised me and my girlfriend from photos I had linked to from twitter.. Scary world, perhaps I could make my Twitter feed private.. Iestyn Lloyd Brighton&gt;&gt; The divide between card carrying Twitterers and those that see it as a time waster is vast. In the valley between the two live the confused... I have decided to Twitter for a week, as an experiment.http://www.lo-fi-librarian.co.uk/?p=498&gt;&gt; This is like when blogging started. It starts off a bit rough around the edges, but then people realise it isn't just somewhere you write what you're eating for dinner, but something you can use to do really useful stuff.http://theblogconsultancy.typepad.com/techpr/2007/03/uk_twitter_expe.html&gt;&gt; I can't really see the attraction myself, but never one to pass comment on something I don't know anything about (grin); I've set myself up with an account and I'm going to try to keep it updated over the next few days (or until I get bored), to see if I can work out what all the fuss is about.http://www.garyshort.org/?p=571SPAM AND WARMINGThe article "If we can't sort out spam" last week was pretty unfair on BT, particularly the assertion that "If your connection comes from BT, then there's particular reason to be concerned." BT is doing substantially more than the 'bull in a china shop' approach suggested by Rand - as we indeed announced when we unveiled our 'spam buster' approach last October (http://www.btplc.com/News/Articles/ShowArticle.cfm?ArticleID=71e34295-de3e-448f-81d7-b1dc808978e5). This system automatically identifies spam outbreaks - particularly from 'botnet' infected computers - enabling us to swiftly get on with contacting customers and if necessary removing their systems from our network. We're the only mainstream ISP in the UK to take such as proactive, automated approach, and it has enabled us to resolve spam outbreaks before MAPS even highlights there's an issue. In the first two weeks of operation, for example, our system identified and dealt with the top 100 sources of spam on the BT network, who were responsible for 125 million spam e-mails. Nick Truman, Head of Internet Security, BT RetailPreventing spam is like preventing cars parking badly. The only way to stop cars parking badly is to 1) make laws that regulate car parking and 2) employ people to enforce these laws. Holland, in 2003, was 3rd on the list of the world's spam-sending countries. The Dutch government passed a law making spamming illegal and appointed OPTA to police the net. Nowadays hardly any spam emanates from Holland. The real reason spam continues is because the government of countries like China and the USA won't (not can't, but won't) pass laws. Incidentally, I use a spam filter called Spamihilator, which works a real treat Jan Frank Lliber, SpainUnlike anthropogenic global warming, spam has a demonstrable effect and a measurable rate of increase. Bob White Tampa, FloridaA note on your recent piece "If we can't sort out the spam...". You wrote: " The simplest would be to identify the IP address from which spam comes, alert the ISP and make sure that the next time that machine logs on that any attempt to browse the web leads to a page saying something like: "Your machine has been identified as a source of spam, please do the following."" I had a thought related to that. Of course, in a perfect world you want the ISP to do this. But there are other organisations with a very large subscriber base that are in a position to raise alerts -- games companies. Consider if the folk behind World of Warcraft, Second Life, and its ilk checked your IP address against DNSBLs when you connect to the game, and raise a warning (or perhaps limit your ability to interact in-game) if you're on a DNSBL. Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo are also in a position to do something about this. The Wii, XBox360, and PS3 all have online capability, are likely to using the same IP address as a compromised home PC, and all connect to the provider's "walled garden" service. That service could check the IP address and put up an appropriately worded warning on the console, and restrict online functionality appropriately. I wrote this up earlier this year:http://jc.ngo.org.uk/blog/2007/01/09/alerting-users-that-their-pcs-are-compromised/Nik ClaytonYour recent article on spam and its prevention struck a chord. I'm a freelance writer, have my own small website (hosted by Pipex) and about a month ago started receiving all kinds of bounce-back messages addressed to made-up names @ my domain name. Apart from the frustration of sifting through dozens of 'undelivered mail returned to sender' messages each day, I also feared that my web address would be blacklisted by spam filters. The advice I received seemed to amount to 'wait a while and it will die down'. Sure enough, the messages seem to have subsided…until whatever is out there gets me next time. I suspect I'm like a lot of people – not an IT professional yet utterly dependent on email and the internet to earn a living, with no in-house 'IT department' or protection beyond the obvious router/firewall and antivirus programme. It's frustrating and stressful to feel at the mercy of such malign attacks. Nick SwallowTECHFEST&gt;&gt; "The Cambridge lab, representing the UK, put on a sterling show." I like the idea of representing the UK. Like it's the Olympics or something.http://www.richardbanks.com/work/?p=57GARRIOTT AND ULTIMA&gt;&gt; Yeah, well MMOs are all about the social interaction, (minor bleep), but that lack of self-gratification can be lonely sometimes. And the Tabula Rasa team aims to correct that. Its instances are unlike those in, say, World of Warcraft, where the instances simply allow everyone (or every guild) access to high-level drops from rare monsters.http://www.tabularasa.com/Tabula-Rasa-instances-all-about-making-YOU-feel-good-not-just-for-drops-/pg/49/aid/86333LINUX AGAINThank you for printing my email on "DeFenestrated Dells". The editors did an excellent job with cutting this down, but it is very unfortunate that they removed the reference to software freedom - control over one's PC without needing Microsoft's permission just to turn it on - as a key (perhaps *the* key) motivation for committed Linux users. The end result is to make it sound like I was having a bit of a sneer at Linux "geekery" - perhaps evoking the mothers' basements in which Linux users are perceived to spend their lives - which is the complete opposite of what I intended. I'm almost tempted to ask you to take my name off the letter and replace it with "Alan Smithee"... John Halton OrpingtonJOOST WRONG?Regarding your article "Why online television is going to be Joost the job" - this paragraph particularly caught my eye - "The deal was possible because Joost boasts a secure, efficient, piracy-proof internet platform, and is guaranteeing copyright protection for content owners and creators." This appears to promise an impossibility. In the history of digital rights management, there has been *no* locked platform on normal computers that keeps the end-user from copying the information from the service. Exclusive songs on iTunes are typically available unlocked on peer-to-peer networks within *two minutes* of release. (reported by P2P monitoring service BigChampagne,http://www.eff.org/deeplinks/archives/001557.php). I am somewhat surprised your reporter did not pick up on this. If Joost really did make such a claim, they are peddling snake oil that defies physical reality and should be brought up on it forthwith before deceiving investors with attractive but impossible claims. David GerardMICRO BILLING SYSTEMS REDUXIn some respects I am glad I am not on my own with this disgusting so called company. For a while there I thought I was loosing my marbles. I 'm referring of course to MSB( micro billing systems) As far as I know I have never visited this website and if ever I do buy anything from a firm of any sort the first thing I'm asked for is my Email address then home Address and then my bank details this company obviously have none of these things because they would send me an email like any other reputable business does .Is there not a law regarding DEMANDING MONEY WITH MENACES. And what are the trading standards offices doing about this fraudulent scam? Please somebody do something! before I just pull the plug out of the wall Peter Spivey BradfordGOOGLE EARTH(October 2006) When the excitement of first encountering Google Earth and then flying around the globe, most people will realise it doesn't quite do what it says on the tin. There are so many blurred areas. Most of UK... Most of New Zealand, apart from an obscure golf club on North Island. Just check for yourself. OK, must admit its a clever piece of software technology but what's the point when you are delivered to a blur above the house of someone you know. If somebody thinks i have a problem with my PC then why a sharp image next to a blurred one ? If Google say they have not tampered with the images then who has and who has so much to hide ? David Lund Colchester
Amazon set up Mechanical Turk as a way of getting people to do things that computers still find hard or impossible, such as -- in Amazon's case -- weeding out duplicate product pages. It's generally called "crowdsourcing" though, as Salon.com has pointed out, it's more like virtual sweatshopping. Either way, The New York Times has revisited the story inArtificial Intelligence, With Help From the Humans.
There have been numerous reports of a new Xbox 360 Elite model with 120GB drive to be launched by Microsoft at $479.Engadgetpublished details on Tuesday, with Dean Takahashi, from theMercury News, providing confirmation yesterday. Takahashi writes:Bill Gates announced in January that the Xbox 360 was capable of serving as a set-top box for IPTV, or Internet Protocol TV, which phone companies such as AT&amp;T are using to offer high-definition movies and scores of channels in competition with TV.
Aston Martin V8 Vantage&pound;82,800Top speed:175MPHSeats:2Good for:SpeedersBad for:BreedersFive years ago I went for a lunchtime jog around St James's Park in central London. As I sweated along the Mall, a policeman stepped out and stopped me mid-stride. A moment later an Aston Martin DB6 Volante, with Prince Charles at the wheel and Prince Andrew in the passenger seat, pulled out from a hidden gate and filtered into the traffic heading towards Buckingham Palace. 'Off to see their mum, I expect,' said the copper with a wink. I ran on and caught up with the brothers at the next set of lights as they sat chatting together in the gurgling car. People stopped and stared. But they were oblivious to the princes - it was the beautiful pale-blue Aston they were gawping at.It's something you have to get used to. In the week I spent driving a bullet-grey Aston Martin I had pedestrians stopping on zebra crossings to stare, builders whistling, cyclists giving me the thumbs up. I even had a misguided eight-year-old run out and knock on the glass to ask if I was James Bond.The car I was lent was the new Vantage V8. It's the cheapest Aston you can buy. It's the iconic marque's entry-level model, but it's not by any means Aston-lite. It's still a colossally powerful, handbuilt car that's been cleverly positioned at arm's length to tempt self-made City boys and the more tasteful footballers to splash out on one of the road's most enduring luxuries. A self-ravishing act of hedonism which will make them feel better about themselves no matter how grimly unjustifiable their mile-high salaries are.To see exactly what you get for your &pound;82,800, I headed up to Aston Martin's purpose-built factory near Gaydon in Warwickshire. For a 90-year-old company specialising in mesmerising sports cars I was expecting a masterclass in English eccentricity complete with ancient wooden benches, toothless codgers and the smell of sump oil. In fact, it looks more like a state-of-the-art dental surgery. Aston, which Ford sold last week to David Roberts - an accountant and racing enthusiast - for a bargain &pound;479m, has undergone a phenomenal resurgence in recent years. In 1992, they sold just 46 cars, last year it was 7,000 - and under Mr Roberts's ownership that figure will surely rise.After my tour of the factory I was at last given the keys to the Vantage and, with half an eye on the mobile speed cameras littering the country roads nearby, I gunned the vast engine and headed out past the grinning security guards. Like all performance cars, it's a muscular drive. The gears are chunky, the clutch is heavy, the car feels weighty. But stamp on the throttle and, curiously, you feel weightless. It's ground-level flying.When I arrived home, neighbours swarmed on to the pavement. A husband smiled broadly, his wife clutched her chest and sighed, 'Astons are so romantic.' Their children all demanded to be taken round the block. As the last one climbed in, I blipped the throttle and the engine roared. He turned to me, eyes wide: 'Is there a lion in the boot?'martin.love@observer.co.uk
If you looked up stingrays on Wikipedia last week, you would have learnt that, as well as living in tropical coastal waters and reproducing in litters of five to 10 offspring, the cartilaginous marine fish also 'hate Australian people'.It wouldn't take long to realise that the last bit isn't true, or certainly that no one asked stingrays whether it was.In fact it was a piece of 'internet vandalism' by a growing band of cyberspace guerrillas that is targeting sites such as Wikipedia. Since the death of Steve Irwin - the Australian television naturalist who was struck in the chest by a stingray's barb last year - the entry has become one of the online encyclopaedia's most regularly vandalised articles.The internet has always been a magnet for bored people looking for amusement, but while some write a blog and others search for pornography, a growing number get their kicks by sabotaging high-profile websites. Any site that relies on well-meaning contributions from the public is vulnerable - MySpace, Slashdot and YouTube have all been victims - but Wikipedia is particularly susceptible because it is the encyclopaedia anyone can edit, including those whose sole aim is to undermine it. And whereas MySpace and YouTube employ centralised moderators, Wikipedia relies on the goodwill of loyal members of the community to weed out malicious contributions.Wikipedia is one of the great internet successes of the decade. Launched in 2001, it quickly became the world's most popular non-profit website and is now among the top 10 visited on the net, containing more than six million articles in 250 languages. With only seven paid administrative employees, the encyclopaedia depends on the altruistic collaboration of its four million registered users, as well as countless others who edit the site anonymously. It has become very powerful in the world of the internet and is used as a reference tool for everyone from students to politicians.Many question how an encyclopaedia written on this basis could ever work. Wikipedia has been accused of being unreliable and inconsistent, and in 2005 American journalist John Seigenthaler blasted it as 'flawed and irresponsible' after libellous claims were introduced into his biography. This month it was revealed that a prominent and long-standing editor had lied about his identity to win arguments with other Wikipedians: 'Essjay' claimed to be a tenured university professor on his personal user page, when he was actually a 24-year-old community college drop-out.Wikipedia now faces a controversy that could undermine its whole philosophy - a community of people free to add and improve on its entries. Vandals want to add, but improve is not in their vocabulary.There are some obvious targets for the Wiki vandals, such as the articles on George W Bush, Britney Spears, abortion and Islam, as well as more bizarre choices, such as the pages on bigfoot, elephants, bananas and liver. Articles covering current events, such as the death of Anna Nicole Smith, are often sabotaged. The dyslexia article is vandalised daily by anonymous users who enjoy scrambling the text to mess up the spelling.'The more popular Wikipedia becomes, the more vandals it attracts,' says a spokesman from the Wikimedia Foundation, which runs Wikipedia's administration. 'But the older we get, the more we are developing ways to fight it. We have literally thousands and thousands of volunteers worldwide who are very dedicated to the project and work on combating vandalism every day.'Theresa Knott is one such devoted Wikipedian. A member since 2001, she visits the site daily, often editing at 5.30am before she leaves for work as a London primary school teacher. Her efforts have been rewarded with regular abuse from vandals and kudos from her Wikipedia peers, who elected her to the position of administrator in 2003. This means she is one of more than 1,000 Wikipedians who have special powers to lock down vulnerable articles from further editing, and temporarily block problem users from making changes to the site - the Wikipedia equivalent of an Asbo.'I'm sure that most of the people who do it are young,' she says. 'If you check their internet provider addresses, it's often from schools and universities. They write the same kind of things over again: it's always "My friend is gay", "My teacher is gay". It's part of the general anti-authority thing kids have.'The more damaging edits come from problem editors who register a user name in the hope of gaining online notoriety. Alm93, also known as the Sneaky Stats Vandal, caused havoc last year by making subtle and inaccurate changes to important statistics, such as population figures and average human height.Another infamous vandal, Willy on Wheels, liked to move pages, so that those looking for the George Bush page would be redirected to another called something like 'George Bush loves to Suck Willy on Wheels'. He regularly tried to do this to hundreds of articles at a time, registering a new user name whenever he was blocked. 'I suspect it wasn't always him,' sighs Knott. 'He became quite famous and I think people copied him.'The standard way to stop a vandal is to 'revert' their changes and leave a warning on their personal user page. Most then lose interest, but if they persist Knott will block them for a limited period, say 31 hours, or longer if they are a repeat offender. 'We tend to keep blocks short and sweet, and that seems to work.'Wikipedia is remarkably robust in the face of regular attacks. Most casual users are unaware of the problem because vandalism tends to be spotted very quickly: the comments on the stingray article lasted less than five minutes before another editor changed the page back. Some damaging contributions can be discovered by purpose-made 'bots' - computer programmes designed by users to catch obvious vandalism, such as profanities and producing blank pages. The more insidious edits are spotted by an army of editors who scour the list of recent changes in search of sabotage.'Vandalism would be difficult to police if there were more vandals, but the ratio of vandal editors to non-vandals is too low,' Knott explains. 'Sometimes I'll go to block a vandal and find someone has beaten me to it, and I'm somewhat annoyed. There are a lot more of us than there are of them, and administrators have a lot more powers than they do. It's not a fair fight at all.'It's a fight Wikipedia says it is guaranteed to win, because the site constantly adapts to meet new challenges. 'If they come in with new methods, we change the rules. The rules are whatever we say they are and we won't stick to our own rules if it's bad for Wikipedia.' This means that the definition of a vandal is also fluid - it's whatever the administrators think it is at a given time.This has caused a backlash among some editors, who argue that blocking users compromises the supposedly open nature of the project, and the imbalance of power between users and administrators may even be a reason some users choose to vandalise in the first place.The self-styled Louisville Vandal, who inserted racist comments into articles, says his work was in retaliation for unjust sanctions: 'My vandalism started after an edit conflict over the Courier-Journal's sports and editorial coverage, where my - what I felt were - legitimate edits on the page for C-J criticism were removed and I was blasted,' he says. 'I have being vandalising Wikipedia and its user pages for months, mostly because seeing my vandalism or that of others was funny as hell... and to punish admins.'But Knott insists that a good administrator will never be upset by a vandal. She attributes her success to her 'cool, calm and collected demeanour', which never falters - even when she is faced with death threats. Last month an irate vandal emailed her with the words, "So ur the worthless piece of shit that was deleting my edits on the Smallville page... I'll track u down to where you live, u have no idea what trouble ur in. I'm gonna slice ur throat &amp; stab ur eyes out... ur a dead person.' Knott reported him to his internet service provider and carried on working, unfazed.'It's nothing to worry about,' she says. 'He clearly doesn't mean what he says. He's obnoxious but not scary. Most of the time, the vandals are just having a joke. If you vandalise a Wikipedia page, it's so easy to revert it that it really isn't a big deal. I don't think the world's coming to an end because someone is having a joke. Sometimes I even laugh at them. But then I revert them. Then I tell them that if they do it again, they'll get blocked.'And so Theresa Knott gets on with her work - protecting one of the most successful websites of the 21st century.Virtual vandalismFacebookThe social networking site has been blamed for carrying abuse about students and tutors through the creation of false profiles. Dr Henry Bennet-Clark, of Oxford University, only discovered that he had a Facebook entry when it was picked up by the student newspaper Cherwell. The profile, created by a second-year computer science student, claimed the don had been a member of the Hitler Youth. Bennet-Clark said: 'I, personally, was rather careful to do nothing, but we had some crisp words with the perpetrator and he was summarily disconnected for the rest of that term.'MySpaceSome users of the leading social networking site have had their pictures 'hijacked' by imposters. One, Katie, discovered that her photo was being used by a man to create a fake profile. Last year Stephen Gately, the singer, pointed out that his page on MySpace was the work of a web guerrilla and nothing to do with him.Second LifeThe online virtual 3D world has provided rich pickings for vandals, daubing US presidential hopeful John Edwards's Second Life headquarters with Marxist slogans, pictures and virtual excrement.David Smith
Pets in games are normally cosseted, spoilt bundles of simulated fluff designed to appeal to teenage girls and regularly subject to fluffy collars and pink ribbons. They most certainly aren't tough working animals, which is precisely what your dog is intended to be inFable 2, the forthcoming title from relentlessly inventive British studio Lionhead. Sequel to a game that very slightly overreached on its ambition to let your character develop depending on your good or evil behaviour, this version gives you a dog that evolves in your image, turning into a gentle collie or savage pitbull depending on the treatment you mete out to those who cross your path, and helping with everything from finding buried treasure to biting interlopers. The Fable 2 dog is already looking alarmingly endearing in its love, devotion and eagerness to serve.
Crowd control barriers were erected, security guards manned the escalators and uniformed nurses prepared for the herd of teenagers about to scramble for the "Rolls-Royce" of games consoles.Everything was in place for Sony's midnight launch of the PlayStation 3 yesterday. Except, that is, for the masses of hungry customers.Throughout the week Sony officials dismissed claims that the &pound;425 "paystation" - sold at &pound;120 more than its US retail price - would prove too expensive for consumers. Originally scheduled to hit the continent last November, a glut of manufacturing problems pushed back the launch of the PS3 by four months, handing the crucial Christmas slot to its rival, the Nintendo Wii.In the US Sony's flagship product has been outsold by the Wii and even come second to its seven-year-old predecessor, the PlayStation 2. But in the run-up to yesterday's launch the company predicted record sales for its "fabulous value" and "future proof" console.As well as console games, Sony points out, the machine plays high-definition movies and MP3s, stores photos and connects to the internet via its own browser. "Look at what's inside the box, it's fantastic value for money," said Alan Duncan, UK marketing director for Sony PlayStation, "That figure [&pound;425] reflects the cutting edge technology that's in the box."But even the 125 "hardcore gamers" who queued for the first PS3s to go on sale this week had their reservations. "I think it's a rubbish turnout," said Lucy Fenner, 24, from Enfield - at number 82, in the tail of the queue. "I thought there would be 500 people here - they've changed the date so much that people are just annoyed. If you create a buzz for too long, it wears off."Whilst teenage boys poured praise on the PS3's life-like graphics, others - notably their parents - grumbled about the hidden costs required to run the machine - including games, DVDs and, to make the most of the high-definition pictures, a new TV screen. As midnight approached, Sony's public relations team twitched at complaints from the queue, where few could see the entertainment - lethargic looking breakdancers, basketball spinners and a DJ. Virgin Megastores had acquired the stale air of a near-empty nightclub.Then, out of nowhere, an almighty cheer. The event's MC, Cole Parker - stand-up comedian and presenter of Bravo TV's The Ultimate Gamble, paused the music and announced that everyone in the queue would get a 46 inch Sony Bravia flatscreen TV worth &pound;2,000. Free. "It's pretty generous," said Rana, a public relations man, as the crowd went mad. "Personally, I've read a lot of negative stuff, but we've rewarded our most committed fans with a spanking new plasma. Best PR you can do!" After the 17-year-old from Mitcham at the front of the queue, Ritatsu Thomas, tapped his pin number into Virgin's tills at 12:02pm, Sony had taken &pound;425 and given away &pound;250,000 of equipment to their queuing "ambassadors".The company is, however, optimistic it will recover profits in the next few months. "Even if we only have the sales from the pre-orders that have already been taken this will be the biggest console launch in history by a very long distance," said Alan Duncan. "But we want to wait and have the money in the tills before we start talking about that."Sony shipped more than 200,000 units to the UK, although many high-street sellers do not expect to sell out soon. "This launch may not have generated quite the same level of hype and excitement as Wii and Xbox 360 did," said HMV spokesman Gennaro Castaldo. "But it's been pretty impactful given that we're post-Christmas and the price threshold is a little higher than the other consoles. We expect sales to keep building over time."For Sony, the sales of the PS3 over the coming weeks will be crucial. Howard Stringer, the Welsh-born chief executive of the Japanese company, heralded the PS3 as the key to his strategy for reviving Sony's performance against its main rivals such as Microsoft and Apple. Ken Kuturagi, the visionary "father of the PlayStation" who masterminded Sony's success in the 1990s, recently lost control over the games division, allegedly as a result of the PS3's stunted performance. The beneficiaries of Sony's expected sweetener were on message as they spilled out onto Oxford Street in the early hours of yesterday morning, &pound;1,500 in profit."It's beyond belief that they gave us all that," said Gary Tahmasbi, 25, from Bethnal Green. "I don't want to big up Sony too much, but it's a really cool gesture."The rivalsSony's PlayStation 3costs &pound;425 with games about &pound;50. At 5kg this is the console heavyweight. It plays Blu-Ray discs, CDs and DVDs, has 256MB of built-in memory and a 60GB hard disk for storing games and digital media. It can connect to the internet.Microsoft's Xbox 360costs &pound;280 with games &pound;40-&pound;50. It is slightly smaller than the PS3, and can play DVDs. It has 512MB of on-board memory, a 20GB hard disk and the built-in internet play is a big plus.Nintendo's Wii&pound;179 with games &pound;30-&pound;40. Less powerful but found success with its controller which means on-screen action can be directed with real-life movements. It has 512MB of memory, no hard drive, but can download games from the internet.
It's shiny, black and pleasantly monolithic standing on its end in your living room. It's also four months late, features less backwards compatibility than Japanese and US models, costs &pound;425 and has a set of launch games you'd be pressed to find all that inspiring. Coming with the world's cheapest Blu-Ray DVD player, it also supplies the photo and music sorting abilities that now appear to be fitted on every single electronic device. The wireless but flimsy-feeling controllers are outwardly similar to their PS2 predecessors and lack the ability to vibrate while giving players tilt control in some games. As a launch package, PS3 is quite the curate's egg.MOTORSTORMPlaying Motorstorm quickly reminds you where all your money went - it looks beautiful, even if the dirt track racing punctuates fun with frustration, rewarding tiny last lap slips with fifth place.VIRTUA FIGHTER 5Having left old adversary Tekken for dead long ago, the king of fighting games is back, resplendent in its graphical makeover, and adding two new characters to its monumentally solid mechanics.RESISTANCE: FALL OF MANThis first person shooter is about aliens invading - this time rather quaintly via northern England - and improves radically as you go on.RIDGE RACER 7Yet more racing game competence from Namco and the latest addition to a series that all but stopped evolving many years ago. If you love Ridge Racer, you'll find this is absolutely the usual.VIRTUA TENNIS 3A handful of surreal mini games don't disguise what is still easily the best tennis game available, albeit one that demands slightly more skill and effort from players than its older brothers did.CALL OF DUTY 3When it came out on Xbox 360 this felt a bit tired; on Wii it was disastrous. Here it's a decent game that doesn't at any time threaten Resistance: Fall Of Man's position as PS3's flagship shooter.&#183;All games &pound;40, out nowComing soon...PlayStation Home:Like a cross between the dull but very well publicised Second Life and Xbox Live, PlayStation Home will give you a customisable avatar, a flat and public areas to meet fellow PS3 owners.Little Big Planet:This beautifully constructed and exquisitely chaotic physics platform game will let players create and share their own levels in what may turn out to be the PS3's first killer application - a game so good it forces you to buy the console.
Quiz time. What, exactly, is a Qashqai? Is it a) an exotic superfruit found only in the larger branches of Sainsbury's and used to form the major ingredient in a Bodyshop foot balm; b) an exclusive waterside apartment development in Dubai; or c) an Arsenal player?Answer: none of the above. You'll be kicking yourself because, of course, the clue was in the picture. A Qashqai is a new, miniaturised sports utility vehicle from Nissan. When I say miniaturised, I mean that it is smaller than the Nissan Murano, which is large enough to go to war in. The Qashqai could also go to war, but probably only as a back-up vehicle.But before it goes anywhere, you will want to work out how to say "Qashqai". Qwoshkey? Kwasskwy? Quishquosh? The received pronunciation, courtesy of the Nissan press office, is Cash-kye, but it might be best to check with your local dealer for any regional variations. And try saying it with a mouthful of wine gums, if you want to help break the ice on long journeys.In the present way of things, turning loose a smaller SUV or two could prove a canny political move. These days, the more a Chelsea tractor can pretend that it comes in peace as an inflated hatchback, the less chance it has of attracting popular contempt, ultra-swingeing taxes and congestion charges, and point-blank refusals to allow it to pull out into slow-moving traffic.That's not to claim that the Qashqai is entirely shy and apologetic about itself. Indeed, it is clearly, in its own self-consciously humble way, bulked up to provide a bit of nose-thumbing attitude. Nissan seems keen to play up the car's slightly gritty, street-wise nature. Its shape has something of the pleasing aspect of a brand new trainer about it. It's a middle-class schoolrun-mobile but, the suggestion is, with slightly more emphasis on the "yo" than on the "yah".But Nissan probably goes a bit too far when it describes the Qashqai as "100% urbanproof". The vehicle has not been invented, even by the army, that can see off every urban menace. This one is as susceptible as any other car to being keyed, having its wing mirrors idly twisted and getting the paintwork stripped off its bumpers by someone pulling out of a tight parking space. And I can confirm from firsthand experience that, even in a Qashqai, people will still try to sell you copies of the London Evening Standard at junctions.Still, mine came, a bit like Christmas, with "chocolate and orange" trim (more appetising than it sounds), and it also had the optional panoramic glass roof - worth the extra &pound;700, I would suggest, for the light it admits to the cabin and the unrivalled sweeping views it affords of the upper decks of passing buses.It was also quick, neat, tidy and, on account of its relatively modest scale, it could be pressed along at speed without the eerie feeling, prevalent in larger SUVs, that it wouldn't take much more than a high wind and the wrong corner to find it sliding along on its roof. This feature alone makes the Qashqai highly attractive, whatever else we agree to call it.
For the past week's posts on a single page,click here.
Where Alfred Hitchcock pops up in every single one of the films he made:tinyurl.com/ystxp5The way of the pirates, from ships to drinks:thewayofthepirates.comHow to do a small grin:smallgrin.plus.comThe 30 Strangest Deaths In History - including "death by beard":tinyurl.com/36eufkWhat it looks like upstairs at Graceland where the Elvis tour doesn't go:linkydinky.com/gracelandWhat the Easter Bunny's dysfunctional evil brother looks like:tinyurl.com/39oj4tHow to do the watusi and other dance crazes of the 1960s:tinyurl.com/yunt8tFive rollercoaster rides worth avoiding around the globe - including a pedal-powered Japanese one:tinyurl.com/2nabbvThe 10 best movie creatures:tinyurl.com/35rpuuHow to stop your gym kit from stinking - many, many suggestions here:tinyurl.com/384uet
Songs For The Young At HeartSongs For The Young At Heart is an album put together by Stuart Staples and David Boulter from noir indie icons Tindersticks to remind us of the innocent pleasures of childhood and hopefully lull a few tots to sleep. It also demonstrates - in the form of covers of tracks such as Mary, Mungo &amp; Midge, Robinson Crusoe and White Horses (the latter sung superbly by Cerys Mathews) - that a proper kid's TV theme tune should feature plenty of woodwind and glockenspiel. There are full-length streams of every album track on this lovely site fabulously designed to look like a battered old school desk, plus a film of Jarvis Cocker reading Albert And The Lion and a quirky glimpse inside an Action Man's retirement home.www.songsfortheyoungatheart.co.ukIllusion On The StreetsAlthough street magicians are mentioned in the famous diary of Samuel Pepys' (pepysdiary.com) most people think of magic as a recent phenomenon, thanks to the antics of David Blaine. In the postmodern fashion there are now as many Blaine spoofs (tinyurl.com/37jx2p) on YouTube as there are real clips (tinyurl.com/2vqyfd) of the man in action - or maybe he really is trapped inside a cow (tinyurl.com/3e4yhh). There's also the marvellouslegodavidblaine.co.uk- extreme magic for brick kind. YouTube and the other video sites are proving great publicity for other nations' versions of Blaine. In Japan they have Cyril (www.cyrilmagic.com) - who can pull a burger straight out of a laminated menu (tinyurl.com/3x3bof) and turn a lemon into an orange (tinyurl.com/3a8tsa) - not that he's without his spoofers either (tinyurl.com/3djalm). Thankfully nobody's making fun of Bradford's Dynamo pulling a polo mint out of his throat (tinyurl.com/2ojhxq) or Chris Angel getting run over by a car (tinyurl.com/374smo) although a debate is raging about the merits of the Cam-phone guy and his umbrella trick (tinyurl.com/m5bkh) - the debate being what is someone doing with an umbrella on a hot summer's day?Ikea HackerWe can't help but love it, but the big blue Ikea barn must be the most likely place for ferocious spousal disagreements, and usually it's about lampshades and sofa beds. The torment doesn't end at the exit; there are enormous flat packs to wedge into your car and the hell of putting everything together with an allen key and cryptic instructions that would stretch Edward De Bono. Here, however, is a website for people who not only relish the whole Ikea experience but also enjoy spotting Billy bookcases in ITV dramas. The main purpose of the site though is to demonstrate how, with a bit of tweaking, a hanging shelf can be transformed into a kite, a Varde wall cabinet can be converted into a pleasant dog bed, and much more.ikeahacker.blogspot.comSunshineReuniting the team behind The Beach - writer Alex Garland and director Danny Boyle - Sunshine is a sci-fi film set 50 years in the future and follows the troubled journey of a space crew who have been sent on a mission to reignite the dying sun and rescue mankind. It's a big scientific topic and there's plenty here attempting to explain the slightly preposterous physics behind the film. Elsewhere on this very impressive site there's plenty to get your teeth into, including on-set reports, trailers and interviews, a slick section where you can explore the various rooms of the spacecraft and a blog that, unlike many a movie site diary, is not only updated but also full of detail. There's even the chance to buy props from the movie in an online auction.www.sunshinedna.comBig On MySpaceDan Le Sac and Scroobius Pipwww.myspace.com/lesacvspipProfile views60121Friends3619Random comment"Thou shall not eat tandoori chicken from Pizza Hut"This pair's efforts in facial hair are thankfully superseded by their musical chops. In Thou Shalt Always Kill the DJ duo have landed on a tune that commands the attention - "thou shall not stop liking bands just because they've become popular" raps Scroobius Pip. "Thou shall not question Stephen Fry/Thou shall not judge a book by its cover/Thou shall not judge Lethal Weapon by Danny Glover" - it's all top stuff. Accordingly their virtual friends on MySpace - including Rob Da Bank - are multiplying by the hour and joining in with more suggestions of many other things thou shall not do, while the duo show why beards beat sideburns.
It's hard to believe now but, apparently, before the internet came along if people wanted to hear about new music they'd ask their friends. These wouldn't be their cool, popular friends either. These would be the slightly chubby ones with the permanent three-day beard growth who used to laugh at losers who'd never heard of Royal Trux.Happily the day came when those friends disappeared indoors to write blogs, which they would then liberally embellish with MP3s of their favourite tunes. Suddenly, all the cool music you could ever possibly want was available online. You just had to be able to find it.This, albeit perhaps not in such a Nick Hornby-caricaturing manner, was the revelation that led 20-year-old computer science student Anthony Volodkin to design the Hype Machine website (http://hypem.com). The Hype Machine sells itself with the deceptively modest tag-line: "music that people are talking about." Volodkin has set up links with over a thousand blogs where people have posted MP3s and his site allows you to search them all instantly and listen to many of them for free on a pop-up flash player.This is much more impressive than it sounds. Somewhere on the great sprawling blogosphere somebody is writing about everything from Schoenberg to Sham 69. All musical life is here but with the normal hierarchy of popularity completely reversed. In this genuinely alternative world the kind of obscure tunes a college student might put on their please-have-sex-with-me mix CD are much more popular than whatever's at the top of the mainstream charts. Charles Mingus has more tracks listed than Take That and James Yorkston is more popular than James Blunt.The only snakes in this paradise are, depending on your point of view, either the pirates using the site as a means to find music to illegally download, or else the music industry's lawyers watching them. While the Hype Machine goes out of its way to encourage people to download music legally, and indeed gets a small commission for every sale it brokers on a legal download site, not all of the blogs it links to are so fastidious.Volodkin is careful to avoid linking to sites that upload entire albums but it's certainly not hard to find music that you can, to use the industry's preferred term, steal. Essentially the Hype Machine offers you a choice. Click on the iTunes or Amazon logos and you're whisked away to the world of legal downloads. Click on "read post" instead and you're sent direct to the blog where the exact same tune is, occasionally, available for free.But then most record labels presumably employ someone to shout "Arctic Monkeys!" when any overly touchy product manager complains about kids swapping MP3s with their friends. Hype Machine is making that swap a lot easier, and stretching the definition of "friends" beyond even that tenuous term used by MySpace.
MondayShigeru Miyamoto reaches out to the peopleLord of the Rings interviewTuesdayUrban legends in gamesPS3 owners: check your PS2 games compatibilityWednesdayNew Katamari set for releasePS3 launch camp"What is missing is the chaos of battle": what a military expert thinks about modern combat gamesThursdayWright's critics expect too muchPS3 temptationFridayFree TVPutting yourself in the gameSid Meier interviewMicrosoft's PS3 spoilers
Yes, Microsoft has been up to some amusing stunts in an attempt to spoil the European PS3 launch (didn't Sony already do that by delaying it three months then removing the Emotion Engine? Just kidding Sony! See we're all at it now).According to Spong, the company sent out free beers to journalists (I didn't get any, but then it's Fosters apparently so no real loss) and also gave camping seats to punters queuing for machines last night - the chairs came emblazoned with the url,www.shkyw.org, which for those with limited internet access features the message:"Xbox welcomes PS3 to the next generation. Sony... You're late! Let the games begin."Finally, Microsoft hit the launch in Paris by sailing a boat emblazoned with 'Xbox 360 loves you' down the Seine.Here'sa video from French television.Hilarious!
Last month, I emailed Sid Meier with a list of Pirates questions to tie in with the UK release of the PSP version. Okay, so the reply is a little late, but the game is excellent and well worth picking up if you own Sony's handheld and have become tired of sports sims, Q Entertainment puzzlers and gangsta shooters.Anyway, I'm running the interview as it's good to hear from the strategy legend and I'm a hopeless Civ-aholic, with latent Colonisation and even Gettysburg tendencies...How did it feel to revisit Pirates again? Did you go back and play the original game again? Did anything new strike you about it?It was really fun and exciting to have the chance to work on Pirates again. I've been fascinated by pirates since childhood which is what inspired me to make the original in 1987. Going back to play that game as we were thinking about making the new version helped us to realize that the basic design and gameplay were still fun - and we should try to base the new game on that. We then were able to take advantage of the huge strides in technology to re-create the game with hi-end graphics and new features that would deliver the great gameplay people had loved for almost two decades and really bring the world of pirates to life for the 21st century.What was the inspiration behind the game? A few fans think Pirates! was based on the Francis Tresham game, Spanish Main...My long time fascination with pirates inspired me to make the game. Pirate books, movies (not with Johnny Depp, but with Errol Flynn) and games I played as a kid really drew me into the world of pirates. The classic C-64 game, Seven Cities of Gold really opened my eyes to the possibilities of bringing a pirate game to the computer.The game was almost unique back in 1987, both in its mix of gaming styles and in its open-ended structure - were your MicroProse colleagues concerned about how they were going to pitch the title to gamers?As a matter of fact, Bill Stealey, my partner at Microprose, was so concerned about how to market Pirates! that he decided my name had to be on the box so people who had been playing our other games would realize Pirates! was from the same designer. That's how the whole "Sid Meier's name on the box thing" started.What were your key concerns when bringing the game to PSP for a modern audience? Did you look at other handheld strategy titles for inspiration? What elements did you feel would and wouldn't work?We knew the game design for the PSP had to focus on the gameplay - making sure the player could still enjoy all of the elements of the PC and Xbox versions on a smaller screen. We worked with Full Fat to update and optimized the game with features like treasure hunting, dancing, stealth, land and sea battles - making them fun and accessible on a portable. The most exciting new feature is wireless multiplayer - four friends can play simultaneously, each with their own dedicated screen. We're getting great feedback from players on this feature - it's a hit.Are you looking to work with the Nintendo DS at all? There seems to be a thriving culture of strategy games on that machine - things like Advance Wars but also more narrative experiences like Phoenix Wright. Seems you'd fit in quite well...We love the DS and think it's a great platform for strategy games. It's definitely something we hope to do in the near future.Are you looking into the online multiplayer capabilities of today's consoles at all? A DS version of Civilization with a Wi-Fi six player mode would probably make a lot of grown men cry with excitement - me included. How about it?Yes we're looking into the possibilities...and we couldn't agree with you more. Let's hope we're making some grown men cry soon!!How about the 'next-gen' consoles... surely the power of these machines must open up new possibilities to you in terms of complex, sand box game play?Again, the next-gen (now current gen I guessJ) consoles are ripe for the type of games we make and we're excited about the opportunities that lie ahead. We've really begun to ramp up the visual presentation in our games and are well poised to deliver a game that would please the savvy modern gamers. Having said that, gameplay always comes first in our games, so we would strive to create visuals that enhance the great gameplay that folks have come to expect from our games. We'll keep you posted on our plans as they develop.Your conflict-based games, Civilization, Colonization, Gettysburg, etc, are historical in focus. Have you thought about tackling modern wars?Making a game based on modern wars is not something that interests me. The modern day reality that the games would require really diminishes the "fun" factor for me as a designer. I enjoy suspending reality in games and letting the imagination take control.Is there one game you've been planning for years - something youhaveto make, but haven't spoken of yet?I'm in the very fortunate position of being able to make the games I clamor to make, so I have no hidden obsessions. I do, however, have many more "clamors" still to come.Civilization V - you must be thinking about that. If you were to start up a 'to do' list for this game right now, what would be the first three things on the list?Our terrific fans send us a "to do" list almost daily with things they'd like to see in the next version of Civ. Although Civ V is not currently in our production schedule, our motto has been that if the fans want more we'll give them more. We definitely want to build on the great strides we made in multiplayer in Civ IV - online gaming has become such a big part of our culture and Civ should have a strong presence there. The other details will come once we've added Civ V to the schedule...
"The launch of Sony's PlayStation 3 games console got off to a feeble start last night with officials, media and security outnumbering customers for most of the evening," reportsThe Age.Even at the official launch event held at Myer's Pitt Street store in Sydney's CBD and attended by Sony's local managing director, Michael Ephraim, media and security outnumbered PS3 fans until at least 11:00pm.At midnight, about 40 PS3 buyers had arrived to collect their consoles, causing distress for the army of camera crews who turned up expecting to capture launch mayhem.Desperate producers unashamedly asked the crowd to fake excitement when the cameras were rolling, while a team from 2Day FM let out bogus cheers to convince their radio listeners that a launch extravaganza was underway.Much more depressing than a lacklustre product launch is the idea that TV and radio journalists should attempt to deceive their audience by trying to manufacture an excitement that isn't there.Update: Kotaku has an account of theAustralian PS3 Launch Shindigwith photos. It starts: "What if Sony threw a launch party and nobody came?"The French launch was more interesting mainly because Microsoft turned up with an Xbox 360 boat, as shown in the video,Bateau XBOX au lancement PS3. One of the comments reads: "Zut alors! Le Xbox ces't bon! Triomphe! Blim Blim!", so at least one person enjoyed it.Bateau XBOX au lancement PS3Uploaded byscandy
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's one of the traditional happenings at a new console: buy a new console, stick it up on eBay straight away - and if you're lucky, you'll be able to make a tidy profit.But the fact that Sony'smade 220,000 PlayStation 3s available in the UKmeans that there aren't going to be many successful touts this time around.So spare a thought for these guys (and they have to be guys, I reckon) who have tried to make a killing (click to see the pic).£2,000 for a PlayStation 3 that I could walk down to the high street and pick up for less than £500?Well, at least delivery's free.
In the UK, Sony has solved the problem of how to sell PlayStation 3 games consoles: just give each buyer a free 46-inch Bravia W series TV set! That's what Sony UK's Ray Maguire did last night to pep up last night's launch at the Virgin Megastore on Oxford Street, London.Gamesindustry.bizreports:Although only a handful turned up to spend the night in the store, by 11pm on Thursday the queue had grown to over 100 people. With just 20 minutes to go until the console officially went on sale, Sony UK boss Ray Maguire stepped up to address the crowd in front of a large flatscreen TV."This is a 46-inch Bravia W series. It's an award-winning flat panel," he said. "And do you know what the good news is, guys? I'm going to give you one free."It seems 125 TV sets worth around £250,000 ($500,000) were given away.Virgin Megastore didn't have much competition as both HMV and Game had abandoned plans for midnight launches.
Would you, if you could, put yourself, your friends or family into a computer game? To date, some narcissistic gamers have had to spend hours fiddling with code-y bits to get their likenesses on digital personae, or get special equipment or services to do it for them. According to an article inNew Scientistlast week, researchers in Germany have announced an animation tool which lets non-techie types upload their images into computer games in a matter of minutes. A boon for machinima makers!"We are most interested in using it to generate 3D video," says de Aguiar, "but it's a versatile technique that can have other uses." One application could be to import a person's scan as an avatar into a computer game or virtual world, he says.There have been many attempts to increase the immersion of video games, many quirky (smell-o-vision, fishing rod controllers), some opportunistic (advertising), and personalisation has become a resourceful commodity in online games. Recent research suggests that even thesize of the TV screencan have an effect on the impact of a media format on the viewer.However, there are concerns with the existing realism in games, and new ways of importing even more realistic avatars and scenes will probably be viewed as dangerous by anti-game bodies. Some mods have already come under fire inhigh-profile videogame violence testimony; it's not difficult to see where concerns would be raised if you were to import your boss into Manhunt 2.
Neelie Kroes, EU competition commissioner, threatened Microsoft with punitive fines again yesterday, accusing the world's biggest software group of continuing to abuse its dominant position.She told MEPs: "Microsoft is constantly gaining market share and that is what is worrying me in the work group server market ... As a consequence of your abusive behaviour you are getting positive results for the company - that's not acceptable."Microsoft faces a deadline of April 1 to respond to the European commission's latest finding that it is still failing to comply with a three-year-old anti-trust ruling that it deliberately makes its Windows (now Vista) operating system incompatible with rival companies' servers used to print and share files. The EU fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m (&pound;333m) in its March 2004 ruling and a further &euro;280.5m in July last year for failing to comply. It now threatens to fine it up to &euro;3m a day.Aides of Ms Kroes said Microsoft's share of the work server market was 35% to 40% when the case opened in 1999. By 2004 this had risen to 60% and now stands at 75%. She is said to be exasperated that the group is increasing its dominance while refusing to abide by Brussels' rulings.Microsoft, which is appealing against both fines and the ruling, says Ms Kroes is undermining its intellectual property rights. Its rivals accuse it of deliberately nullifying the 2004 ruling by refusing to supply information on Vista or license its protocols to rivals such as Linux.
And I so nearly went too. Yup, Sony gave away free 46" Bravia TV's to everyone who was at the PS3 launch in London last night. 100 or so luckybast..punters got the free TV when they bought their PS3 and are no doubt feeling very smug today. Sources told me it took a few moments for Sony UK head Ray Maguire's announcement to sink in before everyone, "went nuts". So, er, when does the queue for the PS4 launch start?
Not strictly, and that's even if it is developing a mobile phone. Blogs and caf&eacute;s in Silicon Valley hummed this week to the rumour that the search engine giant is working on a mobile phone that will include all sorts of built-in tasty Google applications such as mapping, and for all we (or anyone else) knows, breadmaking. Whisper piled upon whisper after the CeBIT technology fair in Germany, where an analyst for the brokers Nomura said that Google staffers had talked about such a phone, which he claimed would be mass-market and aimed at users who don't have a PC.The most interesting spin on this idea is that Google actually has its eyes on the developing world, where it might be able to license a branded phone and vacuum up huge tracts of the market. In areas such as the US, Europe and most of Asia, there would be no point in trying to fight the incumbent players: the markets are too mature and the margins too slim.But in countries like Kenya and Rwanda - where perhaps, not coincidentally, Google this week announced free versions of its "Google Apps" products for government and students - there is much more to play for. Kenya is already trailblazing by letting people send money wirelessly (Kenya sets world first with money transfers by mobile, March 20), and 54% of adults have a mobile. Compared to the UK, where the figure is closer to 90%, that leaves a lot of headroom for a "gPhone".However, Google certainly isn't looking to compete with Apple and its much-anticipated iPhone; it eschews a fight on turf that others have marked out.Another possibility is that the fabled gPhone is a Googler's "20%" project - a personal project developed, as the company encourages, during one in every five days. If nothing else, it's been worth it for the buzz.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When Charles Ng'ang'a tills his land, you can bet that he's not thinking about the Windows Vista "wow" factor. He doesn't know or care about the translucency of the Aero interface. Nevertheless, the new operating system could indirectly affect him, and people like him.Ng'ang'a's farm near Nakuru, a highland city in Kenya's Rift Valley province, is as technologically innovative as most farms in Kenya get. While his western counterparts take advantage of GPS-guided fertilising and crop planning software, he is using older technology from a local weather station to help hone his crops and keep his farm above the poverty line.He farms in a country where 80% of the land is dry. Historically, the crop would fail on his land three years out of every four, and his 3,000-strong local rural community, which suffers from a food deficit, has relied on government assistance.Eleven years ago, Ng'ang'a, who trained in agriculture at university, decided to try to turn things around using hard numbers. He had been collecting his own weather data for years using tools as simple as a tin can buried in the yard for measuring rainfall, and he has been working with professors at the local Egerton university manually to analyse historical weather patterns and try to predict what was going to happen.Donated computersCombining temperature and rainfall data with information about the nature of the soil enabled him to plan his crops more effectively. Consequently, he has harvested crops without fail for the past 10 years.Now, Kenya's central meteorological department hopes to see weather analysis technologies spring up across the country. High-tech and low-tech met in Nakuru, thanks to computers donated from the west. The Kenyan Meteorological Service has been channeling used computers from the UK to its local weather stations. They come via Computer Aid (computeraid.org), a London-based charity that refurbishes used PCs and sends them to countries in the developing world.The Nakuru station has been busy digitising its 62 years of rainfall data. For years, like the 34 other weather stations in Kenya, the station has fed the information through to the central Nairobi office by phone. The data was useful for the central office, which has donated computers to crunch the numbers, but it was largely useless to the local weather station, which didn't have the resources to process its own data for the benefit of its own community. So until recently, the information sat dormant on the shelves.One staffer working full-time took a week to enter the numbers, and then the station began processing the data, using past experiences to predict what would happen in the coming year.The weather is cyclical, says Simon Gathara, a senior meteorologist at the Kenya Meteorological Department. "We may look at the data this year and say 'this cycle looks like 1965'." This enables the station to advise farmers on the probability of success when planting crops at different times.The Nakuru station's modernisation benefits Ng'ang'a, who can combine the data from the Nakuru station and hone it with his own. Whereas processing data on paper allowed him to map out different weather scenarios, doing it on a computer gives him better information, which lets him plant different types of crops that don't rely so heavily on rain."We are now able to select the best crops for that particular year," he says. Not only can he can grow different strains of maize in given months to take the best advantage of the volatile weather, but he can also plant grasses, too. Other potential crops include millet, sorghum (an Ethiopian crop) and cotton.Nevertheless, Nakuru is still half an hour's drive away, and that's enough to make him hanker for a computer closer to home. The more local the weather data, the more accurate it is likely to be, but local processing capabilities are limited thanks to a lack of available computers. "There are many agricultural zones in Kenya," says Gathara. "There are types of soil here that are as hard as rock. So you need many stations close to the farms."New kitWhat does any of this have to do with Windows Vista? The demanding new operating system calls for the latest machines, and would crawl along on any of the machines that Computer Aid is shipping to Kenya. Mike Cherry, an analyst at specialist market watcher Directions on Microsoft, warns consumers that any PCs more than a year old probably won't run Vista optimally. So as consumers upgrade there could be a lot of relatively new kit floating around.You could recycle that equipment, but according to Tim Jenkins, ICT officer at the Powys-based Centre for Alternative Technology, it's more environmentally friendly to reuse it. You could give it to someone else in the house, sell it for peanuts online - or channel it to someone like Ng'ang'a, for whom any sort of processing power could mean the difference between a poor or nonexistent crop and a successful one. That's one calculation that you don't need a computer to do for you.&#183;Danny Bradbury visited Kenya as a guest of Computer Aid&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Matt Mullenweg, one of the people behind Wordpress, asks:when will Akismet (the spam-catching service) hit one billion spams caught?The answer, given that looking atAkismet's statson Thursday evening (UK time) shows 987m caught, must be "pretty damn soon".And amidst all that, Akismet has only found 52m "ham" comments - that is, real ones.That means that for blogs where Akismet does the spam-catching,95%of comments are spam. That's 19 in every 20.Quite what the implications are for blogs isn't entirely clear, but one thing is: you can't leave spam handling to be done by hand. Computers are the only way to handle it.(One confounding fact on this is that Akismet only started in October/November 2005, and protects a rapidly-growing number of blogs - so the rising graph doesn't necessarily reflect a growth in the absolute amount of comment spam. But you'd probably bet on it.)
Symantec isn't noted for being nice to Microsoft, but its11th Internet Security Threat Reportreveals that "Windows had the fewest number of patches and the shortest average patch development time of the five operating systems it monitored in the last six months of 2006," to quoteInternetnews.com.During this period, 39 vulnerabilities, 12 of which were ranked high priority or severe, were found in Microsoft Windows and the company took an average of 21 days to fix them. It's an increase of the 22 vulnerabilities and 13-day turnaround time for the first half of 2006 but still bested the competition handily.Red Hat Linux was the next-best performer, requiring an average of 58 days to address a total of 208 vulnerabilities. However, this was a significant increase in both problems and fix time over the first half of 2006, when there were 42 vulnerabilities in Red Hat and the average turnaround was 13 days.Apple also did worse than last year: "Symantec found 43 vulnerabilities in Mac OS X and a 66 day turnaround on fixes. Fortunately, only one was high priority. Like the others, this is also an increase over the first half of the year. For the first half of 2006, 21 vulnerabilities were found in Mac OS X and Apple took on average 37 days to fix them."And it's getting worse. This year, Apple has already issued seven security updates with a grand total of 64 patches, though it fixed 45 vulnerabilities in the latest monster patch, following theMonth of Apple Bugs.However, none of this changes the reality of the security landscape for users, which is that Windows users do need to worry about being attacked and Mac users don't.
The environment secretary, David Miliband, was today accused of using a government-funded website for Labour "propaganda".Mr Miliband used his departmental blog to defend his party against accusations it was anti-countryside.The Tories said the entry was "entirely unacceptable" and Mr Miliband was guilty of "wasting money".On an entry headed "Country Life" Mr Miliband wrote: "Who says the Labour party has a history of animosity towards the countryside?"I have been sent a quotation from chapter three of Aneurin Bevan's In Place of Fear, no less: 'Where the countryside is neglected it always takes its revenge.'Unless county and town march together in reciprocal activity, civilisation will limp on one foot'."Peter Ainsworth, the shadow environment secretary, said: "It is entirely unacceptable that a blog funded by the taxpayer to the tune of &#163;40,000 is being used to promote party political activity."The fact that the Defra [the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs] budget is already suffering the consequences of financial mismanagement makes wasting money on propaganda even less appropriate."Rules for ministers state they should not use government resources for party political purposes.The post was later removed from the site.A Defra spokeswoman said : "We are aware that concerns have been voiced regarding a blog entry from the secretary of state on the Defra website. The entry in question has been removed while we look at these."It is the second time Mr Miliband's website has left him red-faced.In September a draft environment contract between consumers, businesses and government had to be withdrawn after an attack from cyber-vandals.Software on the site allowed it to be edited, but more than 170 people defaced it in only a few hours.They posted critical comments about the government and poked fun at the site before the contract was removed.
Looking forward to future business together ... " So concludes the cheerful, though some might say cynical, payment confirmation screen at P2Plawsuits.com, a website allowing American college students accused of uploading copyrighted music to peer-to-peer networks the opportunity to settle upfront and out of court. It's the latest initiative by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in its fight against online piracy.The RIAA began legal actions against US citizens in June 2003, and its current strategy of targeting college campuses has created a wave of new headlines - most of them negative.In all, 13 US universities have been pressured into supplying the details of students who have shared music over their computer networks.Once revealed, those individuals will be offered a discounted settlement at P2Plawsuits. Failing that, they will be taken to court. But are these tactics likely to be imposed upon those who upload and share music in the UK? And are they having an impact on levels of P2P activity?High-profile caseThe British Phonographic Industry (BPI), has displayed a tad more sensitivity than its US counterparts, where more than 18,000 people have faced legal proceedings, including a recently deceased 83-year-old woman and, in one high-profile case, a 12-year-old girl."You have to give the BPI credit," says Struan Robertson, a technology lawyer with Pinsent Masons and editor of IT legal magazine Out-Law. "At the time that the RIAA started making noises about suing individuals, the BPI waited until the law was clear until and a legitimate [download business] was in place. I think they deserve credit for that."Since launching legal proceedings against 28 filesharers in October 2004, the BPI says only 111 further actions have been instigated. Of this total, 127 were settled out of court, with the offending individuals paying an average of &pound;2,300. The remaining cases all resulted in civil actions; the BPI won each one with either default or summary judgements.The first of these cases, in January last year, resulted in a landmark legal ruling, with two men ordered to pay &pound;5,000 and &pound;1,500 respectively for copyright infringement. Additional costs and damages were estimated at up to &pound;20,000.However, although the court's opinion was unequivocal - that "ignorance" about the legality of filesharing is not a defence - the question of whether those lawsuits have begun to eradicate file sharing is less clearcut.According to Eric Garland, chief executive of Big Champagne, a media analysis company that specialises in monitoring P2P traffic, around 1bn tracks are traded illegally each month.These figures are dwarfed by estimates made by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). It reckons that about 20bn tracks were illegally shared last year. And this despite the closure of many of the industry's P2P nemeses, such as the first, illegal Napster (against which some lawsuits are still outstanding), Grokster and Kazaa."In Europe there have been hundreds of [legal] actions, but the number of filesharers are in the tens of millions," says Mark Mulligan of Jupiter Research. "If you're a filesharer, you know that the likelihood of you being caught is very similar to that of being hit by an asteroid."However, for the BPI's chief executive, Geoff Taylor, the primary motivation behind the legal action was never to stamp out filesharing, but to raise consciousness. "Our goals were to establish clearly that filesharing is illegal," he says."We never expected these actions to wipe out illegal filesharing on their own, but they've done much to raise awareness about the illegality of distributing music over the internet using P2P networks, and have been effective in changing many consumers' behaviour."Taylor adds it is "likely" that legal actions will continue this year, although he would not say whether this would include downloaders as well as uploaders. So far only those who offer music have been sought, not those who grab a copy via download. The BPI will also be "developing new strands to our enforcement strategy that respond to developments in the nature of the internet piracy threat".That means bringing ISPs into the equation. The music industry is pressing ISPs to cut off people it identifies as filesharers. That has met with a distinctively cool reaction from ISPs, who do not see it as their job to do the BPI's enforcement.Of greater concern to the BPI is the fact that filesharing networks have fragmented. Traditional P2P networks such as Limewire and Morpheus are still operational, but an increasing volume of song swapping now takes place via closed social networks or MP3 blogs. Q magazine recently listed URLs for more than 20 of the latter in a feature titled "100 Ways To Get Free Music!"Additionally, explains Alex Rofman, vice-president of corporate and business development at SnoCap (a company set up by Napster founder Shawn Fanning to let artists monitor and profit from P2P sharing of their work), those behavioural traits synonymous with P2P - such as sharing, discovery and interaction - have now been appropriated and are the bedrock of a whole raft of Web 2.0 businesses, from MySpace and YouTube to Last.FM and Pandora."In the traditional sense, 'P2P' is what Napster was - a downloadable client, not a whole lot of bells and whistles, just an index of content that was available. Social networking has really captured that unique aspect of content sharing that consumers love and brought it to a whole other level of self-expression - you can write about stuff, you can put photos up, you can chat with friends and so on. Hundreds of millions of consumers have evolved their behaviour and are consuming media in a much different and more legitimate way when they used to."Evolving modelsThe music industry is adapting to these evolving consumption models and signing content deals often based on a cut of advertising. It has to - the revenue hole from falling CD sales is not being plugged by iTunes downloads.However, aside from encouraging consumers to, well, consume, such strategies will often mean partnering up with previously sworn enemies - such as Fanning, through SnoCap.Elsewhere, yet-to-be-launched "legal" P2P networks (ie users will be able to swap DRM-encoded tracks) QTrax and Mashboxx have all signed deals with major labels. The former will run on the Gnutella network, while the latter is headed by former Grokster boss Wayne Rosso. BitTorrent, meanwhile, has recently launched a legal download service. Its software will also power the next wave of video platforms in the shape of the BBC's iPlayer. And then there is Joost, whose founders, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, developed the technology that powered Kazaa."Six years later, the labels have learned the difference between P2P and piracy," says Rosso. "They've learned that P2P is a technology. Ultimately, I think that the content will be free and all ad supported."The killer question then, adds Paul Brindley, MD of digital music research consultancy MusicAlly, is whether any of these business models can fly, or will be allowed to fly. "For all the talk about legalised P2P services, the question remains: where are they?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Media Guardian is holding a one-day conference,Changing Media Summit, in London today, andRoy Greenslade's bloghas some great coverage from Roy and from Jemima Kiss. (The most recent post wastimed at 4.00pmbut there may be more.)Mike Butcheris also blogging (and chairing a panel). He notes that " Antony Mayfield was asked to 'stop typing' by a delegate who appears not to understanding someone might be blogging a conference about changing media... Perhaps she didn't get the memo."There's amazing near-transcript coverage from Suw Charman and Guardian blogs editor Kevin Anderson atStrange Attractor. The most recent post at the time of writing isGuardian Changing Media: Will IPTV change TV forever?.
It's a clich&eacute; which is brought out of retirement every time a new games console is launched: hordes of eager gamers queuing outside shops at midnight as retailers struggle to keep up with huge demand. But things could be different tomorrow when Sony's PlayStation 3 finally arrives.Where most consoles sell out even before launch day, the PS3 seems in abundant supply. In a straw poll of shops around the country conducted by the Guardian earlier this week, just one in 12 shops had completely sold out.The rest confirmed that customers would still be able to get their hands on a machine just days before the launch, and one shop - a branch of HMV in Aberdeen - even said that we were "almost guaranteed" to get hold of one if we just turned up on launch day.This is in stark contrast with the normal run of things, which usually sees consoles selling out fast. Sony says that it has worked hard to make sure it has enough stock to meet demand - citing this as one reason for the four-month delay in releasing PS3 in Europe. During the delay, it also announced that the European PS3 will only be able to play a limited number of PS2 games. According to the site atfaq.eu.playstation.com/bc/, popular favourites such as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas will play, but with "noticeable issues".Gaming websites have been gleefully listing the various ways in which retailers are struggling to hit their targets. Currys told employees recently that it would require "a big push" in order to sell all of its stock. And HMV's flagship store in Oxford Street, London, has abandoned its midnight launch, though it claims this is not because of lack of interest but safety concerns over "crowd control". It did, however, hold midnight launches for the Nintendo Wii in December and World of Warcraft's Burning Crusade in January.Sony said: "We want stock to be freely available at launch and on an ongoing basis, thereby avoiding the boom and bust scenarios normally associated with hardware launches."But even Sony chief executive Howard Stringer has admitted that the &pound;425 price tag could simply be out of the league of many gamers. He told the CEO Exchange TV programme in America: "If we fail, it is because we positioned PS3 sales as the Mercedes of the videogame field."Another dramatic example of Sony's predicament came with the news that on the other side of the Atlantic, where it has been available since November, the PS3 is lagging behind all of its rivals.Figures from market analyst NPD suggest that Nintendo has taken the upper hand in America's console war, with the two top-selling games machines in February: the DS Lite (with 485,000 units sold) and the Wii (335,000). The six-year-old PlayStation 2 came next, selling 295,000 machines, followed by the Xbox 360 (228,000) and Sony's PlayStation Portable (176,000). Even Nintendo's Game Boy Advance (136,000) sold more units there last month than the new PlayStation 3, which shifted just 127,000.Numbers like this will make tough reading in Tokyo, and leave one crucial question up in the air: after the loyalists are satisfied, how many people will want a new PlayStation?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Video game fans have been waiting for months for the new PlayStation 3, touted as the future of games, home entertainment and the internet. But with expectation high as the machine is made available in Britain tomorrow, experts are telling shoppers there is no need to panic.Shops are unlikely to see the same frenzy of activity as they did for Nintendo's Wii games console in December, said one industry insider, as Sony had been forced to introduce its new machine at the wrong time of year."Panic buying at Christmas is all about the fear of not having something under the tree on Christmas morning," said Paul Jackson, a games industry analyst with Forrester Research. "What do you need to buy a PlayStation 3 for this time - Easter? There's no specific date, so it means that aside from hardcore gamers and pester power there should be no reason to rush into buying one."Although the launch of the &pound;425 PlayStation 3 is expected to be the biggest in the industry's history, many retailers are expecting to have large amounts of stock left over. Traditionally most console launches are marked by customers pre-ordering. But a survey of shops earlier this week by the Guardian indicated that just one in 12 shops had sold out of PS3s. Many shops said they would have spare stock for sale for customers who had not ordered earlier."We normally close at 8pm on a Thursday but we're going to stay open until midnight when we'll start selling the PlayStation 3," said Mark Harvey, of Virgin Megastore in Manchester's Arndale centre.The situation is thought to be in marked contrast to the launch of rivals such as, in 2005, Microsoft's Xbox 360, which sold out before going on sale in shops."Our main reason for delaying the European launch was to ensure we had enough stock. We want stock to be freely available ... thereby avoiding the boom and bust scenarios ... associated with hardware launches," a Sony spokesman said.The machine, which can play high-definition films, has also come under fire for being more expensive than its competitors, though Sony claims this does not take into account its "superior" technology. When it went on sale in the US last year similar models cost $599 (&pound;308), significantly lower than the UK price. The machine has also been downgraded for Europe, so unlike US and Japanese models the British PS3 is not compatible with all games made for older PlayStations.
