X tourMicrosoft will show its Xbox games console in the UK soon after the US launch on November 15. It will install machines at Nutopia in Covent Garden, London, for people to play during weekends from November 17 to December 16. There will also be weekend showings in Birmingham (November 24-25), Manchester (December 1-2) and Glasgow (December 8-9). Visitors can pre-register athttp://MSN.co.uk/xboxorwww.msn.co.uk/specials/xbox/. The Xbox is expected to reach UK shops on March 14, priced at &#163;299.99.King PongMicrosoft UK is also preparing to launch Zoo Tycoon, which could appeal to people who liked Theme Park and Rollercoaster Tycoon. Punning promotional ads include "King Pong" and "Hoof Hearted?" Zoo Tycoon will be released on November 2 at &#163;30 (seewww.zoo-tycoon.co.uk). The delayed Microsoft Flight Simulator 2002 is scheduled to arrive a week later, on November 9.The champsChampionship Manager: Season 01/02 has become the fastest-selling PC game in UK history, again. The upgrade sold 103,000 copies on its release by Eidos Interactive earlier this month, which compares with 70,000 sales for Championship Manager 3 in 1999. Season 01/02 offers an even more accurate simulation than before, but that means it is also harder to win matches. The competition includes EA's FA Premier League Manager 2002 for the PC, Alex Ferguson's Player Manager 2001 from 3DO/Anco for the PlayStation and PlayStation 2, and Anco's Playasmanager 2, which calls itself "the first 3D football management game for the net" (www.eng.playasmanager.com).RealArcadeRealNetworks may have started by streaming audio over the net, but now it is concentrating on content, including games. Last week, Real launched RealArcade 1.0 in Europe with sites for the UK, France and Germany atwww.europe.real.com/realarcade/. Real has a portfolio of 40 PC games, and is hoping to convert some of the 30m RealPlayer users in Europe.
If you fancy a challenge, think about making the web redundant. Think about getting all the programmers and designers who create web pages in HTML (Hypertext Mark-up Language) to use something different. Think about converting them to Curl.It sounds like a long shot, but it is by no means impossible. The information technology industry is used to sweeping changes, such as the move from Microsoft's MS-DOS to Windows, or from proprietary networking systems to the internet's IP (Internet Protocol).Curl does have a couple of advantages, according to the company's co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer, Bob Young. It comes out of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where the World Wide Web Consortium is based, and it has the backing of Tim Berners-Lee, the web's inventor and W3C's founder, who is also an advisor to Curl.The problem with the web is that it is great for looking at things, but generally poor at doing things. Curl's idea is to provide the functionality of desktop PC applications inside a browser. This becomes possible if you create sites using the Curl content language instead of HTML. The drawback is that to view them, users have to download Surge, which enables the browser to run Curl programs.Young says: "Users have to get the plug-in, just as they do if you throw some Flash on your site. Surge is about five megabytes to download, which is about the same size as an MP3 file, so it's like downloading a song. So as with Flash, you'll be asked if you want the regular site or the enhanced site. The difference is that with Flash, the site is generally not functionally any better, but with Curl, it is."The intranet is where Curl is being targeted now. The first application has just gone live at Siemens, BT is starting to use it, and Curl has just opened a UK office to sell to companies. Users can download Surge fromCurl's websitefree, but companies with internal networks   can use it today, for a price.The question is, why would they want to? Young says Curl's big advantage is that it brings together the functionality of disparate web technologies including HTML, a scripting language, and Java-like programming capabilities. "Everybody thought the web would get better, but it is integration that is really the key," says Young.Curl is efficient, because once the user has the plug-in, only small pieces of code need to be sent over the web: "a small amount of code delivers a large amount of functionality." Young argues that this is an advantage particularly in places such as the UK, "because of the lack of high-speed internet availability".Curl also makes much better use of the world's computer power. At the moment, Young says, the web is complicated by the fact that in the US, the computation for 150m PCs is being done on 10-15m servers. "It is an unstable situation. It is an enormously inefficient way to handle computation." Push the computation out to the PCs, as Curl does, and you increase the power of the web "by an order of magnitude overnight".This is, I point out, exactly what Microsoft's Bill Gates was saying in his keynote speech at the opening of the Comdex computer exhibition last November. "Everybody is saying it," Young replies. "The whole idea of the web being replaced by distributed executables, most people think that's the way the web is going to go. There isn't a way of delivering it with the full range of functionality that we have, except Curl."There could be alternatives, of course, such as Sun Microsystems' Java, and Microsoft's emerging .Net strategy. But Java has failed on the desktop and .Net doesn't exist yet. Either way, Young claims Curl isn't out to replace these rival technologies: it complements them.The latter half of the 90s saw an attempted counter-revolution led by people selling large servers and large databases to run on them - Sun's Scott McNealy and Oracle's Larry Ellison. The need for large hosts has not gone away, but the tide has turned, and there is now more interest in distributed computation and peer-to-peer systems (Napster, Aimster, KaZaA and so on). Curl may not be the software architecture for the future web, but it is heading in the right direction.
Sun Microsystems' StarOffice is a credible and free alternative to Microsoft's Office. The following instructions take you through downloading 6.0, a much-improved beta version of this software, through to saving a text document. It's available in English or German, and in the Windows, Solaris and Linux operating systems.Download can take around six hours on a 56k modem so you might want to buy it on CD when it goes on sale after Christmas.As a beta version, this software may contain some bugs, and should not be used for vital work - if you want the latest finished version, go towww.sun.com/staroffice(rather than the site in step 1) then follow the instructions below. The process is almost exactly the same.The beta version will only work until March 31 next year. The finished version of 6.0 will be available online just before Christmas.Step by step1.Open a web-browser and go towww.sun.com/staroffice/6.0beta/. Click the Get   the software box &#91;shot A&#93;.2.From the matrix of choices, you wil probably want option two, for low bandwidth, and Windows and English &#91;shot B&#93;. (Only choose the high bandwidth option if you have a fast, reliable connection.) If Security Tip then appears in red, click on Turn Security On, setting up a secure connection.Scroll through the text headed If this is your first visit, and click on Register. Complete the registration and record your user ID and choose your own password.On the resulting page, review the legal notice, click the circle to the left of the word Accept, and click Continue, bottom-right.3.Unless you chose the high bandwidth option, downloading will take place in 10 segments. Scroll down the page to Download StarOffice 6.0 Beta, English Windows, segment 01 of 10, click on it and then in the resulting dialogue box, choose to save in the C drive, rather than open the file. Do the same for segments 2 to 10. Each should take 40 minutes or less to load on a 56k modem.4.Downloading segment 10 should trigger installation - if not, double-click on the first file you saved. This will be in the C-drive, which you can find within the My Computer folder on the desktop, named "so-6_0-beta-bin-windows-en-000" if it is the Windows English version.The Installation program will start after a few seconds - follow its lead. Click on Next, Accept or Install on each page, agree to the system's suggestion on Java (it will probably find a version to use on your PC, if not, let it install one), wait for the actual installation to take place (taking about five to 10 minutes), click OK to the box   which asks about the Adabas database (if you want this too, you can load it free from the list in step 3), then Complete when it has finished.5.You should now find StarOffice 6.0 on the Programs option on the Start menu: select it. (If you don't, run through step 4 again.) Choose the Text Document option from the StarOffice 6.0 choices. (If you chose the older version 5.2, just select Star Office 5.2, then on the resulting desktop, click on File, choose New then Text Document.)6.Type a document as you would in any word processor. You may find the functions on the left-hand side of the screen useful: the blue tick with ABC above it activates the spell-checker. The floating Paragraph Styles and Navigator boxes hold options for creating your document. They can be moved out of the way, removed by clicking on the X in their top-right corner, or "rolled up" by clicking on the box just to the left of the X.7.When you have finished, select Save from the File   menu, or press control and S together.Now you need to choose a file format. The preset option is StarOffice 6.0 Text Document. If you use this, you can Save with password - just tick the box at the bottom of this dialogue box, click Save, then type your password. (A similar facility is available in Word, under Protect Document on the Tools menu).However, a StarWriter   file will not open in Microsoft Word. Instead, save your StarWriter files in Word format in the Save As options.A better choice is the universal Rich Text Format (RTF) option, both here and in Microsoft Word. RTF files are smaller, and provide some protection from viruses as they do not permit macros, mini-programs that can carry viruses.
One thing to have survived the dot.com slump intact is the obsession for e-business acronyms, and B2T, referring to the business-to-teenage online market, is the latest doing the rounds.As teenagers are typically receptive to new technologies, companies targeting this market are being advised to use the internet not only as a medium to communicate their message to teens, but also to hear back from them. For instance, a recent consumer survey of teenagers' online behaviour conducted by global research firm Jupiter MMXI emphasises how teenagers are "spreading the word". Thirty eight per cent said that they shared information they had found on the net several times a week.Indeed, the primary reason most teenagers log on is to communicate with people of their age group. Throughout Europe, chat and email services, such as MSN Messenger in the UK and Caramail.com in France, feature among the most popular online destinations.The huge marketing potential of this critical consumer segment has not been overlooked by global companies such as Procter &amp; Gamble and Kodak, which now obtain customised marketing research from Bolt, a universal communications platform for teenagers. According to Bolt's Dan Pelson, the global youth market is more connected than ever."Young adults play an important role in the adop tion of the latest technologies and have set a precedent in the conventions of communication media," he says. "They can now control how, when and where they entertain and inform themselves, and interact with others."Of course, the growing interest in the ways in which teenagers use the internet has a commercial motivation. By generating an online teen buzz around a product, companies can not only fuel their short-term marketing campaigns but also help to build long-term brand loyalty. However, the online activity of the 12-18 age group is also being carefully monitored by the major internet research companies to help them spot future trends. According to Noah Yasskin, European research director for Jupiter, "much of today's teen behaviour will be mainstream tomorrow."Text messaging, or SMS, is one of the most obvious examples of a teen technology gaining widespread appeal. "Having initially appealed as a cheap and handy communication tool for youngsters, it is now being rapidly adopted by the adult community," confirms Paul Collins, a senior advisor at management consulting firm and new media specialists, AT Kearney.Certain UK companies have also been quick to   recognise this teen-to-mainstream technological trend. For instance, Channel 4 is following the success of its Big Brother 2 SMS campaign, where fans (typically teenagers) received regular updates about the show via their mobile phones, with a campaign aiming to boost ratings among older viewers with text messages to 30- and 40-something documentary fans. UK insurer Direct Line also uses SMS to target its customers, sending an SMS message to a policy holder when their policy is close to expiry. Because the message contains an embedded phone number the receiver can press "call" and be put through immediately to a Direct Line service centre.In Germany, DWS, a Deutsche Bank subsidiary, has also just started to embrace SMS as a means of reaching new customers. "The meteoric rise of text messaging has opened up a new channel for us to communicate with our clients," says the company's head of e-commerce, Torsten Barnitzke. He also points out that the move demonstrates how mobile phone culture has extended beyond the traditional teenage market - the average DWS customer is over 50. The company is confident text messaging will engage its customer and bring them considerable savings. The campaign, which began six months ago, offers them financial games on their handsets and electronic receipts instead of paper records of their transactions.Therefore while SMS remains in the words of Carsten Boers, head of client   services at Flytext (the SMS marketing provider which is working with both Channel 4 and DWS) - "a consumer driven medium that the youth market has discovered by itself", it now also has a wider significance. Indeed, owing to the new wave of broader based SMS campaigns the UK Wireless Marketing Association is currently drawing up a code of conduct for mobile marketers to observe in order to avoid the problem of "text spam".However, SMS is not the only communications medium to have been pio neered and popularised by teens. Instant messenger applications, once a teen-only preserve, are now also becoming popular with older users. "Teens are showing the potential uses of the internet beyond e-mail and visiting websites with a browser," says Jupiter's Noah Yasskin. "They flocked to Napster and are heavy users of communication applications, sending their peers music files and other digital content."Researchers have also drawn attention to the amount of time teens spend on retail sites. Despite the fact   that they don't have credit cards, teens spend more time on retail sites than their adult counterparts. Jupiter predicts that as experienced users, these teens will become online shoppers when they acquire credit cards and increase their spending power. In fact, as more teens use their own online debit cards such as the Splash Plastic card, they are spending an increasing amount on the web.However, while e-commerce companies can undoubtedly benefit in numerous ways from "teenage clicks," targeting teens online remains as difficult as it does offline. According to a September 2001 Datamonitor report on the B2T market, "Teens are likely to switch loyalties as newer products enter the market and become 'cool' and cutting edge. It is only if something is seen as 'cool' that teens are likely to pass on the word."The problem is that as soon as teens realise they are being targeted directly, the cool factor is lost. Indeed, some of the most popular online destinations for teenagers are those which deliberately don't target that age group. According to a NetValue report in May, over a quarter of all UK users under the age of 17 visited gambling sites, while one in five visited porn sites. The fact that "satan" and "devil worship" are among the most popular UK teenage search terms, may also cause a lot of head-scratching for the corporate cool hunters.
BiohazardsGenerations that never expected to need a practical knowledge of anthrax, smallpox, the plague and other diseases are now turning to the web. Medline Plus's database is a good place to start: look under Biological and Chemical Weapons. America's Consumer Reports magazine also has a concise guide to the potential threats, and what you can do about them.www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/biologicalandchemicalweapons.htmlwww.consumerreports.org/static/0110bio0.htmlWeb watchingThe web's growth has flattened, according to research from the Online Computer Library Centre. Where the number of public sites grew by 82% to 1.5m in 1997-98, it only grew by 6% to 3.1m in 2000-01. The public web is still overwhelmingly an English language phenomenon, and most public sites (47%) appear to originate in   the US. Germany (5%) is in second place, followed by Canada, Japan, and the UK.http://wcp.oclc.org/Life storyYou may (or may not) be looking forward to Riding In Cars With Boys, the Drew Barrymore movie released in the US last week by Sony Pictures. You may even want to visit the website, which requires you to provide an email address and your age in order to register. (This also gets you ShowBiz Scoop Weekly, whether you like it or not.) But better still, check out the real life inspiration, Beverly Donofrio, whose autobiography is called Riding In Cars With Boys: Con fessions of a Bad Girl Who Makes Good. You can hear some of Donofrio's radio documentaries on the Sound Portraits website, including High-School Moms and Big-Hair Contest. (Don't mention the site's misprint: Riding In Boys With Cars.)http://www.ridingincars.comwww.calendarlive.comwww.amazon.comhttp://soundportraits.org/donofrio/Spaced outNow you can be master of the universe, and build your own planets, thanks to the Planet 10 software on the Wired Science website. Wired Science, aimed at students aged 10-19, is part of the Science Year project run by Nesta (National Endowment for Science, Technology &amp; the Arts) on behalf of the department of education and skills. Another Science Year project is Laughlab.http://www.scienceyear.comwww.laughlab.co.ukQueen VicTo mark the centenary of Queen Victoria's death, the British Library has mounted a special online exhibition devoted to Victorian books and magazines. It includes some splendid illustra tions from "penny dreadfuls'. Libraries &amp; Culture, the journal from the University of Texas, has also launched a website.www.bl.uk/collections/epc/victorian/intro.htmlwww.gslis.utexas.edu/~landcMr NobodyNot all Flash pages are slow and tedious, just 99% of them. Not all personal websites are desperately dull, just ditto. But oddly enough, where these two disaster-areas overlap, sits Mr Nobody, with a very entertaining site at Nobodyhere. Actually it is the work of Dutch artist Jogchem Niemandsverdriet, and was part of a Net Effects exhibition in Holland. And if you like Nobodyhere, try a few more links from Tracey Benson's link page at 360 Degrees.www.nobodyhere.com/justme/http://home.iprimus.com.au/traceybenson/current/360/ 360site.htmMove onWebrings were one of the early web's wonderful ideas. Sites about particular topics simply linked to one another in rings. This made it easier for users to find similar sites, and generated extra traffic for Webring members. Yahoo took over the Webring system only a year ago, and has now sold it to one of the original developers, Tim Killeen. If you have a website in a Webring, you can now migrate it using the form athttp://edit.webring.yahoo.com/cgi-bin/migrateFanning outOne of the great things about the web is that it is stimulating people to come up with new ways to present things visually. The Whitney's Java-based Artport Idea Line - a "timeline of net artworks, arranged in a fan of luminous threads" - is a great example. Whether it is legible or convenient is another matter, of course.www.whitney.org/artport/idealine/Top hatNow you know where to get what you really need (left), and yes, international orders are accepted. Finding the rest of the outfit is your problem. Seewww.pimphats.comNew &amp; noted&#183;WTC satellite view&#183;Guide to electronic money&#183;Medical eponyms&#183;BT Cellnet's free unified messaging trial&#183;Russian sub recovered&#183;Six degrees of separation
Peer-to-peer (P2P) systems are seen as one step on from client-server systems and the next major online trend. The original focus on P2P as a means of exchanging third-party content has run into all sorts of problems with copyright and piracy (Napster, for example). Perhaps we should look to other P2P applications that will really drive the market forward.The P2P killer application is already here in the form of instant messaging (IM). This has been demonstrated with   the rise of the internet and mobile interactive networks, which are all about interpersonal communication. This is why text messaging has soared, while Wap (wireless application protocol) has floundered. When Japanese i-mode consumers are asked which services they value most, they rate messaging as number one by a substantial margin. The phenomenon of instant messaging is just as important and IM applications, such as AOL Instant Messenger, ICQ, Yahoo Messenger and Microsoft's MSN Messenger, provide an interesting example of a widely used P2P platform.These platforms are a serious communications medium. With more than 100m registered users, AOL Instant Messenger is the market leader in this field. AOL also operates two other major instant messaging services: ICQ, which also has more than 100m users, and a system for its 30m online subscribers. Microsoft, meanwhile, has about 36m registered users for its MSN Messenger service.Up to now, instant messaging services have been seen as    frivolous, but if everyone is using them they will become attractive to business. It is worth noting that interpersonal text messaging (often called g-mail) is currently running at over 47bn messages per quarter in Europe and will generate in excess of $13bn for mobile operators this year. Now that banks use text messaging to reach customers, a natural progression for them would be to use IM to interact with customers.Since its launch in autumn 1999, PayPal, another P2P service, has acquired 7m members and averages roughly 175,000 payments each day, totalling $8m. A billion dollars in payments have already been made through the service, despite an average transaction amount of only $50. While it was originally introduced as   a P2P payment mechanism, some 80% of PayPal's payments now involve businesses. So the role of chat in business is set to explode, provided that the infrastructure can be enhanced to make it suitable for companies to adopt.In the days following the terrible events of September 11, businesses in New York found that while millions of phone lines went silent, the internet continued to operate as data was routed around the damage, exactly as its designers intended. Executives found themselves relying on instant messaging.But the majority of popular IM services are not designed for a corporate network. As the majority of IMs are sent over a public network without encryption, it is quite easy for someone using simple snooping software to eavesdrop on a conversation. This is a major flaw in the IM architecture and holds it back in the business environment.Instant messaging needs interoperability and security to be attractive to business. When the US Federal Communications Commission,   concerned about the future of instant messaging, ratified AOL's merger with Time Warner it stipulated several conditions. These included a requirement that AOL submit a progress report on IM interoperability. AOL devoted much of its report to why interoperability is technically difficult to achieve and fraught with risk to users' privacy and security. According to AOL, making different services interact could also make it possible for hackers to crack into the system and send spam to users.But there is a real opportunity here: if IM became secure, with business- appropriate levels of encryption and authentication (so that you know the message really comes from the bank and that no one else can read it), it could provide the perfect channel for a wide variety of business communications.Given that consumers obviously like IM, it is only a matter of time before you can chat to the bank instead of having to ring them up.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
IT girlsI read with interest your article about women and IT (Online, October 18), and it begs the question, what does Patricia Hewitt really want? Women who are IT literate or more female programmers?In most IT companies, particularly the senior management of internet companies, there are lots of women... but mostly in marketing, training, customer relations and sales. Women do understand technology and how it can be applied and are good at it.If you look at programmers, then the story is different. Programming requires an intense interest in getting abstract ideas to work and a willingness to spend hours on your own staring at a PC screen. Not all men want to do this and it appeals even less to the majority of women. Women who want to become programmers do so and the potential financial rewards are great. But often, even when they join an IT company as a programmer, they will migrate to more people-orientated positions such as client handling.IT is only a means to an end - there are lots of   women in media but they don't all have to work broadcast equipment!Rachel Holdsworthrachel@holdsworth-associates.co.ukI think the words "young male IT professionals" in Anne Cantello's first sentence are more telling than the rest of the article. It is the worship of youth that is creating the skills shortage. Forty-year-olds such as myself, with more than 15 years' experience, have a lot to offer but cannot find jobs. I made the mistake, common to many women with children, of taking a career break. It doesn't matter that during this break I learned new skills, did web design, worked part time for one of the UK's first e-commerce companies, took a Java programming course at Sun Microsystems, and am now teaching myself C++. I am unemployable.My skills and experience count for nothing. Until the climate changes, no woman, of any age, is going to be attracted to the IT industry.Julie Berkjulie@julieberk.comThe reason we girls don't go into computing as a career is that most of us are not  interested in computers. Yes, it is fun when you are 11 years old because it is all new. But I am 17 and almost all of my friends who are girls use computers for communication only. We don't play games and we don't want to become programmers for the same reason most of us don't    want to go into engineering. Only six girls in my year of 42 are doing chemistry and physics A level, 21 are doing English (and we go to an all girls school where science is encouraged). Boys' and girls' brains are  different . I know loads of boys who like gadgets, but very few girls. In fact, I am one of the few. Girls are much more verbal than boys, and I think the research shows that.I will probably work closely with computers because I want to design websites, but I would never go into computer programming or software design because it doesn't interest me. Even though those jobs are the best paid.Holly Larsen&lt;A HREF="mailto:
joboissevain@hotmail.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;joboissevain@hotmail.comOpera buffThanks for the impressive spread in Online (October 18) about alternatives to Microsoft products. However, the section about the Opera browser missed out what I consider to be one of its best features: the "mouse gesture" navigation actions.For example, to go back, hold the secondary mouse button down and click the primary. To go forward, hold the primary and click the secondary. There are plenty of other combinations involving mouse movements combined with button actions, to open or close windows and reload pages, but the back/forward actions using these simple clicks is fantastic.Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@sheffield.ac.ukHurry up, BTI have just read Broadband slowcoaches in Online (October 18).I am the IT manager of a small company in Northamptonshire and I am breathing fire about BT's attitude to the roll out of ADSL. BT has ADSL-enabled just about every local exchange around us, but has not enabled a small rural exchange that serves two massive business parks, one of which we are on. An OAP in a small village can surf the net happily at 2mbps on ADSL, while a few hundred companies on two business parks are left with dial-up modems. NTL does not have a cable service here, so we are left without any hope of high-speed access until BT acts.Through extreme effort I have finally tracked down someone at BT who might "be able to look into the situation and assess the viability of a one-off upgrade". I won't hold my breath.Colin Barndencolin.barnden@imsresearch.comPeace pleaTim Guest's summary of the web's views on Afghanistan (October 18) fails to mention the many valuable comments on "peaceful" websites about the war.One of the most moving is a letter from the War Resisters' League in Manhattan, written on September 11. Find it on thePeace Pledge Union site, which also   includes some useful articles on the futility of this war.Tony Augardetony@augarde.fsnet.co.ukPop-up clangerI can recommend Pop-Up Stopper. I find it particularly useful when I am on the Guardian website. Why do the words "pot", "kettle" and "black" come to mind?Ian McRobertianmc@clara.net
What's the secret of The Register's popularity?We are the biggest IT news site, we think, in terms of readership and I believe it boils down to personality. The net is drowning with information. Some sites are very efficient, some are useful resources, but most are boring! We take the view that journalism should entertain as well as inform and it seems from our readership figures (about 200,000 people every day) that many people agree with us. We try to be critical but not hostile. We are a site with great content as opposed to a great site. People come to us for the ambience of The Register.Which are your favourite peer sites?My personal favourite isNTK, which is funny and clever. A former colleague has a good site calledThe InquirerandISP ReviewandADSL Guidedo a fine job.Outside the industry, I likewww.bbc.co.ukand a good tech-comedy site calledBB Spot. I also have high hopes for a new comedy site calledRockall Times.Is 3G set to be a damp squib?It has been an absolute catastrophe in terms of the destruction of capital. Certainly it is going to take years for it to happen, but in the long term, it will be a technology like the railway rather than the canals. People lost fortunes building both the railways and the canals but the railways are still with us. In 20 years' time, 3G will be ubiquitous so it's jam tomorrow! The best synthesis of futurology is a book called The Age of Spiritual Machines by Ray Kurzweil (read an extract here) who is a genius!How do you feel about internet service providers in the US allowing the use of Carnivore?The notion of privacy and civil rights disappears very quickly when a country considers itself on a war footing. My belief is that the US is the freest country in the world. It is a technocratic answer to big problems and it just doesn't work. The ability of computers today to work their way through everything and find clever stuff, likeCarnivoreandEchelon, is greatly overrated. I lean towards the 'cock-up' view of history rather than the conspiracy_of course, I'll always be proved wrong!Is more regulation coming for the net?I don't think there needs to be any more regulation. The Business Software Alliance announced that they would close down a number of "warez" sites (those that contain lots of pirated software), including what they think is the biggest of them all atwww.warez.at. They are using the laws on copyright and intellectual property, and the commercial side of the web is subject to the usual commercial pressures and laws.Favourite gadgets?I am not a real gadget man but I do like the look of the newNokia Communicators. I always carry my Motorola tri-band and a Swiss army knife!&#183;Visitwww.theregister.co.uk
Whether you are a whizz at apple bobbing or make a mean pumpkin pie, All Hallow's Eve is not just hocus pocus for kids, adults too are out to click or treat. If you are looking for something to do other than open the door to brats with bats on October 31, search for Halloween atwww.whatsonwhen.comfor some crafty events from Dublin to Detroit.If you have a brat  sans bat at home, turn him or her into a Harry Potter with help fromwww.allthatwomenwant.com/harrypotter.htm, and while you are putting the finishing touches to the peaked hat, keep nippers entertained atwww.harrypotter.com, with its games and wizard academy.You can also find out how to serve up a frightening feast of curried banana, trick or treat chilli, or witches' fingers atwww.hookerycookery.com/hween-menu.htmandwww.spooky.org.uk/cookery.htm. Veggie witches, meanwhile, are catered for atwww.vegsoc.org/cordonvert/recipes/ halloween2000.html.If you have plenty of time on your hands then visit Evilea's Halloween graveyard atwww.heathens.worldonline.co.uk/halloween/fortune. A stroll around some English graveyards before witnessing   some cat magic should keep you busy.Halloween is firmly rooted in cross-cultural heritage and the Mexican equivalent, the Day of the Dead takes place on November 1 and 2. To find out more visitwww.eusa.ed.ac.uk/societies/mexicanos/Calacas98/ muertos.html,www.2camels.com/destination.php3?article_id =6orwww.muertos.palmoar.edu.  You will find plenty of Day of the Dead links atwww.mexconnect.com/mex_/feature/daydeadindex.html.Whether your interest is seasonal or long term, you are bound to find something to hold your interest on the web. Pagans may prance around our ancient heritage, but Luddites they are not.The first place to go if you are interested in finding out more about paganism iswww.paganfed.demon.co.uk/window.htm. Another website with plenty of information for and about pagans, wiccans and witches is atwww.avalonia.co.ukwhilewww.ukpaganlinks.co.ukcontains enough pagan links to keep you going until your next moot. If you are not sure when your next moot is trywww.paganreligion.co.ukwhich is planning to list moots around the country. Network online withwww.paganlink.org/pl/index.htmlor especially for witches, trywww.eclipse.co.uk/~ma2819/page2.Index.shtml.    Find out what the wiccans are all talking about athttp://wiccauk.com.If it is witches that you are specifically interested in then take a trip tomembers.aol.com/docmagictx/witchcraft.htmfor its ABC of witchcraft. Another good site iswww.witches.org.uk, which even has a section dedicated to chants and spells. You can learn how to execute a number of spells, from the popular spell for protection, to less obvious spells such as the one to promote the growth of strong beautiful hair.If your love life is lacklustre then try a love spell or visitwww.clairvoyant.freeserve.co.uk/Spells1.htmwhere you can also get your tarot cards read. For some less effective, but highly creative spells visit the Kids on the Net sitehttp://kotn.ntu.ac.uk/spells.htmand marvel at the imagination of the child who wrote a spell to turn her brother into a toothpick.Every witch and warlock needs to accessorise - often not possible down your local high street. Buy tarot cards, crystal balls, rune stones, altar gear and amulets fromwww.witchesmoon.co.uk/pages/index.htmlor if they do not stock what you need then tryhttp://scry.co.uk/acatalog/, which also promises to consecrate and bless your goods    before they are dispatched to you. If it is dragon's blood you need, order it fromwww.greenwitch.co.uk/prod03.htmwhich sells all sorts of herbs for magic and healing.For those folks whose interest in the occult begins and ends with Buffy thenwww.bbc.co.uk/cult/buffy,www.buffy.comandwww.buffyuk.orgwill keep you satisfied. Presumably Buffy was born with her powers, but we are not all that lucky. Study for your diploma in witchcraft atwww.wica.org.ukor try a correspondence course on tarot, palm or rune reading atwww.gbweb.freeserve.co.uk/correspondence.htmPagans meanwhile, do not get married until "death do us part", but they do get handfasted. It conveniently, or not, lasts for a year and a day, or as long as your love lasts. If this is your kind of marriage, check outwww.pfne.freeserve.co.uk/handfast/handfast.htmlorwww.hogonline.freeuk.com/hogoddess/rites/handfasting.htmlwhich should give you all the info you need to start planning your own.Despite this annual rush of interest in witchcraft and the paranormal, ghosts are apparently being scared off themselves. Tony Cornell, of theSociety for Psychical Researchblames the prevalence of mobile phones on the decrease in sightings. Could the frequency of the radio waves be interfering with the apparitions, sometimes explained by electrical activity? Or could you be too busy gassing to notice anything that goes bump in the night?
If you are in the middle of an online auction which is being fiercely fought out, it can be difficult to drag yourself away from your computer. You need to be around to be alerted to the fact that you have just been outbid for a rare Spiderman comic or laptop computer.In an attempt to make it easier to bag a bargain, eBay has introduced SMS-based auctions in the UK. The idea behind the service is to enable eBay to be at people's fingertips every minute of the day so you are kept in touch if the virtual hammer is about to come down. "We want people to be able to use eBay 24/7," says Alistair Edmands, eBay's UK business development manager. "We have a Wap site which is not really accessible to everyone. But everyone has embraced SMS."To use the service you have to be a registered eBay user and then sign up to the   mobile service from the home page. Once that's done, you receive a personal code on your phone and to activate your account you simply send a text message with this code to a short number.There are millions of items up for auction on eBay across a mind-boggling range of categories. And the mobile dimension is really an added value service for existing users. When you sign up as a mobile bidder, you will receive bid confirmations, messages letting you know when you have been outbid so you can respond immediately and notifications of the end of an auction. You can also adjust the times when you want to receive the messages, so they don't arrive at unsociable times.The service is fully explained on eBay's site. But at the moment it is restricted to Vodafone users. However, eBay is confident it will have   BT Cellnet, Orange and OnetoOne on board soon. While a mobile link to online auctions sounds good, there is always the risk that when networks get too busy, key messages won't get through to you.I had no problems when I used the service. To begin bidding, you have to get the item number from the relevant section on the site and then you send it over your phone with your opening bid. Fed up with all the awful news, I went to the comedy zone and began bidding for a signed photograph of ex-Python Terry Gilliam. I received confirmation of my bid and was informed that someone else had joined in. But when the price began to go above &#163;15, I decided to bale out.Ebay has 542,000 registered users in the UK but its executives are coy about revealing exactly what the take-up has been of the new service. Still it's early days.   "The feedback we have got has been good. If it proves to be successful in the UK we may have an international roll-out," says Edmands. Ebay will make its money by taking a percentage cut from the phone calls that are made. Edmands adds that the UK was chosen first for the SMS auction service because it is now regarded as the most advanced when it comes to text messaging.A lot of online auction sites offer a standard one-way SMS service just to inform you if you have been outbid. But many are now likely to follow eBay's lead and upgrade their services so you can send counter bids back. QXL.com, which is currently perceived to be struggling at the feet of the giant-like eBay, are planning to introduce a fully-fledged SMS auction service.A spokeswoman for QXL said such a service could become available in about six weeks' time as another way for users "to keep in touch". Like eBay, QXL appears to have more or less given up on Wap. "Wap was overrated and not everyone came rushing to the party," explains QXL's spokeswoman. Online auctioneers are hoping that new SMS auctions will finally give them something to celebrate.
One year ago, British consumers were promised the wonders of broadband as BT launched Openworld, its high-speed internet service. Yet today, the push to create a broadband Britain is still mired in controversy.It was boasted that the new services heralded a new era for the internet and promised to deliver super-fast, permanently connected web access to consumers at a relatively affordable price. All kinds of content would be available via websites, from football highlights to movie previews and TV-style programmes.However, in spite of high initial demand, the take-up of broadband has been painfully slow. And there is barely a hint of the exciting content   promised by BT and others over a year ago.So has there been a change of heart from the broadband providers? Is fast, cheap access to the web going to be enough to create a broadband Britain? Or is broadband's saviour likely to be exciting video content or music downloads which are impractical with a dial-up connection?The evidence from countries where broadband has been established is that satrong content is vital to provide broadband with that much-needed "wow-factor".In Singapore, analysts estimate that as many as 99% of the population has access to broadband services. Yet take-up is only rated at between 5 and 10 per cent.Sandra Ng of IDC in Singapore has no doubts as to why broadband has   failed to have made the predicted impact in her country. "The main reason is content," she says. "Broadband provider SingTel has launched a site called Sing1 which specialises in broadband content and applications. Yet without the Hollywood movies and major sports events, its profile remains very low."Making matters worse, cable TV companies in Singapore which provide some of the broadband services are pushing TV channels rather than the internet.So is this also true for the UK? Of the big three consumer broadband providers (BT, NTL and Telewest) it is Telewest - with its Blue Yonder broadband service via digital cable - that is most committed to becoming a broadband content provider.After launching its broadband services in the spring, the company unveiled its new broadband portalwww.broadband.blueyonder.co.ukat the end of September. The site, which is supported by its own editorial team, offers a mix of streamed video, chat rooms and games.There is a strong music section which features videos from artists as diverse as Kylie Minogue, Elvis and Morrissey. Viewers can also see the latest movie clips and see trailers of TV programmes. A key feature is a search facility tailored to find broadband-specific sites.However, the key to the success of the site is likely to be games. Tom Cotter, head of games strategy at Telewest, says multiplayer gamers have been demanding for some time the services Telewest are now providing."It has been developed by gamers, for gamers," he says. "It will enable the community to enjoy games in the way they were always meant to be played - fast, stable, low latency, sociable and easy to set up."Among the games that broadband users can play against each other are Quake III, Tribes 2 and Counter-Strike.Initially the site will offer free services but as Gavin Patterson, the company's commercial director, thinks there is plenty of opportunity for Telewest to develop a subscription-based service. "We think that gaming, both streamed and downloaded will be a rich revenue source."Waiting for contentBut producing content is expensive, so perhaps it is not surprising that both BTopenworld and NTL are choosing not to pursue their earlier ambitions of being both broadband provider, and   broadband content creator.According to Duncan Ingram, senior vice president at BTopenworld, content is important for the growth of broadband, but not vital in the short-term."We see our broadband portal as offering a launchpad for customers to go out and explore the best of what the web has to offer," says Ingram. "Games and music will develop over time." He says the company is set to make announcements on its music services in the near future.Bill Goodland, director of internet for NTL, concurs. "Content isn't a huge driver today," he says. "Delivering a fast service with no dial-up is what we think our customers rate as the most important."Goodland believes sites such as MusicNet, the music download service which launches later this year in the US, and in 2002 in the UK, will provoke interest."There is plenty of good broadband content out there," he adds. "It's just a matter of finding it."Certainly the past year has seen an enormous growth in the amount of video footage available online.Streaming video has been available on websites for several years now courtesy of operators like RealPlayer, QuickTime and Windows Media. Sites such aswww.msn.comandwww.broadcast.comhave lead the way in offering live streaming of events such as Madonna in concert and the Eurovision Song Contest.The leader in this sphere is Real, whose video site (www.realguide.real.com) offers a two-tier service with free movie trailers, pop videos and news programmes complemented by a subscription service called Gold Pass.Another key site iswwiTV.com, a US-based portal that offers live streaming of over 300 channels from around the world. Although the UK stations it chooses are fairly predictable - news services from the BBC and ITN - the portal does feature Al Jazeera and Afghan channels.Movies on demandBroadband's ace card could well be movies on demand. Viewers have long been promised enormous archives of movies which they will then be able to stream over the net to their PC.In the USA, Blockbuster Video launched a pioneering service, but its lack of deals with the major studios has meant its choice of films is rather limited.Now, however, it seems that the major studios are ready to embrace the web. Two weeks ago Microsoft launched its video-on-demand service in collaboration with broadband    companyIntertainer.Viewers in some big US cities can access 70,000 hours of content, including films and TV programs, using Windows Media software. Prices start at $7.99 per month once customers sign up for the entry-level "firstpass" service. Feature films are then purchased on a pay-per-view basis for $3.99. Intertainer features content from Universal Pictures, Warner Brothers, DreamWorks SKG and NBC.The service won't have the market to itself for very long. AOL Time Warner set up an interactive service this summer as a precursor to offering movies on demand over the web. Meanwhile two other groups - Walt Disney and 20th Century Fox in one camp, and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Vivendi Universal and Warner Brothers in the other - have advanced plans for movies on the web. There are no plans yet for a similar service in the UK.Here, web companies - perhaps influenced by the slow take-up of broadband - have been reluctant to develop broadband sites.But, as sport helped popularise pay TV, so it might bring broadband content to the masses. Several Premiership football sites took the   plunge at the start of this season, and began to offer highlights of games.For some clubs, like Arsenal, its site has been an opportunity to completely revamp its web offering. Gunners fans can now tune intoArsenal World Plusfor &#163;13 for three months, or &#163;45 a year. Fans are offered unlimited access to the AFCtv's online video service which shows interviews, live press conferences and highlights of both recent and classic Arsenal games. The service is so far only available to PC users.Other clubs including Manchester United and Liverpool are offering a mixture of highlights of recent games and classic matches, while Chelsea is toying with the idea of offering whole games live several hours after the final whistle.In the lower divisions, meanwhile, NTL subsidiary Premium TV has revamped many of the clubs' sites with downloadable highlights.Question marks remain about just how willing viewers are to sit in front of their PCs to watch entire football matches, or complete movies and until take-up increases, the kick off for the broadband revolution may still be a long way off.Key broadband sites1.www.broadband.blueyonder.co.ukThe UK's first
dedicated broadband portal from a broadband provider.
Nice mix of movie previews, music video clips chat
rooms and a broadband search option. The killer
application could well be its games section.2.www.itv.comSuperb portal that provides a gateway
to nearly 400 TV stations from across the world. Most
are rather worthy news stations, but there are some
entertainment gems too.3.www.bbc.co.ukWide selection of news clips and
live programming which are not always easy to find.4.www.realguide.real.comStreamed video mainly
targeted at the US market. Strong collection of movie
video and news. For the juicy stuff you have to take out
a Goldpass. For more UK-oriented programming check
outwww.uk.real.com.5.www.mtv.co.ukA fantastic selection of on-demand
music video clips. Here are videos, live performances
and interviews with top musicians.6.www.film.guardian.co.uk/cybercinemaThe
Guardian's specialist movie pages feature movie clips,
interviews and web-only short films.7.www.virtuetv.comLeading British broadband portal
with links to some of the best UK-oriented video on the
net. Boasts a selection of football highlights, lifestyle
TV and live music .8.www.ifilm.comA must visit site for lovers of indie
movies. The site has access to a huge number of
on-demand movies from filmmakers across the globe.9.www.jolt.co.ukExcellent gaming site that boasts an
impressive selection of streamed and downloadable
games.10.www.broadcast.yahoo.comEnormous archive of
clips and programmes. Especially strong on sports,
although as it is of the US variety it is more baseball
finest home runs rather than great test matches of our
time.11.www.shockwave.comSuperb collection of
cartoons, multimedia and much else.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
AOL conflictI have spent hours on AOL's help lines and with Gateway's technical support but they haven't been able to solve my problems. The main one is that, when I am logged on to AOL, the computer crashes. The only way out is to restart. Sometimes I can stay online for five minutes or so but then it locks up. Other times, it locks before the AOL home page even appears. I have reinstalled AOL three times. Will reinstalling Windows Me help?Bill KirtonWJSK@aol.comJack Schofield replies:I am surprised if no one said there    were known problems with AOL and Windows Me. Some concern the use of the Windows Driver Model (WDM), which was announced with the PC98 specification in 1997. The idea was for WDM drivers to work in both Windows 98 and Windows 2000, to simplify the transition of both 98/Me and NT/2000 users to the new Windows XP. If this is indeed the problem with your modem, the Microsoft Knowledge Base offers help athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q272/0/16.ASP.Other problems may be fixed by upgrading to version 6 of the AOL software, which seems to be less buggy than version 5. Just remember to tell it that AOL is not your only internet connection, even if it is.Memory lapsePromise not to laugh: I forgot the password for my ISP connection. Normally, it doesn't matter because Windows remembers it, but I want to install it on another computer.Reg Williamsonregwilliamson@beeb.netJS:This is a common problem. You may still have the password, if it was in the documentation supplied by your ISP (Internet Service Provider). Otherwise, try Password Recovery, a free program from Iopus (www.iopus.com/password_recovery.htm). This will usually see behind the set of asterisks obscuring a password in Windows 9x and NT and associated programs, but not Windows 2000. Many other programs are available: use Google to search for password recovery and the name of the application.AwayDoes Hotmail have an "out of office" automatic reply feature that lets people who have emailed you, know that you will be offline for a specified time?Grant Millarmillargrant@hotmail.comJS:Hotmail does not have a "vacation autoresponder", but Yahoo Mail does. Switch to Yahoo Mail, click options, and go to Vacation Response at the bottom of the Personalization column. Yahoo Mail also provides 6 megabytes of mail storage instead of Hotmail's meagre 2MB, and a cleaner, faster interface.PasswordI just opened a Yahoo email account, following your recent tip that it was preferable to Hotmail. However, unlike Hotmail, I can't disable the request for a password each time I log on.John Lynhamjohnjlynham@yahoo.co.ukxJS:Sorry, I cannot see a way to do this. Going tohttp://mail.yahoo.com/and ticking the box that says, "Remember my ID on this computer" only keeps your box open for a limited time. On the good side, this is more secure.Grab itSome websites let you open MP3 or wav files while connected, but don't give you the option to save the file to your PC. Is there any way I can grab these files to play at my leisure?Steve Lewisslewis@tarmac.co.ukJS:Try right-clicking on the filename and selecting Save Target As from the pop-up menu. If that does not work, play the file then look for it in your Temporary Internet Files folder. Clicking the Size button in Windows Explorer will probably bring it to the top, and you can then drag or copy it into a different directory. However, some streamed files are designed not to be saved, perhaps for copyright reasons.Fatal errorAfter checking for email, I invariably get an error message on my computer when it comes to shutting down ("A fatal exception OE has occurred at 017F:BFF8CC04"). I have to press Ctrl-Alt-Del to reboot the system, resulting in "computer rage" if I am pressed for time. I have   transported the PC to my local "specialist" and his &#163;40 of useless advice was to defragment the hard drive once a week.Bruno OrmrodJS:Fatal exception errors are regrettably common and have a multitude of causes from faulty memory chips to buggy printer drivers. Sometimes you can find the answer by searching the web, but you must enter the error message accurately. (For example, it should be 0E with a number, not OE with two letters.) Techadvice suggests either a USB problem (try unplugging any USB peripherals) or an ATI graphics card problem (update the driver). Seewww.techadvice.com/w98/errors/1/er_00005.htm.The best debugging tool I know for 0E errors is InfiniSource's tech list of 65 possibilities (www.infinisource.com/techfiles/fatal-0e-errors.html) with links to the relevant Microsoft Knowledge Base Articles.Talkback&#183;Last week, Mike Strutt wanted a way to lock his PC quickly. I suggestedQuick Hide Windowsor downloading a password protected screensaver. Patrick Quinn (patrick@thequinns.worldonline.co.uk) can do it without either. Right-click on the Windows desktop, select   Properties, then the Screen Saver tab. Choose a screensaver, tick the box for Password protected, and click the Change button to enter a password.Next use Windows Explorer to find the screensaver you chose (Screensaver Name.scr) in the C:\Windows| System folder. Use the mouse to drag this file on to the desktop. Double-clicking this icon starts the screensaver, and you have to enter a password to get back to Windows.&#183;Nick Holder wanted to know how to remove tracked changes from Microsoft Word documents. I, unfortunately, answered a different question: how to remove hidden text. As many baffled Word users pointed out, to get rid of tracked changes, go to Tools|Track Changes|Accept or Reject Changes, then click Accept All (or Reject All, if you want to get rid of them and revert to the original). There were too many answers to mention, but Martin Langlands (martinlanglands@hotmail.com) was first off the mark, Dr Ron Jacob (ron.jacob@kcl.ac.uk) the pithiest, and Dermod Quirke (dermod@dircon.co.uk) the most comprehensive.
Shareholders today overwhelmingly voted in favour of British Telecom's plans to spin off its mobile phone unit, despite protests that such a move would lead to a takeover and job loss.In an extraordinary general meeting at Birmingham, 4.297bn BT shares were voted in favour of the demerger, and 0.67m against.Earlier, the BT chairman promised to resign if the proposed demerger of its mobile phones arm failed to deliver shareholder value. Sir Christopher Bland told shareholders that the two proposed firms - BT Group and mm02 (formerly BT Wireless) - would succeed despite criticism from some of the 500-strong shareholders that attended.Sir Christopher said: "If our proposals do not deliver, I will be off, you will not have to ask me."He also sought to reassure delegates at the NEC that mm02 would not be sold off as soon as it was created, adding: "We will not be  coming back in 10 years asking for a re-merger of BT and mm02, or if we do, you can bet your bottom dollar it will not be with this  chairman."Demonstrators from the Communications Workers Union and Connect, which represents BT managers, lobbied delegates against the move as they arrived for the meeting. Protesters appealed to BT to call off the demerger amid CWU claims that a business analyst had branded the idea a "disaster" on BT's intranet site.CWU deputy general secretary Jeannie Drake said Enders Analysts had stated that demerging mm02 would leave it vulnerable to a takeover. Many shareholders rounded on the board over plans to use 1p in every share to fund the 84m demerger process.Under the proposals, BT would be split between two independent businesses. BT Group would include BT Retail, BT Wholesale, and broadband and internet providers BTopenworld and BT Ignite. Mm02 would include mobile providers BT Cellnet, Viag Interkom, Esat Digifone, Telfort Mobiel and Manx Telecom, as well as mobile internet portal Genie.Some analysts estimate that mm02 will be worth about 10bn, down from the 16bn first estimated. Other analysts think the company might be worth 6bn. The decision to list mmO2 as a separate company is part of BT's strategy to cut its massive debt and boost its share price.The company would begin with only 500m of debt, giving it one of the strongest balance sheets in the wireless industry, though borrowing would rise quickly to cover the building of costly third-generation networks.Many analysts expect the demerged unit to be bought by Telecom Italia Mobile or Spain's Telefonica Moviles as it competes with UK rivals backed by continental European giants such as Orange, the mobile arm of France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom's One 2 One.
If you own a mobile phone and you have internet access, you are qualified to play the Nokia Game. The three-week multimedia puzzle adventure starts on November 4 (players can sign up now atwww.nokiagame.com). Participants have to attempt to solve the mystery by following clues hidden in SMS text messages, websites, TV ads, radio announcements and newspapers. Players can use any make of phone, although the 50 to 100 winners in each country will win new Nokia mobiles.Last year's Nokia game started with a text message before leading on to challenges such as deciphering maps and playing arcade-style Flash games. This year promises more of the same.Nokia Game was launched in Holland in 1999. Last year, 500,000 people took part in    the global game. Participation should be even higher this time round, with 28 countries across Europe and the Middle East now involved. The main reason for this growth has been the huge   web community that has sprung up around the game. There are numerous forums and websites, with players swapping tips and theories.Nokia has benefited from heavy viral marketing as   players have told their friends about the game.Phil Thain, designer of the fansiteNGForum.net, organised the unofficial UK launch party and is excited by the competition. "I played last year and it took over my life for a month. I think it will be bigger this year," he said. He agrees that the other players are vital to the experience. "The community added a whole dimension to the game, especially as the Flash games themselves are quite simple."Fellow player Ian Rendall agrees but feels competition is as enjoyable as co-operation: "It is the multiplayer element that makes this more interesting than playing on your own on the PlayStation." He adds that SMS usage is also important. " You feel that the text message is coming to you personally and it really gets you involved."Few of the players at the event usually played games on consoles or PCs, and Rendall feels that the problem-solving elements and fixed duration could appeal to both grannies and teenagers. "Unlike console games like Tomb Raider, which you can play for   months, the time limit here means people are psyched up for three intense weeks," he says.However, there were problems last year with confusing rules and players finding themselves thrown off the game for missing a day. Fionada is aware of the problems: "We have made Nokia Game three weeks long instead of four, following feedback from last years' players. We have also tried to appeal more to different levels of gamers and players can, in most cases, choose the level of difficulty at which they play some of the online games."Of course, it is easy to see the benefits   to Nokia of running the contest. Players need to give their mobile numbers and emails, making it a cheap way of gaining marketing data.Motorola, Ericsson and the other mobile phone companies have yet to announce their own versions of the Nokia Game but the lure of cheap account acquisition may be too hard to resist. But for now Nokia has the monopoly and the loyalty of players such as Thain. "The game is unique and makes good use of technology. But the main appeal is obvious - we all want to be better than the next guy."
Everyone gets in on the actHandspring has combined a Palm personal organiser with a mobile phone to produce the Treo, a new device it unveiled this week. But it doesn't go as far as the Nokia 5510, which combines am MP3 music player, FM radio, messaging machine and a games console into a colourful mobile phone. Even BT Cellnet is getting in on the act. Cellnet, in its new mmO2 form, is planning to launch a multi-function general packet radio service (GPRS) mobile based on Microsoft's PocketPC design.The Treo is intended to take Handspring, which   licenses the Palm operating system, into new markets. Roy Bedlow, Handspring's European marketing director, says: "If I wanted you to call this one thing, I'd want you to call it a phone. The phone is the application people want."The styling is more like a phone than a PDA (personal digital assistant), and the size has been reduced partly by leaving out Handspring's Springboard expansion slot.The Treo has a flip-top design with a small speaker in a lid that also protects the touch-sensitive screen. The Palm OS software has been integrated so you can dial any number in your contacts book.And for users who don't like Graffiti, the Palm's pen-based text entry system, the Treo will also be available in a version with a tiny   keyboard similar to the one on RIM's Blackberry handheld messager. Both models should be available early next year, with colour screen versions following in the summer.While the Treo is aimed at corporate users and yuppies, the Nokia 5510 is more likely to appeal to the youth market. Even Nokia says it looks weird. The styling is more like a Game Boy Advance, but with a split keyboard for the fast thumbing in of short text messages. Anssi Vanjoki, the executive vice president of Nokia Mobile Phones, says: "This new concept reflects not only a change in our perspective, but also a more fundamental transition that our industry is going through."The 5510 has 64 megabytes    of memory and comes with a USB cable to connect it to a PC, so users can download music tracks. It also has five built-in games - Bumper, Space Impact, Snake, Pairs, and Bantumi - and will be able to play Wap (wireless application proto col) games. Like the 3310 phone, it uses Nokia software and should be available in different coloured casings before Christmas.O2's entry into the multimedia phone market, the xda, combines an iPaq-style touch-screen PocketPC with a mobile phone. It is much like the Sagem and Trium Mondo models on the market, but is a little smaller and much   shinier. Unlike its monochrome rivals, the xda also has always-on GPRS communications as standard, and a colour screen.Like all PocketPC devices, the xda comes with Pocket Word, Pocket Excel and other applications, a Windows Media Player for music and movies, web browser, electronic book reader and other features. It is expected to be BT Cellnet's first O2 branded device, and should be out early next year.Several more PocketPCs are on the way, including new models from Compaq. Toshiba, Hewlett-Packard, NEC Packard Bell, Casio and Symbol have already shown models based on the PocketPC 2002 software that Microsoft unveiled earlier this month. Fujitsu Siemens and Korea's Samsung Electronics plan to launch PocketPCs next year, and Samsung will include mobile telephony in all its new models.Palm, the market leader in handhelds, has been promising a wireless version of its PDA since last year, but recently cancelled the launch of its i705 device, codenamed Everest. However, this is more like an m100 than a phone. Unlike the Handspring Treo or Nokia 5510, it does not look as though it will open up new markets.
Some things don't change at the Tokyo Game Show. At the weekend, fans were still dressing up for the look-like-a-game-character competition, with men in fur-trimmed leathers wielding enormous plastic swords, and women in flowing princess robes or red fishnet tights. There was also the usual slew of incomprehensible anime-schoolgirl role playing games (RPGs), and an army of hard-working "companion ladies" handing out leaflets and demonstrating products to the crowds. One was dressed in a leopardskin leotard, topped off with little furry ears. The Japanese like to go that extra mile.It is supposedly a difficult period for the Japanese videogame industry, with Nintendo's recent Gamecube launch having been deemed a disappointment (Nintendo, didn't turn up to the show), and spring's Tokyo Game Show having been cancelled due to lack of interest. But though this show was a little more compact than usual, there was much that boded well for the industry's creative future, if not its financial one.The winner of the console wars was probably Sega. Blissfully released from throwing money down the drain by making hardware, they can now make superb software for everyone else. Sega's stand featured lots of the lunatic brilliance of Super Monkey Ball, and quirky stuff such as The Pinball of the Dead on Game Boy Advance.There was also the superb Jet Set Radio Future appearing on Xbox. It has a moody, high-contrast colour palette, and the signature cel-shading graphical style is now more liberally applied than in the first game, so the city environments have taken on a heavier shroud of character.And JSRF will only be on Xbox, which is a coup for Microsoft. Many people have been writing off Microsoft's chances in Japan, particularly as it will not be able to launch its new console until after the critical Christmas period. But Microsoft has been hard at work wooing developers, and the efforts seemed to be paying off at its enormous stand.Konami's Airforce Delta 2 (like JSRF, another sequel to a game that first appeared on the defunct Dreamcast), was looking splendid. It might be an arcadey, fire-and-forget sort of combat flight game, but it is as smooth as silk, with pleasingly over-the-top explosions. Once again the colour palette is darkly stylised, with nocturnal skies streaked in rich blacks and greens. Dead or Alive 3 (Tecmo) was also given lots of space, and it does look nice. One wonders, however, how long it will be before the "wow" effect of multiple textured snowflakes or idly falling autumn leaves, begins to pall. Underneath, it is just another beat-'em-up.Microsoft has also been careful to cover the bases in the idiosyncratic Japanese market, so much emphasis was placed on Gun Valkyrie 3 (pointy mech action with very impressive rock detail), a horse-racing simulation (Jockey's Road), and a bizarre fashion-world game, in which   you choose your model's outfits and then watch her sashay down the catwalk in obeisance to your notion of style.There was a squad-based domestic rodent game, too (slogan: "Have a mice day!"), with a team of lovably furry mice scampering around a large house solving puzzles. Sadly, the actual gameplay turned out to be so on rails that it might as well have been a train simulator.Over in the next hall, Sony had a real one, Train Simulator Real, to be precise. Not many western PlayStation 2 owners will want to drive the Tokyo subway, but it was nice to know it was there.Sony was welcoming gamers into its arena with TV screens displaying the subtle message "You need new   game". Doubtless, PlayStation 2 owners who have sat through the long drought of half-decent software might curse their agreement. Still, no point being bitter.Finally, there are more than three prime videogames on course to grace the black monster, and developers seem finally able to get to grips with its processor architecture in their second-generation products.Adventure/RPG Ico, in particular, glories in an atmospheric, slightly bleached-out lighting, and beautiful grass and stone textures. There is something haunting about the relationship between the player's character and the translucent, ghostly princess he must save: she won't move around on her own and has to be led   through the gameworld by the hand.Elsewhere, PS2 was being driven in predictable directions - eye-searing mech candy with Armored Core 3, pretty beat-'em-up mayhem with Virtual Fighter 4, tactical espionage action with new video footage from Metal Gear Solid 2 (but, criminally, no new playable areas).But there were some offbeat experiments, too. BuileBaku, a puzzle game that involved demolishing real-world buildings might not see the light of day after the American terrorist attacks (its release has been indefinitely postponed), but it looked like an interesting idea. So, for a different reason, did Capcom's tantalising footage of Auto Modellista, a cel-shaded but not cartoony PS2 racing game. With its hardcore particle effects for sparks and exhaust fumes, its baffling injunctions to "run over the side of flags", and its heavy-rock soundtrack, it is a promising fusion of formal realism with imaginative visual style.One theme that particularly caught the eye was the use of peripheral sensory devices. Sony displayed a marvellously odd game called Live Box, which is computerised B-movie amateur dramatics for all the family. Using headset microphones, you (and a friend, if possible)   must provide the soundtrack to rendered cartoony scenes played out on the TV screen. Do well at the blood-curdling screams, whimpers and evil roars and the game will rate your thespian performance highly.Over at Konami's stand, meanwhile, a new twist was added to the rhythm-action genre with Martial Beat, a martial-arts aerobic-workout game. With sensors on your wrists and ankles, you follow the kicking and punching routines shouted at you by the martial-arts gurus. If you get it right, you are rewarded with sounds of exploding stuff and a bright flash of red light at the end of your teacher's hand. Just like being in a beat-'em-up game. Except they do not usually display graphically which muscles you have worked and how many calories you have burned. Your correspondent did not find the martial art of which he is a student supported by the preview version, but lives in hope.&#183;Steven Poole travelled to Tokyo as a guest of Sony Computer Entertainment
A website created by a charity which supports children with mental health problems last night carried off  a top prize in the Mental Health Media awards, supported by the Guardian.Young Minds, a charity which promotes public awareness of child mental health, was praised by judges for the design, functionality and accessibility of its website.The judges said of the Young Minds site:  "It is accessible, informed and provides targeted information for people who go to find out more about child mental health."It beat off competition for the website prize from National Phobics Society, Mind Out for Mental Health and Channel Four's stress website.A Radio Four programme in which clinical psychologist Rufus May spoke about his own experience of schizophrenia picked up two awards.The programme, Taking a Stand, won both the factual radio award and the survivor award.  Channel Four news won the TV and radio news award for its teenage suicides report.
How intrinsic is the computer to your lifestyle?It is 100% intrinsic to the way I work as a photographer and to what I do as a businessperson. I am looking to buy a digital back for a medium-format camera called the Leaf C-Most (seewww.creoscitex.com/products/input/leaf/c_most.asp). At the moment, I shoot, scan in the negatives, then digitally retouch them with a company called the Shoemaker's Elves. I do still use conventional printing for some work because it can be less time consuming and it offers an element of approval that is better for some magazines. I estimate that in about a year's time I will be 80-90% digital.I have started to use a company called Power Print, which does R-Type printing which is like an RGB (red, green and blue) print from a digital file. Nobody would know the difference! All the work you see in magazines has had some sort of digital work done on it at some point. There is now CTP printing (seewww.prepressworld.co.uk/ctp) where you don't even make plates.What computer are you using?AMac Powerbook G4. I am  getting another one specifically to use with my camera so that I can store the images as I shoot them. The back can store up to 100 really high-res images.Is the net a good showcase for photographers?Definitely. I have about 1,000 visitors a month to my site, a number of which are potentially going to book me for a job. It is a great way for them to see immediately what I do. It is not essential that I update the site too regularly as it is more to give people a background to who I am and what I do.I don't think you could have an exhibition online and I also don't think magazines are dead by a long way, but the web definitely enhances the media that are there.Is there anything that you can't do with software that you would like to be able to do?No! I have just made life-size cats out of people for the Selfridges windows - the bodies of women with the heads of cats! I hasten to add that I couldn't do a lot of the strange digital tricks without the creative expertise of Colin Hulme and his team at Shoemaker's Elves. People are now beginning to realise that with the technology available you are able to do some really interesting work for a lot less money. It is still all about enhancing the original idea, though.Do you have any favourite gadgets?My favourite gadget has to be either of the two digital retouching systems:PhotoshoporBarco. I can ask people to do things with these who are artists in their own right. I couldn't take any credit for the things they do with it.Do you have any favourite sites?www.confused.co.uk,www.amazon.co.uk,www.odeon.co.ukandwww.yell.co.uk, which I think is amazing! We are running our site down as magazine sites are great, but the reality is that people want to use sites to buy things or to find things out_it is not a lifestyle thing.Visitwww.rankin.co.uk
Travel lightI want to buy a new portable, and although Psion has decided to pull out of selling consumer PDAs, I still think the Series 7 (699 on the high street) is the winner all round. Are there new kids on the block to which I ought to give first refusal? I need to buy now.Romney TansleyTravel Light Ltdwww.travellight.orgJack Schofield:If the Psion Series 7 meets     your needs, I would have no hesitation in buying one. The only drawback is that it is not going to get any better. The Series 7     is bulkier but still much more functional than a PDA (personal digital assistant) such as a Palm or PocketPC with a Targus     Stowaway keyboard.However, none of these machines will do if you need to run Microsoft Windows. In that case, look for an     obsolete IBM ThinkPad 240X, or a second-hand Toshiba Libretto or Sony PCG-1. The Libretto suffers from a restricted     keyboard, while the Sony's main drawbacks are its letterbox screen and a choice of either very poor battery life or the slow     but battery-friendly Transmeta Crusoe chip.More spam"To avoid disseminating a virus, create a new contact in your address     book with the name '0000', without any address or details" etc. Any opinions on the validity of this?Nick Peednick.peed@tesco.netJS:It is another hoax email doing the rounds, as a quick web search shows. See, for example:http://antivirus.about.com/library/hoaxes/bltip.htm,www.vmyths.com/hoax.cfm?id=263&amp;page=3orhttp://hq.mcafeeasap.com/dispVirus.asp?virus_k=99213.    But it is popular. Perhaps it could be regarded as a variant of the Gullibility Virus.Quick, hideWhen my small grandson visits, he makes a beeline for the PC's keyboard and mouse. Is there a quick way of disabling both     instantly upon his arrival?Mike Struttmikeandliz@cwcom.netJS:Try Cronosoft's Quick Hide Windows. Press Ctrl-Alt-Shift-X     and it locks the computer so that a password is needed to access it. It also offers a "boss key" function, which clears the     screen of anything you would not want another person to see. QHW is freeware and can be downloaded fromwww.cronosoft.com/download/qhw. It seems to work well. Some screensavers also have password protection and can be invoked instantly,     but it is hard to find out which ones offer this feature.Hidden textI use the Track Changes facility in Microsoft Word, and I     have noticed that when an apparently "clean" document arrives by email, you can often tell what changes have been made to     it. Unfortunately, there are many occasions where you do not want the other organisation or person to see what changes you     have made. I have tried saving as a new document, or cutting and pasting an entire document into a new one, but the tracked     changes still remain hidden in the text.Nick Holdernick.holder1@ntlworld.comJS:There is a way, but it should be in the     Guinness Book of Records for obscurity. Think of the hidden text as being printed in an invisible font. All you have to do is     search for text in this font and replace it with nothing. In other words: (1) Go to Tools|Options and select the View tab on the     properties sheet.(2) Tick the check box for Hidden Text and click OK.(3) Go to the Edit menu and select Replace.(4) Click     the More button to expand the resulting dialog box.(5) Click the blank box next to "Find what" to put the cursor there.(6)     Click the Format button, and select Font.(7) Select the check box marked Hidden, and click OK.(8) Go back to the Find and     Replace box and click Replace All.By publishing this information, I may be depriving some journalists of a useful source of     information.No sharingI use one serial port for two purposes at different times. At times it serves the modem, at others     communication with a handheld, originally a Psion, now an HP Jornada. In changing from one to the other the computer     frequently hangs, or the handheld refuses to communicate, saying that the port is in use. Is there a simple way to close the     port in Windows Me?Dr RL Symondsr.symonds@virgin.netJS:The PC serial port, which first appeared in 1981, was not     designed for "plug and play", and is now obsolete. You are doing well if you can use one port for two things but in my     experience it does not work reliably with three. I suggest you move the Jornada to a faster and more flexible USB (Universal     Serial Bus) port. If your PC does not have USB, you can add one or two ports on an expansion card. Ideally you should not use     the serial ports at all. However, the Psion does not support USB so it will have to stay put.QuizI have built a website using     Microsoft FrontPage 2000, and would like to include a quiz with multiple choice questions, the submit button taking you to     your score with comments, then the option to see the correct answers.John Woodwood@fish.co.ukJS:I wouldn't know how     to do this either, but Microsoft can get you started. Seewww.microsoft.com/education/planning/online/Score.asp. Only     correct I have made a large number of additions to my Auto Correct dictionary in Word 2000 and would like to copy it to my     laptop via a floppy disk. Can I do this?Geoffrey Randallgeoffrey.randall@british library.netJS:You can. Seewww.mvps.org/word/FAQs/Customization/ ExportAutocorrect.htmTalkback&#183;Lorewas "not very happy" with my     suggestion that using stationery was the best way to put a company logo in email messages. The proposed alternative is to     put the cursor where you want the image, go to the Insert menu in Outlook Express, select Picture, and browse to the Gif or     JPeg image you want. You can do it this way, but I would not want to have to explain that to a couple of dozen managers. If     you must have a company logo on your email messages, then for consistency and ease of use, stationery is the way to go.&#183;Last week, I mentioned Silurian's freeDiskSpace Chartas the simplest way to get a     pie chart of a hard drive, so you can see where your disk space has gone. Linda Wallan (linda_ wallan@yahoo.com) suggests "a     neat utility called Sequoia View, that uses a visualisation technique called Cushion Treemaps". It was developed by the     computer science department at Technische Universiteit Eindhoven, it is available fromwww.win.tue.nl/sequoiaviewand it is     free. Not only is it powerful, the graphics displays could pass for modern art.
Microsoft has made a number of things clear about next week's launch of Windows XP. First, retail buyers will be asked to go through its product activation scheme. Second, the larger corporates won't since it is unrealistic to expect them to re-register thousands of licenses every time there is an upgrade. This leaves the small to medium enterprise and, in particular, the extremely small enterprise - the sole trader and those with between one and five employees - who will have to activate each copy of the software they are running, and will need to reactivate it every time they replace or significantly alter their machine.The concept of product activation is straightforward. The buyer of the software registers it electronically or by phone and Microsoft issues an activation code. Your software expires after a certain amount of uses unless you have entered the code, and this code contains information on the configuration of the computer you are using. That means you can't transfer it without re-activating your software, which will involve taking it off the old system.The objective is to eliminate software piracy, which has long been a problem. Software companies lose sales when someone copies a program on to more than one computer. When there were plenty of people without PCs, new sales kept the corporate coffers full,even if some small traders and home users used the same disks to install programs on to multiple systems. Now that the majority of businesses have computers with   software installed, Microsoft needs to recoup lost revenue from hooky copies wherever it can.Not everyone in the small business community is happy with the new system. Peter Scargill, the national IT chairman for the Federation of Small Businesses, wonders whether Microsoft couldn't find better ways of persuading people to register legal software."If Microsoft Office was well paper-documented and cheap, they would not have such a problem with pirating as it would not be worth the effort," he says. "Offering better, free backup to registered users and a cheaper offering with decent paper documentation would be the answer."In fact, "yes they had to do something, but not this" is a popular refrain among the small business community. Kelvin Hales, principal of the consulting control engineers Kelvin Hales Associates Ltd, is concerned that the license to use the software will remain tied to an individual computer rather than to an individual."For example: I run (but not simultaneously) three computers. Why do I need three licenses? I can only use one at a time!" he says. "Much engineering software, for example, allows multiple installation, provided only the licensed number of copies are in simultaneous use. Microsoft could have intro duced a transferable license key that could allow activation to be taken off one machine and installed to another at will." (Ironically a family in which two or more people use the system but not at the same time will need only the one licence).Tim Kimber, product manager in Microsoft's small to medium business division, concedes there isn't an easy answer for cases such as Hales' if they stick to the single-license version of XP, but stresses that multiple installations are already a breach of the license agreement. The other area he admits will annoy some customers is the need to reactivate the software every time a computer is extensively reconfigured: it won't be an issue for many customers but Hales, at least, builds and rebuilds his PCs according to the job.Kimber says the process is straightforward: "I did it over the web and thought it hadn't happened because it was so quick." Computers running offline can be activated over a free telephone number, and staff are trained to spot genuine cases in which reactivation will be appropriate. The company has no plans to stop activating older software, which would force people changing machines to upgrade.Effectively, this forced registration will change the way people perceive software. At the moment they think of it like a book: you buy it, and if you want to lend it to someone, that's your business. Legally, software has always been licensed rather than bought and the activation process will do much to reinforce that perception.
Would it alarm you if I told that young male IT professionals are designing the future while women are sitting back and letting them get on with it? It certainly should.Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt, calling for more women to enter IT this week, pointed out only 22% of the IT workforce is made up of women.Yet there is hardly an aspect of our lives that isn't dominated by IT, whether we are always aware of it or not. IT controls everything from our defence and security systems to the films we watch, the design of the magazines   we read and the hospital operations we wait for.The use of IT is only limited by the creativity, imagination and understanding that IT professionals have of the way we live and the way they believe we want to live in the future. Read that sentence again: this is not a job that is the domain of nerds and geeks, as is often assumed.In reality, most IT employers rate interpersonal and creativity skills above technical skills when recruiting - skills women often excel at. However, the stark statistics are that in the past seven years, the proportion of women in IT has dropped by about 10%.This year, employers predicted they would need an extra one million IT professionals in the UK by 2006. To put that into perspective, a million is twice as many as the number of teachers in this country. Go to any recruitment website, and compare the number of IT jobs advertised against other jobs. The last time I checked, half the jobs advertised were IT jobs, and this is during a downturn.If women entered IT in the same numbers as men, it is unlikely we would be experiencing any problems at all. Instead, we are in imminent   danger of exporting IT jobs in the same way we exported the manufacturing industry. IT is a global industry. Companies will place themselves where the skills are.The lack of women affects companies in other ways. A diverse customer base needs a diverse workforce if it is to serve it effectively. Men and women's approach to technology is different. Most men, to give one example, admit they like gadgets. Give a man a palm top computer for the first time and most will play with it, content to spend time working out what it can do. A woman wants to know the benefit to her: she is not impressed by technology alone.The image of the IT professional as the techie guy who cannot make friends is believed to be behind the underwhelming response women have to IT jobs. The turning point is when girls start secondary school. Talk to a 10 or 11-year-old girl   about IT and most will be fairly positive. Talk to a 13-year-old and she will equate IT jobs with boring, geeky boys. One 14-year-old girl summed up the views of her age group. "They live at home and the mother knits cardigans for them. And they have to be in at an exact time for their tea and stuff." Teenage girls are interested in mobile phones and the internet but they don't think of these as IT. IT equals computers.I know teachers and the Department for Education and Skills are asking if it is a coincidence that the age girls are turning off IT is the same age they start formal "ICT" lessons. Computers previously had been fun, part of their entertainment in the way the TV had been for the previous generation. Could ICT lessons make them equate "working with IT" with boredom? This image is then reinforced by the media, which often portrays IT professionals as boring geeks.We need to make our children's experience of IT exciting, inspiring and challenging. We need to focus on the things that really interest them to both deliver the IT skills they need and increase interest in IT careers.Employers know they, too, have a role to play in solving this problem. Sending their younger employees into schools is the quickest way of destroying the "geek" myth. Employers are also now finding ways to successfully target recruitment towards women.Recruiting and retaining the best people should be compared to customer care. The best people can work wherever they want and what they want is a good working culture and equal work/life balance. Time and again these come ahead of starting salary. Companies that do not recognise this may recruit women, but it is a waste of time and money if they then leave because the culture makes it impossible for them to manage family commitments.I'll admit to self-interest here. Men are great, but most would admit they do struggle, at least sometimes, to understand women. They cannot be left to design my and my daughters' future without our full participation.&#183;See Employers' Charter atwww.e-skillsnto.org.uk/charter. The research is also available on the site.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Company bans on flying and the fear of further hijacks are leading people to take another look at video conferencing. The good news is that the technology has moved on a long way from its flickering, garbled past. The bad that the high-speed networks over which video must travel are still not an affordable option for most homes and offices.Shares in video conferencing companies surged after the attacks on the World Trade Centre, as Wall Street brokers anticipated video meetings replacing face-to-face gatherings. And that was despite the fact that some companies held back from promoting themselves in the   immediate aftermath.Martyn Lewis, the former BBC newscaster who chairs the UK video conferencing company Teliris, says: "We stopped marketing till George Bush started urging everyone to get back to business as usual."Nevertheless, the company has seen a fourfold increase in demand for its products. PictureTel, a Nasdaq-listed video conferencing company, says calls to its 1-800 freephone number trebled after the attacks, hits on its website doubled, and its resellers are selling through their stock much faster than usual.The company, which is to merge with US rival Polycom, now expects sales for 2001 to be more than 20% higher than last   year. "Before September 11, sales were sort of flat," says Ned Semonite, PictureTel's executive vice president of marketing.Phil Sewell, managing director of the UK company Global VideoCom, says: "Enquiries have tripled. Many businesses that were sitting on the fence or trying to complete complex cost justifications have just gone ahead and bought."Companies that have started to use video conferencing for the first time have been pleasantly surprised. David Bell, a director of Pearson and chairman of the Financial Times, started to use GlobalTable, Teliris's system, two weeks ago for communications between Pearson's headquarters in central London and its New York office.He says: "A scheduled two-hour meeting between London and New York involving seven people lasted for almost four hours, with everyone's reactions and attitudes echoing precisely those of a meeting in the same room. Our executives could not believe how natural and relaxing it was."And George Russell, chairman of the UK venture capital firm 3i, which will use the same system to communicate with its Palo Alto, California office this week, says: "The real return on investment is not the air fare saved but the extra, high quality thinking time it is going to give my top executives."Part of the reason why the system seems more lifelike is that people at remote video conferencing sites are displayed on 42-inch plasma screens with no more than four people to a screen. Lewis says: "With old-style video conferencing systems, a single monitor is sometimes split into many windows. A recent newspaper photo of George Bush shows him peering at a single screen in which loads of people he can barely see are displayed in four windows."Bigger screens mean better views of boardroom battles without the need to use that strange video conferencing option of displaying just the person who is shouting the loudest. "We wanted executives to feel as if they have eye contact with each other, even if they are on the opposite sides of the world," says Lewis, "so we have added virtual vectoring software. Now, when someone in the Paris office turns to look at the monitor showing a colleague in London, the New York office will see that."There is also no time delay   when people are speaking, as is usual with the ISDN lines commonly used for video conferencing. This is because GlobalTable uses dedicated fibre-optic lines operating at speeds of 4.5 megabits a second in each direction. But this is a high-end system, with near-DVD quality costing $120,000 to $750,000 for a dedicated meeting-room system and line-rental of $13,000 a month for unlimited usage."Many companies find even ISDN too expensive," says GlobalVideoCom's Sewell. "Three ISDN lines providing a total speed of 384 kilobits a second - which gives good-quality video -will cost &#163;150 a hour for a video link between Europe and New York. And the technology is not that reliable."In the first few days after the World Trade Centre attacks, it was almost impossible to get an ISDN circuit to New York, and it is not unusual for lines to drop.   Asymmetric digital subscriber line technology &#91;ADSL, which expands the capacity of ordinary phones lines&#93; might be an alternative, but there have been delays in local loop unbundling and problems with contention."Sewell says such obstacles mean many companies want to add video conferencing to their virtual private networks (VPNs), telecoms networks provided by large telecoms carriers that operate as if they were the company's own. Global VideoCom used to use ISDN but now saves by linking its Edinburgh and London offices to head office in Berkshire at 768kbit/s over a &#163;60,000-a-year VPN that it also uses for phone calls.Sewell leaves monitors on displaying the regional offices permanently so that he can make sure phones are being answered, and that staff are happy. "There is an area near the monitors with couches and we usually go and sit there at lunchtime and have a   chat with whoever is around in the other offices," he says.To add video conferencing to a VPN costs around &#163;400 a user, which includes a camera and other hardware and software for each PC. The company can also link a dedicated video conferencing monitor to the VPN. Once on the company network, conferencing can be integrated with other applications. Global VideoCom provides email software that integrates with Microsoft Outlook so users can check when colleagues are free.Such innovation means that the surge in interest in video conferencing could outlast the current crisis. Ovum, the consultancy, says the worldwide market for video conferencing is worth more than $6bn and this is expected to rise by about 20% this year.But the real winner in the short term is likely to be audio conferencing - using an ordinary phone to talk to many people at different sites. David Alexander, an analyst   at the US market researchers Frost &amp; Sullivan, has revised his forecast for US audio conferencing up from 6.5bn minutes to 7.8bn for 2001."With webcasting, people can look at PowerPoint or other presentations online and some webcasters are adding video," says Alexander.Most of the video conferencing shares which soared after September 11 are now below their recent highs, yet Nasdaq-listed Gentner, which derives a lot of its revenue from audio conferencing, is still buoyant. Shares in the company hit $22.80 on Tuesday and Nigel Gonsalves, a telecoms analyst at US-based H C Wainwright, has them on a strong buy after they passed his previous price target of $18.Indeed, Gonsalves has just one worry. "The only thing that inhibits video conferencing from becoming a mass market tool is that executives won't get to enjoy themselves on business trips," he notes.
We can talk the talk, but can we walk the walk? Without a proper broadband infrastructure, UK business is unprepared to fight the twin spectres of war and recession.According to the latest research from the Communication Managers Association (CMA), businesses are becoming increasingly frustrated by BT's perceived failure to roll out high-speed ADSL services.Executives wanting to benefit from the efficiency and security of low-cost applications such as streaming media believe that they are unable to do so in the current climate, and an overwhelming majority say that their companies are suffering for it."The technology and the experience required to take advantage of the advances in digital communication are all in place," says Mark Smith, deputy director general of the CMA. "What is stopping us is a lack of bandwidth to run these applications over."Britain is missing out on the benefits technology has to offer, and it is difficult to fix the blame for this on anyone other than BT."The survey comes after an OECD report earlier this year put the UK a laggardly 21st in the world's broadband league table. The new findings reveal high levels of discontent with BT's performance from UK businesses: 89% of respondents urged the telecom giant to speed up the rollout process, while 71% claimed that the situation was inhibiting business growth.The CMA's research represents the latest in a long fusillade of condemnation levelled at BT over the torturous process of implementing ADSL.Rival telcos have been unrelenting in their assertion that the former monopoly has pursued a strategy of deliberate obstruction to prevent them from gaining the network access they require to offer competing services, a stance frequently supported by the telecommunications watchdog Oftel.But Paul Reynolds, chief executive of BT Wholesale, denies these charges. He points to a successful implementation programme that has seen ADSL services made available to 60% of the UK population months before similar figures were achieved on mainland Europe. And he claims that while every exchange in the country is broadband ready, the market's recent decline has left few companies prepared to bear the expense of piping the service to homes and businesses."The idea that ADSL isn't available in some areas is a myth," says Reynolds. "We have invested millions in the necessary upgrades, but since the downturn, the number of service providers seriously interested in taking advantage of this has dropped from 40 to four."Nobody wants to bear the expense of further rollout because the demand for broadband simply isn't there," adds Reynolds.Lack of demand, says BT, is not its fault. Higher broadband penetration levels in Germany and the Netherlands are due to heavily subsidised subscription packages, which Britain's biggest telco - barred by legislation from under-pricing its services to gain market share - is expressly forbidden to emulate.Reynolds, who claims to be processing 2,000-3,000 new ADSL subscriptions every week, says that BT Wholesale is examining a range of options designed to enable the company to cut charges for high-speed access at an unspecified point in the future.But such arguments get short shrift from BT's opponents. Smith points to survey results indicating widespread business belief that the advance of broadband will result in a significant reduction in demand for dial-up and leased-line services.He adds that, among the 44% of UK companies considering ADSL, the prevailing suspicion is that the telco's painfully slow approach owes much to its desire to wring the last penny from ageing technologies.Broadband Britain is at an impasse, and a solution will not be easily found. While BT maintains that demand and investment are required to kickstart the process of achieving countrywide coverage, the CMA insists that until ADSL is included under the terms of the universal service agreement that compels BT to make telephony services available to every member of the population, nothing will change."BT exists to benefit its shareholders and not the national community," says Smith. "Until that changes, the vision of making the UK Europe's number one country for e-business by 2005 looks increasingly unlikely."
Virus villainsWhile the world worries over the threat of viruses being spread by terrorists, strange things seem to be happening in the less real world of computer viruses.Rob Rosenberger, editor of the V-Myths website and a critic of fire engine-chasing anti-virus companies, claims he was treated to an early morning visit by the FBI last weekend. He says he was forced to pull a column he was planning to run that would have caused embarrassment to one of the anti-virus vendors. Many have been quick to jump on the back of post-September 11 security fears to sell their services.The V-Myths website is now running the story - well, part of the story, along with some heavy hints - athttp://vmyths.com/rant.cfm?id=409&amp;page=4.Hey Bert!There are few moments of levity to be found in the aftermath of September 11. But, if there is one, it is in the rise to fame of an obscure website claiming Sesame Street pup pet Bert was evil. The spoof site featured a series of pictures of Bert pictured alongside infamous characters like Osama Bin Laden, Hitler and Jeffrey Dahmer.Amazingly, in the wake of the US attacks on Afghanistan, a picture of Bin Laden appeared on the banners of anti-American street protesters in Bangladesh - with Bert appearing off Bin Laden's left shoulder. The photograph had clearly found its way from the internet to the banner. Now the site's creator, Dino Ignacio, has pulled his site down, and is asking imitation sites to do the same.Those keen to see miniatures of the pictures still can, however, thanks to Google.http://images.google.com/images?q=bert+is+evil&amp;hl= en&amp;sa=N&amp;tab=wi.Des res?One vox pop "interviewee" in the current Onion, the US satirical newspaper, says he has bought a "hermetically sealed house I never leave" in order to escape the Anthrax threat. But, on the web, what seems biting satire one day is often reality the next.20th Century Castles is selling a selection of underground bunkers, built during the cold war, for use as homes. "These historic defense structures are the castles of this 20th Century," says the company's founder.The safe-as-houses houses range from small bunkers at $169,000 to 15,000 sq ft underground complexes for over $1m - and a satisfactory character check.www.theonion.com.www.missilebases.comIsn't it ironicThe outbreaks of Anthrax in the US have prompted some soul searching among the members of the ageing thrash metal band of the same name. "Before the tragedy of September 11, the only thing scary about Anthrax was our bad hair in the 80s," admit the band in a message on their website. "We hope and pray that this problem goes away quietly and we all grow old and fat together."But, just in case you thought they were getting a little reflective in their old age, they add: "If an Anthrax-member gets Anthrax, call Alanis Morrisette. That would be ironic. Don't you   think?" Quite.www.anthrax.com/nfws.htm.It rocksDid you attend any of the great rock festivals at Knebworth or the Pavilion Bath in the late 60s or 70s? If the memories of seeing giants such as Frank Zappa and the Stones live still bring a tear to the eye, Rockmusicmemorabilia.com could be for you. The site, run by Henrietta Bannister, daughter of the rock festival promoter Freddy, sells replica posters from the events for &#163;8.95 (the originals change hands for between &#163;500 and &#163;1,250), as well as T-shirts and sheet music.There is even a Find a Friend section that allows old rockers to renew acquaintance.www.rockmusicmemorabilia.com.Go organicOrganic Week started on Monday, and there are lots of sites out there that claim to show the way to a healthier lifestyle, not to mention better tasting food. The Soil Association's website atwww.soilassociation.orgincludes details of the various events around the country aiming to persuade us to start eating organic. Meanwhile, the juice giant Libby's has an information site atwww.organicandme.co.ukthat provides a lot of pro-organic information as well as plugs for its products. And there is also Simply Organic atwww.simplyorganic.net, which recently won Organic Initiative of the Year for its environ mentally friendly delivery of Organic fruit and veg to homes - via Express Dairies' milk floats.High hopesThe rash of Am-I-Hot-Or-Not imitators has become a bit tiresome (and this from the column that brought you Rankmypet.com), but one has caught our eye: Am I Presidential Or Not. In the style of the original, you rank various Oval Office hopefuls on how much they look the part. Webmaster Lore Fitzgerald Sj&ouml;berg offers the site as a democratic alternative to the method of counting dimpled chads, as practised at the last presidential election.www.brunching.com/toys/amipresidentornot.html.Satellite heavySatellites spinning round the earth are getting bigger and heavier, to the extent that "five ton spacecraft costing many $100m are not uncommon", according to micro and nano satellite expert Professor Martin Sweeting.But, as his speciality suggests, it doesn't have to be this way. Sweeting and researchers at the University of Surrey led the way in the 80s, and now the Professor heads a company that continues to research the field. Sweeting will be live on the Guardian's website next Tuesday to take your questions. You can post to the discussion now - and read his speech - athttp://education.guardian.co.uk/higher.New and noted&#183;Yell's quirky internet awards:http://uk.yell.com/awards/home.html&#183;Remember Sodastream?www.sodastream.co.uk&#183;Dimjelly - flash game:www.dimjelly.comSix of the bestMuseumsThe Hermitage, St Petersbergwww.hermitagemuseum.orgScottish Cultural Resource Networkwww.scran.ac.uk/homepageThe Metropolitan, New Yorkwww.metmuseum.orgTate Modernwww.tate.org.uk/modernThe Louvre, Pariswww.louvre.frDesign Museum, Londonwww.designmuseum.org
A defining feature of the September 11 attacks and their aftermath has been the tumult of opinion: about the perpetrators and their motivation; about appropriate retaliatory action; about whether US foreign policy ought to share any sense of culpability. Whatever your position on these issues, it is clear that the new global climate heralded by these attacks has at its centre a multitude of what Andrew Motion last week called "ideological faultlines". In the past these opposing positions reached us only through the filter of our own media, but now the web gives us direct access to them all.CNN, theCIA, and theWhitehouseall talk about the US war on terror, with updates on the bombing of Afghanistan and the search for Osama bin Laden. The FBI has a &lt;a href=""Wild West-style wanted posterfor Bin Laden online.But there are different perspectives within the US.www.afghan-web.comis an information site maintained by American-Afghanis. The site, headed "the friendliest    country in the world_" condemns terrorism but makes no explicit reference to September 11. Instead there is information on Afghanistan's economy and culture, including contemporary and classical Afghan poetry (Jalaluddin Rumi's Enough Words? is especially pertinent), Mulla Nasruddin jokes, and images of ancient clay pots; all of which combine to make the Afghan people seem more vulnerable than the familiar images of Kalashnikovs imply.Other sites talk of the rift of opinion within the Muslim community , here and abroad . The Muslim News, a UK Muslim monthly newspaper, has an online section dedicated to the September 11 attacks from a UK Muslim perspectivewww.muslimnews.co.uk/news.A research team from Birzeit University in Palestine conducted an opinion poll this month on 1,200 Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, on the Intifada and America's relations with the Arab world - 89% of those questioned thought the US was unjustified in attacking Afghanistan, and 64% said attacking civilians in the US is inconsistent with Islam. You can read the results athttp://home.birzeit.edu.Arab.net has links to contrasting opinion sites from every country in theArab worldand the Muslim Student Association has a range of links to Western and Islamic opinion on Bin Laden and his jihad against Americahttp://msanews.mynet.net/Scholars/Laden.China, the largest country to share a border with Afghanistan, has been typically soft-spoken on the "war on terrorism". Still, China.org has a series of opinion pieces from Chinese newspapers atwww.china.org.cn/english.Afghanistan's other neighbours, the states of the Caucasus region to the north, are crucial territories for oil reserves and pipeline routes to Europe and Asia. The struggle to control the flow of oil is central to the politics of the region and will inevitably work its way into longer-term discussions about US action in Afghanistan.Caucasus Watchis an excellent resource for understanding the pressures from world powers on the region.What about Afghanistan itself, and its al-Qaida houseguests? The Wall Street Journal recently reported that Lycos and Yahoo were deleting pro-terrorist content    (if you are a WSJ subscriber you can read the piece athttp://interactive.wsj.com/archive.A pro-jihad site, named after a mentor of Bin Laden,www.azzam.com, was recently shut down following requests from the FBI, and US hackers have repeatedly taken out sites such aswww.taleban.com, owned by the Afghan Taleban Mission to the UN. Islamic fundamentalist sites less connected to Bin Laden have so far escaped unscathed: Hizballah, the Arabic Islamic struggle movement of the same name, has posted a statement on the attacks atwww.hizballah.org/english/.Unsurprisingly for a country where the internet is officially banned, there are few online representations of the Afghan people. Atwww.iranian.com/Opinion/2001/June/Afghan, Mohsen Makhmalbaf, a filmmaker from neighbouring Iran who has produced two films about Afghanistan, paints his own complex view - written before the September tragedy - of a traumatised nation. And a writer for Salon magazine, who visited Pakistan's number two Taliban official last week in his Islamabad home, takes a humanising look at life on the other side of the divide in her article atwww.salon.com/news.As the recent accidental inclusion of Sesame Street's Bert in a pro-Bin Laden banner carried by hundreds of Pakistani Taliban supporters (www.cnn.com/2001/US/10/11/muppets.binladen) reminds us, we live in a foreshortened world. The web helps us to remember that this new closeness can be a blessing, as well as a threat.
Media bashingAm I the only one fed up with the seemingly continual Microsoft bashing? According to Online, October 11, its     latest crime is that it is "incorporating its Windows Media software into Windows, whilst not offering Real's". How dare they     write software and include it in their own product? What's more, if anyone wants to use different software they can't -     unless they "download and install it themselves" - something made pretty straightforward using Internet Explorer.Microsoft     may well have questionable business practices, but releasing a product containing their own software in preference to     someone elses doesn't seem a crime.Ed Harrisoneph@dataconnection.comReal annoyingYou mention in your article on the     advent of Windows XP (Online, October 11) how increased integration of Windows Media Player into the operating system may     be seen as anti-competitive. This isn't necessarily true.The web is full of streaming audio and video, and most is in     RealNetwork's RealMedia format. Although Windows Media Player can play early RealMedia files (version 5 or less), any user     wanting to listen to RealMedia G2 files must download RealPlayer. RealNetworks is, however, alienating its users, in particular     with RealPlayer 8. The software supposedly contains "spyware" - components that send information back to the program's     developers about usage. The free version also has constant reminders about the more feature-rich RealPlayer Plus, costing     $30, which is annoying. Windows Media Player has neither.However, ultimately the decision over whether to use RealMedia or     Microsoft's Windows Media format is up to content providers. Do they offer RealMedia, a format that works on almost any OS     (Linux, Mac OS, BeOS, QNX and others) but has privacy implications, or Windows Media, which has no privacy implications but     works on fewer platforms?Neil Turnertotalxs@hotmail.comOffice hypeThanks for the many pages of hype about Microsoft's     XP. I seem to remember that the promises about reductions in the "dreaded blue screen" were promised with Windows 95, 98,     2000 and Me. My 'umble experience is that they have increased with each. I have been using Office XP for the past few weeks.     I paid a couple of hundred pounds for it to be shipped with a new Dell. It says I can install it 50 times and activate it online or     by telephone. I have three computers, of which two are internet-capable. I attempted to put it on to the third one and was     successful until the end when it insisted that I "reconnect to the network". There was no other option. Well, thanks everyone.     Do I really have to buy three copies? And how do I install it on a non-networked, non-modem computer? When I buy a book, I     can read it where I like.Jan Rockettjpr@rockett-associates.comCheck mateIn the Mike Anderiesz review of Resident Evil -     Code: Veronica X (Online, October 11) he noted that: "Unlike the Dreamcast version, here the backgrounds are fully rendered     in polygons rather than flat textures." On June 1, 2000 we saw that the Resident Evil: Code Veronica (Dreamcast) review said     "Gone are the rendered backdrops of yore, replaced by gorgeous real-time locales where you can freely interact with the     surroundings." Maybe Anderiesz could check the archives (or even play the previously reviewed game) in future.David Watsondwatspm@surby.demon.co.ukPic credibilityWith regard to Mike Anderiesz's guide to creating a fake online id (Online, October     11) for chat rooms, it is worth pointing out that if using a fake picture, you should change the JPeg file name to match the     fictitious handle or "real name" you have posted on your profile. Many surfers check the "properties" of any image, revealing     its file name. "Mepic" is always a good one as this adds credibility if you pass it off as "really you". Also, if you find a handful     of someone's holiday snaps online you can create a fake briefcase of images which should convince even the most suspicous     chat partner that it is you. In reverse, if using a real picture but don't want to reveal your genuine name, make sure it isn't     called Janepic1 when you've posted a "real name" like "Alexis" or "Sexy Suzy" on your profile.Richard Bondleft-the-building@elvis.comMS maths fails"90% of the world's computers run on MS operating systems" (Online, October 11).     No, they don't. Nor do they run Linux. Most of the world's computers are neither mainframes, minis, desktops nor anything     remotely resembling such a thing. They are embedded systems. If you don't believe me, count the world's desktop PCs and     then add up vehicles and video recorders for a start. With between two and five embedded systems per vehicle or recorder,     you'll soon see how the arithmetic works.Bob Margolisbob.margolis@ntlworld.com
Microsoft, currently hyping its new operating system Windows XP, dominates home and small business software. Like Mrs Thatcher in her prime, it might appear that There Is No Alternative.Well, there is. Like the Labour party, rivals have taken radical steps to fight Microsoft's hegemony. Unlike Labour, such firms have moved away from capitalism, offering software that can legally be used for no charge.It is not as silly as it sounds.   Adobe gives away its Acrobat document-viewer, but without the resulting millions of users, it could not sell the software that produces Acrobat documents. Other free packages show advertising, which vanishes if you buy a full licence.The following four programs are all free alternatives to Microsoft products although, to be fair, the US giant only charges for its Office software among its equivalents.So why dump Microsoft? First, these rivals are better in many ways - and they have   had to work harder to convince people to move. Second, computer viruses usually exploit weaknesses in Microsoft code, because compromising the world's dominant programs gives viruses the best chance to spread quickly. Using alternatives makes the user, and others, less vulnerable.Third, one can argue that allowing a single corporation to dominate the way hundreds of millions of people do business is unhealthy. If you agree, here is a chance to become part of the solution. And finally, these are free. If   you don't like them, you have lost nothing.We are looking at software that runs on Microsoft's Windows operating system. All the following run on Windows, although three also work on Macs. All are available online, but several regularly appear on computer magazines' cover disks.As for replacing Windows XP, the open source operating system Linux has a Windows-style interface known as X Windows (seewww.x.org) for personal computers. However, installing this is not a task for the novice.Office productivity: Star Office 6.0From:www.sun.com/starofficeSize:about 80MBOperating systems:Windows 95, 98, 2000 and NT 4; several Solaris flavours; Linux. Sun has provided source code for developers to produce a Macintosh version, but this isn't finished. Microsoft rival: Office (the suite including Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint)Pros:It is free, unlike Microsoft Office. The sub-programs within StarOffice (word-processing, spreadsheet, presentations and drawing) are similar to those within Microsoft's suite and it can save in Microsoft file formats. Users should have little difficulty moving. And StarOffice has just been improved. The previous version, 5.2, created a second desktop on top of Windows: this was unpopular, and has been dropped. You now open different functions from the Start menu or by right-clicking on a butterfly logo by the clock - a neat solution.Star cleverly foregrounds functions that also exist in Microsoft, but are buried. Password protection is offered as you save; control-shift-J fills the screen with your document (or reverses this); floating menu bars are   provided; and the spreadsheet allows you to toggle between different number formats (such as percentages or currency) from the toolbar. Unlike much free software, StarOffice is also free of advertising.Cons:It is vast. Downloading took about six hours on a 56k   modem, with each of the 10 10 MB chunks taking 30 to 40 minutes.Version 6.0 is only available in beta (draft) version. The final program will be available online just before Christmas, and in the shops on CD (for a modest price) just after. Don't do vital work in version 6.0 - stick to 5.2, which is still available online and in shops. In a   couple of hours' testing, version 6.0 crashed once, but successfully recovered the document.Conclusion:On the strength of this beta version, StarOffice 6.0 looks set to give Microsoft a run for its money. If you are thinking of paying for Microsoft Office - especially   if you are a business threatened with higher licence charges - look at this first. And even if you are not, 6.0 looks worth trying, although maybe after the finalised version comes out in December.Browser: Opera 5.12From:www.opera.comSize:2.1MB, although download Java too, making the size 10MBOperating systems:Windows (3.1, 95, 98, 2000, Me, NT3.5 or 4); Macintosh; Solaris; OS/2; Linux (x86, Sparc, PowerPC); Epoc (3, 5, as used by Psion); BeOS; QNX.Microsoft rival:Internet Explorer 5.5 or 6Alternatives:Netscape 6Pros:Opera claims to be fast, but the speed difference with Internet Explorer (IE) on a standard 56k modem was minimal on this reviewer's machine. Where it beats IE is on features.Opera gives you more information than IE when you open a page. A bar displays the download speed, its progress, and where the data is coming from, meaning you can tell if a page has stalled. And you can open pages behind the one you are view ing (using Shift-Ctrl-left mouse click together), which is useful if you are opening several pages from the index of a news site.On the tool-bar, you can speed browse by clicking on the screen logo left of the web address: this toggles graphic downloads on and off. (Pressing G does the same.) To the right of the address line, you can query the excellent   Google search engine without having to go to its home-page. And, right again, there is a magnification tool allowing you to zoom out or zoom in by between 10% and 900%. Everything is magnified, unlike a similar facility in IE that just increases some text sizes.Cons:A few sites don't work properly with Opera, particularly those that require logging in. This is the fault of the designers, who should write sites to work with any browser, but   don't, not that this helps. The free version of Opera shows adverts at the top right. You can get rid of them by hitting the F11 key, which, as in IE, expands the web page to the whole screen. You can get rid of the ads by paying $39 (about &#163;27) for a licence.Conclusion:Opera has many superior features, but some sites insist on Internet Explorer. Why not use both: Opera for better browsing, with IE in reserve for sites that won't work otherwise.Media player: RealPlayer 8 BasicFrom:www.real.com. Click on the RealPlayer link at the top, then scroll down the resulting page and click on "RealPlayer Basic - is our free player".Size:9.8MBOperating systems:Windows; Macintosh; Unix.Microsoft rival:Windows Media PlayerAlternatives:QuickTime (by Apple, fromwww.quicktime.comProsRealPlayer Basic, the free version, has a three-band graphic equaliser. In its compact mode, it takes up less screen space than Microsoft's Media Player. And it looks better (although in design terms, Apple's QuickTime player is probably best, and is also probably better for video).When online, RealPlayer can search and log on to 2,500 global online radio stations, as well as a range of TV   stations. The latter is heavily US-biased, but there are international broadcasters. Real has other online facilities, including a message service.Cons:It relabels MP3s already on your system with the Real logo, a minor annoyance. And you may well want to remove the bookmarks chosen for you when you download Real: even as a UK/European user, these are mainly US stations (right click on the channel, then choose Remove).Conclusion:Many websites force you to use a certain media viewer to see material on their sites, but for files on your computer such as MP3s it is up to you. Real is a decent choice: it is a good music player with lots of extras online.Email: Eudora 5.1From:www.eudora.comSize:6.1MBOperating systems:Windows, Macintosh, PalmMicrosoft rival:Outlook Express (part of Internet Explorer)Alternatives:Web browsers including Opera 5.12 have email software built in, which may serve your needs. StarOffice also contains email software.Pros:Eudora looks and sounds better than Outlook Express. It is in little touches - the ying-yang circle that spins as email is sent and received, the tasteful colours, the funky xylophone fanfare for new mail. And you can reconfigure the screen layout extensively.Eudora can graph your usage and produce daily averages - an interesting extra for home users, and potentially useful for businesses wanting to monitor email activity.Then there's the swearing check, known as Mood Watch. It displays an ice-cube   if you stay polite, then shows one to three red chillies depending on the strength of your invective. It can bar receiving or sending emails above a certain strength. For families, this has a practical application: for adults, there is the fun of working out which words set off what chillies.Cons:The full free version displays advertising in either a box or a side-bar. You can choose a cut-down, ad-free version, or   pay about $40 (&#163;28) to buy a full ad-free version.Conclusion:Eudora is superior on several fronts to Outlook Express.  If you want to try it without losing emails from Express, select Options from the Tools menu, click the Incoming Mail icon, then tick Leave mail on server. Your email will still be available for collection by Outlook Express.If you do move, import your address book and emails from Outlook Express (or Outlook or Netscape Messenger) through the Import option on the File menu.
Pop-up window advertisements are the online equivalent of doorstep salesmen: pushy, persistent, and tiresome to get rid of. Pop-ups are more an annoyance than a threat, but there are a couple of programs that offer to usher these unwelcome visitors from your screen before they become a problem. One, Zero Popup, works particularly well and, as a bonus, can also disable many banner-ads. (Imagine being able to block out billboards before they catch your eye.)You will need Winzip for the installation (www.winzip.com) and Zero Popup works only with Internet Explorer.Step by step1.Visithttp://popupkiller2002.tripod.com/download.htm(note the pop-up advertisement!)2.Click on Download Zero Popup 1.32.3.Click Download Now.4 .When the download window appears, ensure Save this file to disk is selected, then click OK.5.Select an appropriate folder (for example, your Desktop), then click OK to save the file.6.When the file is downloaded, open the file ZeroPopoup.zip, and extract   the contents, ZeroPopup.msi, to the same folder.7.Locate the file ZeroPopup.msi on your desktop, close all browser windows, and double click.The .msi file type is information for a standard Microsoft Installer. If the installer does not run automatically when you double click the file, you will also need to download and run the Microsoft Installer: for Windows 9x and ME,http://msdn.microsoft.com/msdn-files/027/001/455/instmsia.exe, or for Windows 2000 and NT,http://msdn. microsoft.com/msdn-files/027/001/456/instmsiw.exeOnce you have run the installer, return to step 7 and try again.8.Once the installer has run, you should see a window that says, Welcome to the Zero Popup Setup Wizard. Click Next.9.Click Browse if you want to change the installation folder (if so, select the new folder, then click OK), then click Next.10.Click Next again.11.Read the Readme file, then click Next to finish the installation.12.Click Close to complete.Zero Popup is now installed, and will be active next time you run Internet Explorer. When you open your browser,    you should now see a new icon in your task bar in the lower right corner. Double click on this icon to turn Zero Popup on and off: when the icon has a red line through it, pop-up windows are disabled; no red line means pop-ups are allowed. To ensure the plug-in is working, visit Zero Popup's test pagehttp://popupkiller2002.tripod.com/test.htmand try one or two of the links here (make sure you read the content warning by one of them). Then switch off Zero Popup and try the links again, to see all the trouble you have spared yourself!Although Zero Popup acts intelligently, to allow pop-up window links out of useful sites like news pages, and web email providers like Hotmail and Excite, you can also permit pop-up windows elsewhere   when you wish. If you really want to allow a hyperlink to pop up a new window, hold down the Control key as you click on the link.To configure how Zero Popup lets you know when it has blocked a pop-up window, right click the icon in the task bar. Select Notification, then choose from the options on offer.To block banner ads, right click on the icon and click Banner Ads, then Disable. The banner ad feature also disables images on some web pages (for example, the pictures at http://news.bbc.co.uk ): if you find this to be a problem, right click on the Zero Popup icon, click Banner Ads, then select Enable to turn the ads back on. Further help is available athttp://popupkiller 2002.tripod.com/help.htmZero Popup gives you a one-week evaluation period, after which you will see a registration window every time you start Internet Explorer. At this point you can either ignore the reminder window (which rather defeats the whole purpose), uninstall Zero Popup (uninstall instructions are available at http://popupkiller2002.tripod. com/ ) and try some of the less effective freeware alternatives - Nopops atwww.jpsoft.dk/link.php?url=exe/nopops.exeor Popop Stopper atwww.panicware.com/product_dpps.html. Alternatively, register Zero Popup for $19.95 at http://popupkiller 2002.tripod.com/register.htm .Or, you can go back to ushering the salesmen off your doorstep yourself.
BT and One2One have lost their latest legal bid to prove that they were treated "unfairly and irrationally" over the payment of third generation mobile phone licence fees last year.The court of appeal today rejected their claim that the government was wrong to give rivals Vodafone and Orange extra time to settle their multibillion pound bills.The timetable was extended for Vodafone and Orange because, under auction rules, they were required to break the relationship formed by Vodafone's takeover of German rival Mannesmann - the then owner of Orange.However, BT and One2One argued that the 16-week payment extension saved their rivals 170m in interest payments and constituted unlawful state aid.BT and One2One each paid 4bn for their licences but had to pay in May last year, while their competitors were given until September.Their lawyers argued that the Department of Trade and Industry, which oversaw the auction, should have either granted Vodafone and Orange licences immediately, kept them out of the auction altogether or delayed the payment schedule for all participants.They claimed that the interest payments saved by their rivals broke EU fair competition laws.But court of appeal judges today upheld a high court judge's earlier rejection of the claim.A BT spokesperson said the group was "disappointed" with the decision, but said it intended to petition the law lords for leave to appeal.He added that BT and One2One intended to claim compensation from the government if their complaints were upheld.
The national lottery announced today that it will tackle the digital divide by spending 11.4m on computer literacy courses and computer centres located in communities with low access to the internet.The grant from the lottery's new opportunities fund will target specific groups - such as single parents, ethnic minorities, refugees, manual labourers, the disabled and the elderly - which have had little experience of email and the internet.Stephen Dunmore, the chief executive of the fund, said: "Many people in our communities have never had the opportunity to learn even basic information and communications technology skills. They have been excluded through disadvantage. This money will open up opportunities for discovering the wealth of information out there for work, leisure and everyday living."The money has been split between nine English regions, the highest award - 2.1m - going to Yorkshire and Humber which has 21 projects to complete.One of the centres to benefit is Open Learning at St. Anne's, a drop-in education centre for the homeless in Leeds. The centre provides a number of courses including drama and video programme-making.The project coordinatior at St Anne's, Louise Robinson, said: "The award will show our centre users that the government wants to invest in their futures. By giving them the latest facilities and the chance to learn skills which enhance their future prospects, it shows them 'they're worth it'."Other centres to benefit include the Hackney Silver Surfers project in east London. This centre aims to introduce older people to computers and the internet and is led by Age Concern.Mary Cannon, chair of Age Concern in Hackney, said: "We'll also be fitting out a minibus to take equipment to where older people go: day centres, lunch clubs and other older people's groups or even people's homes."We will be using a variety of different equipment, including touch screens and large keyboards and monitors, to ensure the computers will be available for people with disabilities to use."
The financial services Authority has been thwarted in the latest round of its battle for control of the internet addresswww.fsa.co.uk.The regulator, responsible for supervising billions of pounds of City dealing and pension funds, has lost out to a tiny Bournemouth company.Elaine Findlay, the proprietor of information technology firm Findlay Steele Associates and owner of the fsa.co.uk domain name, said that she was entitled to use the internet name for her business, which she set up before the other FSA was named in October 1997."I'm a principled person; this is an issue of principle," said Ms Findlay. "I'm not a carpet-bagger, I'm not a cyber-squatter. This name belongs to me."She said she was prepared to make a deal with the FSA for ownership of the name. "For a reasonable price, yes," she said.A spokesman for the authority said: "We have seen the ruling, and will consider it and see how to take it forward."The domain name has caused several problems. In one case the regulator's own solicitors, the blue chip City firm Freshfields, mistakenly sent a confidential email regarding Equitable Life to an address ending in fsa.co.uk, which Ms Findlay returned to the sender with a note correcting the address.The financial regulator applied through Nominet, the administrator for .uk internet addresses, to take control of fsa.co.uk. According to the larger FSA, the confusion of emails being misaddressed there rather than to the regulator's fsa.gov.uk address meant there was a danger of confidential information falling into the wrong hands.Nominet originally sided with the regulator, and suspended the fsa.co.uk address. But Ms Findlay and her lawyer James Mitchell appealed against the ruling, and an independent expert issued a recommendation late last week that the original decision be overturned. The FSA balked at paying Ms Findlay several thousand pounds when it first tried to get the name. The amount has risen to five figures.
Is the end of the internet's free lunch at hand? You would certainly think so, judging by the number of web companies falling over themselves to charge for services hitherto given away free. The latest is Another.com, the email services provider, which claims to be the UK's biggest site for the under 25s. So far it has been free but from next month the company will charge new users.Moonfruit, which offered free web building sites, ran into severe difficulties earlier in the year but reinvented itself by introducing charges a   month ago. Wendy Tan, one of the founders, admits they have lost customers but claims the company is "just above target revenues".Salon, the web based magazine, will start charging on Monday for complete articles. Its progress will be keenly watched by newspapers and magazines everywhere. All of them are desperate to recoup some of their huge online investment at a time when the bottom is falling out of the web advertising market.Yahoo already charges for premium email addresses. It is to extend this to dating services and is sounding out its customers about charging for other things. Hotmail is also trying to get users to pay for extra services.If there were a prize for the slickest approach to charging it would go to Blogger.com, which offers free personal web logs. If you pay $12 a year they will remove all advertisements from your site. Paying not to have adverts is an interesting business model.The underlying question is not why online companies are stampeding to charge but why the web, unlike anything   else in the business world, has been free for so long.There are four main reasons. First, the culture of public service from which the web was spun. The original infrastructure (Arpanet), the first big browser (Mosaic) and the web itself (Tim Berners-Lee at Cern) all came from publicly funded sources. They helped to turn the web into the biggest mutual society the world has ever known.Second, the nature of web based products like Netscape is that extra copies cost nothing to produce and deliver. Netscape was among the first to exploit this business model by giving millions of browsers away free to create a huge customer base. It was eventually eclipsed by Explorer introduced by Microsoft and bundled free with Windows.Third, there were (and still   are) so many companies offering similar products that if one started to charge, buyers would simply click to another that didn't. Finally, even if companies had been able to charge, there weren't many payments systems that customers had confidence in.All this is now changing. The dot-com slump led to a cull of web companies that made conditions easier for survivors to start charging. This coincided with the slump in online advertising revenues which forced companies to charge for their wares or go bust even sooner than otherwise. The collapse in dot.confidence led to a spate of mergers - thereby reducing the competition and making it easier for survivors to charge. Also, safe, innovative ways of paying for small web items - like Paypal.com - are beginning to appear.Even so it won't be easy. Steve Bowbrick, CEO of another.com says that companies like his that have created a community whose members have a shared identity will find it much easier to charge than companies selling commodity services. He argues   that the land-grab phase of the internet - with big, free portals - is now over. The industry will have to resort to the oldest business model of them all: asking customers to pay for what they are getting.All this may simply be the latest skirmish in the battle between the centrifugal forces of the internet (pushing power out to the consumer) and the centripetal forces pulling power towards corporations and governments.Last year, the unexpected arrival of Napster - enabling punters to freely exchange commercial music from their hard disks with others around the world - marked a big power swing back toward the consumer. But Napster has now been colonised by the big corporations and the pendulum is swinging back.If - and it is still a big if - corporations do succeed in charging for their services, it won't mean the end of the internet as a mutual organisation, merely that two cultures will cohabit the web. As they do in the real world.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Pocket plansSo Microsoft and its friends are having another shot at the handheld market (The Battle For Your Pocket, October 4). Every time we are told that this is the one we will need; the one that will do the job.This time it is going to have skins. What a neat idea. They are a complete waste of (portable, low-power, lightweight: remember?) resources, drawing needlessly complex graphics, and render over-the-phone support difficult if not impossible. This time it is going to have Flash memory. What a neat idea.The Palm III, which I bought in April 1998, had that, and an upgradeable OS, along with plenty of space for lightweight applications and copies of critical data.PalmOS machines don't come with Word and Excel viewers - big deal. I can get several, in seconds, from somewhere like PalmGear, and install them using a tried and tested installation scheme that's as easy to undertake as any installation I ever saw on any Windows PC - assuming I choose to pay for them.If they were installed as standard, I wouldn't have that choice. Other than that, I can use an ordinary (and free!) document viewer on a Palm handheld and convert the Word/Excel document, automatically. Unbundling applications means the buyer gets to choose what they spend their money on: that's a good thing, not a bad thing.The telling statistic is that 75-80% of Palm sales come "from the enterprise" but only about 5-10% from IT departments. Evidently IT departments don't buy handhelds for staff very much, but when buyers are given a free and realistic choice they do not choose Windows. The real lesson is there. The Samsung Yopy will be out soon: can PalmOS, let alone the latest Microsoft offering, compete with a handheld that runs Linux? That, I suspect, is the question that matters.Sam Nelsonsam.nelson@cs.stir.ac.ukMicrosoft may be working hard to make PocketPC more popular than Palm, but it has done existing Windows CE users no favours with the redesign of Hotmail. The new graphic-heavy pages take so long to load that I have given up on Hotmail as a usable email address. I suspect that I am not alone.I emailed Microsoft to ask if there was a new CE-friendly version somewhere. I am still waiting for an acknowledgment of the real problem.CE has always been under-rated by "proper" computer users, but many of us only really need pocket versions   of programs while travelling. The lighter weight and longer battery life of handhelds are superb. My NEC MobilePro has been all over Eastern Europe, and has never lost a Word document or failed to collect an email. Consequently I have never missed a deadline; until the Hotmail redesign, that is.Leslie Mappleslie.mapp@mailbox.ulcc.ac.ukLove for LinuxAdam Williamson (Feedback, October 4) is himself guilty of missing points. Linux is not big, but it is clever. It is not as simple for the average computer user to learn as Windows, but this obstacle is being addressed by developers as they labour to create an easy-to-use interface.For now, no one expects casual computer users to migrate from Microsoft to Linux, but when the platform is finally made less daunting, they should be aware of the choices open to them. Whether or not Windows users like it, Linux is more reliable, more secure, less prone to crashes and lock-ups. It is smaller and faster and will out-perform Windows even on older hardware that would make the Microsoft product shake its head in despair. Linux is not owned or controlled by a single organisation, and new releases are driven by real advances and improvements in the code, not by market forces, which can result in customers being sold a product held together by patches,   string and chewing gum.What is more, Linux is the product of a co-operative community. Its future is not at risk from the legal consequences of monopolist disregard for the welfare of the wider software industry, unlike some operating systems. It is free, it is cool and, when you finally tire of Microsoft's arrogance and restrictive business and licensing practices, Linux wants to be your friend.Rick Cadgerrick.cadger@mdrive.co.ukThe skilled setHurrah for Nico Macdonald and Andrew Fisher (Feedback, October 4)! Their comments on the "completely skilled web professionals" who can conceive, design, write and market websites should be force fed to all the misguided career promoters who keep sending young people to their doom in an already divided market.I write, and don't design. Some of my colleagues design and can't write. Others have neither of those professional skills, but they can market and promote concepts and products. What we share is a mutual respect for each other's abilities. Isn't it time the blurring of media skills ended, so that the UK can compete in a world where specialist knowledge is valued.Catharine Hodgesmulberrymedia@btinternet.comNow that the days of dot.com cash burn are over, those companies which are going   for the slow growth approach, like ourselves at the London House, have to ration our spending.In an ideal world we would buy in specialists; in practice, we have to exploit the best skills we have in each area, and if one person can demonstrate competence in several, then it gives us valuable flexibility. Perfection in every area would come at an impossible price.Simon Tyrrell-Lewisstlewis@tlassociates.demon.co.uk
All eyes are on Microsoft this month as it launches its new flagship product, Windows XP, and begins the process of transforming itself from simple software vendor into a network-age seller of internet services.But, unlike the hype that accompanied Windows 95 - a similarly important software launch for Microsoft - the scrutiny the company is coming under this time around will be much tougher. Consumers and business customers are showing signs of rebelling against the Redmond giant, provoked by the dual concern of what   Microsoft has become - and what it might be soon.Over the summer, the US court of appeal elected not to split Microsoft in two after it found the company guilty of abusing its monopoly power. In the wake of that decision, Microsoft has pressed on with the multi-billion dollar launch of its latest operating system.Windows XP, which appears on shelves on October 25, is a major revision in the Windows dynasty of operating systems, which runs on more than 90% of the world's PCs.At the same time, the company is attempting to transform itself from a   software company into an internet services company, convinced that in the future every software application will not be installed by the user on his computer, but run over the internet from central servers.Yet this approach has suddenly placed the company at the centre of a storm of protest from its users.The European Commission has announced it is extending its investigation of Microsoft's practices, amid concerns the company is repeating its assault of the mid-90s on Netscape. The EC fears the American company is using its dominance of the computer operating system market to attack the niche currently dominated by Real, which makes software to allow live - or "streamed" - audio and video to be played on PCs. Microsoft is tightly incorporating its Windows Media software into Windows, while not offering Real's software, thus forcing users who want Real's popular audio and video players to download and install it themselves. The EU is already investigating Microsoft's behaviour in the server software market.Perhaps worse than further regulatory interest, however, is the reaction of Microsoft's corporate customers to a new licensing regime that the company has been operating since the start of this month. The new system, which is replacing existing methods of licensing thousands of copies of software across enterprises, forces companies to pay a subscription for system and office software, and all the subsequent upgrades, rather than allowing them to buy the same software and opt not to buy the upgrades. The system means Microsoft can force upgrades on enterprises: if those businesses refuse, they have to pay more for their Microsoft software later on.For IT directors keen to keep a close eye on their systems, losing the ability to determine when upgrades are carried out on their systems is bad enough. But they have also discovered the new system costs much more than the old one, and that has prompted uproar and united action in an industry noted for its fragmented and docile approach towards lobbying.Members of The Infrastructure Forum (Tif) are a blue-chip bunch - they include 45 of the companies in the FTSE100. And, after emergency meetings to discuss the license changes, announced in May and intro  duced for new licences at the start of this month, the forum has written to the Department for Trade and Industry demanding an investigation into Microsoft by the Office of Fair Trading. Tif says its members, who spend on average &amp;#163;2m a year with Microsoft, face an increase of 94%   under the new system. Some of its members are already said to be exploring alternatives to Microsoft's omnipresent software."Even we had trouble with this 94% figure - it's just absurd," says David Roberts, chief executive of Tif. "But this was happening consistently with organisations which have professional procurement people, professional licensing people who understand their Microsoft estate very well_ these are well managed IT functions."Creating even more resentment is the fact that, according to some corporate IT watchers, much Microsoft software in businesses has appeared in businesses through "creep" - through pressure from users, rather than through the corporate IT departments. Dan Kusnetsky, vice-president of systems software research for analyst house IDC, says this   has happened over the past decade because, while IT departments want to test and evaluate software, end users "just want the newest features and functions when they come out."Microsoft has always fed the end user, created extreme pressure and forced the IT organisation into adopting the software or getting run over by their own users," says Kusnetsky. "It was a creative variation on the surround and conquer technique."And, says Tif's Roberts, that puts the IT departments Microsoft is now negotiating with in a difficult position. "Given that Microsoft has crept stealthily into organisations and permeated quite a variety of different IT processes and systems almost by creep, the organisations are now very dependent upon Microsoft."The businesses, generally, depend upon Microsoft to   run properly. You can't just turn it off."It would take four years, on average, to purge one of Tif's member organisations of Microsoft products - and that would require significant investment of time and resources. "Nobody is going to enter into that sort of thing, but nor can they afford to roll over and just sign the cheque," says Roberts.Microsoft says it is unable to comment to the Guardian about the changes. But when the changes were first being discussed, in August, Duncan Reid, the company's UK licensing manager, insisted the company was not abusing its monopoly position. He told Computer Weekly: "We are extremely confident that our new licensing programme is absolutely legal and good for our customers."Tif's members are not so sure. They have now written to the DTi demanding an   investigation into a move which Roberts describes as "a significant &#91;price&#93; increase on a market that it effectively owns, and currently doesn't have anywhere else to go."They fear that, while big businesses with their greater IT resources have uncovered the price hike in advance, smaller businesses will face an unexpectedly large bill when they come to renew their deal with Microsoft, or buy new software.In the US, meanwhile, a coalition of the country's biggest consumer groups is demanding tough action against the software giant for what they say is its continued abuse of monopoly power, made worse by features new to Windows XP.They have several areas of concern, outlined in a damning 34-page report entitled Windows XP/.Net: Microsoft's Expanding Monopoly. Dr Mark Cooper, director of research at the Consumer Federation of America and one of the authors of the report, says Windows XP has brought Microsoft's anti-competitive behaviour much closer to the consumer. Where once users often had an indirect relationship with Microsoft, through software bundles brokered by their computer manufacturer, Windows XP brings the issues raised by Microsoft's dominance to their doorsteps, he says."In 1995, the browser wars were for geeks. This was esoteric stuff," says Cooper. "Five years later you have law enforcement all over the place, business customers, home customers, small business customers - a variety of people - very concerned."Cooper saw this coming. Four years ago, when he circulated his first draft research paper on Microsoft's activities, he included the statement: "Microsoft's goal is to capture the internet"."A lot of people said that sounded like an overreach, so we didn't use it," he says now. "And then along comes XP, which makes it quite clear that it was actually a very important part of their strategy."At the core of his concerns is the bundling of previously separate programs, such as Media Player and Messenger, as integral parts of   Windows. We have seen this before, he says - Internet Explorer was incorporated into Windows 98 to finally end the dominance of Netscape's Navigator web browser. "Designing XP the way they did was essentially assuming they'd win the court case, and that shows you their corporate attitude," he says. "They are not going to change their business model unless they are forced to."Cooper is happy to concede that Windows XP is an improvement over previous versions of Windows. "Microsoft has fixed one of the big problems that a monopolist gets away with: their product was unstable and buggy. Clearly, this operating system is much more stable and has a nice appeal."The difficulty is that the other 13 or 14 things a monopolist does have become much worse. Our point is that the system will be just as good if we take away all these monopolistic practices out."What are all these monopolistic acts? The CFA report cites several areas of concern, from illegal technology and business practices, dating back years and flagged up in the district court trial heard by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, to new areas in Windows XP and the company's .NET bundle they claim violate antitrust law.For Dan Kusnetsky at IDC, Microsoft's entire business is selling its software cheaply, gaining market share, and then using the beachhead that piece of software creates to sell more software and subsequent upgrades on a regular basis. Now, he says, Microsoft is moving to lock users in to that cycle - partly because of the success of its own software means many users, left to themselves, would see no need to upgrade."Microsoft noticed there was a slowdown in adoption of new software," says   Kusnetsky. "Wall Street... is looking for ever increasing revenues and profitability. What happens when you've saturated the market with software that is so functional that it is literally overkill?"Well, why not change the licensing rules so they say: 'you will upgrade when we tell you to, or you will no longer get volume pricing'?"Businesses may look at it and say 'Microsoft is imposing a tax on our business without representation,' and you know how that created a tea party in Boston," he says.The Consumer Federation has a similar warning over Microsoft's "activation policy" - a crackdown on licensing for domestic users which means they have to register online or by phone in order to unlock a retail copy of Windows XP. The system will mean computer users who own more than one machine (like a desktop and a laptop)   will have to buy a copy for each PC. XP users who change several parts of their machine could be forced to reactivate their systems."Microsoft has found a way to impose that pricing policy," says Mark Cooper of the Consumer Federation. "But in a competitive market, they would never get away with it."So what is this outpouring of antipathy likely to mean? In the US, while Microsoft might have escaped a breakup, the courts have ruled - and confirmed this week - that the company has abused its market dominance. Consumer advocates want a "behaviour remedy" which would regulate the company and open the way for a volley of lawsuits from software developers who feel wronged by Microsoft.As well as the private suits in the US, Microsoft could also face action from European regulators. The EU has wide powers, although, according to Peter Willis, competition expert at Taylor Joynson Garrett, the EU would be unlikely to pursue the path of breaking up Microsoft. More likely would be an order to prevent bundling of certain functions."I would have thought it could certainly order Microsoft not to bundle one thing with another," says Willis. "It's done that sort of thing in the past, so if it concluded that there had been an infringement of the rules I would have thought that the most likely remedy."There is nothing new in what the commission is doing here. And Microsoft itself has been in trouble with the commission at least twice before."But perhaps the most worrying response for Microsoft could come from business customers, says IDC's Kusnetsky. "Long term, I don't think organisations like to be brow-beaten into something," he says. "They may feel they don't have the time or ability to deal with it now, but I find for the most part that if you put people in a lose position, they come back later and put you in a lose situation."
'I have only been in the job for four weeks - I'm still reading up on this," shadow trade and industry secretary John Whittingdale told a Conservative conference fringe meeting in Blackpool this week; a touch disingenuously, it transpired.Whittingdale already knows his way around IT. In the Whips' office, he introduced a pager system for Tory MPs - he claims these are used for information, unlike Labour's. When shadowing the Treasury, he dealt with computer contractors lobbying against IR35, a change to the tax system that increased their tax bill. The Conservatives will continue to oppose the change, he confirmed.And he sounds like an enthusiast: "I think this is a fascinating area," he said, having run the Parliamentary IT Committee fringe meeting through his thoughts on broadband (fewer competitors might produce better results), third-generation mobile licences (a Labour "bonanza") and the planned communications regulator Ofcom (it must be light and flexible).As one would expect from a Tory, Whittingdale wants more competition and less government intervention. "There have been a host of examples where government has said, 'This is the break-through', and almost always, it gets it wrong," he said.Rather refreshingly, he illustrated this by mentioning how a Conservative government insisted that broadcaster BSB used the Squarial, a superior but pricey satellite receiver, in trying to compete with rival Sky (which, as it was broadcast to satellite from Luxembourg, could use cheaper technology). The unpopular Squarial dragged BSB down,   and Sky eventually bought the firm out."My principle is to try to have a system of minimum regulation and maximum flexibility. Government in this area, as in virtually every other area, has done the exact opposite," Whittingdale summarised, although, in reality, New Labour is hardly the most interventionist of governments.Given the government's majority, the Conservative role will be to examine and tweak legislation, rather than stop it. Whittingdale said this would apply to any government attempt to tighten controls on encryption, which must not damage "the law-abiding, huge majority who rely on technology". In this, the shadow trade secretary echoed LibDem policy, as well as Charles Kennedy's words on the fight against terrorism: "We won't give them a blank cheque," Whittingdale said.Labour's conference last week had fewer IT companies this year than last; the Tories had very few companies of any kind. Instead, meetings and stands were occupied by campaign groups. Age Concern used its fringe meeting to highlight its work in encouraging silver surfers. There are already 4.6m computer users who are over 50: as the party with the oldest members, this is a trend the Tories could tap.Tim Boswell, a   shadow minister for work and pensions, competed with Age Concern's director-general Gordon Lishman for eldest known surfer. Lishman mentioned a disabled 80-year-old who spends his nights networking with Californians. But Boswell trumped him. "A lady in my own village is 90 in November, and she has just gone on the web," he said.Boswell tried to link IT and Conservative values: "We believe in empowering people and emphasising their strengths, on their own and in free association with others." He has a point. Since it escaped the universities, IT has been developed largely by individualistic entrepreneurs. But then several key figures have had goals apart from share-growth - the web's father Tim Berners-Lee or Linux creator Linus Torvalds, allowed their work to be used for free.Boswell then offered extravagant praise to Age Concern's sponsor, Microsoft. IT users tend to hate the giant company or accept it grudgingly. Maybe one needs to be a Conservative to love it.Visitwww.conservatives.com
Book huntWhen you have read a particularly entertaining book, you may be tempted to buy another title by the same author. Readersonline-europa.com offers a more    imaginative possibility. Its Book Forager lets you describe the book using a set of sliders from happy/sad to short/long and produces a list of possible titles. It is not only fun, it seems to work. The Readersonline site was created with the support of Ariane funding from the European Commission as part of the Network for the Promotion of Books, Reading and Translation. However, Forager was developed by a British company, Applied Psychology Research Ltd, whose customers include Lastminute.com and Blockbuster Video. This month,   APR also introduced a UK government-funded Forager at Branching Out, the site for public libraries.www.readersonline-europa.com/foragerwww.forager.co.ukwww.branching-out.net/foragerSongmailAmbient composer Brian Eno has been the first (and quite possibly the last) major artist to release a composition embedded in a piece of email. The work, called Wander, is in text-based Koan Vector Audio (KVA) format, and plays when the email is   opened - providing you have also downloaded Sseyo's 421K Koan Plugin 8.20. Sseyo says typical tracks range from 500 bytes to 5K. You can get Wander by emailing Enos Wander@sseyo.com, listen to it on the web (after refreshing the page), or compose your own instead.www.sseyo.com/products/artist_titles/genmus1.htmlDynamite siteThis week's Nobel Peace Prize - announced tomorrow - is driving traffic to the Nobel site. This has recently been expanded with interactive   educational content such as virtual laboratories and games. Visitors can, for example, make Pavlov's dog drool or experience the Nobel dinner in one minute. Don't forget last week's Ig Nobels.www.nobel.sewww.improbable.com/ig/ig-top.Mind controlFactnet is never less than interesting, and its take on the World Trade Centre atrocity is an example. It argues that the terrorists themselves were victims of a mind control cult, and needs to be tackled on that basis. Factnet is better known for tackling a different cult: scientology. For government thinking on the war against terrorism, see America's National Security Archive (NSA) briefing book and, here, 10 Downing Street and the parliamentary research paper.www.factnet.org/letters/FACTNewsSeptember2001.htmlwww.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/NSAEBB/NSAEBB55/index1.htmlwww.pm.gov.ukwww.parliament.uk/commons/lib/research/rp2001/rp01-072.pdfFree thinkingThe September issue of The Spook is devoted to thoughts, memories and comments on New York. It's a "real" magazine you download in Adobe Acrobat format. The Smithsonian Institution is also collecting thoughts on September 11 for its Book of Reflections.www.thespook.comwww.si.edu/comment/Blog onIf you want to find out what the merry band of British bloggers (web loggers) is up to, try the Gbloogle search engine at Ben (Times Interface, as was) Hammersley's personal site. It has no connection with Google but it does search blogs listed on Threadnaught, another place to look. Swindon Town fans can, of course, go straight to Swindonlog, but there are no   prizes for figuring out its connection with a member of the Online team.http://gbloogle.benhammersley.comhttp://gblogs.threadnaught.netwww.swindonlog.comCrackersWant the scoop on dogs in the news? You can find it at The Scoop, obviously. If there is anything better than this site, it must be its companion, Cats in the News. The canine site was launched on January 1, but what justifies this mention is the imminent launch of what could be an even more amazing version about pigs.www.dogsinthenews.comwww.catsinthenews.comwww.pigsinthenews.comNew &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp; noted&#149;   First novels from three new authors discovered on the web:http://NewAuthors.iPublish.com&#149;  uSwitch, which compares gas, electricity and phone deals, has added digital TV:www.uswitch.com&#149;  The CIA has updated its valuable Fact Book. For the 2001 edition, seewww.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook&#149;  Revolutionary women of Afghanistan:http://rawa.fancymarketing.net&#149;  New series with Captain Jonathan Archer:www.startrek.com/news/nextonent.aspSix of the bestMusic awardsMobowww.mobo.net/MTVVideo Musicwww.mtv.com/onair/vma01The Grammyswww.grammy.com/awardsThe  Ivorswww.britishacademy.com/ivors.htmBrit Awardswww.bpi.co.uk/jm/britsWinners  guidewww.thisdayinmusic.com/cont/awards.html
Earthworm JimGame Boy Advance	&amp;#163;24.99  THQ	**Pitfall: Mayan AdventureGame Boy Advance	&amp;#163;24.99  THQ	**The Game Boy Advance should really change its name. Game Boy Retreat perhaps? After all, there are only so many retro games that   a handheld gamer can cope with. Sure, conversions of seminal titles such as Mario Kart are welcome, but the amount of gaming nostalgia on the GBA is becoming overwhelming.Take these two latest releases, for example. Both Earthworm Jim and Pitfall: Mayan Adventure first appeared in the mid-90s - the latter an update of the 80s original - but portability aside, neither offers anything new. Pitfall, set in a Tarzan-style jungle, is a shockingly average platform game involving jumping, vine swinging and huge frustra tion. Waves of annoying assailants and sloppy controls are compounded by the GBA's dark screen, which makes finding your path through the background vegetation even more difficult. At least both games look the part, with Earthworm Jim boasting impressive animation and backdrops. And ol' Jim is a bit of a character with comic moves and a multi-purpose head. Then there is the variety, with snot bungee jumping and cute doggie whipping, offering a tasteless break from the platform action. But at its heart, Earthworm Jim is a standard platformer with little real innovation. Of course, this applies to both releases and it wouldn't really matter but for one fatal flaw.There are no save points or batteries on either game. That's right. You have to play both games in one sitting. Forget having a leisurely 10-minute go on the bus, both titles need unrealistic, and ultimately unrewarding, commitment. Nostalgia ain't what it used to be.  (GH)Resident Evil - Code: VeronicaPS2	&amp;amp;#163;44.99  Capcom	***It is only now the Dreamcast has gone that you realise how many great games adorned it, albeit fairly anonymously. Shen Mue, Dead or Alive and, yes, even Resident Evil, originally a PlayStation exclusive but gifted with its own version of Code Veronica a full year ago. Naturally, this new PS2 version has some improvements, but not so many that a novice would be able to spot the difference.In case you have missed the previous instalments, Resident Evil is now the archetypal survival horror   series: a third-person arcade adventure involving limited ammo, spooky abandoned buildings and an army of shuffling zombies after your brain. Veronica picks up where Res 2 left off, with your heroine Claire Redfield searching for clues about her missing brother, Chris.This time you are stuck on    a secret island base from which you must escape once you have solved the mystery but, above all, before it is overrun by the undead. As always, there are multiple locations to be explored,    ammo and extra weapons to discover and a huge amount of back-tracking to avoid the obvious discrepancy between dangers and available ammo. Unlike the Dreamcast version, here the backgrounds are fully rendered in polygons rather than flat textures. But other than that, it is the same game with all the same flaws.   Central is the infamous control system, where Claire still has to be clumsily pointed in the right direction, which makes for shambling progress down narrow corridors.To compensate, the musical score remains excellent, and this version contains an extra 10 minutes of quality video footage. For pace and tension, Res Evil still leads the pack - but you can't help feeling Capcom should be spending its time developing new ideas and engines, rather than porting games from one machine to another.Veronica is still a large and challenging game, but remember what happened to Westwood with the Command and Conquer series? Standing still in this business is dangerous, whether your audience is made up of zombies or simply gamers looking for new directions from their shiny new console.  (MA)
In 1988, dance music exploded on to the British club scene. That summer became known as the summer of love.Thirteen years later, dance music is still a core part of the UK's youth culture. More turntables are sold in the UK today than guitars. Every weekend, millions of people go to clubs, DJs are treated as superstars, and the charts are full of dance anthems. But with such status, it would be easy to forget dance music's beginnings and its roots.Dance has long been fuelled by an underground culture, the preserve of specialist DJs and fans who nurture sounds, styles and subcultures until they erupt into international phenomenon or disappear   without trace. If you hear a dance record on the radio, you can track its roots back through the underground.Throughout the last decade, the internet has proved to be an invaluable tool for both the artists and the fans of dance music. The early promise of the net's ability to bypass record companies and "break" bands directly to fans was largely unfounded, mainly because it ignored the cost of marketing. But what the internet can do is reach disparate fan bases. Dance music has innumerable niche and specialist sub-genres. Electronica fans, for example, don't interact with "hard housers", in the same way that rockers and mods clashed in the 70s. To paraphrase Madonna, the web makes the people come together.There are few more hallowed Meccas of dance music culture than Chicago. The term house music refers to the music played at "the Warehouse", the black, gay club where Frankie Knuckles used to DJ during the late 70s and 80s. And while Frankie's experiments in rejuvenating the then dying disco model can still be heard on the radio today, it should be remembered that much of the 70s' recording techniques were perishable and lo-fi. Few actual recordings of these seminal parties remain. But those that do still exist are available to download with more than 500 other mixes from some of the godfathers of house music such as Ron Hardy, Mr Fingers and Joe Claussell from the invaluable Deep House Page.Not long after house music's birth in the sweaty clubs of Chicago, a few hundred miles away, in Detroit, a new sound was emerging - techno. More abstract and achingly melancholic than its disco-based cousin, techno mapped life in the broken and dysfunctional home of Ford's motorcar. In the early 90s, a secretive and militant collective known as Underground Resistance emerged. Making waves with not only their striking musical output, they challenged the major label stranglehold of the music industry by establishing their own label and new mail order and distribution networks. The Detroit-based collective was autonomous, free from the chains of those who would enslave their sound, and would later become role models for others resisting the mainstream music scene.   The Underground Resistance site, Submerge, is currently under reconstruction, but it is usually worth a peek into their covert operations. Just don't tell Sony.Just as house is credited to Frankie Knuckles' Chicago Warehouse, so is garage to Larry Levan's New York sweatbox, the Paradise Garage. (The two DJs were, in fact, childhood friends.) Few would have predicted that by the end of the 90s, British urban audiences would have latched on to the New York sound and mutated it with a bass-heavy touch to form UK garage. Despite British chart success, the phenomenon remains largely self-contained. DJs play records that they themselves make on London pirate radio stations. The stations in turn promote the scene's club nights. By day, garage fans, DJs and producers congregate online at the Uptown Records Global Forum. Amid banter and mutual abuse (written often in SMS-style text), fans debate their DJ heroes, only to watch the underground stars log on and reply. Knowledgeable enthusiasts, with names such as Logan or Trance Boy, gain almost guru-like status,   legends within their own log-ons. Enter the underground here.Another feature of UK garage is "dubplate" culture. The leading DJs cut special one-off, 10-inch metal copies of tunes from DATs (digital audio tapes) or CDs, long before the track ever reaches the vinyl pressing plants. This is how good DJs might raise themselves above the swathes of wannabes and command an audience. For fans too keen to wait for records to be in the shops, Dubplate.net provides streamed audio of the freshest tunes months, or even years, before they are widely available. Ammunition Promotions, run by industry insiders, is a must for switched-on underground garage fans.The clubbers' bible Mixmag has finally joined the online world. Its message boards provide an amazing insight into how the internet is revolutionising publishing. Reversing the "ivory tower" model - editors lecturing fans - the message board is a daily litmus test for the current and future features by the magazine's editorial staff.One final mention must go to those veterans of online underground dance music "netcasting", Groovetech and Betalounge. The former just won Best Retailer at the Online Music Awards for its record shop. Turn on, tune in and get down.www.deephousepage.comwww.submerge.comwww.uptownrecords.comwww.dubplate.netwww.mixmag.netwww.groovetech.com&lt;A HREF=""www.betalounge.com
Ever since details of the US independent counsel's report about Bill Clinton's sexual activities were published online in 1998, the internet has been inextricably linked to the subject of privacy violation. However, as most web and email users can attest, the problem is not restricted to world leaders.As web inventor Tim Berners-Lee has observed, the greatest privacy concern for consumers is that "companies have accumulated enough personal information to harm or take advantage of them".However, websites do not just depend   on online questionnaires and order forms to collect consumer information. They also use small text files called cookies, which are placed on a user's hard drive for them to be recognised by the site on return visits. Cookies can enable websites to build consumer profiles to pass on to other companies.Email is another area fraught with privacy problems. When you send an email to a friend, it will very likely be handled by several different online services before it reaches its final destination. As a result, spying on email is relatively easy to do, and some estimates put the number of intercepted emails as high as 10%.Furthermore, the recent US Consumer Protection Agency ruling in favour of Amazon.com's revised privacy policy (allowing the company to share customer information with affiliates) has been viewed by international privacy groups as an ominous sign that defending consumer privacy could become an even more arduous task. However, as the following seven   guidelines indicate, there are still measures you can take to keep information protected.1. View privacy policiesResponsible sites normally have a link to their privacy policy on their home page. These will normally make clear whether they sell personal information or keep it confidential.2.  Disable "cookies"Cookies are lines of coded text stored on your hard drive by websites for identification purposes. Although it is    possible to disable cookies in your browser, this may affect site performance. To avoid deleting useful cookies, instal one of the free cookie management systems such asBarefoot Productions' Cookie MasterorCookie Central's Webkit. These systems create a log detailing any cookie actively on your computer and allow you to delete nuisance cookies.NoCookieis a Mac-specific system.3.  Use "web proxy" servicesFree services such as SilentSurf.com enable you to protect your identity while visiting websites. It retrieves web pages on your behalf, modifies the links and then instantaneously sends the cleansed version of those pages to the internet user.4.Encrypt emailTo protect private email messages use an encryption standard such as Pretty Good Privacy (PGP). According to Jonathan Whelan, a business systems consultant, "encryption addresses the key requirements for secure email messages, namely confidentiality, integrity and authenti cation". PGP software, free for non-commercial use, uses an encrypted key structure to prevent snoopers from receiving any legible text.5. Maintain a firewallFirewall software is used by businesses and individuals to stop hackers and crackers from accessing information on their hard drives.The Firewall Guideincludes a comprehensive list of firewall products. However, as the May attack by hackers on the world's leading anti-hacker unit indicated, firewall technology is not completely secure.6. Shop at secure sitesTo make sure your credit card details are more secure than Bill Gates', shop at secure sites with secure servers. Secure servers are indicated in three ways. On entry into a secure zone a floating window normally comes up on the computer screen telling you so. A padlock icon should also appear in the bottom left-hand corner of the browser. Alternatively, the site's URL will read "https://" rather than the usual "http://".7. Block SpamSpamCophelps you filter out spam and report spammers to their ISPs. Another way is to set up local filters using the Rules Wizard in Outlook Express.Web linksBarefootwww.barefootinc.comCookie Centralwww.cookiecentral.comNo Cookiewww.onepointoh.comPGPwww.pgpi.comFirewall Guidewww.firewallguide.comSilent Surfwww.silentsurf.comSpam Copwww.spamcop.net
In the dawn of the 21st century a new heroine is emerging. Her name is Technofemme, and she is the unstoppable force that will drive mobile commerce towards a bright future.In a move that could blow away perceptions that the technological revolution is propelled by boys' lust for toys, recent research by Sweden's Link&amp;ouml;ping University of Technology has revealed that young women present the most promising target audience for providers of mobile internet services. Blessed with greater spending power and openness to new ways of communicating, the cyber-chick is set to become the centre of the industry's attention."We were very surprised by the survey's results, having assumed that wireless would appeal mostly to men, but they clearly indicate that services for young women are the future," says Stefan Floren of AU-System, the mobile consultancy firm that sponsored the research. "It has changed our view of m-commerce and will have a similar effect across the industry."The Link&amp;ouml;ping study canvassed the views and habits of 300 young people in Stockholm, amongst whom 90% owned handsets and more than 50% had already tried mobile services. The respondents were then divided into four broad categories, each with its own clear characteristics and social habits.Emerging as prime targets for m-commerce were the imaginatively labelled Girls Who Just Wanna Have Fun, defined by the researchers as teenagers aged 15-18 years and living with their parents. Already spending considerable sums on mobile telephony, these communication- loving lasses demonstrated greater enthusiasm for wireless services than any other group, expressing a willingness to pay for shopping services, entertainment and applications designed to improve contact with friends.Next came the Connected Girls and Guys About Town, a group dominated by the gentler sex. Aged 18-25, living independently and   enjoying a busy social life, members of this category already use the internet for commerce and exhibited a desire to use mobile reminder services, information about their interests and wireless email access.Languishing in the girls' technological wake were the two male groupings. Although the Serious Young Men displayed some enthusiasm for using SMS applications to secure a lady friend, their interest in other services was lukewarm. The cruelly entitled Geeks, meanwhile, identified as individuals who spend too much time in front of their computers to see friends or movies, showed no interest at all.Although the survey will come as a surprise to hardware misogynists, indications that IT girls are leading the digital charge have been amassing for some time. Almost two thirds of UK women aged 15-19 own a mobile phone and, as the popularity of SMS text messaging explodes, this fact has been linked to a 5.6% drop in sales of teenage lifestyle magazines over the past year.An NOP survey published this week revealed that female Britons place higher importance upon technology than their male counterparts, with 79% regarding gadgets as being central to their lives compared to 71% among the testosterone brigade. According to a July report from Nielsen, meanwhile, more than   half the net users in America are now women."Given that women are naturally more interested in communication than men, it should not come as a bolt from the blue to find us leading the way when it comes to finding real uses for mobile technology," says Caraline Brown, founder of one of the UK's specialist IT public relations consultancy Midnight Communications. "My only surprise is that it took the industry so long to realise this."Consumer packages likely to emerge in the wake of the Stockholm research will initially focus on products that allow users to send digital postcards, exchange images and ring tones or distribute group SMS messages. Location-based services offering entertainment information are also expected to make an impact.Proving popular during a trial run in Sweden is an interactive quiz game that leads participants around a series of local landmarks, sending location-specific questions as they reach each destination.With obvious connotations for the marketing, retail and leisure industries, such services are being tipped to proliferate.Expected to begin appearing in 2002 is a raft of new packages focused upon female mobile users that will, according to Floren, breathe new life into the spluttering spectre of mobile commerce by proving that if you accurately target smaller market segments with products tailored to their needs, people are prepared to pay for wireless services.Even men, with the right encouragement, could rise to the occasion."People haven't responded to the first generation of mobile services with the enthusiasm the industry hoped for because the handset is a highly personal communic-ations tool."It exists at the very heart of a user's life and is not an appropriate vehicle for the kind of one-size-fits-all solutions currently available," says Edward Hempel, the chief executive of FlyingDrum, a wireless marketing company .
Irresistible Forces: The business legacy of Napster and the growth of the Underground Internet by Trevor MerridenCapstone Publishing, &amp;#163;15 ISBN 1-84112-170-3PThe story of Shawn Fanning and how he created Napster with a couple of friends is an intriguing one. The sequence leading up to how he lost control of the company and the disillusionment felt by some of his colleagues is another; the devastating legal battle the company suffered on copyright grounds is one more, while the effect that Napster's music distribution program has had on the rest of the industry is another still.Packing all four stories into   a single book, and one of only 178 pages at that, is not an easy task and it is easy to end up wondering whether you have actually been told the whole of any of these stories. This is a rapid trip through some very recent history about music and the internet. For anyone who doesn't know, Napster was the company responsible for setting up a massive peer-to-peer network that allowed the "sharing" ("copying" in English) of music among internet users on an unprecedented scale.Fascinating though the   history of this is, and Trevor Merriden has certainly researched the factual side of things and spoken to as many of the major players as he can, cramming so many facets of the business into the one volume tends to alienate the reader rather than draw him in.It is wonderful journal-of-record stuff, but the drama of the start-up, off-the-wall phase is lost, and the subsequent near-dissolution of the company looks clinical rather than involving as a result. On the plus side, Merriden deals   with the copyright issue with admirable even-handedness, and the entire chapter quoting user reaction to the recording companies' virtual demolition of Napster brings events to life.Overall, however, it is just too early for this book. There is no doubt a superb volume to be written about Napster and its effect on business and the internet, but it will need hindsight to be truly authoritative and the events are too recent for this as yet.
The phone rings, which means there are only seconds to prepare. Hunt around for the most flattering light, straighten glasses, attempt rakish smile, turn least bad side towards the camera.Ready at last, this image-conscious reporter presses the "accept call" button to begin his first conversation on a third-generation mobile phone.It is from an attractive young Japanese woman, whose perfectly made-up features suddenly fill the 2.2-inch screen. She smiles, blinks and her bright red lips move in synch as she asks: "Well, what do you think?"There is only one possible answer. "Beautiful."We are talking, of course, about the image quality offered by the latest leap in mobile telecommunications technology: Foma, or Freedom of Mobile Multimedia Access, Japan's pioneering third-generation mobile phone service.3G offers fast data transmission speeds far more suited to audio and video streaming than today's 2G systems, such as Wap in Europe and i-mode in Japan. Global telecom giants, such as Vodafone, have invested a staggering &amp;#163;100bn on 3G licenses and research. It is a big bet on the future.The long-awaited launch of Foma came last week. It was five months behind schedule, applied only to a 20-mile radius in Tokyo and its operator, the Japanese mobile telecom colossus NTT DoCoMo, admits there are still a few technical glitches to be ironed out.But the new service is still well ahead of most other countries. In Europe, by contrast, second-generation wireless application protocol (Wap) business is still struggling to take off. Lagging furthest behind is America, which is only just beginning to emerge from the first-generation Stone Age. Only South Korea enjoys anything like what is on offer in Tokyo.The secret of DoCoMo's success has been its ability to build on the phenomenal success of i-mode, easily the world's most popular 2G service with 27.8 million subscribers after just two and a half years in business. And having conquered Japan with i-mode, it now hope to take over the world with Foma.Over the next three years, DoCoMo plans to spend &amp;#163;17 billion on expanding the service in Japan. The overseas invasion will start in the UK at the end of next year, when the Japanese firm expects to see its system rolled out by Hutchinson 3G, one of DoCoMo's global business partners.So how could this new technology transform our lives? That was what I was hoping to find out by taking one of the 3G handsets for a test chat.I had picked the Foma P2101V camera phone, manufactured by Matsushita Communication Industrial. Costing between &amp;#163;400 and &amp;#163;600, it was the most expensive of the three new devices launched with the 3G service.The others - a regular handset and a data card for laptop computers - offer the impressively fast connection speed of 384kbps. At 40 times faster than i-mode, this means quicker downloads of email and smoother web browsing. The extra speed allows voice and data to be transmitted at the same time so it is no longer necessary to interrupt a conversation to receive an email. Best of all, it means the quality of mobile phone voice calls is now on a par with landlines.But it was the flashy blue flip-open camera-phone that caught my eye. The P2101V certainly has its drawbacks. At 150 grams, it is almost 50% heavier than most Japanese mobile phones, and its battery runs out after just over an hour of video-conferencing. But this is the model closest to the future, or at least the Star Trek version of the future that I had grown up with. Japan's gadget lovers were raised on different sci-fi   fare, but also seemed most thrilled by the handsets equipped with tiny rotating cameras. After Foma's launch, it was the P2101V that sold out the quickest.DoCoMo is not the first company to offer image transmission, but the pictures provided by previous services have been jerky and blurred because of connections speeds less than 15kbps.The new camera phone is a big improvement, though still far from perfect. It operates on a 64kbps circuit-switched system, where users are charged according to time. This sets it apart from all other Foma and i-mode services, which run on a packet-based system that allows users to be continu ously online with charges determined by the volume of data transmitted.Even though the visual phone service does not run at Foma's top speed, the face of my conversation partner, Aya Sakai - a showroom employee - appears clearly on the liquid crystal display. Her movements are fluid, though far short of the sharpness of a TV image.Knowing that my face was also visible to her (it is possible to check what your partner can see by opening a small window on the bottom of the screen), I instinctively changed my behaviour. Unlike a normal voice-only telephone conversation, I found myself smiling more, nodding and shaking my   head. Far from being rakish, the effect - up close through the little fish-eye lens - was disturbing.Ms Sakai calmly explained that this was all part of the 3G revolution, which will change the way we interact with one another."If you come across a beautiful view, you will immediately be able to share it with your family simply by making a phone call."Grandparents will be able to see more of their children. Architects will be able to monitor progress at construction sites from anywhere 24 hours a day," she said."Families will be able to check on the security of their homes when they are on holiday. Later there will be   downloads of sports highlights, music concerts and TV dramas."But wasn't there a downside too, I asked. How would she feel if a boyfriend rang when she wasn't looking her best or was with someone she didn't want him to know about?"No problem," she replied. "When a call comes in, you can choose whether to answer just by voice or also with the camera just by pushing a switch."Others are not so sure. Keiji Tachikawa, the president of DoCoMo, acknowledged recently that 3G camera phones could be used by suspicious spouses to check on their partners. This would be ironic as 2G phones are widely blamed for a boom in adultery.I-mode date-clubs are said to be popular for sexual adventurers because they offer more anonymity than a phone and there is less chance of being discovered than through a PC left on in the office or home.Such frivolities, however, may be some time away. Thanks to the high price of the handsets and monthly charges that are 20% more expensive than for i-mode, DoCoMo is initially aiming at the corporate market. While the typical i-mode customer is a schoolgirl, who uses the service for emailing her friends, downloading ring tone melodies and playing games, DoCoMo expects that Foma will attract businessmen, who will not mind paying extra for the high voice quality and video-conferencing.It certainly is not cheap. My five-minute peak-rate visual chat with Ms Sakai would have cost us about &amp;#163;1.50 each, about 1.8 times as expensive as a voice call.But then again, as she reminded me at the end of our chat, 3G is a whole new form of communication. I nodded agreement, smiled and, then just before cutting the line, I bowed in a Japanese-style farewell greeting to my mobile phone screen.
We are all familiar with tales of dot.com disaster. They have become a parable of our times - a tragi-comic, Wap-enabled soap opera with all the requisite ingredients, including excess, greed, ineptitude and bruised egos.And be honest: sometimes it was hard not to feel a frisson of schadenfreude at the thought of some of the blue-eyed boys and girls of the internet boom having to return their new VW Beetles to dealers and cancel the Home House memberships.But the caricature of the failed dot.com has become such an established part of the landscape that it comes as something of a shock to find that in the face of all the doom and gloom, internet companies are still being set up.Admittedly, they are typically of a much smaller scale than in the dot.com boom of two years ago. But how does it square with what has become the conventional wisdom - that most, if not all, dot.coms are doomed? Has the industry found a new and realistic level from which it can move forward? Is there light at the end of the tunnel, or is this a false dawn, with green shoots of recovery that are as misleading as those identified by Norman Lamont just as the UK last plunged into recession?In fact, there may be a case for cautious optimism. There are now 14m people in the UK who use the internet from home, according to NetValue, and the net has not only transformed the way in which we communicate and find information, it is also having a major impact on industries such as travel and banking.Meanwhile, the froth in the industry has been blown away, with the megalomaniac pan-European expansion plans and mandatory peaktime TV advertising campaigns discredited. Additionally, the dot.com   whizzkids have either been through a salutary growing-up process, or shown the door and replaced by those with conventional management skills.For new internet ventures, the cull over the past 18 months has helpfully removed startup rivals, while the corporates have cut their digital ventures adrift. Anecdotal reports suggest that venture capitalists have been so burnt by the crash that they are dismissing internet ventures out of hand. For those that can find the money, there is a clear field.For a few hardy souls, the fact that sentiment is so firmly against the internet - and bearing in mind that the mantra of the successful investor is "buy low, sell high" - this could be the right time to make that move into the digital "space".SingToTheWorld.comThe karaoke website Singtotheworld.com was launched in July by Steve Bennett, the founder of Jungle.com, and Robert Southall, a Midlands karaoke DJ.Bennett sold Jungle to GUS for &amp;#163;37m in September last year, which might go some way to explaining his continued faith in the internet, and is backing Singtotheworld himself."I didn't get burnt the first time round," he says. "Underlying everything &#91;the internet&#93; is a great new channel _ So long as you can find the money, there are opportunities out there."Rob approached me with the idea and said: 'Is this   possible?' I asked my techie guys to look into it and we found it was. We researched the market and found there weren't any rivals. It is not going to make millions _ but it is an interesting concept &#91;and&#93; I wanted to show you can build a website and make money out of it pretty quickly."Visitors to the site can sing along to streamed karaoke backing tracks, with a month's subscription costing &amp;#163;5.99. Alternatively, they can buy the music on CDG, a CD format that supports graphics and requires a special player, which, along with other equipment, can be bought through the site.Bennett's aim is for the business to turn over &amp;#163;2m in its first year and be profitable in 12 months' time. Singtotheworld had about 250 subscribers at the end of its first month.FjordMark Curtis and Mike Beeston, veterans of the web agency market, are setting up the London office of Fjord, a "relationship capital" company that will sell consulting services and relationship-building applications. Underpinning it is the concept that a value can and should be placed on the enhancement of relationships with customers, employees, suppliers and partners.Curtis and Beeston, who sold their web agency CHBi to Razorfish in 1998 and led Razorfish's London office, left earlier this year when the US company - an icon of the dot.com boom - became a casualty of the downturn.After a three-month break - Beeston at his sheep farm in Devon, Curtis cycling across the Pyrenees - they   returned with the outline of the new venture, which is backed by Spray, a Swedish company, and also has an office in Stockholm.Curtis says: "We feel very confident that there are many businesses to be built in digital and the space around digital. The world is changing because of digital, maybe not at the pace and in all the ways predicted, but changes are happening."The key change brought about by digital communications is an increase in connectedness, says Curtis. "For service-oriented organisations, it's the way in which employees and customers interact that can do more damage or good for your company than anything else. Increasingly, the context of that is digital."Fjord will have a two-pronged offer. As well as con sulting, it will build on the mobile expertise of the Stockholm office, which has developed applications such as SMS games and services licensed to mobile operators as a way of building traffic and interactivity. In London, the focus will be on consulting to companies that have a high degree of interaction with their customers, such as banking and travel.With the downturn still fresh in their minds, the approach will be cautious. Beeston says: "A lot of the digital services companies became too weighed down with the need to feed a lot of different mouths _ We are wary of that. We don't think the market is going to be any easier this side of Christmas but there's a feeling that the market will begin to consolidate in   time for next spring."The Gourmet supermarketThe Gourmet Supermarket, a luxury and specialist foods e-tailer, went live at the beginning of July, offering gourmet foods ranging from specialist cheeses and wines to caviar (Iranian Beluga at &amp;amp;#163;550 for 250g), as well as foods for people on vegan, diabetic and gluten-free diets.It is backed by Innovative Foods, an East Yorkshire-based dessert manufacturer, and is targeting two niche, but under-serviced, markets, says Eric Hartley, its marketing director. Although there is a demand for gourmet items, there is insufficient local demand in all but the most affluent areas for supermarkets and delicatessens to stock them. Similarly, those with special diets are not properly catered for by the major supermarkets.The success of Tesco's service has shown that there is a market for online food shopping in the UK, says Hartley.In contrast to the typical dot.com of two years ago, The Gourmet Supermarket's ambitions are modest. Hartley says: "Our plans are   smaller and realistic. We are not talking tens of thousands of orders a week: we are talking thousands. But in small business terms, that's still a healthy business."There is a deliberate policy to remain as "virtual" as possible, with even category management outsourced. There are 7,000 products but stock is pared back to a minimum.Delivery, which costs &amp;amp;#163;5 plus a supplement for a timed slot, is handled by Parcelforce, selected because it offers evening delivery, which is vital for the young-ish, affluent target market.www.gourmetsupermarket.co.ukCozaiThe web agency market has been hit hard by the dot.com downturn but that hasn't stopped Jon Pollard, Aaron Savage, David Smith and Alexander Williams from setting up a new one, Cozai, with offices in London and Los Angeles.Having all left jobs within weeks of each another, the four - who worked at various stages at Bluewave, one of the bigger UK independents - came together. Pollard, the chief operating officer, says: "We thought 'if we don't do it now, we probably never will'."Launching their agency - which is self-funded - represents an opportunity to do things differently, says Pollard: "Between us we had a lot of experience _ and we didn't feel that the way we'd experienced things being done was quite the way they should be."A lot of agencies did take on people in huge numbers _ it pushes the cost base up, which means that in a market in which there's more competition and less work, everyone's actually trying to put their prices up."&amp;#91;Also&amp;#93; there's an attitude issue among many agencies, basically to think that they know better than the client what the client wanted."Cozai will aim to do things differently, says Pollard. "We want to be able to sell to the client the principle that we will manage everything properly. The number of full-time people in the agency will be relatively small, supplemented with a group of contractors and freelancers."Cozai has completed its first project, working on the relaunch of Orbitune, the Japanese web radio broadcaster, and through its Los Angeles office it hopes to tap into the film and music industries, which are among the few spending more on digital communications.www.cozai.com
For many years people have accepted that having a spare Hotmail or Yahoo address is a good idea, primarily to discourage spam advertisers and maintain a certain level of privacy.However, as the internet expands into chat, instant messaging and voicemail, the need for adopting new identities grows. When a female uses a chatroom, for instance, does she really want 10,000 men fantasising over her real features with the (admittedly remote) possibility that she might be recognised in real life? This might explain why so many female chatters and lonely hearts claim to be the spitting image of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. It also emphasises the good reasons for owning a fake digital passport.Here is how you do it in five easy steps.1. The HandleAll fake identities start with the name. Your name is what identifies and characterises your online presence, and has been twisted beyond recognition for years. For every genuinely Cute_Hot_Chick there are 100 20-stone brickies going by the same name.Handles can be picked up at all the major portals (Yahoo, MSN, AOL, Lycos), although you may find that most of the obvious variations   of your name have already been taken. Simply register for their free instant messenger service (IMS), most commonly Yahoo Messenger, IRC or MSN Passport, and choose your desired moniker. This also gives you a new online email address, which you should always use to field your mail from that particular service. It may be confusing juggling multiple mailboxes and identities, but it is a lot better than having your personal inbox flooded with porn and spam.2. The pictureIf you want to upload your real picture to portals, chatrooms and public briefcases, all well and good. However, having assumed a brave new handle, you might as well pick a matching picture. For instance, those who describe themselves as "a Tom Cruise lookalike" (ie short) will obviously need a jpeg to prove it. Tryhttp://marina.fortunecity.com/shark/133/AvatarCollective.htmfor celebrity mugshots orwww.romanysrealm.com for a wide selection of glamour pics. Alternatively, try the excellentwww.uglypeople.comfor a hilarious antidote to air-brushed good looks. Remember, the exception to the fake-picture rule is dating, where it can cause deep annoyance among fellow lonely hearts and greatly diminish the size of your post-bag.3. Message and videoMost IMS now incorporate voicemail, voicechat and webcams. Why anyone would want to conceal their real voice is anyone's guess, but humorous voicemail messages can be downloaded fromwww.1st-comedy4phones-greetings.co.ukand text can be converted instantly into Stephen Hawking-style voicemail by downloading a freeware programme such asTalking ClipboardSadly, the great man's intelligence cannot yet be downloaded, but voicemail is already beginning to replace text messages as an easy and cheap way of keeping in touch.4. The 3D avatarIf you want to go the whole way, a JPeg of your face can be mapped on to a variety of virtual skeletons. The best known of these isDigimask, which requires two photos, one taken from the front, and the other taken in profile. Your first model is created free of charge, after that you have to earn credits.Another fine example of a virtual community iswww.cybernetworlds.com, which allows you to choose from a range of off-the-peg 3D avatars. Unfortunately, avatars cannot usually be used outside their host community, something future generations of instant messaging may correct.5. Leaving the real worldFinally, once you have discovered the unreal you, there are alternate worlds galore to test them out in. From the fantasy roleplaying ofEverquestto virtual communities such as Citizen X ( www. citizenx.com ) to free dating services such as the excellentLove@lycos, the fake ID allows you to be a little bolder.ConclusionBehind all the fun and games is a serious purpose. Websites that paste real faces on to pornographic images are already commonplace, and the dangers of persistent lonely hearts tracking you down is sadly also on the increase. Consequently, fake IDs, faces and addresses are probably no bad thing until you get to know your online friends better - indeed, the moment of swapping "real" photos is already becoming an important part of digital foreplay.Enjoy it while it lasts.
An American web site accused of supporting the Real IRA has been shut down at the request of the FBI as it cracks down on terrorist groups, it emerged today.The New York-based web site - iraradio.com - contained an archive of weekly radio programmes said to back the dissident republicans.Travis Towle, the owner, today claimed that the FBI asked his internet service provider to stop giving web space to the site or face having its assets seized as a backer of terrorism."They just yanked us," Mr Towle told the New York Daily News."I think what is going on is being done out of fear."John McDonagh, a native of Queens, New York, said that his show - broadcast every Saturday afternoon - would go on. He claimed IRA stood for Irish Republican Activist and denied he had any connection to the Real IRA."If I was running a Taliban web site 15 years ago, I would be considered a patriot helping the American cause," he added"Today, I would be considered a traitor. It is getting to be difficult to predict who the government is going to call a terrorist."Despite Mr McDonagh's claim that he would go on broadcasting, a statement on the web site said Mr Towle's Cosmic Entertainment Group had shut it down."In light of the foregoing and the recent tragic events in the United States, the Cosmic Entertainment company board of advisers has deemed it advisable and in the best interests of the company to temporarily shut down the iraradio.com web site until the turbulence and uncertainty facing our nation has decreased."The FBI refused to comment on the shut down for security reasons.The Real IRA is banned from raising funds in America and anyone found giving them cash can be prosecuted and jailed.It is one of a series of organisations designated as a terror group, on a list that also includes Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network and Hezbollah.
It's quick, easy, fun, and for an undeniably good cause: now you too can create a fake internet page that will ambush porn-seeking web surfers with unerotic images and a tough message about the exploitation of women.In a laudable if unlikely attempt to rid the internet of one of its biggest draws, a Swedish website is encouraging concerned internauts to post hundreds of thousands of fake pages that will dampen the ardour of men who trawl cyberspace in search of Supersluts, Horny Schoolgirls, Wet'n'wild Sexslaves or Hot Teens."We did it because we were always ending up on porn sites whatever we were looking for," said the site's founder, Marie Brady, the editor of the Stockholm lifestyle magazine Darling."The sleaze merchants always find a way to get to you, so we decided to get our own back."Launched last week, the site, getsomereal.com, has already generated nearly 30,000 fake porn pages. It offers a simple three-step procedure that prompts visitors to choose from a set of pornographic pics, and then to drag tasteful pink "Get some real" stickers over the relevant part (or parts) of the model's anatomy."This page has been hacked by the Get some real campaign," reads the highly professional finished product. "Wanna know why? Click here." All the links on the mock page connect to the Get some real site which points out, in letters large enough for even the most dedicated adult-only addict to read, that "porn's fake - girls are for real".It works by assigning to each new page the full range of keywords used by surfers looking for hardcore pornography on the internet, including sex, nude, teenage, bondage, hot, oral, amateurs, babes and up to 100 others unfit to print.This information is then registered with the web's main search engines, so that anyone entering - to take one of the site's examples - "Texas Boob Fest" as his internet search term stands a fair chance of unwittingly landing up on a fake Get some real page."We realised that the best way to get our message across was to catch porn surfers with their pants down," it explains. "By using the same (top secret) technique as the big porn giants, we've managed to find a way to get in touch with the pussy hunters right while they're at it."
Sony boomUK sales of Sony PlayStation 2 games consoles tripled to about 62,000 units after the price was slashed to &amp;#163;199.99 two weeks ago, according to trade reports. Sales were helped by the arrival of games such as This Is Football 2002 (Sony) and Alex Ferguson's Player Manager (3DO/Anco). The price cut was expected. As CTW (Computer Trade Weekly) pointed out, the price of the original Play Station was cut from &amp;#163;300 to &amp;#163;200 eight months after its launch: PS2 buyers had to wait 10. The cut should help Sony build market share before the arrival of Nintendo's Gamecube and Microsoft's Xbox. Both will be launched in the UK next year.The Los Angeles Times reports thatToysrus.com Incsold out of its pre-order allotment of Gamecubes in four minutes on Monday: selling out its ration of Xbox consoles in September took 30 minutes.Castles in airKids who grew up building castles at school using Acorn BBC microcomputer printouts could form a ready market for Stronghold, a medieval castle simulation to be released for the PC next week. You can build your own castle or attack or defend one of 15 historically accurate pre-built models.  Seewww.stronghold-game.comSmoke screenSold Out is backing the government's Smoke Screen anti-smoking campaign, being launched this month. The company is putting information and competition leaflets in with 400,000 budget-priced games. The company says it is the first time the government has turned to their industry for help. Trouble TV will show five short films about smoking next month.  Seewww.givingupsmoking.co.uk/smokescreenThird strikeSid Meier's Civilization III has been finished by Firaxis and will ship to US retailers on October 30. The standard version will cost $49.99, and the special limited edition $59.99. The first version of Civ was published by Microprose in 1991 and was often described as the best strategy game. Civ 2 followed in 1996. The success of Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri (1999) suggests this type of game still appeals.www.civ3.com
Odd but true: one of the world's most successful games is written by people who aren't crazy about video games, and played by more than a million people who aren't really gamers.According to the mantra, Championship Manager has been written by football fans for football fans, and the secret of its success is that it provides a more comprehensive and more detailed simulation of the game than any of the alternatives. And with 26 leagues from Brazil to Norway, and details of more than 130,000 players, the most comprehensive and most detailed version so far is due to reach the shops tomorrow.Although Championship Manager 01/02 is being called the 10th anniversary edition, the game goes back to the early 80s. Two teenagers, Paul and Oliver Collyer, wanted a better football management game to play, so they wrote one. They started it in Basic on an Acorn BBC B, and progressed through an Amstrad and an Atari ST to an Amiga. By this time their friends were playing the game too, and they decided to look for a publisher.This idea was not a success. Publishers were looking for polished graphics and "eye candy", which CM lacked. What it had was text and a lot of player stats, the merits of which did not emerge until you had spent some time playing it. None the less, the game was finally published in 1992, by Domark, which was taken over by the current publisher, Eidos Interactive. After a slow start, word of mouth eventually made Championship Manager an almost permanent fixture in the British games charts, and it is now played all over the world in nine languages.CM has been completely rewritten three times since. So far, fans have seen two great leaps forward with CM2 and CM3, the current "engine". CM4 is due next October. And what started as a home hobby has become a small company, Sports Interactive, with offices over the top of Hotblack Desiato, the Islington estate agent whose name is known across the galaxy - or at least to lovers of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.SI is now run by Miles, an ebullient 29-year-old who goes without a surname in interviews and on the company's website (it is Jacobson). Like everyone involved, he's a football fan and a Championship Manager fan. His first involvement was as a play-  tester for CM2, then he started an unofficial update for the game data, and then a Championship Manager website. He contributed to the Collyers' efforts - "I started off doing Watford stats," he says - and was soon looking after the whole database, which has 1,500 amateur contributors assessing players for the game. Being more than a little entrepreneurial, he was also involved in the music business through Southern Fried records, and as a compiler of commercial soundtracks for video games such as the Gran Turismo series and N-Gen. The Collyers started to use him as a business consultant, which led to him becoming SI's managing director.For the Collyers, finding Miles must have been a relief. Oliver (Ov) had found that what started as a schoolboy hobby had somehow consumed his entire adult life, and he wanted a break. He has retired and gone off to Australia (www.sigames.com/eng/latestnews_sigames_aug01.shtml#ovleave) for a few months. Paul is still "absolutely essential in a programming capacity," says Miles: he is working on the game engine for CM4. However, "he tends to spend most of his time in Sweden, with his girlfriend," working with the Islington team via the net.Plans for the future of Championship Manager are much the same, and will be driven by feedback from fans. The aim is to make the game even more realistic, not by adding graphics but by providing more stats for more players in more leagues. The 144 stats - not just for footballing skills but for character and temperament - govern how players respond to you, as manager, and how they perform on the pitch. Championship Manager 3 started with a database of 40,000 players, and CM4 is aiming for 10 more leagues and 200,000 players. It is a unique resource. Not only can PC-based gamers find terrific prospects at obscure foreign clubs, so can real agents and scouts.There is also the idea of making CM4 a network game, where the stats can be updated continuously, instead of once a year, on CD. This will also enable CM play ers to play against other fans in leagues across the globe. The game will also appear on Microsoft's Xbox console, which is possible because it uses PC technology and also includes the hard drive that is essential for saving games. A saved game file can top 100 megabytes, and Miles says he once reached 790MB.The only black cloud on the horizon is the idea that they might be stopped from using real player names. "In Germany, we can't, and in Germany we don't sell a lot of copies," he says.Miles wants SI to become "the Man United of video games" with tie-ins and merchandising deals. "We're planning to release over 40 products in the next two years," he says. These include Umbro football shirts, and the use of CM stats in Konami's soccer game, ISS Pro. The next is Championship Manager Quiz (www.sigames.com/eng/softography_cmquiz. shtml), which should be out on the PC and Sony PlayStation for Christmas.But at the moment, everything is overshadowed by Championship Manager 01/02, which brings the stats up to date. "The best thing about finishing the game is that I'll be able to play it!" Miles exclaims. "I'll probably be able to play about 15seasons with Watford before I have to start testing ChampMan 4. It's a hard life. I've got the worst job in the world, me."Yeah, right.
How did you get involved in the Homebrew Computer Club?A friend told me that a club was starting - if he had said it was a microprocessor club, I would have been too shy to attend. But he said it was for people who had terminals. I had just designed and built a TV terminal, so I went to the first meeting. I saw there the excitement of affordable computers based on eight-bit microprocessors. I studied them and found that they were just like the minicomputers that I had taught myself to design and program while at high school. I was hooked and knew that I would have my dream computer capable of running a language, soon.The attendees were a random collection of hobbyists, but the club was very well organised. People talked about ongoing rumours, traded parts, and demonstrated projects and products. Part of the excitement was in knowing we could see a future revolution based on low-cost computers. Even the established companies didn't see the importance of what we were doing. It was inspiring.How did the Apple I come about?I was a self-taught master at making logic circuits. I had played with ideas of scanning characters on oscilloscopes back in high school. So I thought, why don't I use my free output device - my Sears TV? I found a keyboard for $60, which was the most expensive part I bought for the early computers. I did build my TV terminal. I designed the screen memory around the   lowest cost, serial-shifting, memories that I could find. I also designed a modem to use with my terminal that was successful.To construct a computer quickly, I chose the6502 microprocessor, which I bought for $25. I had actually designed my computer for the Motorola 6800 (www.instantweb.com/foldoc/foldoc.cgi?6800), but the 6502 was cheaper, better, and pin compatible with the 6800.I saw theAltair Basicon paper tape at the Home Computer Club (HCC) and it was apparent to me that this was the language that would be popular on low-cost computers. I had never used Basic, but I decided that my first interpreter/compiler would be Basic. I had never taken a course in language writing so I picked up a Basic manual at Hewlett-Packard and studied it and spent a month writing my own language, to give my computer good abilities.There was a lot of interest at the club. This was the first hobby computer to sport a keyboard instead of a front panel. Steve Jobs figured that a lot of people wanted a computer but didn't have the time to construct one the way I had. He had an idea to make a PC board for $20 and sell it for $40. We figured that it would be fun to have a company, even if we lost money.The only computer store in the area (late 1975) was the Byte shop in Menlo Park or Palo Alto. The owner, Paul Terrell, saw how people wanted to buy complete com puters, not build them as kits. He gave Steve an order for 100 computers at $500 each. We priced it at $666.66 because I was into repeating digits. Otherwise it might have been $650 or $667.We made 200 Apple I computers (seewww.apple-history.com/quickgallery.html?where=aI.html)  and might have delivered 175 of them to stores. The store took our board and supplied wooden cabinets, transformers, and a keyboard.Apple I boards were manufactured in Santa Clara, at the same place that made the PC boards. We would drive down and pick some up and drive them back to Steve's home, which was our central point. Steve's sister would plug the chips in, for $1 a board. We would hook up each Apple I on a lab-bench in the garage and test it. About half of them worked right off, and about half needed to be debugged. The most common problems were shorted traces and bent-under IC pins. After we got enough boards completed and boxed, we would drive them down to the Byte shop and get paid. We had 30 days credit on the components.Which system do you prefer?Right now I use Mac OS 9.1. I tried OS X twice, but got burnt too badly each time, although I am considering giving it another go. As for my computer, it is always a laptop.Is the net living up to its early promise?The early promises were more like dreams of tons of stuff being available for free that were never available   before. It was a promise of personal communication and equal footing for all. We never thought of the internet as the modern road system for shopping malls and stores.Along with the complexity of the internet comes a need for greater bandwidth. It is hard to see how bandwidth will take a great leap in the near future.Is encryption about to become scapegoated?I sure hope not. Encryption can be so easy to install and use. To me, it's like a lock on my door to forcefully keep people out of my private home. My email is private, too, and strangers should not have access to it. Companies have assets that need protection, too. Such assets are in more places than just the government. A war against encryption cannot be won.Should the operating system (OS) market be more open?Microsoft talks about how good it was that IBM kept the hardware open, so that lots of companies could make different "flavours" of it. But Microsoft never let its OS be open. One can argue how unhealthy this is, but there is no way to feel that we are bet ter off, as consumers, because of it. That closed aspect of the OS, resulting in a strong monopoly, is what allows Microsoft to engage in other activities that are illegal, such as forcing other markets to go the Microsoft way.Do you have any favourite sites?Macintosh hardware and software developers and the Geek Culture cartoon (seewww.geekculture.com/)Are there any favourite machines you have used over the years?Of course, theApple IIwas a favourite. The fun that it led to I haven't found again.The Duowas light and convenient. The current titanium PowerBook G4 is probably the best Macintosh that Apple has ever made. It is light, complete and fast, with a large display.MyApple IIc, with an early LCD display, was special. Oddly enough, so was the Macintosh Portable, to me.I wish that Apple had stuck with theCubeand theNewton. The Newton was   probably the most special machine that I have ever used. I regularly took outlined notes with regular handwriting. I would handwrite things like "Sara dentist Tuesday 2pm", click Assist, and have the calendar appointment set up. I would even handwrite "call Jim" to make a phone call, without the structured approach of dialling numbers on my phone. That machine truly freed my head to work in easier ways.What are you up to these days?I have been sitting on the sidelines, keeping up with Macintosh issues and teaching its use for a decade. I am following a few companies that friends are running, and I am interested in ideas for consumer products and might someday join a start-up. I really would like a chance to recreate the Apple II fun someday.Visitwww.woz.org&#183;A memoir of the Homebrew Computer Club is atwww.bambi.net/bob/homebrew.html
Microsoft may be forced to pay a fine of more than &#163;1.7bn for illegally abusing its dominant market position in Europe and is likely to be asked to make sweeping changes to Windows software in the interests of fair competition, it emerged yesterday.Although the European commission has yet to decide on a final course of action, a leaked internal document makes it clear that Brussels is seriously considering such measures as part of an investigation into the US group's activities.The memo also states that the commission believes Microsoft has lied to investigators and wilfully misled them.The 70-page document claims that Microsoft presented 34 letters to the commission purporting to be from companies willing to testify that Microsoft has not been squeezing out rivals by deliberately making software incompatible with competitors' products - the focus of the commission's inquiry.According to the commission, many of the letters were written by Microsoft itself or obtained from the companies without an explanation of what they would be used for.The commission's investigation on allegations that the Seattle company deliberately designed Windows 2000 software to function better with Microsoft servers in order to encourage corporate customers to use Bill Gates' programs rather than rivals'.If that were the case then it would be a clear breach of EU competition rules which forbid a company from unfairly abusing its dominant position, which is what competitors including Sun Microsystems and IBM contend Microsoft has been doing.In August the EU went public with further allegations which are the now the subject of the same inquiry.These concern Microsoft's bundling of its Media Player software with Windows - a move which the commission suspects could be giving the company an unfair advantage over its competitors in the growing market for online music and video software.Microsoft yesterday denied it has done anything wrong."We're cooperating fully with the commission. We have not done anything to violate anti-trust laws or obstruct their investigation," said John Frank, associate general counsel of Microsoft Europe.The allegations are of an extremely serious nature and the leak has angered Mario Monti, the EU's competition commissioner with responsibility for the investigation.Although given several opportunities to do so, Mr Monti pointedly refused yesterday to calm the row by denying the existence of the document. Nor did he refute its contents.He was at pains to stress that Microsoft still has an opportunity to rebut the commission's concerns, something it is expected to do in writing and possibly at a hearing in Brussels next month."I cannot stress enough that the case is still at a preliminary stage," Mr Monti told reporters. "To speak of a fine when Microsoft has not yet disputed the commission's preliminary findings, both in fact and in law, is premature."He conceded that a fine was "a possibility" and the document clearly states that Microsoft's obstruction of the investigation would increase the amount. The commission has the power to fine Microsoft up to 10% of its annual turnover - a maximum penalty of $2.5bn.The memo also makes it clear that the commission is considering forcing Microsoft to drop certain features from its Windows operating system which Brussels considers discriminate against rivals.In the US, Microsoft no longer faces a judicial break-up but still faces possibly onerous "remedies".Quiet man who gets his wayTaking on Bill Gates and Microsoft may seem a foolhardy enterprise but Mario Monti, the EU's competition commissioner, is used to playing hardball with some of the world's biggest corporations and winning.Earlier this year the softly spoken Italian economist derailed a &#163;31bn tie-up between General Electric and Honeywell because he thought the merger would create an unhealthily dominant aerospace entity.US politicians were furious and accused the one-time professor of monetary theory at Bocconi university of discriminating against American companies."The most powerful man in Europe" is how Monti described his predecessor, Karel van Miert, but it is no exaggeration to say that Monti himself can now lay claim to that title. The former newspaper correspondent and AC Milan fan has killed off more mergers than he cares to remember and fined an alarming number of European firms for anti-competitive behaviour.Telecoms groups MCI-Worldcom and Sprint's dreams of merging were dashed and a merger between Airtours and First Choice Holidays bit the dust.More recently Fifa and Uefa have discovered over football transfer rules that the quiet Italian usually gets his way.Microsoft may have the resources to mount a massive lobbying campaign but Monti is used to pressure. He is the man who killed off duty-free shopping in the face of warnings that it would wipe out 140,000 jobs.
