Sonic the Hedgehog 4 gets a bunch of stuff right, starting with that number on the end. Because obviously this isn't the fourth Sonic game: old blue prickles had taken the lead in about two dozen games, and that's without counting guest appearances and series spin-offs. But this downloadable game is a return to the pure platforming of his first three games. Left-to-right pelting across 2.5D stages, scarfing rings and bopping robo-enemies on the head, without so much as a sniff of an annoying sidekick to cramp your spiny style.Like any decent platformer, it compensates for a hyper-linear structure (run to end of level, jump on a box, repeat to fade) by giving you just enough variety in how you tackle the levels. Be a greedy ring-gobbler, relishing every satisfying "ding!" as you nab another golden hoop; track down the alternate routes and secret chambers that lurk offscreen to get all the tastiest power-up; or just run – really fast, right the way through. Sonic's sense of speed is still amazingly pleasing, and acing a stage makes you feel like some kind of accelerated genius as you race towards the reward of the musical sting at the finish line.This is Sonic seamlessly transitioned from chunky 16-bit sprite to smooth-edged hero – so seamlessly, in fact, that it's only when you catch sight of old Sonic waggling a finger by your life count that you realise how much, and how naturally, he's changed. Visually it's more sophisticated than the Mega Drive version but in no danger of becoming subtle (the hella gaudy Casino Street stages are especially eye-grazing) and the pixelated edges have been smoothed off without blunting the game's cartoon aesthetic; the music and sound effects have a familiar rinkidink timbre. It's a perfect lesson in how to refresh old IP for a new platform without doing a disservice to either.The controls are a little woolly sometimes, leaving you with an occasional unhappy disconnect – something that can make the free-falling labyrinth bonus levels feel especially maddening. Sonic's a bit heavier now, and he's acquired the ability to jump in midair – both variations that integrate well with the familiar gameplay to keep this from being a simple reconstruction of early 90s gaming.Something that hasn't changed: Sonic is still straight up one of the most aggravating characters in any game on any platform. The gesticulating hand at the loading screen might set you off, or maybe it'll be the smug look on his tiny blue face – like he's just had a moment of asphyxiated pleasure; for me, it's his hands-in-the-air death pose as he slips off the screen after a nasty encounter with a spiked pit. Being annoying is part of what makes a platformer satisfying to beat, but in Sonic 4, the irritation levels come close to outweighing the fun. Still, there's enough here to keep you spinning through and to convince you that, in a world of Sackboys and Lombaxes and galactic Marios, you actually want to go back to playing as a flattened hedgehog.• Game reviewed on PS3
Proper massively multiplayer online (MMO) games aimed at youngsters – as opposed to glorified chatrooms – are extremely thin on the ground, so Lego Universe, which uses the look and feel of the hugely popular Lego action-adventure games as a basis for an MMO aimed at seven-year-olds and upwards, demands attention.Particularly given that anyone who has bought the likes of Lego Batman, Star Wars or Indiana Jones for their offspring ought to be fully aware that they are just as appealing to adults. Which is emphatically the case for Lego Universe – indeed, it's the ideal game for a spot of computer-based father/son bonding.Despite the cute visuals – everything in the universe is made from Lego and you, naturally, control a Lego mini-figure – Lego Universe proves surprisingly credible in pure MMO terms. In fact, its determination to appeal to all ages means it eschews some of the more tedious and repetitive aspects of grown-up MMOs. Once you've created your character, you're introduced to the overarching plot, in which a bunch of Lego inventors discover the source of pure imagination – but an injudicious dark thought transforms it into the evil Maelstrom, which begins to corrupt the surrounding planets and turn the locals into evil Stromlings. So it's up to you to fight the corruption and rebuild the universe.Your first task is to build a spaceship, from whence you can fly to Avant Gardens – pretty much a tutorial planet. There you learn the basics of fighting and auto-building smashed objects, for which you need Imagination Orbs which, in turn, you acquire by smashing extraneous objects or defeating enemies. You also get your very own planet on which to build a house or castle. Lego Universe contains the full brick-by-brick Lego building engine, which even lets you assign behaviours to virtual Lego objects, so you could spend your whole time there just building things.Soon, you must join one of four factions, depending on what sort of gameplay you prefer – either The Sentinels (fighting), The Assembly (building), The Venture League (exploring) or The Paradox (the closest you can get to being a baddie). As well as the base coins, there are faction tokens to collect, which get you access to the best equipment.Lego Universe may be cute, but it's never schmaltzy, and it really feels like a proper MMO – the difficulty of the quests ramps up, so that you have to improve your character's attributes. You can hook up with friends for co-operative action. Chatting with other characters is fiercely moderated. Each of the planets has its own distinct character. There are heaps of mini-games, most of which are pretty good. And while you can't die, you can get smashed, forcing you to respawn.Sadly, the game has one glaring flaw: the camera has an annoying tendency to zoom in too close, particularly when you're fighting. You soon learn to work around that, but it's a shame for what is otherwise a near-flawless game – it feels impressively smooth and slick. But, most of all, it's insanely addictive and will, at times, have you laughing out loud. The perfect introduction to MMOs, in other words – except that, when you graduate to more grown-up ones, you may find them disappointing in comparison.• Game reviewed on PC
Photo bylaihiuon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe prospects are ominous for Android handset manufacturers - although those for Android, the platform, are good. That's according to the analysis byPRTM, a management consultancy. The analysis is interesting: here's what it says.PRTM benchmarked 57 Android-based hand- sets from 12 companies, looking at the formal Android release date, the launch date of the phone, and the chipset platform.Its conclusion:Android is indeed a game changer. Here are three of the research highlights, which we've reproduced here:• "The average cycle time for handsets first sold in 2008 based on Qualcomm's QSD8250 chipset and Android's Donut 1.6 release was a brief 8 months. By late 2009, the average cycle time for handsets based on Qualcomm's MSM7227 chipset and Android's Eclair 2.1 release had nearly halved, down to 4.5 months.This is "warp speed" for complex smartphones."• "Next,Android has removed speed as a source of advantage. In the past, vendors who got to market quickly could gain six to nine months of highly profitable advantage. But now vendor cycle times are virtually identical – they can all deliver handsets based on the latest Android release within 16–20 weeks."• "Third, most of the handsets – 77% of the sample – are based on Qualcomm chipsets. Seasoned observers may find this ominous. Over the years, Microsoft and Intel have captured far more value than the makers of the PCs. Will "Quadroid" become the new Wintel?"Taken together, PRTM says, "these three findings have significant implications".Which they say are as follows. "In 2007, Android did indeed look like an easy, inexpensive way to challenge the extraordinary success of Apple and its iOS-iPhone-iTunes combination. But the success of the venture has unleashed a tiger. And, three years on, the[Android] handset companies are starting to look like its lunch."PRTM's prediction on what could happen next:• "The levelling of the time to market playing field, the rush of new market entrants, and the emergence of "Quadroid" as the dominant offering will drive down gross margins for handset companies to dramatic new lows – close to the 8–10% range endured by major PC manufacturers like Acer or Lenovo.Some handset companies may not survive."They say: "Handset developers must urgently seek new sources of differentiation to offset the huge pressure on margins. Their search will need to consider their industrial designs, user experience, the richness of available applications, and new business models. In short, they'll need to act more like Apple while staying different from Apple."Handset vendors that do not want to be entirely subordinated to Google will have to decide which other operating systems could be their best dual-source alternative. Margin pressure means fewer development platforms, but, taken too far, may result in unbalanced supply with equally unattractive implications for margin."Consumer demand will become more volatile. Faced with many similar products based on the same core technologies, fashion and viral enthusiasms will drive volume highs for successful products. Meanwhile good- but-not-great products will languish, calling for exceptional agility in vendors' manufacturing and supply chains."Ultimately, as businesses reconsider their operational strategies, they should know that staying neutral is not an option. Tough choices are required and they'll need to decide if Android is truly a vendor's friend or foe."It's interesting how closely this ties in with theanalysis by Asymco's Horace Dedluwhich suggests that "integrated" mobile vendors - Apple, Nokia, RIM – "captured" $3.83bn of profits from the smartphone market, while "modular" (which includes Windows Mobile and Android, but mostly Android) got $0.59bn.And in another post - entitled "What do you have to believe for an Android dominated future?" - he points out that in smartphones, "integrated" (Nokia, Apple, RIM) is not losing out in share terms to "modular" (Android, WinMo, "other"):"Even though the overall market grew, the share of the market held by modular architectures is smaller than that for inter-dependent. It's also not increasing. In 2008 modular players held 36%, in late 2010, they held 35%."What's the upshot? A very cloudy picture for Android handset makers - even while the picture for Android is rosy, I think. The possibility that Qualcomm and Android will become the Wintel of smartphones - though possibly not with such a dominant monopoly looks interestingly likely.One thing that doesn't look likely: that the smartphone market will be dominated by any one OS in the way that the PC market has. The reason: mobile carriers. They don't want to be cut out, and it's in their interest to have different OSs fighting it out, because they will push down the prices of handsets, while also giving them a range of products across the price range ("want a snazzy phone with a high price? Step right this way to our gold-encrusted iPhone 7! Or how about the diamond-encrusted BlackBerry?"). There's no equivalent to the mobile carriers in the PC business - which is why it's going to be so different.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Games developers see too much of this. Photo byindi.caon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Mac App Store isn't for today's Mac developers &gt;&gt; Marco.orgI get a sense that the Mac App Store - which will let people buy apps to be downloaded directly onto their Macs, just like iPhone apps to iPhones - is a glimpse of the computer experience of the future. Think of how much safer Windows machines could be if that applied. Though, also, consider the antitrust headaches Microsoft would have in operating such a store. So who would operate it?Games developers criticise David Cameron over tax breaks &gt;&gt; The GuardianThis was Thursday: "Video games developers criticised David Cameron today for failing to implement tax breaks that could create 3,500 jobs and bring the Treasury £200m over five years."How a tax break could affect the UK gaming industry &gt;&gt; WiredAnd this was in April: "Alistair Darling's announcement of a tax incentive for UK videogame developers came as a welcome surprise for the scores of British creatives, and was a victory for TIGA -- The Independent Games Developers Association -- which had been campaigning for such a tax break."Facebook and adult social networking: A dream that's all wet &gt;&gt; ZDNetAnswer this honestly: "How many times have you been stuck in the rat's maze of Facebook profile settings and thought, 'This is such a turn-on. I can't believe that no one has made a porn version of Facebook, because surely this pleasure must be taken to the next level'?"Super-fast broadband unlikely to reach all of East Lancashire &gt;&gt; Lancashire TelegraphThe reality of fibre rollout: it would cost £57m to get it to the whole of the county, but 16% of residents won't have it by 2015.FTC Names Edward W. Felten as Agency's Chief Technologist &gt;&gt; Federal Trade CommissionWhat, Ed Felten as inFreedom To Tinker? Yes, him, chief technologist of the Fedetral Trade Commission, "protecting America's consumers". He explains: "My main role at the FTC will be to provide advice on technology policy issues."Nokia has already won the developers battle &gt;&gt; PanicCodeBy moving to Qt, since you ask: "There are a lot ofthings that could go wrongwith this new strategy, but on paper it looks very good. Developers will have one SDK, working over Linux, Mac or Windows, to make desktop or mobile apps with a Javascript like language."US Patent database up and running &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarRather than selling it, as before, the US government is now making it available for free download: "Google now has 20 tbytes available for download, Jon Orwant tells me he has another 50 tbytes on the way. The Patent Database is the only database explicitly called out by the founding fathers in the U.S. Constitution and it is good to see that database finally become available."Who's suing who in mobile &gt;&gt; Interface Digital LabsIn Flash, see who's suing whom in the smartphone wars. This meme is getting better every day.Data visualisation of mobile lawsuits &gt;&gt; Interface Digital LabsThe blogpost explaining how and why the above was done. Lovely.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
There was a moment – as imagined in The Social Network, the film about the founding of Facebook – where Napster founder Sean Parker leaned across the table to Mark Zuckerberg and whispered, enticingly:"A million dollars isn't cool. You know what's cool? A billion dollars."That's the kind of ambition you need to power a young company to the scale of something like Facebook and Google – a stated ambition for the UK under the coalition government, which todayannounced the 'Tech City' plansin east London.The prime minister, David Cameron, said Tech City will combine high-speed broadband and Wi-Fi infrastructure; research and development spaces with input from Google, Facebook and Intel; a review of intellectual property laws; and the introduction of visas for entrepreneurs.Photo byTom Ton Flickr.Some rights reserved.Although the UK undoubtedly has the ideas and the talent, there are particularly challenging characteristics of London, the epicentre of the country's tech scene. "Startups sprang up in Shoreditch because it was cheap and vibrant and cool, and applying that to the Olympic site will be challenging," said Joe White, chief executive of web design serviceMoonfruit– which launched in 1999 and survived the dotcom bust.Though collaboration with big tech names, including BT and Vodafone, is impressive, he said, there needs to be more involvement from home-grown talent and second- and third-time entrepreneurs, said White. "It is only support from successful homegrown entrepreneurs that is going to stimulate the guys at the bottom – Silicon Valley does very well with its superangel community."Entrepreneur visaSeveral UK entrepreneurs had expressed concern at proposed changes to theskilled migrant workers schemes- concerns the government hopes to address with the introduction of an entrepreneur visa and by conceding that intra-company transfers will beexempt from immigration caps.In August Kristian Segerstrale, co-founder and chief executive of London-based games firm Playfish – last yearsold to Electronic Artsfor a reported $400m – told the Guardian he was deeply critical of the lack of government support for the sector that put the UK 15 years behind Silicon Valley.Character from Playfish games: the company was sold for £260m last year"On the one hand they want to create these champions of technology and want the next Google to come from London," he said. "But on the other hand, they go and cut the tax benefits for games and cut the ability to get the best talent from abroad. They say they want to create world-beating startups, but on the other hand they go and make things more difficult."White said the entrepreneur visa seems based on a similar system in the US, where entrepreneurs need to have raised $1m in funding and employ 10 people – but only 1,000 of the 10,000 quota were given in 2009. "Companies are increasingly smaller and leaner and able to operate on less money. They might not have or even need $1m in funding – it's about finding the right parameters." Cameron said in today's speech that entrepreneur visas will be available to those in receipt of "serious investment", but did not indicate what that threshold might be.UK tech skills shortage?US companies have an advantage in launching to a larger domestic market, but also in the specialised ecosystem of San Francisco – quite separate from the media and finance industries of New York or the film industry in Los Angeles. London, however, has everything in one city, which means companies compete with lucrative finance companies for developer talent. Inevitably, startups lose out.The UK's technology skills shortage has been an ongoing problem. Both White and Segerstrale describe a lack of experienced, specialised technologists. "It's a particular problem with technical roles, highly scalable consumer internet services that need a blend of commercial and technical knowledge," said Segerstrale. "When we need people with hardcore, scalable service technology skills and a particular management expertise, but it's very hard to recruit for those in London. We have to import talent from Silicon Valley."Photo byDimitry Bon Flickr.Some rights reserved.Segerstrale said the recruitment problem is particularly acute for experienced productisation staff who can work with development teams to translate innovative technology tools into a simple, commercially attractive products. "London needs to acknowledge that it doesn't have as broad a base of expertise as it should. If the UK wants to create world-beating companies, it needs world-class talent."Andy McLoughlin, co-founder of business toolHuddle.net, has said that finding expertise at scale in the UK can be very difficult. "If you want a high-end rock star architect, finding that person in the UK will be as hard as bringing them over from the US. As much as I'd like to say we'll only grow from homegrown talent, when you're trying to build a big international business like Google, you have to bring in the right talent from wherever they are."Photo byAlan Deanon Flickr.Some rights reserved.Games analyst Nicholas Lovell believes importing talent is essential, but also thinks tax breaks like those in Canada are not the right way to support the games industry because, he says, they benefit larger games publishers that produce blockbuster games."Tax relief always rewards companies that are good at playing the system," he said. "I think you'd end up using taxpayers money prop up businesses that are failing not because of Canada and not because of the emergence of China, Vietnam and other low-cost countries, but because their entire business model has changed. Because of tax relief, they don't have an incentive to change."What's the problem with Google and Facebook?Despite the kudos of launching the Tech City initiative with two of the biggest names in tech, the involvement of Google and Facebook in the scheme is not without controversy.Photo byalan_cleaver2000on Flickr.Some rights reserved.A recent analysis by Bloomberg estimated that Google has saved $3.1bn in tax payments by channeling its business through Ireland, the Netherlands and Bermuda – to pay the equivalent of 2.4% in overseas tax. In its two largest markets, The US and UK, corporation tax is 35% and 24% respectively."Encouraging bigger companies to support the UK economy is what we should all be doing," said White. He added that if the UK wants to produce the next Google or Facebook, it needs to make sure Google and Facebook don't cherry pick the most promising UK startups for acquisition."Getting Facebook and Google involved is great of course, but we need homegrown talent involved. It comes back to the dilemma of one million versus one billion because companies seem to sell out to US counterparts when they reach the exciting 100m level rather than reaching the billion level."
Video games developers criticised David Cameron today for failing to implement tax breaks that could create 3,500 jobs and bring the Treasury £200m over five years.The criticism came as he announced his plan to encourage the development of a high-tech hub in east London to rival California's "Silicon Valley".But the plan, quickly dubbed "Silicon Marshes", will not create jobs around the country – and more important will not help the UK video games industry, one of the largest intellectual property exporters in the UK.A new study says that thousands of jobs have been lost among games developers around the UK, with employment falling by 9% even as the global games industry has grown larger worldwide than the film business. The UK video games industry generates worldwide sales of more than £2bn annually.But companies are shifting employment to countries such as Canada and France, which do offer tax breaks for games companies, according to the research by Games Investor Consulting."It seems to me the prime minister is missing a trick with this announcement in London," Richard Wilson, head of the games industry lobby group Tiga, told the Guardian. "Implementing the tax breaks we're calling for wouldn't just create jobs in London, but in Dundee, Edinburgh, York, Brighton, Leamington Spa, Birmingham, and all over the country."The previous Labour administration promised to implement such tax breaks in the March budget, but failed to do so before the election in May.Wilson noted: "Before the election both the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats committed to tax relief on games development, but they've reneged on it. We're very disappointed about it. We aren't on a level playing field with Canada and France – Canada increased its game developer headcount last year."The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, responded: "We understand the critical importance of the video games industry, and that there are huge centres of excellence, such as Dundee for example. But apart from the obvious issue of what's affordable [in tax breaks], we think that having competitive corporate tax rates overall is essential to be competitive on the world stage, which is why the chancellor announced a reduction to 20% of the corporate tax rate, which gives us the lowest corporate tax rate in the G20."The industry minister, David Willetts, added that the newly announced regional growth funds would help growth: "we are absolutely committed to spreading opportunities outside London," he said.The UK has produced many big-selling games, including the Lara Croft: Tomb Raider series, the Grand Theft Auto franchise and the original Batman game.Develop magazine, which represents game developers, called the study "a stabbing wakeup call" and said the decline means the UK games industry is "on the precipice of another disastrous fall down the global league of game development nations".Tiga's proposed tax break would requires games to pass a "cultural test", and proposed a similar scheme for tax relief as used to be given to films, and have three tiers of benefit for games development budgets ranging from £100,000 to more than £6m, with between 20% and 30% of tax relief on spending.A previous study by Tiga found that half of jobs lost from UK games development in 2009 went abroad – of which 72% went to Canada, which has had a long-running tax break offering subsidies of up to 40% of production costs, and tax relief of 35% on labour costs.THQ, one of the largest, recently announced a new games development studio in Montreal, Canada which will create 400 new jobs – buta THQ executive told Developthat he would have considered the UK if the tax break regime had been in force.Bobby Kotick, chief executive of Activision, the giant games company behind products such as Call of Duty – which has brought in than a billion dollars in sales – and Guitar Hero, recently said that without tax breaks it made no sense to invest in the UK: "It is ridiculously expensive to live in the UK, especially in London,"he told Develop. "What dictates our expansion plans would be whether we can compensate our employees fairly and whether they can achieve the quality of life that they want."• Willetts says that the government will see whether the UK's patent laws should be revised to make them more like the US's, which allows software processes to be patented, on the basis that Google had benefited from them in the US. However one source in the a large US technology company told the Guardian it would oppose their introduction here: "I don't think he understands how they could be used against startups," the source said. The Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, recently said the US patent system needed wholesale reform, even though his company had benefited from having them, because of their potential to cause ruinous and obstructive lawsuits.
If you were underwhelmed by the recentGuitar Hero: Warriors of Rock, there's good and bad news with EA's timely riposte. Yes, Rock Band 3 might just be taking this genre in a whole new direction, but it's going to cost you to a pretty penny to find out. More on this in a moment.For fans of the traditional rhythm game format, there's plenty to applaud. Rock Band is still the only one catering for a proper band of four distinct players – something reflected in everything from the tracks to the animations, challenges and rewards – and this defining feature still makes it the most rewarding all-round experience. There's also been a subtle but universal makeover since RB2 – from the front end, where it's easier to customise your band and instruments, to the learning curve with its greater emphasis on Quickplay modes.Thanks to a bevy of pre-loaded Setlists and Road Challenges, you now have an attractive and instant alternative to World Tour – which is still there and as rigorous as ever. You'll also notice that the game's main focus is now on Challenges, which can be taken on as a soloist or band and largely support RB's massive archive of downloadable tracks from previous games.Completing Challenges allows you to unlock a new stack of band goodies and accessories, and these are peppered consistently throughout the game, whichever mode you play in – from the simplest to the truly epic Endless Setlist III.Track listing is always the key to these games and RB3 boasts an impressive 83 tracks with at several highlights in each of the five decades covered. From Winehouse's Rehab to Elton John's Saturday Night and Hendrix's Crosstown Traffic, it certainly puts Guitar Hero's most recent catalogue to shame. Viewed as a straight rhythm game sequel, there's no doubt that RB3 is the one to own – despite the extra cost involved in assembling the full band of drums, two guitars and up to three mics.Which brings me to the game's big new feature – which, alas, at the time of writing, I was unable to review. RB3's Pro Mode promises a more skillful approach to playing these games, potentially turning living room posing into something approaching genuine musical skill. However, it can only be experienced by purchasing one of the three new controllers – the 100-key Pro Mustang Guitar, a 25-key "keytar" or the new drum kit with 3 cymbals. At a cost of up to £100 each, depending on which you go for, it's a lot to cough up for instruments that are almost real but not quite – especially with a MIDI interface in the works.As I only had access to the original controllers, I can't comment on how much Pro Mode changes the experience but do let us know if you've splashed the cash to find out.• Game reviewed on PS3
I am running a laptop with Microsoft Vista. I replaced the original hard drive with a bigger one, but that is nearly full. If I were to buy a new laptop with an even bigger drive using Windows 7, how would I best transfer all the contents – programs and data – from the old to the new laptop?Mark LavenderBoth Vista and Windows 7 include a program called Windows Easy Transfer, which is designed to transfer your data to a new PC, but not your applications. People who don't have a copy candownload the latest version from Microsoft.Windows Easy Transfer can move data between PCs using a transfer cable, a USB memory stick or thumbdrive, an external hard drive, and so on. The drawback with using a cable is that you'll have to buy one for the job, and you might never use it again. The advantage of using an external hard drive is that you can use it to keep backup copies of your data.Windows Easy Transfer walks you through the process, and you can get a good idea of how it works by looking at the step-by-step illustrations at How-To Geek:Migrate XP to Windows 7 with Easy Transfer and a USB Drive. However, you have so much data, it's going to be a very long process. It would be better to move large sets of data, such as movie or music folders, first, then use Windows Easy Transfer to move the more personal data, such as email and bookmarks. Personally, I do it all manually anyway.Some programs will move applications as well as data. Examples include Zinstall'sXP7, Avanquest'sLaplink PC Mover Ultimate, and Spearit'sMove Me. O&amp;O Software'sMigration Kit for Windows 7also uses Laplink PC Mover.This sort of migration can be handy if you can no longer find your original discs. However, some applications are not designed to be moved – security software, for example; some applications may only be valid on your original PC; and some applications are designed to be installed from the web.For the best results, it's probably better to install all your applications manually before transferring your data. There are now sites that will "bulk install" a selection of programs from the web. The leading examples areNiniteandAllMyApps. Once you have everything running to your satisfaction, you can uninstall any major applications from your old laptop, if your licence only allows you to run them on one PC. (In some cases, a software licence allows you to run a program on both a desktop and a laptop.) Making a fresh start on a new PC should prompt you to think about which applications you actually need and which ones you can do without.You should also think about whether you actually need to have all your data on one laptop, and therefore whether you need a new laptop at all. If they are mostly music and video files, for example, you could move them to an external hard drive or a small server, such as aNAS(Network Attached Storage) device. Alternatively, you could back up multiple PCs and store all your files on aWindows Home Serversuch as an Acer EasyStore or HP MediaSmart server. Nowadays, a small media server should have at least 1TB of storage and be expandable to 4TB. Not many laptops offer more than 500GB.Whichever approach you choose, look for a system that can move data as quickly as possible. Even USB 2 feels slow if you need to move hundreds of megabytes. Faster options include eSATA and the new USB 3.0 standard. In the future, Intel Light Peak optical connections will offer much faster data transfer using a USB-style cable. Intel Research showed a laptop using Light Peak in May, as I reported here inIntel said: Let there be Light Peak.
Oh. Oh dear. In the same week that nostalgia buffs finally get their hands on the Wii (and DS) revamp of GoldenEye – the first-person shooter that pretty much started it all – the rest of the gaming world has to rely on Blood Stone for their Bond-related jollies. And that's probably the last time "jollies" will ever apply to this title.On the face of it – and at an early preview session – things looked good. The game features Daniel Craig's back-to-basics violent Bond, and puts the focus on gritty realism rather than jetpacks and cars that turn into submarines. Craig and Judi Dench are on hand to voice Bond and M respectively. The production values – international locations, big theme tune (by Joss Stone, also on hand to voice the love interest), a story by Bond screenwriter Bruce Feirstein – suggest that someone's taking their responsibility to the franchise seriously. Craig's stunt double has even done weeks of motion capture to make the hand-to-hand combat and stealth takedowns as authentic and as varied as possible.And it's all over in about five or six hours. Worse, for all its authenticity in terms of voicework, the cut scenes and animation are all too often hilariously awful. Craig's craggy face may well be a challenge for animators but surely Bond should never resemble Mad magazine mascot Alfred E Neuman?The thing is, you could probably live with that if the game was better. Instead, within what's actually a pretty good story – international terrorists and wealthy industrialists developing biochemical weapons — it's a dully repetitive combination of shoot-em-up interspersed with some driving levels.There are attempts to be different, with takedowns being rewarded by "Focus Aims" – a one shot kill that can pick off distant or plentiful foes with brutal efficiency. While there is some satisfaction in this, it doesn't serve much purpose, as aiming is disappointingly easy with any of the game's weaponry. Also, for all the promised variety of takedowns, they all look pretty damn similar to me.As for the driving sections, as you'd expect from the makers of Project Gotham Racing and Blur, these are slick, speedy and generally unforgiving, and provide a welcome adrenaline boost … and then you can feel yourself slump a little when they're over and it's back to the monotony of the fire fights and general espionage challenges that make up the bulk of the game.It's a crying shame, because Blood Stone ticks so many of the right boxes and the in-game mechanics – the use of cover, the ability to shoot from behind objects, etc – feel wonderfully natural. However, with just one battle that's even remotely a challenge, all the problems listed above and the one bit of gadgetry you do have – Bond's smartphone – "spoonfeeding" the way, Blood Stone simply keeps shooting itself in the foot.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Facebook's head of mobile business,Henri Moissinac, gave some tantalising insights into the firm's mobile aspirations when I interviewed him at thePlanet of the Appsconference in London yesterday.At one point he described Facebook's very telling vision of the direction of consumer web behaviour, saying that "people used to search the web but now browse the graph" – the Facebook social graph. That's not to overlook the power of search, but indicates how aggressively Facebook is positioning itself at the heart of the internet, as the starting point for the consumer online experience.Henri Moissinac's presentation explained how Facebook sees the web moving from search to social666 million users:It's four months since Facebook announced that it had reached500 million active monthly users worldwide, 26 million of whom are in the  UK. Those numbers have undoubtedly increased; mobile has risen from 150 million active monthly users in July to 200 million asannounced by founderMark Zuckerberglast night. It's fair to assume, then, that with a similar rate of growth the global user number is now around the deliciously symbolic 666 million.Facebook Zero:Facebook watchers have noted that the company's relatively effortless rise to half a billion users will be much harder to repeat for the next half a billion, with developing markets crucial to that growth. Mobile is key to that, particularly in markets where desktop use is low, such as Africa. Facebook's response to this strategy is Facebook Zero, a simplified, image-free version of the site that users can access for free in some of the markets where Facebook has negotiated a deal with operators. Turkey is seeing strong growth of Facebook Zero because mobile data costs are so high, and is just one country where users are benefitting from Facebook's deals with 300 mobile operators.Henri Moissinac, Facebook's head of mobile business. Photo byrsepulvedaon Flickr.Some rights reserved.Future:Moissinac described two different futures for Facebook; one in thedevelopingworld and one in thedevelopedworld. Facebook Zero gives some insight into how the company plans to pursue mobile-orientated growth across the former.Developers:Moissinac described third-party developers' objectives as a combination of distribution, audience engagement and monetisation. Facebook has not done enough so far to help developers make money from their apps on Facebook, he admitted, but is planning to work on that.When asked about Facebook's own monetisation plans he insisted it is still very early days, but eMarketer has estimated Facebook's ad revenue for 2010 will be around $1.28bn world – up from $665m in 2009.More stats from Moissinac:• 50% of Facebook users come back every day• 500,000 apps on Facebook• 250 million users every day• Mobile use is surprisingly 60% through mobile browsers, rather than apps, though 15% is through SMS.• Most active mobile users are in Indonesia, South Africa, Kenya, Canada and the US, where at least 60% of Facebook users spend just as much time on a mobile device as on the desktop.• Look at our data onThree mobile broadband useas one indicator, borne out by Nielsen data on US average time spent online from September this year;  Facebook at 5 hours 25 minutes compared to Yahoo at 2:17 and YouTube at 1:17.Startup culture:What Moissinac also described – when repeatedly asked by the audience  for release dates for an iPad app and various other projects – is how relatively small Facebook still is. It's a risky habit to give fixed release dates for developer projects which can easily slip back. Plus, despite the enormous expectation and  scrutiny of its products and activity, and the now phenomenal reach of  its service, it is still a small company of just 2,000 staff (that's was  Moissinac's guess, thoughLinkedInsays more like 3,000).That ever-attractive "newness" would explain the influx ofstaff inspired to leavethe now goliath Google to join Facebook, on 1601 California Avenue.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
iPhone users haven't been pleased by alarm failures. Photo bytronixstuffon Flickr.Some rights reservedApple has let slip the date of its forthcoming iOS 4.2 update in a note on its site about problems with recurring alarms.The company hasadmittedthat repeating alarms set on its iPhone or iPod Touch devices will sound wrongly by an hour after a daylight savings change - but adds that this will be fixed "after November 7th", a coy reference to an update to the 4.2 update to the iOS operating system due imminently.The bug caught out thousands of users in the UK earlier this week after the clocks went back, having previously annoyed people in Australia and New Zealand (whose clocks went forward) last month.Until then, says Apple in a support document on its site entitled "iOS 4.1: Repeating alarms may trigger incorrectly before or after DST change", the cure is: "To resolve this behavior for existing alarms, set the repeat interval to Never. You will need to reset these alarms for each day you need them."It then adds "After November 7th, 2010, you can set your alarms to repeat again" - believed to indicate that the OS update is coming by that date.Apple adds that "This document will be updated as more information becomes available", which suggests that it will change it to suggest people update to iOS 4.2.People who do not update to iOS 4.2 won't see the fix, however. Users of earler versions of iOS than 4.1 are not thought to be affected. Thus users of the original iPhone and iPod Touch, released in 2007, which cannot be updated to iOS 4.x, have not been affected.iOS 4.2brings a number of fixes and enhancements, including multitasking and folders for the iPad, over-the-air printing and Apple's AirPlay system and extra enterprise integration.Although Apple does not elucidate on the reasons, the bug is thought to occur because the alarms are set relative GMT, and fail to account for the local time changing.Update:I was wrong - Apple didn't update iOS in time to fix this for the US. Read about ithere.
Good moooooorning Toronto! Photo bygtall1on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 16 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhere the iPad comes into its own &gt;&gt; Memex 1.1John Naughton discovers a great new app, Soundnote: "At first sight it looks like any other notetaking App. But it has one magical ingredient: it can record audio and sync the recording to the typed notes. In other words, it does much of what my Livescribe pen does, but with none of the associated gadgetry — and cost. The Livescribe pen retails at around £120, and then there's the cost of the special notebooks (you can print your own special paper, but life's too short for that) on top."HTML5 Conformance Test Results &gt;&gt; W3 OrgPits Safari 5, Opera 11, Firefox 4b6, Google Chrome 7 and Internet Explorer 9 (preview 6) against the current HTML5 (not CSS3) testbed. See if you can guess what order they ranked before you click.Windows Phone 7 "selling well" so far &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKJack Schofield looks at WP7's progress (though nobody can work out whether there's been a supply constraint or a mad dash to buy), and asserts: "It seems likely that the number of WP7 apps will overtake the number of iPhone apps, though most of the WP7 apps may be in-house programs that are invisible to consumers."Filed away to revisit in the future, though it contains its own getout clause.'Evilgrade' Gets an Upgrade &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityApps that are updated on Windows but don't use a cryptographic key can have updates spoofed. "Among the software products that Amato says EvilGrade can compromise are iTunes, Java, Skype, Winamp — even security applications like Superantispyware, Sunbelt and Panda Antirootkit (a longer list of vulnerable apps is available inthe documentation)."iTunes considered harmful.Nokia Gets Support of ITC Staff in Apple Smartphone Trial - BloombergApple wants to get Nokia's phones ruled in breach of international rules, which would mean imports to the US would be blocked. (Would anyone notice?) Nokia, separately, wants to do the same to Apple.Porn maker sues 7,098 alleged film pirates | Media Maverick - CNET News"F--- 'em all," [Axel] Braun told Xbiz. "People don't realize that when you pirate a movie it hurts all of the people who work very hard to get it produced - from the cast to the production assistants to the makeup artists...So we are going after every one of them who pirates our content."You mean they're not doing it for the enjoyment in those films? But they always sound so happy.Google is lost in location-based battle with Facebook, will it check in? &gt;&gt; ScobleizerRobert Scoble: "In the past, to find a business, we'd go to Google and type something like 'Palo Alto Sushi.'"We're heading toward a world where you'll use location-based services to do the same thing. That is a HUGE disruptive threat to Google."Here's why."In Google's world they controlled everything and were able to decide which ads get displayed next to searches for businesses."The world has now shifted to where people like my wife stay signed into Facebook 18 hours a day. Now she can see which businesses her friends are using."New IE 0-Day used in Targeted Attacks &gt;&gt; Symantec Connect"Since the specific exploit page only worked when someone was using Internet Explorer 6 and 7, the script only transferred the visitor to the page hosting the exploit when this condition was met. In other cases the users didn't see anything but a blank website." There's a moral in here, if only we could disentangle it...10 Reasons Python Rocks for Research &gt;&gt; Hoyt KoepkeMakes a lot of good points, though quite a few of them aren't exclusive to Python by any means; it's more the fact that you have all of them together in the package. (OK, tuples are clever once you find the right use for them.) But quite a few of these could be applied to, say, PHP.Open data from the inside: Lichfield Council's Stuart Harrison &gt;&gt; Online Journalism Blog"I think the main thing I've learnt is that APIs are great, but they're not always necessary. My early work was on APIs that link directly into databases, but, as I've moved forward, I've found that this isn't always necessary. While an API is nice to have, it's sometimes much better to just get the data out there in a raw format."What do you have to believe for an Android dominated future? &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dedlu asks calmly what it would take for Android to become dominant, what the constraints are, how the future looks. Consistently rational, and points out that those cheering Android have forgotten that Windows Phone is more likely to take share from there than from Nokia, Apple or RIM. "Looking at the world through modular/inter-dependent lenses lets you see that mobile platform dynamics will not evolve as they did in the PC era. At least not for the foreseeable future."How much is that data plan going to cost you if you use internet TV? - The Globe and MailThe unanswered question about Google TV (and similar TV-over-web plans, Apple): are they going to pay for all that streamed data? Because there's no sign in Canada (where this article applies) or the UK of "unlimited" data plans even on fixed broadband.Recorded crime data at local authority level &gt;&gt; data.gov.ukCome on, someone has to be able to do something dramatic with this innocent-looking CSV.Apple confirms move to 90-second iTunes samples &gt;&gt; CNET NewsBecause it reckons you'll buy more tracks than with the present 30-second ones. Well, it gives you three times the chance of getting an earworm.Amazing Facts About Facebook And Breakups &gt;&gt; Mathias MikkelsenPre-Christmas is a minefield and spring is the worst. All human life is on Facebook, it seems.iPhoto '11 updated to squash "extremely rare" library bug &gt;&gt; DownloadSquad"Extremely rare". Suuuuure. The bug that deletes libraries whole. Mmm-hmm. The onle blamed on third-party plugins.Nobodyuses those.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
I'm a little late with this but, if you haven't already seen it, check out Super Twario. It's essentially an iPhone Twitter client designed to resemble – and play like – a mid-eighties platformer. Lead character Twario, wanders through the scrolling landscape, headbutting follower icons to read and reply to tweets. The 'game' uses the handset's accelerometer allowing you to tilt and tap your phone to navigate, and you score by writing our own messages, gaining new followers and a range of other actions. The original version has been out a couple of weeks, but a special Halloween version is now available, and the designers are busily working on new features.Created by Manchester-based advertising agency Head First, Super Twario is a sort of test case, designed to promote games as a way of getting brands noticed. As the agency's director Dom Conlon explains,  "Games are the meeting point for so many people and yet they are often sidelined into the special interest camp. We wanted to show that engaging people through gaming can apply to any product - even something like Twitter. Making an impact is more than just buying the right media, it is about creating the right product and the right message. Super Twario takes Twitter and says, let's interact with this in a new way."It is, of course, another example of 'gamification', a burgeoning trend for applying game design principles to other services. The competitive location finders FourSquare and Gowalla are currently the best known examples, with score-based to-do list, EpicWin, also garnering plenty of attention. The concept is, people like to play, so they're more likely to engage with complex or possibly mundane concepts if there's some sort of game involved.Although brands are fighting an ever-more complex war to grab the attention of skeptical consumers, Head First has encountered some resistance to its gamification ideas. "We were approached to spec out a campaign for an iPhone shop and created a real talking point by placing the game concept at its core. The client really liked it but didn't pursue it because it wasn't a traditional online shop front. That makes me scratch my head. We've had online shops for, what, a decade now? And already we are cementing our ideas on what a shopping experience is. It seems counter-intuitive to me."I can understand Dom's bewilderment. An online store designed to work like a game would seem to be the perfect method of capturing unwilling male shoppers. Amazon-meets-Sonic the Hedgehog? You could be on Stage five before you realised you'd bought three books and a DVD box set.
This week, the US supreme court is hearingSchwarzenegger v EMA,  debating a law that would ban the sale of violent video games to minors. It seems likely that the law will be ruled unconstitutional, but it has sparked much discussion about the evidence – or lack of it – that games are harmful.In the UK it is alreadyillegal for games containing "gross violence" to be sold to children. But even this doesn't seem to calm worries – parents frequently corner me when they hear I write about games. One name and one question comes up often: "Doesn't Susan Greenfield say that games destroy empathy?"Greenfield may be a distinguished neuroscientist, butshe has been roundly debunkedfor her unscientific pronouncements on gaming. Nonetheless, soundbites such as "When we play computer games, we are all autistic," linger in the fearful mind, so specific examples of games that have given me empathetic experiences are useful.I have been playing the newly  released Fable III this week. You can play as a male or female hero, and marry either sex too – no distinction between marriages and civil partnerships here. Fable III is also bug-laden. When I held my in-game husband's hand, he would coo at me; when I let go, he'd snarl "You murdering beast!". I decided he had mental health problems. When he died, tragically, of another bug, and our virtual child unaccountably changed race, I found myself wondering if I should find a new partner of the same race as little Louise, to make her more comfortable. If anything, this game was making me too empathetic.But empathy's not in the game, it's in the person playing – and the idea that games could erase such a  fundamental human trait is pretty peculiar.
Facebook today  revealed a series of improvements to its service on mobile devices in a move that lays the foundations for new revenue streams from retail stores, venues and small businesses.Mobile is seen as a powerful platform for the expansion of Facebook, particularly in the developing world where internet adoption is increasingly skipping desktop computers and growing rapidly on the mobile web.Addressing a packed hall at Facebook's headquarters in Palo Alto, California, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg revealed Facebook Deals, which allows stores, restaurants and businesses to offer promotions and discounts to users of Facebook's location tool, Places.Launched in the US in August and in the UK six weeks later, Places allows users to share their location with Facebook friends. Aware of consumers' privacy concerns, Facebook has insisted the service is fully opt-in, though the new service may give users more incentive to share their location.Facebook's launch partners for the new Deals service include clothing store Gap, which is giving away a pair of jeans to the first 10,000 Facebook users to check in to a Gap store, while McDonalds will donate $1 to its children's charity for each check-in. Deals will launch in the US initially but is likely to launch in the UK early next year.Users will show businesses a voucher on their mobile to claim deals. A spokesman was keen to emphasise users are not identified to business owners. "Brands/venues/Place owners will only see how many people claimed deals and how many people checked in – similar to the way Ads works. They know how many people the ad will be shown to but not who it was shown to. will not get any other information about individual people that check in on Facebook."Zuckerberg announced that mobile use of Facebook has increased to 200 million people globally each month, a tenfold rise in one year. A new software development kit for iPhone and Android mobile developers will add features that enable them to include Facebook Deals in third-party apps.Facebook's head of mobile business, Henri Moissinac, told the Guardian the improvement could be interesting for developers. "Augmented-reality apps like Layar will be able to visualise deals in real-time around a user's location," he said.Other improvements include adding the new Groups feature to mobiles and simplifying the log-in process between Facebook and other apps. Previously, users had to log in to switch between Facebook and other apps, like film site Netflix, but an extension of Facebook Connect means users can access the site from within the Facebook app with just one click.In May this year, Facebook launched a simplified image-free version of the site, Facebook Zero, that is free for users and designed to encourage heavier use by people in countries with expensive mobile data, such as Turkey.
You'll recall Steve Jobs, who in the middle of his duffing-up of rival tablets during Apple's earnings call last month, criticised the 7in would-be iPad rivals on the basis of their area.Specifically, he said:"I'd like to comment on the avalanche of tablets poised to enter the market in the coming months. First, it appears to be just a handful of credible entrants, not exactly an avalanche. Second, almost all of them use seven-inch screens as compared to iPad's near 10-inch screen. Let's start there. One naturally thinks that a seven-inch screen would offer 70% of the benefits of a 10-inch screen. Unfortunately, this is far from the truth. The screen measurements are diagonal, so that a seven-inch screen is only 45% as large as iPad's 10-inch screen. You heard me right; just 45% as large."If you take an iPad and hold it upright in portrait view and draw an imaginary horizontal line halfway down the screen, the screens on the seven-inch tablets are a bit smaller than the bottom half of the iPad display. This size isn't sufficient to create great tablet apps in our opinion."(Transcriptcourtesy Seeking Alpha.)Of course on hearing that, my first thought was: can that be right? My second was: how can we figure this out? And my third was: Pythagoras.It turns out to be pretty easy to use Pythagoras's theorem to figure out the area of a tablet, once you're given the screen diagonal length and the ratio (R) of the height to length. (It's left as an exercise for the reader to figure out why it makes no difference whether you record the horizontal or vertical pixels first.)Pythagoras's theorem can tell you the area of a triangle if you know its diagonal and the ratio of its sides. Which we do, with tablet computersSo let's plug in the figures for the iPad, and - for example - the Samsung Galaxy Tab.iPad: 9.7in diagonal, 1024x768: area = 45.16 square inches.Galaxy Tab: 7in diagonal, 1024x600: area = 21.37 sq in.In other words, the Galaxy Tab's screen is 47% of the size of the iPad.It would be larger if it were 1024x768 or 800x600 (which gives the same height/length ratio): that would make it 23.52 sq in, which is 52% of the iPad size. But there seem to be constraints on Android tablets displays.There's plenty more, but one fact stands out: in all the data on all the tablets I've collected, there isn't a single one that's bigger in screen area than the iPad,including those with 10.1in diagonals: the 1024x600 ratio limits the area (again, it's an exercise for you, dear reader, to figure out what the maximum size of a 10.1in diagonal would be, and what shape the tablet would have to be).So what do we learn? Well, apart from Jobs rounding down the numbers in a way that doesn't favour rivals (not quite a surprise), it really is the case that those 7in tablets have less than half the screen area than an iPad. That, I think, really does mean they're likely to be better for consumption than creation (I've been trying a Galaxy Tab for a few hours, and it certainly shows a nice film, and it's not bad for maps, and pretty nice for scrolling through mobile sites). But it's not immersive in the same way as the iPad.And of course there's then the question of price. But we'll take a closer look at prices and sizes and other details in the near future.But for now, have you compared the two sizes? And do you think it makes any significant difference if the Android tablets aren't as big?(Edited to change the inch measure from '"' to 'in' to match Guardian style. Edited to correct "square" to "triangle" in caption.)
Ministry of Sound is suspending plans to send warning notices to more than 25,000 BT broadband customers suspected of illegal downloading, claiming that the internet service provider has deleted their details.BT had agreed to retain the personal details of 20,000 of its customers earlier this year, so that Ministry of Sound could pursue them once an injunction on the court order was lifted. However, the record label today said that BT had "failed to preserve" the details.The telecoms company was granted an injunction on the original court order, submitted by law firm Gallant Macmillan on behalf of Ministry of Sound, on 4 October. The broadband provider argued that it would continue to challenge such orders – known as "Norwich Pharmacal orders" – until the rights holder and law firm can prove that accusations of illegal filesharing have "some basis".Ministry of Sound claims that Gallant Macmillan, and the technology company DigiRights Solutions had identified more than 150,000 UK IP addresses sharing the label's copyrighted content.The Ministry of Sound chief executive, Lohan Presencer, said: "It is very disappointing that BT decided not to preserve the identities of the illegal uploaders. Given that less than 20% of the names remain and BT costs have soared from a few thousand pounds to several hundred thousand pounds, it makes no economic sense to continue with this application. We are more determined than ever to go after internet users who illegally upload our copyrighted material."We will be making further applications for information from all ISPs. Every time that a track or album is uploaded to the web it is depriving artists of royalties and reducing the money which we can invest in new British talent."A BT spokesman responded: "We're surprised at this claim since we provided a similar number of customer details to comply with a court order earlier this year for Ministry of Sound and there was no suggestion then that this was a problem for them."All such information is automatically deleted from our systems after 90 days in accordance with our data retention policy; the Ministry of Sound and its solicitors are well aware of this. Upon request from Ministry of Sound we saved as much of the specific data sought as we reasonably could and any not preserved must have been too old. Our door remains open to Ministry of Sound and any other rights holder who wants to enforce their rights in a fair way through an established legal process."The spokesman added that BT would now write to law firms ACS:Law and Gallant Macmillan seeking their agreement to a revised approach to granted court orders. He said that any rights holder seeking future disclosure of customer details through court orders would have to agree to this approach."Ministry of Sound's decision is clearly a matter for them. It's a shame though that, in this instance, our concerns over the current process will not be examined by the court," the spokesman added."However, it remains our intention to ensure our broadband customers are adequately protected so that rights holders can pursue their claims for copyright infringement without causing unnecessary worry to innocent people."BT believes that with appropriate safeguards to protect customers' rights, confidence in the Norwich Pharmacal process can be restored so that rights holders can feel able to use it to seek redress for online copyright infringement."The safeguards we aim to establish via the court are on the security of data handling, a threshold for providing a customer's details based on a minimum number of separate incidents, the tone of contact with broadband subscribers and a reasonable approach to financial compensation sought."The process of identifying and pursuing internet users suspected of illegal filesharing was called into question earlier this year following the online leak ofpersonal details of thousands of UK broadband usersfrom ACS:Law.ACS:Law attracted the ire of online activists for its method of tracking and pursuing those it suspects of sharing copyrighted material. Hundreds of internet users ordered to pay a fine by the company complained that they had been wrongly identified and are now looking to form a class action lawsuit against the firm.The law firm's website was targeted with a coordinated attack in September, knocking it temporarily offline. But the information it held about thousands of internet users was uploaded online in the aftermath of the attack. The information commissioner is now investigating the data breach.If it is determined that the exposure was the result of ACS:Law's own data security shortcomings, rather than the fault of external hackers, the information commissionercould levy a £500,000 fineon the law firm.Solicitors acting on behalf of rights holders gain the contact details of broadband customers they suspect of sharing copyrighted content by applying for a court order against the relevant ISP. Most, if not all, of the ISPs subjected to these orders have now said they will contest them until the security of customer data is assured.
There can't be many organisations that measure their success by the volume of hate mail they get, butBloxxis one of them.The Edinburgh-based company sells a web and email filtering tool now used by nearly 700 educational organisations across the UK – which has made it the target of some energetic and inventive (if not particularly literate) hate mail from students who find access to games sites, social networks and porn now inaccessible from many school computers."YOU SUCK. HOW DARE YOU MAKE TEACHER BY YOUR PRODUCT AND BLOCK EVERY BIT OF FUN WE EVER HAD IN SCHOOL." [sic]Another tried a free speech angle: "YOU ARE A BUNCH OF MOTHER FUCKERS! WHY DO YOU HAVE TO BLOCK ALL THE DECENT SITES ON THE INTERNET?!?! THE INTERNET SHOULD BE FREE FROM REGULATION!"Photo byd.loopon Flickr.Some rights reservedOne more included multiple references to intimate body parts, but was severe enough for Bloxx to forward the email to the school's IT manager, along with information that identified the IP of the machine and user that sent the message.Chief executive Eamonn Doyle – who admitted Bloxx does not display its company logo outside its Edinburgh offices – said the six-year-old firm had originally produced conventional filtering software informed by human-edited blacklists of sites."We had the realisation that our largest US competitors were employing 80-90 people to blacklist 400-600 sites per day, but we had no access to funds for that number of staff so decided to find a dynamic mechanism," said Doyle. In 2007, the company introduced a new technology called Tru-View that assesses the suitability of a site based on language, construction and contextual language in real time."Tru-View technology makes an assessment about a site even if it hasn't seen it before, and then either allows it to display or blocks it." A major problem for schools has been for students to useanonymous proxy toolsto disguise their location and therefore bypass filters, and some pupils even built their own. But proxies don't work with the Bloxx system either, because it filters information at the 'point of request'.One school IT manager using Bloxx said that "students hate me but think I'm some kind of God to have blocked all proxies known to man".Doyle said the system allows different configurations for different age groups, for example, at one institution. "It's about not allowing access to sites that the teacher doesn't want them to access. It also spreads the word that they can't beat the filter, so they should just get on with the work!"Bloxx itself is a Scottish success story, and one of the country's most promising startups. Built with talent from Edinburgh and Heriot-Watt universities, it has 45 staff with 16 engineers, recently ranked19th fastest growing techcompany in the UK by Deloitte.Bloxx serves 3,000 networks of varying sizes, but 25% of those are in education and 90% of those are in the UK, though it is making progress with trials in US schools.As for future growth, it could do worse than look again at some of its young assailants. Bloxx were surprised when an important client from a West Country school emailed Bloxx late last year to cancel their contract – but on further examination, the email came from one very determined pupil. Perhaps Doyle should offer him a job? "There is a little of that idea in my head..."
Like this, all over the UK, for a week. Photo byWayda Dreamscapeon Flickr.Some rights reservedSick of the fact that you need Wi-Fi but don't want to pay the hotspot prices for it? Well, just wait a few days. To celebrate the first-everInternet Week Europe, Skype says it will enable free public Wi-Fi via Skype Access throughout the UK for the duration of the festival (8 – 12 November inclusive). And that's across the UK. (Though not, of course, hotels, as those aren't public. Though possibly if there are hotspots run by Skype Access partners, they will be. We're awaiting more information.)The partnership "will allow everyone participating in Internet Week Europe, as well as the rest of the UK, to benefit from the festival's launch."Internet Week Europe is festival dedicated to celebrating Internet organisations and culture, and is proud to bring over 80 events to London during the week as well as free Wi-Fi to the entire UK. (And, we'll point out, theTech Weekly podcastwill be attending some of the events to record items, so be nice.)Internet Week Europe is all about the impact that the web has on our daily lives, from business to entertainment. What better way to celebrate that impact than partnering with Skype to make the Internet more accessible than ever," said David-Michel Davies, co-chairman, Internet Week Europe.What better way indeed. Now the interesting question: how much is that going to cost Skype? If we know that, we may also get a handle on how widely used Wi-Fi hotspots are - especially given that there has always been substantial debate about whether the paid-for model is effective for passing users, or only effective if you sell them as add-ons to other services (in the way that BT's OpenZone often is).It's not clear - reading the instructions - whether this really will apply toeverypublic hotspot: some of the hotspots might be "not compatible", which might mean there isn't a licensing/revenue agreement. (You can see the full list of providers who already do deals with Skype for itsexisting Skype Wi-Fi Access system: they include BT OpenZone, The Cloud, Spectrum Interactive and plenty more.We have asked Skype for their estimate on this (or hard numbers), but haven't heard back. We'll update if we do. In the meantime, you're very welcome to put your estimates (with reasoning, if you've got some spare) in the comments.How to get free Wi-Fi in the UK between 8 and 12 November1. Make sure you have the latest version of Skype on your computer, laptop or mobile2. Sign in to Skype and select an available public access Wi-Fi network. You'll get an automatic pop up message if the one you select is not compatible with Skype Access, so you can select another.More information, including instructions on how to set it up, is available athttp://www.skype.com/intl/en/features/allfeatures/skype-access/
Let's face it, you probably want to read a review of a Ben 10 game about as much as I want to write one. Games reviewing isn't all about the Fallouts and Final Fantasies of this world, however; and since I've taken the time to immerse myself in a world utterly bemusing to anyone over the age of nine, you can at least scan through the next few paragraphs.Right then. For those not aware of the Ben 10 franchise, it follows the adventures of a teenager called Ben Tennyson who leads a double life, having to save the world as his alter ego, Ben 10, in one, while having to do homework and deal with confusing feelings about girls in the other.This, I believe, was essentially the premise for 90s kids cartoon Bucky O Hare. But let's not get into that. Ben's special power, as it were, is to be able to transform into a variety of different aliens. Aliens offered to you with no explanation, and seem to exist solely for the purpose to be sold as toys (a Star Wars fan probably shouldn't moralise too much about such cynical tactics).The ability to transform into these creatures at any point adds variety to gameplay, as you'll need to switch between giant-turtle-man and giant-dinosaur-man to navigate the game's generic platforming challenges. The turtle, for example, can hover and do a double jump, while the little alien man can make a clone of himself to hold down switches.Action takes the form of a platform puzzler, and the game is well paced to ensure there's a decent balance between these elements. Neither are particularly fun but they're not too awful either – Cosmic Destruction excels in being utterly run-of-the-mill in most respects.Catering as it is solely for fans, the game makes little attempt to explain its setting to newcomers – a two- or three-minute intro sequence would have been much appreciated, even if only to appease befuddled parents and game reviewers. The lack of exposition means even if Cosmic Destruction were a great game, it would still be completely alienating to outsiders. In fact, you could say it's ultimately alienating. Do you see what I did there?The graphics are pretty poor for an HD title – natural, I suppose, when a game is ported across so many systems. The levels, too, look very drab – there's very little aesthetic flourish on offer here. Controls are decent, though combat is pretty dull – and,  to be fair, members of the target audience probably aren't old enough to be playing Arkham Asylum.Despite these misgivings, the gameplay actually isn't all that bad. It's a pretty short playthrough, but the mix of puzzles, platforming and enemy-bashing are diverting enough. Pacing is good, and there's enough of a challenge on offer to mean there's some satisfaction to be found in completing the game.The aliens at your disposal can be upgraded using collectable points and there's a decent amount of bonus content on offer, including a short making-of documentary. These sorts of franchise titles, especially ones aimed at children, are often unforgivably lazy, and at least it feels like some effort has been made here to provide value.The parents of Ben 10 loving kids won't feel shortchanged by Cosmic Destruction. But they won't be tempted to play. Children's cartoons and their video game adaptations probably weren't much better in my day. But I still can't help but feel that a title that has no ambitions to cater to anyone beyond a niche audience is something of a missed opportunity.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Google committed a "significant breach" of the Data Protection Act when its Street View cars collected personal data including full emails and passwords from unsuspecting internet users, the UK information commissioner confirmed today.The information commissioner, Christopher Graham, rejected calls to inflict a financial penalty on Google, but said the company must sign an undertaking to ensure data protection breaches do not happen again or it will face further enforcement action.Google has also been ordered to delete the data it collected from users' Wi-Fi networks by its Street View cars once legally cleared to do so. The culture minister, Ed Vaizey,last week announced the Metropolitan police had dropped its investigation into the breaches.Graham said: "It is my view that the collection of this information was not fair or lawful and constitutes a significant breach of the first principle of the Data Protection Act (DPA)."The most appropriate and proportionate regulatory action in these circumstances is to get written legal assurance from Google that this will not happen again – and to follow this up with an ICO audit."He added that the technology giant would now be subject to an official audit of its data protection practices in the UK.Google global privacy counsel, Peter Fleischer, said: "We are profoundly sorry for mistakenly collecting payload data in the UK from unencrypted wireless networks."Since we announced our mistake in May we have cooperated closely with the ICO and worked to improve our internal controls. As we have said before, we did not want this data, have never used any of it in our products or services, and have sought to delete it as quickly as possible."We are in the process of confirming that there are no outstanding legal obligations upon us to retain the data, and will then ensure that it is quickly and safely deleted."Privacy campaigners reacted angrily to the ICO's decision not to impose a financial penalty on Google, warning that it could now be open-season for internet businesses to breach users' privacy.Alex Deane, director of campaign group Big Brother Watch, told the Guardian: "Google should have been fined at the highest possible level. The information commissioner's failure to take action is disgraceful."Ruling that Google has broken the law, but then taking no action against it, shows the commissioner to be a paper tiger. The commissioner is an apologist for the worst offender in his sphere of responsibility, not a policeman of it."If Google can harvest the personal information of thousands of people and get off scot-free, then the ICO plainly has a contempt for privacy."Google last month said it was "mortified" to learn that it had collected personal data from internet users, which included emails, passwords, URLS and some health records. The company admitted to the personal data collection in May, following an investigation by the German authorities, but the nature of what was collected only came to light after an investigation by the Canadian privacy commissioner.The US internet giant is facing investigations in a number of countries around the world for the Wi-Fi data collection.Aninvestigation by the Canadian privacy commissionerfound that Google's data harvesting occurred when a lone engineer programmed the company's Street View cars with code enabling them to scoop so-called "payload" data from unsecured wireless internet connections in the near vicinity.Rob Halfon, the Conservative MP who organisedlast week's parliamentary debate on privacy and the internet, claimed that the information commissioner was prevented from taking stronger action against Google earlier this year because the DPA at the time limited his powers.The ICO has since been given extra powers to fine organisations up to £500,000 for "serious breaches" of the DPA, though the commissioner said such a fine would not be imposed upon Google at this time.Halfon today said: "Following my parliamentary debate last week, and my criticism of Google and the information commissioner, I welcome the ICO's admission that the Street View project was a significant breach of the Data Protection Act."However, the ICO has not so much locked the barn door after the horse has bolted, but called a fire engine after the barn has burnt down."The fact is that the ICO failed to act when it should have done, despite the fact that Google staged a significant infringement of privacy and civil liberties, by harvesting millions of emails, Wi-Fi addresses, and passwords."Furthermore, the ICO has already proved that it lacks the technical expertise to audit Google's activity. What confidence can we have in their audit now?"People feel powerless. We need an internet bill of rights, to give ordinary people some right of redress, and a proper commission of inquiry to look into this."Halfon yesterday tabled around 50 written questions about the role of the ICO and its investigation into the Google Wi-Fi data breach.
Individuals would be able to get redress against internet companies such as Google or Facebook if they feel they have invaded their privacy, under a code of internet conduct being proposed by the culture minister, Ed Vaizey.The code would be an updated and more concise version of thecode for privacy online(PDF) which is used by the Information Commissioner's Office, whom Vaizey is understood to be meeting today to push his proposal.Vaizey, the Conservative MP for Wantage and Didcot, last week likened this prospective mediation service to the Press Complaints Commission, which works to resolve complaints by members of the public about information published in the UK press."One wants at least to attempt to give consumers some opportunity to have a dialogue with internet companies, as they would be able to do if a newspaper had inadvertently published that information," he said. "There is huge scope for self-regulation."Vaizey is understood to be meeting with the UK information commissioner (ICO) today to suggest a refreshed code of conduct to be signed up to by internet businesses such as Google and Facebook.The minister wants businesses to sign up to an updated and more concise version of the ICO's code of conduct, and then display that in a prominent place on their home page with a link to the code. It has been described by one well-placed observer as "the first step towards a proper internet bill of rights".Duringa parliamentary debateonprivacy and the internetlast week, Vaizey said that "more well-known and legitimate websites" should be made to sign-up to the code, saying later that both Google and Facebook would be required to discuss opportunities for redress for aggrieved citizens."Critical momentum could be built up if more well-known and legitimate websites signed up to the code, made that plain on their home pages and allowed consumers to see what that code states," he said.Privacy and the internet has been accelerated to the forefront of public debate across the world this year following a number of significant and large-scale breaches. Facebook, which signed up its 500 millionth user worldwide earlier this year, worried users – and the European commission's data protection working party – with its rollback of privacy provisions. Google, meanwhile, continues to face unprecedented class actions and investigations around the world into its "mistaken"collection of personal data from personal Wi-Fi connectionsby Street View cars.Vaizey will also write to internet service providers and internet companies to propose a new mediation service, which would give people who feel their privacy has been breached another means of redress.Facebook said of the proposals: "Facebook is an industry leader in giving people the best tools to protect their privacy. We look forward to hearing more about Mr Vaizey's plans and continuing to work with both him and the ICO." Google declined to comment.A spokesman for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said: "We are keen to explore ideas for how we can work together with industry to improve the customer experience around complaints and problems with service as well as other online issues, including a mediation service."Ed Vaizey will write to internet service providers and other key players to set up a meeting to explore various options."The ICO, widely thought to have insufficient power to enforce punishments against companies found to have breached privacy laws, will be given new capacity to protect citizens in line with new EuropeanUnion privacy directives. The directive states that, among other things, the UK should establish a regulator to make sure the interception of users' communication is within the boundaries of the law.The European commission is in the process of taking the UK government to court forbreaching EU laws on internet privacyover complaints about the Phorm activity-tracking web system and its failure to change the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) and the Data protection Act (DPA), the latter of which empowers the ICO.In April, the ICO was given the power to issue monetary penalty notices to companies it rules have committed "serious breaches" of the Data Protection Act. Rob Halfon, the Conservative MP for Harlow,said last weekthat the ICO was prevented from taking stronger action against Google after its Street View cars collected sensitive Wi-Fi data because the Data Protection Act at the time limited its powers.Halfon yesterday tabled around 50 written questions to the Ministry of Justice about the ICO, including a number on the office's investigation into the Google Wi-Fi data.The ICO ruled in July that Google had not breached data protection laws, but has subsequently said it will re-examine the data, following revelations uncovered by investigations from privacy commissioners in other countries. Last month Google admitted that the data harvested when its Street View cars mapped some locations was more sensitive than previously thought, in some cases obtaining full emails and passwords.Ina statement released on Monday, the ICO said: "Whilst we continue to work with our other international counterparts on this issue we will not be panicked into a knee jerk response to an alarmist agenda."
Best known for the classic RPG title Deus Ex, veteran games developer Warren Spector has turned his sights towards Mickey Mouse.Disney Epic Mickeyis released for the Wii later this month, and I recently spoke to Spector about the game as well Deus Ex, Disney and what boardgames can teach video game designers.Why Mickey Mouse and why now?A better question might be: "Why NOT Mickey Mouse and why NOT now?" Mickey's been a star of movies, television, theme parks – he's been a part of the lives of most people on the planet – yet he's never been a video game star on par with the biggest video game heroes out there. You have to wonder why not, and the team at Junction Point is honoured to be in a position to try to do something about it. As far as the timing, well, I'd write that off to luck as much as anything – I happened to be out looking for a development deal and Disney happened to think my team and I might be the right people to make a Mickey Mouse game. Nothing deeper than that, though it is nice that video game hardware has progressed to the point where our graphics and animation can meet people's expectations of Disney as far as quality is concerned.Is Mickey still relevant to the kids of today?In some way, Mickey Mouse is still relevant to everyone. Whether it's as the hero of an adventure story, as teacher and friend, as icon on watch, shirt or hat – everyone knows Mickey Mouse. The amazing thing is that he IS still relevant, 82 years after his creation. How many other things created or that were popular in 1928, in any entertainment medium, can that be said about? Mickey's longevity and continued relevance is amazing.What sort of audience do you think will be attracted to Disney Epic Mickey?You never know until a game is out there in people's hands, but my HOPE is that Disney Epic Mickey will appeal to all ages, men and women, boys and girls. Everyone at Junction Point has been inspired by the creative folks at Pixar and Disney Feature Animation to make "entertainment for everyone". Just as no one would say Up or Ratatouille was just for kids, we wanted to make a game that kids and adults could appreciate and enjoy. My greatest joy is seeing parents and kids playing Disney Epic Mickey together, handing the controllers back and forth, helping each other out. We've seen that a lot, actually, at shows and in our playtest sessions.Were you tempted to argue with Disney and make Mickey more "modern" for this game – or do you think the classic/vintage look will still resonate with today's gamers?I knew going in that making a Mickey game wasn't going to be the same as making an Ultima or Deus Ex game. When you're dealing with a character as long-lived and as important to people as Mickey Mouse, it was critical to work with folks at Disney to create a Mickey and a world we could all be happy with. We did that early collaborative work, so we knew where the boundaries were and since we helped to create them, we never felt particularly constrained by them – no more than you're constrained creatively in any endeavour. I mean, we couldn't put magic in Deus Ex and you wouldn't have a 747 land in the middle of Red Dead Redemption, would you? All creative efforts happen within constraints. Disney was an active participant, with the team and me, in defining where the lines were.Related to that – how much freedom were you given with Mickey as a character?I was pretty surprised by how open Disney was with their most well-known character. We came up with a unique video game for Mickey a little bit borrowed from existing Disney representations of the character and a little of our own unique thinking about the character. Though he looks kind of classic, he's really unlike any other Mickey Mouse, yet instantly recognizable.  If you don't really study him, you might not even notice we changed anything! I love that. As far as behaviour went, we tried to determine the things that have been constant in Mickey's character throughout the years and in a variety of media and, once we'd identified those things, we ran with them. Like everything in the game, we wanted our Mickey Mouse to be "familiar yet different" and I think we succeeded in that. Of course, you'll tell me if I'm right!Having played some of Epic Mickey it reminds me of a gentler gaming time – do you think the game may have an almost retro appeal to older gamers?One of the goals of the game was to honour Disney's creative history, as well as Nintendo's. I love the Mario and Zelda games and have been waiting a long time to make a game inspired by them. So if old school gamers see things they remember from their past, or Disney fans find things they remember from their childhoods, that's ace with me! Really, though, I'm most happy that Disney Epic Mickey has its own unique feel. It doesn't feel like any other game – not once you really get into it and realise you can determine, to an extent, how it plays. The fact that we were able to give Disney Epic Mickey a unique feeling is fantastic.Your games are famous for allowing the players to choose – how does this work in Epic Mickey?Just to clarify one thing – I hope my games are known for allowing players to choose but, most importantly, showing players the consequences of their choices. Choice without consequence isn't worth the effort – it's tough making a game that isn't just about solving puzzles. Ask anyone on the Mickey team! Okay, with that said, the way this works in Disney Epic Mickey is through our core mechanics (drawing and erasing), which allow you to solve problems in the game in a variety of ways. And the ways in which you choose to solve problems – when and what you choose to draw or erase – changes the way characters in the game world feel about you. That in turn changes the quests you hear about, the collectibles you can find and so on. That's just the easy stuff to describe. There are a bunch of levels at which choice and consequence work in Epic Mickey and I'm looking forward to players discovering that as they play. For core gamers, this may be old hat but with Mickey Mouse as our star, and given the platforming and action-adventure elements of the game, I suspect this will be new to a lot of players.Is the story that important to Epic Mickey – or its audience? – or are you still committed to gaming storytelling?Every game I've worked on has told a story and I don't think I'm going to stop now! The story is as important in Disney Epic Mickey as it has been in any of my earlier games. It's about brothers reuniting, about a world that needs saving, about a mischievous mouse who has to take responsibility for his actions and right some wrongs he inadvertently caused. I'm pretty psyched about the story.How do you marry the need to make a deep and engaging game – that requires skills and a challenge – with the obvious desire to make the game as accessible as possible to the wider Wii audience?I've always believed that the choice and consequence approach to game design – an approach that allows each player to find his or her own solution to problems – was a great way to make games more accessible. In a game where problems can be solved in a variety of ways, if you're not skilled enough one way, try something else. There's a natural difficulty adjustment that occurs when players choose their own playstyle and find the ways in which they're most comfortable interacting with game challenges.Pretty as the game looks do you not wish you could use the HD visuals available on the other consoles?It's funny, gamers are always talking about how gameplay comes first. But then they turn around and complain about lack of next gen shaders or poly counts that don't match some arbitrary standard. I really don't miss HD visuals, particularly. I mean, if we had them, great, but not having them isn't killing me or anything. If the gameplay is there and if the game looks good, I'm happy. And I'm REALLY happy about the chance to design a game to a single piece of hardware, rather than having to compromise to make a game that works on a variety of platforms. I'd trade focus for HD visuals every time.The original Deus Ex game gets a lot of love but do you think gaming generally has failed to build on the innovations (freedom etc) shown in that game?I actually think we're doing pretty well as a medium. The fact is there are more developers doing more types of things on more different platforms, distributed in more ways to more diverse audiences than ever before. We have a core game market and business, a thriving indie movement, social games, MMO's, smartphone games, handheld games, downloadables for all sorts of platforms. Speaking more specifically about "freedom" and the impact of Deus Ex, I look around and see more games of choice and consequence than ever before too and some of them are pretty amazing.What do you think of the new Deus Ex game?I've only seen what's been shown at various trade shows – no inside information! – but based on what I've seen, the Eidos Montreal team have done a terrific job capturing the spirit and gameplay ideals of the original. I couldn't be happier or prouder (well, unless I'd made it myself, maybe!). And I sure can't wait to play it – I've never had the chance to play a Deus Ex game where I didn't know all the secrets! That'll be a nice change of pace.Forget the economics for a minute, but as a designer do you prefer creating games on PC or console?I'm kind of an odd duck in that I've never really seen much difference between PC and console games, or PC and console gamers. Other than a keyboard on the one hand and a predictable set of hardware capabilities on the other, games are kind of just games to me.  I guess I don't really have a console or PC preference, as a developer. As a player, I found myself doing most of my gaming on the Nintendo Wii, even before we started working on Disney Epic Mickey as a Wii exclusive. But that was because I wanted a particular kind of gaming experience which Nintendo seemed to be offering more consistently than other platforms.You are well known as a fan of board games – can video games learn anything from them?Sure, there's plenty to be learned from board games. There's the need for clear rules; there are social aspects to board gaming; you can do a lot of interesting prototype work on paper before you spend tons of money on code and graphics. But there's a limit to what we can learn and we need to be aware of those limits. The biggest difference between the two forms of gaming is that board games are flexible and modifiable.  In other words, players can ignore rules or work their way past gaps and errors in the rules.  Video games are what I call a "literal" medium – in other words, if we don't plan it and support it, it can't happen, and if we leave a gap in our rules, it's a bug, and the game often becomes unplayable.  That key difference aside, the biggest lesson I brought with me from board games to videogames was the power of the player in crafting experience. Board games are by their very nature about empowering players, or at least about designers collaborating with players to create the final experience. Video game developers could do a lot worse than to acknowledge the place and power of gamers in the completion of their work. Without players, we're nothing.•Epic Mickey is released in the UK for the Nintendo Wii on 26 November
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Join Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss as they tackle this week's technology news on Tech Weekly. The team jump on board the Start-up Shuttle, a new networking concept that brings funders and digital entrepreneurs together on the rails. Is train-based communicating really the answer for tech developers?The music industry continues to take action against peer to peer filesharing technology, bringing an injunction against Limewire. Charles thinks the move will be ineffective, while Jemima claims the music biz is an easy target for criticism. What's the best new media model for musos?Keith Stuart speaks to David Vonderhaar from Treyarch at the launch of the latest in the profoundly successful Call of Duty video game series, a franchise that's only been beaten in the box office by four films and two games.And the generational shift between web 1.0 and 2.0 is cemented as several of Google's greatest developers set sail for Silicon Valley and social networking service Facebook.Don't forget – Tech Weekly is coming to the Bradford animation festival at the National Media Museum on 9 November.  Our guests will include Charles Cecil, Kieron Gillen and Dan Pinchbeck, and it'll all be presented by Keith Stuart.There's details on how to come join us here – tickets are FREE.And later in November Tech Weekly is coming to Dublin for a meetup –Jemima has more details here– come and visit us!Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Sunrise at Moto Azabu, Japan. Photo byDanDeChiaroon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple iPad's rivals can't hang on pricing &gt;&gt; ZDNetIt is worth considering that the reason why rivals can't beat Apple on pricing (even though they don't have any significant development costs on the software) is that Steve Jobs and especially Tim Cook have turned the company into one of the most efficient consumer electronics manufacturers in the world.A Search Market Craters - Welcome to the App Diaspora"Hadley Reynolds, a senior analyst at IDC, said in a presentation last week at Lucene Revolution that the enterprise "OEM" search market is expected to drop from more than $100 million in 2007 to $50 million by 2011. The market has traditionally included companies such as Autonomy and FAST, which was sold to Microsoft and is now integrated with Sharepoint."'We see the OEM search market as essentially cratering,' Reynolds said."This seems concerning for Autonomy if it plays out over the longer term. (The link is from last month, but it has long-term implications.)Microsoft steers OEMs away from putting Phone 7 on Tablets &gt;&gt; The RegisterHaving tried Windows 7 on a 10" tablet, and Windows Phone 7 on a large smartphone (the 4.3" HTC HD7), I can tell you that Microsoft is making a mistake. Windows Phone 7 would work a lot better on a large tablet than Windows 7 does.Editorial: Why the Galaxy Tab's price makes sense &gt;&gt; Engadget"At the end of the day I think the iPad will absolutely outsell the Galaxy Tab, probably in 3G models alone. The iPad UI, at least with multitasking, is much better optimized for a tablet, and the developer community has embraced the iPad like few products before it. In a vacuum I think the Galaxy Tab would be well received, but the Galaxy Tab won't exist in a vacuum, obviously."Indeed not. It's going to have to fight tooth-and-nail on price with dozens (literally) of other tablets vying on price in one way or another. And while it's a lot of fun, you have to say - it has less than half the screen size of the iPad for almost the same price.Sophos Anti-Virus for Mac Home Edition - SophosFreeTalk community &gt;&gt; Sophos.comSome of the titles of the posts are quite telling in themselves: "Does this product contravene UK consumer protection laws" for example. Mac users, sceptical? Er, yes.Free anti-virus for your Mac - And why you need it! &gt;&gt; ZDNetI'm not sure that having Stuxnet on your Mac is exactly a threat.iPhone's smartphone share continues to rise &gt;&gt; AsymcoExamining the Canalys press release which might suggest that Apple lost market share to Android: "Sequentially, Nokia lost 5.6% of share, Samsung gained 4.6%, RIM lost 3% and Apple gained 4%, Motorola, HTC and Other remained largely unchanged."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Detail of Creative ZiiO 7 tablet: note the non-English script on the return button, bottom right. Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedCreative Technology - the Singaporean company whichfive years ago vowed to go after Apple over a patent it had which it reckoned the iPod infringed- has come into the tablet market with a range of tablets, including23.2-inch, 7-inch, and 10-inch models, running the Android OS.And what does it bring to the tablet party that's different from what everyone else is doing? Wellll... that's hard to say. It has built its own processors to run the devices (designed at 3D Labs, which Creative Technology owns), and written its own audio drivers which it says means that you'll get far higher audio quality while listening or streaming (via Bluetooth) to compatible devices.But in many other ways, Creative's output looks to be lagging behind many other tablet companies. To begin with, they're all running Android 2.1 - and none of them has 3G. This means that they won't automatically be able to access the Android Marketplace (because Android is aphoneOS, and devices which don't have 3G or other phone stuff inside them can't be phones, so they can't access the marketplace for phone apps).Update:Factoring in the prices, though, suggests that these are priced to sell - and so could give rivals quite a run for their money if Creative can get past the Marketplace hassles.However Mac Aw Kuw Weng, director of corporate marketing, told us that there will be an over-the-air update (via Wi-Fi) to the devices to Android 2.2, which will be available as soon as Google has finished its trials of them - sometimes in late December... early January? Once that's done, then users will have access to the Marketplace. Otherwise they'll have tosideloadapps via their computer.Oh, and on the Wi-Fi issue:it'sthe ZiiOs (the 7" and 10") are only 802.11g&amp;b, not 11n, which might be slightly limiting. The 3.2-inch Zen, mystifyingly, is 802.11b/g/n.The models that we tried were all a little unfinished, at least in software terms: though there is an orientation sensor in the devices, the software didn't pick up on it. The keyboard though was pretty nice, and the limited tests I did suggested that the settings were well laid out. But there were a few crashes, and lack of responsiveness to touch, especially when trying to swipe through a selection of films.The 3.2" Zen device comes with optional GPS, which would mean you could use it as a navigation device; the larger devices don't, because (Weng suggested) you wouldn't really want to try using them to do turn-by-turn navigation. (Though I thought: might be good to be able to view the maps at a more usable size.)The tough question: what does it think people will want - the 10" or the 7" version? "That will be based on the feedback from the buyers in stores [not customers, but the retailers who order stock]," said Phil O'Shaughnessy, in charge of worldwide corporate communications. "We believe there will be a huge trend in the holidays for buying tablets."That might be so, but if Creative doesn't get its factories sorted out, then it's going to have serious supply problems - making 7" or 10" machines isn't like turning a tap on and off. Look at the problems that Apple had trying to meet demand - and that's a company which normally has its finger right on the pulse of the supply chain. Creative looked a little shambolic in this, to be honest: started late, late to get the product through testing, and without access to the Marketplace, which a lot of its rivals do have.Plus it's using a resistive rather than capacitive touchscreen, which is generally reckoned to be a less pleasant experience, and less robust, than the capacitive ones (used by Apple and Samsung among others).The prices are pretty competitive with other Android tablets, but the lack of a Marketplace will probably mean disappointment for many would-be ordinary users who'll be expecting something like the Apple app experience. Although it does come with Angry Birds already installed - so at least that's one way to while away the time until Google gives the thumbs-up to 2.2.I did ask whether Google had given its blessing to the idea of a 10" tablet running Android; Weng sort-of implied that it had, or at least that it hadn't frowned on it. Perhaps we'll see through watching how long it takes for the 10" version to be approved.Update:But the prices are competitive. Here's the listing:• ZiiO 7" Pure Wireless Entertainment Tablet 8GB: £199.99• ZiiO 7" Pure Wireless Entertainment Tablet 16GB: £219.99 (only via creative.com/shop)• ZiiO 10" Pure Wireless Entertainment Tablet 8GB: £249.99• ZiiO 10" Pure Wireless Entertainment Tablet 16GB:	£269.99 (only via creative.com/shop)• ZEN Touch 2 Wireless Entertainment Device (without GPS) 8GB: £149.99• ZEN Touch 2 Wireless Entertainment Device (without GPS) 16GB: £159.99 (only via creative.com/shop)• ZEN Touch 2 Wireless Entertainment Device (with GPS) 8GB: £159.99 (only via creative.com/shop)Creative says these are the suggested retail prices, though I do wonder whether they include VAT. But even if they do, then the 10" 16GB version comes out at £320 - substantially below the 16GB iPad at £430.Also on show were plenty of Bluetooth streaming systems, including some nice-looking satellite speakers (more here). Why Bluetooth when the Kleer system could give even better audio? Because Bluetooth is more prevalent, Creative said - though Weng revealed that the company is talking to Apple about incorporatingApple's AirPlay system for streaming audio over Wi-Fi: that might be coming soon.And while Creative may not have managed (even a bit) to displace Apple in the iPod market, it did score one notable success: itwon a patent case against Apple over the use of menus in the iPod- meaning Apple had to pay it a license fee for every classic iPod sold.Meanwhile, here are some pictures of the Creative tablets. Excuse quality, but they should give you the idea.iPad beside Creative ZiiO 10. Photo byCharles Arthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedCreative ZiiO 7 beside ZiiO 10. Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedCreative ZiiO 7: OK... Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reserved
"Daddy, I want something on your laptop!" These are almost invariably the first words out my daughter Poesy's mouth when she gets up in the morning (generally at 5am). Being a lifelong early riser, I have the morning shift. Being a parent in the 21st century, I worry about my toddler's screen time – and struggle with the temptation to let the TV or laptop be my babysitter while I get through my morning email. Being a writer, I yearn to share stories with my two-year-old.I can't claim to have found the answer to all this, but I think we're evolving something that's really working for us – a mix of technology, storytelling, play and (admittedly) a little electronic babysitting that let's me get to at leastsomeof my email before breakfast time.Since Poe was tiny, she's climbed up on my lap and shared my laptop screen. We long ago ripped all her favorite DVDs (she went through a period at around 16 months when she delighted in putting the DVDs shiny-side-down on the floor, standing on them, and skating around, sanding down the surface to a perfectly unreadable fog of microscratches). Twenty-some movies, the whole run of the Muppet Show, some BBC nature programmes. They all fit on a 32GB SD card and my wife and I both keep a set on our laptops for emergencies, such as in-flight meltdowns or the occasional restaurant scene.I usea free/open source video player called VLC, which plays practically every format ever invented. You can tell it to eliminate all its user interface, so that it's just a square of movable video, and the Gnome window-manager in Linux lets me set that window as "Always on top". I shrink it down to a postage stamp and slide it into the top right corner of my screen, and that's Poesy's bit of my laptop.When she was littler, we'd do this for 10 or 20 minutes every morning while she went from awake to awake-enough-to-play. Now that she's more active, she usually requests something – often something from YouTube (we also download her favourite YouTube clips to our laptops,using deturl.com), or she'll start feeding me keywords to search on, like "doggy and bunny" and we'll have a look at what comes up. It's nice sharing a screen with her. She points at things in her video she likes and asks me about them (pausable video is great for this!), or I notice stuff I want to point out to her. At the same time, she also looks at my screen – browser windows, email attachments, etc – and asks me about them, too.But the fun comes when we incorporate all this into our storytelling play. It started with Jack and the Beanstalk. I told her the story one morning while we were on summer vacation. She loved the booming FEE FI FOE FUM! but she was puzzled by unfamiliar ideas like beanstalks, castles, harps and golden eggs. So I pulled up some images of them (using Flickr image search). Later, I found two or three different animated versions of Jack's story on YouTube, including the absolutely smashing Max Fleischer 1933 version. These really interested Poesy (especially the differences between all the adaptations), so one evening we made a Lego beanstalk and had an amazing time running around the house, play-acting Jack and the Beanstalk with various stuffed animals and such as characters. We made a golden egg out of wadded up aluminium foil, and a harp out of a coat-hanger, tape and string, and chased up and down the stairs bellowing giant-noises at one another.Then we went back to YouTube and watched more harps, made sure to look at the geese the next Saturday at Hackney City Farm, and now every time we serve something small and bean-like with a meal at home, there's inevitably a grabbing up of two or three of them and tossing them out the window while shouting, "Magic beans! Magic beans! You were supposed to sell the cow for money!" Great fun.Every parent I know worries about the instantaneously mesmerizing nature of screens for kids, especially little kids. I've heard experts advise that kids be kept away from screens until the age of three or four, or even later, but that's not very realistic – at least not in our house, where the two adults do a substantial amount of work, socialising, and play from home on laptops or consoles.But the laptop play we've stumbled on feelsright. It's not passive, mesmerised, isolated TV watching. Instead, it's a shared experience that involves lots of imagination, physically running around the house (screeching with laughter, no less!), and mixing up story-worlds, the real world, and play. There's still times when the TV goes on because I need 10 minutes to make the porridge and lay the table for breakfast, and I still stand in faint awe of the screen's capacity to hypnotise my toddler, but I wouldn't trade those howling, hilarious, raucous games that our network use inspires for anything.
Ofcom has issued a legal warning to broadband providers TalkTalk and Tiscali to stop billing customers for services they have cancelled, saying the companies could face fines of up to 10% of their turnover.An investigation by the communications regulator has ruled that TalkTalk and Tiscali – both part of TalkTalk Group – were in breach of telecoms regulations, and ordered them to comply by 2 December or face further enforcement action, including a possible financial penalty.Ofcom launched an investigation into the companies in July after receiving more than 1,000 complaints from customers who were being charged for services they had cancelled. In one case, a former Tiscali broadband customer was issued with warnings about unpaid bills two years after his account was closed – a debt collection company said he owed £353.99.TalkTalk today said the problems with the cancellation service was caused "by an error on a legacy billing system".A TalkTalk spokesman said: "We are resolving this by migrating all ex-Tiscali customers onto one network and billing system which will allow us to process cancellations much more effectively."TalkTalk Group has co-operated fully with Ofcom's investigation and we apologise for the inconvenience caused to this limited group of former customers."Ofcom said TalkTalk and Tiscali should provide refunds to all customers who were billed for services which were cancelled from 1 January.Both companies admitted to breaching telecoms regulations in at least 72 of 100 sample customer complaints. They now have a month to comply with Ofcom's regulations.The broadband providers, which merged under TalkTalk Group in May 2009, must also cease debt collection and withdraw any legal proceedings against customers. Where legal proceedings have begun, the internet service providers have been ordered to pay the customer's costs. They must also take steps to repair the credit ratings of affected customers.Ofcom's director of consumer affairs, Claudio Pollack, said: "Ofcom is determined to stand up for consumers and take action against companies that break the rules."Our investigation into TalkTalk and Tiscali UK found that they had billed customers for cancelled services; this is unacceptable which is why we have ordered them to clean up their act or face the consequences."Robert Hammond, head of digital and telecoms at Consumer Focus, said: "It is shocking that it has taken the intervention of the regulator for TalkTalk and Tiscali to play fair with their customers. How hard can it be to stop billing someone when they have cancelled their service? This is the very basics of customer service."To threaten customers – who have done nothing wrong – with debt collection and legal action is beyond the pale. Companies seem to put a lot of effort into winning new customers and then fall down on looking after them once they are on the books. We trust TalkTalk and Tiscali will stop these practices immediately and put everything right as soon as possible."
Whether you're a fan of WWE's finger-mangling controls or not, you certainly can't accuse it of short-changing fans. Just about every new version shoe-horns in a mess of new features, with last year's Smackdown vs Raw 2010 being notable for introducing a story creator along with the obligatory new fighters, modes and stadiums. This time around, SvR 2011 has really pushed the boat out, expanding on almost every part of an already huge game.So now we have more than 70 WWE stars, 100 match-types and a host of new arenas, story modes, backstage areas and customisable features. Fighter likenesses are generally good, despite their typically airbrushed look, with most of their signature moves on show. Combat has been significantly tweaked, with the AI at higher levels more adept at performing reversals, making it essential you use the new four-hit combos to reduce your opponent's alertness before moving in for a finish. There's also impressive implementation of the Havok physics engine, ensuring that any objects dragged into the ring behave, bend or break more realistically.And yet, despite all this, you either love WWE's style of context-sensitive moves and combos or find it a literal pain in the neck (and just about every other upper body muscle). Bouts can last a good half hour, so be prepared for occasional trips to the chiropractor if you're planning on taking on the new WWE Universe mode that balances and schedules your career over the course of a year. Things are kept interesting by the dynamic nature of relationships between fighters, new fight types such as Hell in a Cell, and an expanded total of over 100 random effects, that can completely change the course of a match.However, there's no avoiding the fact that the auto-targeting system remains as imprecise as ever, frequently making you attack the ref or climb out of the ring when you intended to perform a kick or throw. Naturally, practice minimises the pain and the training levels provide a sold grounding, but for me it always lacks the kind of precision and responsiveness I'd expect from the best beat-em-ups.However, if you're a WWE fan this is the best and certainly the biggest of them all, packing in enough new features to justify the admittedly steepish price. Although, I've never been wholly impressed by the "sport", you have to give the developers credit for producing an epic and highly competitive experience you'll probably still be enjoying with your mates long after Christmas.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
If you sawyesterday's chartsyou'll have seen that Fable III is top and that Force Unleashed 2 didn't do quite as well as you may have expected. The big surprise for me though is the continued absence ofEnslaved: Odyssey to the Westfrom the Top 10. Given that the game was released a few weeks ago now you can assume – with only75K global sales of the PS3 version- that it has been a sales flop. The game is easily one of the most visually original of the year, tells a good story, is well acted, fun to play and has adecent Metacriticof 81. For me at least it was one of the best gaming experiences of the year. So why hasn't Enslaved sold?You can't blame the advertising. Enslaved has had one of them more visible campaigns this year, with numerous ads on the London underground and TV as well as on and offline. So maybe it was the game itself? Did hardcore gamers think it was too "easy" – those invisible barriers *do* take most of the challenge from the platforming – and so not evangelise to their peers?What probably hurt more though were the classic issues – price and longevity. Enslaved is an old-fashioned single player game. There's no multiplayer at all. For me this is a good thing – it would have only felt tacked on anyway. Actually, in the sequel that will probably now never get made, you can imagine that co-op could have worked well. But Enslaved is an 8-10 hour single player experience. Will gamers pay full price for this kind of game any more? Sales would suggest not. But can we expect to see Enslaved rocket up the charts once the price cuts kick in? We'll see.Perhaps the saddest thing here is that it looks like hardcore gaming tastes have fundamentally changed. While once you would see Mario and Tomb Raider vying with the shooters at the top of the charts it looks like the FPS has won out. The next Call of Duty will be out next week and likely dominate the chart for months. Medal of Honor will probably stick around too. Single player story-driven adventures just don't seem to cut it sales-wise any more. For me that's a real shame.What do you think? Does Enslaved's sales failure mean gamers tastes are just too conservative? Or is it simply a matter of price and review?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A new search engine calledBlekkowhich promises only to show results from "trustworthy" sites has run into problems with two big UK websites, MoneySavingExpert.com and CompareTheMarket.com, which it thinks are spam-laden.Rich Skrenta, Blekko's co-founder and chief executive, told the New York Times that since Google introduced its "reputation" system - in which the more links a site has, and the better the reputation of those sites, the higher it figures in search rankings - there has been a proliferation of sites that carry little relevant information, but rank highly because they use links and keywords to game Google."The goal is to clean up Web search and get all the spam out of it," Skrentasaid.Blekko searches throughout the "worthwhile web", but only shows the top results for any topic in what it calls "slashtags", and aims to eliminate so-called "content farms" which generate content based simply on what people appear to be searching for.It also uses "vertical" search engines which focus on specific niches, rather than trying to cover the whole of the web as Google does."Google has a hard time telling whether two articles on the same topic are written by [content farm] Demand Media, which paid 50 cents for it, or whether a doctor wrote it,"  Tim Connors, founder of PivotNorth Capital and an investor in Blekko, told the New York Times. "Humans are pretty good at that."But some humans in the UK are upset at the way that Blekko is describing their site. Its "topspam" list - in which it records the sites that it views as being spam, with the reasons why - starts withYahoo's now-discontinued Geocities domain(which ranks top because of its size, and the fact that it cannot be crawled). Those take up the top two spots.But at No.7 on the list - making it fifth in the ranking of real sites - is MoneySavingExpert.com, which Blekko's system says counts among the "top spam" because a Bayesian analysis of the content - probably the links to other sites or paid links within it - puts it above the threshold.CompareTheMarket.com, the insurance comparison site known for its meerkat advertising and "Simples!" slogan, is ranked No.17 - fifteenth on the ranking if Geocities is ignored - also falls foul of Blekko's Bayesian spam analysis.When contacted by The Guardian, MoneySavingExpert's web editor Dan Plant was not pleased by the classification: "Our site has 10 million unique users a month, no banner ads, is totally free to use, only sends the weekly email to users who have opted in (you can't do it by accident) and we never data mine or sell data. I think we're text book on how to operate the right way and not spam our users," he told the Guardian."Based on all that, we think it's farcical to include us on list of spam sites and quite possibly defamatory, though having said no one here had heard of this tiny search engine until you pointed it out to us. I'd say that if it continues to make such bizarre judgements about us and other sites, I doubt it will catch on!"Skrentra responded: "Our automated systems have flagged those two sites as having a lot of "spammy" keywords. No doubt this is because they are in fact about money and personal finance! That is what the "Bayes" score on the right means."If these are in fact good sites - and I'm sure they may be - we could add them to our /money tag and use them to benefit all personal finance searches on blekko."But this kind of report from you is exactly why we are opening up all of the details about how blekko works to the public. Helpful reports that we are mis-labeling important sites with borderline spam scores as spammers. Now we can fix them!"Skrentra added that this approach was a benefit of his site's willingness to open its workings up to users: "If the spam-score was kept secret, as it is in Google and [Microsoft's] Bing, you would just not see those sites come up as often as they otherwise might. By opening the details of how blekko works, we can steadily improve our relevance and results."Plant said this could be positive: "If they are willing to change things based on experience that's good news. It sounds like the scoring system they are currently using is a bit blunt and arbitrary, but then what spam-scoring system isn't!"CompareTheMarket had no comment at the time of writing.Ahead of the launch of Blekko, Skentra was interviewed about how Blekko was aiming to be different from rivals: he suggested that it will be due to its social nature.
Oh, yes, here's another tablet computer. Or model deckchair. Photo byIntelFreePresson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 17 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's consumer brand is dying &gt;&gt; CNN MoneySix months after Apple's release of the iPad, Microsoft still has virtually no presence in the tablet market. And its strategy for taking on Apple - Windows 7 on a tablet, rather than a tablet-specific operating system - is leaving potential partners cold. Lenovo's technology director recently told PC Mag that his companywon't be buildingaround the platform: "The challenge with Windows 7 is that it's based on the same paradigm as 1985 - it's really an interface that's optimized for a mouse and keyboard."The idea that the Microsoft brand is becoming tarnished with consumers is intriguing - it would be interesting to see any research data to back it up. Meanwhile, my own tests have found that there is definitely a difference between a touchscreen-ready OS and a tablet-ready OS. (Thanks@avrofor the link.)Why Steve Jobs' Pixar uses Microsoft Windows Azure &gt;&gt; SeattlePIThere's only one problem with this story: pretty much everything in it is wrong. Pixar is a public company, not Jobs's; he didn't found it; Pixar's Renderman isn't used in every CG shot in the film industry; and it doesn't run on Microsoft's Azure - the demonstration at Microsoft's developers' conference was, an apologetic endnote accepts, a "proof of concept". Hey ho.A look back at the iTunes App Store - Part I: Explosive Growth | Edible Apple"The iTunes App Store opened up for business about 1 year ago [in June 2008] and boasted a somewhat modest figure of 500 applications.  Since then, the number of downloads and available applications has skyrocketed."Just two months into the app store, Apple issued apress releaseannouncing that iPhone and iPod Touch users had downloaded over 100 million applications from what was then a 3,000 strong library of available titles. A little over 2 months later, on October 21, 2008, Apple announced that 200 million applications had been downloaded from the iTunes App Store. On December 5, 2008, Apple took out ads in a number of newspapers touting that the App Store library had surpassed 10,000 applications and that there had been over 300 million downloads."So Windows Phone 7 opening with 1,000 apps (more by the time it reaches US buyers from 8 November) isn't bad. The challenge will be to get the download growth.Apple overtakes RIM as runner-up to Nokia in smartphones. Does volume matter? - GLG News"In the future the environment might not be as favorable for Apple and RIM as it has been in the recent past. Top line growth will make international sales a higher priority and levels of operator subsidy abroad might be lower on average than those of the North American markets. This might result in growing pressure on the pricing side. Furthermore, competition is likely to increase. The Android pack gets larger every day, HP will re-launch webOS , Microsoft might at last gain traction thanks to Windows Phone 7 and Nokia should be expected to bounce back at some stage."Blekko, The "Slashtag" Search Engine, Goes Live &gt;&gt; SearchEngineLandA very interesting new search engine: "In particular, Blekko is keen to emphasis that auto-slashing keeps "content farm" material from dominating search results (see our previous article,Google, Content Farms &amp; Why This May Be Blekko's Moment, for more about this)."Personally, I don't see content farm material as all bad. Some of it can be helpful. Nor do I always see it dominating Google's search results. But it has become aflashpoint for some, and a pitch that Blekko can be a content farm free search engine may draw in a specific audience."Flash Vs HTML5 &gt;&gt; CodeComputerLove"Pong - written not just in Flash or in HTML5, but in both (the left side is Flash, the right HTML5). Interesting if only to show that both sides seem identical." (Thanks@whereistom)Licensing Dispute Could Drive VLC out of the App Store - PCWorld Business CenterA nose/face/spite issue: "In order to maintain the freedom of the software it protects, the GPL imposes several conditions under which redistribution may take place; in particular, the redistribution of the software must be unrestricted under any circumstance, allowing any user to give another user a functional copy under the same original terms."According to VLC contributor Rémi Denis-Courmont, Apple's App Store violates these terms by using digital rights management technology (DRM) that prevents a user from redistributing apps obtained from the App Store to other users in an unrestricted way. In ane-mail he sentto the VLC developer list, Denis-Courmont claims that he has filed a copyright complaint with Apple, demanding that the software be pulled from the App Store."Google's AdMob Integration Is 'Just Not Going Great' &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Google's integration of AdMob is "just not going great," a mobile industry source friendly with many people at AdMob tells us."We reached out to our source after TechCrunchreportedAdMob's CEO Omar Hamoui was leaving Google just 5 months afterGoogle was approvedby the government tospend $750 millionon the mobile ad startup."Hamoui isn't the first to go, and he won't be the last."Ocado deploy Google Apps &gt;&gt; Computer Weekly"Moving [1,250 staff] to Google Apps should reduce IT costs, saving servers, back-up space, support and maintenance, whilst in the longer term eradicating costly upgrades and licence fees, Ocado said."And Ocado badly needs to get costs down if it is to have a hope of being profitable this century. As Computer Weekly didn't, we asked Ocado what it was using before. The answer: Microsoft Exchange.Android tablets: Big enough, smart enough, cheap enough? &gt;&gt; BBC: dot.Rory"There are two big doubts for me about [the Samsung Galaxy Tab], its size and its price. Is there really a big enough niche in the space between a smartphone and an iPad for a tablet with a seven-inch screen? It's too small to be a comfortable place to type more than a short message, whereas on the iPad I managed to write most of this blog post. It is being sold as a more mobile device but you can do just about everything the Tab does on a much more portable smartphone."Browser momentum: Chrome has it, IE doesn't &gt;&gt; CNET News"For browser watchers, October was a continuation of previous trends: Internet Explorer lost share to Chrome, Firefox and Opera idled, and Safari edged upward."The statistics, based on Net Applications' monitoring of millions of Web sites in its analytics network, show that this summer's resurgence of IE has faded, at least for the present. At the same time, Chrome, now two years old, made its July dip look like a blip rather than a foreboding omen."Also: IE8 usage barely changed between September and October. Explanations welcomed.Privacy and the internet – parliamentary debate transcript &gt;&gt; HansardWell-informed: "I have no problem with Google photographing me in my garden, or my house, and putting those images on the web, but the point is that I want to give Google permission to do so. I want to opt in. Some people will respond that any citizen can walk up a street, taking pictures of people's houses. Of course that is true, but there is a difference of scale and of commercial interest. Google was not sightseeing; it was creating a product to sell advertising on a mass scale. No private citizen has the millions of pounds or dollars at their disposal to take a detailed picture of every house, street and company in Britain. That makes this case fundamentally different."New MacBook Airs riddled with bugs &gt;&gt; THINQ.co.uk"The new MacBook Airs seem to be manifesting some teething problems, which are proving a frustration for some early adopters."Apple Support has already issued a bulletin and patch entitled "About MacBook Air (Late 2010) Software Update 1.0" to resolve an issue where new MacBook Air (Late 2010) notebooks may become unresponsive while playing back movie trailers in iMovie. Apple says the update also addresses a problem where the computer may become unresponsive after waking from sleep when an external display is connected and contains general graphics performance updates for good measure."Microsoft isn't worried about the tablet cannibals &gt;&gt; CRNAre tablets "more of a threat than a help" to Microsoft?Lars Rasmussen Quits Google, Joins Facebook &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldRasmussen: "I've got a job description of 'come hang out with us for a while and we'll see what happens', which is a pretty exciting thing."Paul Carr's NSFW: Yep, Montblanc Killed my MacBook Pro Today &gt;&gt; TechCrunchPossibly the first time in living memory that TechCrunch commenters have been as witty (if not more so) as the piece. Meta is the new funny.IPad a Therapeutic Marvel for Disabled People &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comTruly a heartwarming story - though the platform is irrelevant; what's valuable is technology's ability to enhance the lives of the disabled: "Over the years, Owen's parents had tried several computerized communications contraptions to give him an escape from his disability, but the iPad was the first that worked on the first try."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
With the apocalypse beckoning (we're talking Fallout: New Vegas, of course), the denizens of Gamesblog's Chatterbox were in a downbeat mood in the week of October 18-22, decrying Rooney, doubting Sony customer service and panicking over the health of Jean Claude Van Damme.As always, it all turned out well in the end: one of them stayed put, one of them was baked, and one denied everything. See if you can guess which was which...Monday, October 18If the Chatterbox existed in the 80s then Bob Geldof might not have disliked Mondays so much[although that song was actually released in 1979 - Keef, pedantic music editor]. On this particular Monday, news was dominated by the possibility that a Mr. Rooney had some form of football related tantrum. I hope this means I wont have to see his sorry, spud-eye face again. As with bloatboy, I am obviously talking about 'Dwain_Rooneyz69'.The most important blog news on Monday came from RustyJames. He brought us hope, where there was none. He did something truly monumental that will live on in Chatterbox legend. He fixed a YLOD PS3. To fix your PS3 in the same way that Rusty fixed his you will need to:-• Preheat oven to 200 degrees Celsius. (For fan assisted ovens, open fires or BBQs cooking times may vary - Tjvs)• Strip the PS3 down.• Remove all dust.• Remove the thermal compound using acetone.• Remove battery.• Cover components with tin toil.• Cook PS3 for 10 minutes in the preheated oven then allow to cool.• Replace the battery.• Apply a thin layer of thermal compound and reassemble.(Additional washers and electrical tape may be required. WARNING – results may vary).RustyJames, we salute you.Games chat revolved around MoH, Castlevania (curse that hidden life gem), Enslaved and PES. Film chat included discussion of Spanish horror movie REC and its inclusion of... [at this point the whole thing descended into an episode of Inbetweeners. they can get away with it. Sadly, we can't – Keef the censor]In other news, TimtheMonkey survived his shoulder operation.Quote of the day"I got naked and covered myself in mud, ready to wrestle the enemy should they try and disarm my m-com."Schwen takes his Battlefield Bad Company 2 hobby very seriouslyTuesdayTuesday 19 October, a time so far back in history that on this day Mr W Rooney was still claiming he really, really didn't want to play for Man Utd. The Chatterbox was unimpressed on the whole.The day began with talk of games but no one comes here looking for chat about that do they? Do they?  Oh…Anyway, the other big topic of the morning was babies and the associated sleep deprivation. The Box once again showed its ability to offer beautifully judged expert advice. Some of the most helpful being – leave them to cry, ply them with whisky or literally hang them out to dry.  TV's Supernanny just isn't needed round these parts.The morning was highlighted by the Box breaking out into a fervour over the news that Hibs had appointed Colin Calderwood as their new manager, and relief that it wasn't perma-tanned buffoon Jimmy Calderwood. Well, perhaps fervour is a bit strong, WeeCooper was optimistic but it seems the rest of the small indefatigable band of Chatterboxers who are devoted to Leith's finest were missing on Tuesday.The afternoon inevitably failed to live up to the high water mark that is Hibs-blog. There was some talk about PS3 games in the wake of the delay (again!) of the now mythological beast Gran Turismo 5. (Consensus was that Race Driver: Grid was a bit of alright, and indeed it is.)  There was some talk about trickery (nay, witchcraft – Tjvs) on PES 2011, none of it was interesting. There was more talk about Mr Rooney. Would he make the hallowed journey to Easter Road? We would find out later in the week.WednesdayGood old hump day brought us the (possibly) devastating news that Jean Claude Van Damme may have had a heart attack. Also in the news, yet another blogger, Piip, discovered the absolute horror that is Naughty Bear. Games discussed included Demon's Souls, BFBC2 and PES. Fallout 3 had a resurgence in anticipation of Friday's release of Fallout: New Vegas.Kingpin18 was confronted by a predicament that haunts all gamers' nightmares: the breakdown of a console. His Playstation 3 glowed like an axe murderer's Christmas tree with the Yellow Light of Death. Luckily for Kingpin, his PS3 seemed to return to normal soon afterwards but the general consensus from the blog was that he should get rid of it as quickly as possible before it completely died. Thankfully, the chatterboxers were as helpful as ever. Catzilla put forward the following suggestion: "I would suggest slapping the PS3 until it submits to your will, but you might injure your 'gaming hand', which is too risky."A worrying consensus emerged – that Kingpin18 should do the dishonourable thing, pull the wool over a game retailer's eyes and trade his device in. It was generally acknowledged and accepted that approaching Sony Customer Service about a YLOD console would be fruitless. I imagine that their workers and TonyHayers both received Customer Service Training that may have included the following:• Don't listen.• Don't accept responsibility for your product.• Appreciate the power of 'No'.• Never apologise. (This is only number 4? – Tjvs)• Get the customer to pay more.We could all learn something from that.SuperSmashin divulged a dilemma that could throw his work and personal life in to crisis – can a couple really workandlive together? Super aptly summarised the division this moral question caused: "Hmmm. Split opinion. By split, I mean the people with morals and the people without."With the onset of winter, weather blog arrived and discussion of preferred climate further divided the blog. SageSmith led the argument for hot weather supporters with his response to JCVD's possible heart attack: "That's what happens if you keep taking your shirt off in cold weather." Of course, doing the splits in skin tight jeans every five minutes could also have been a factor.Quote of the day"well, celebrated 16 years of marriage last night. got talking to two ladies in the pub who were still dressed in their asda uniforms. the ice breaker that got them talking with me and the missus was an almost imperceptible fart on my behalf that was utterly noxious. the older asda lady turned around and shouted at the top of her voice 'that is ******* disgusting'. Apparently she failed a mystery shopper test last week by not asking the customer who had two items and their own bag if they wanted a bag for life.Which brings me back to the issue of marriage."Painstructure recounts his wedding anniversary:ThursdayAs the week entered its home stretch the proud denizens of the Chatterbox were up for the challenge of passing the time before Fallout New Vegas was released. Stories abounded of people who had managed to get an early copy and of concern over reports of the game containing bugs (both literal and the game-crashing kind). However, some of the smaller PSN and Xbox Live games also got some attention with Super Meat Boy garnering high and often impenetrable praise from Manboet, EdibleVisions and decalcoman1a. Meanwhile Pokemon, SerenVikity and yours truly were enjoying the gentle pleasures of Costume Quest on the PS3.Fantomex led the early charge away from all this game-related chat (finally, back off track – Tjvs) with an idea for a topic of the day: a collection of people's top tips and advice. While obvious, it should probably be noted that following any blog advice is at your own risk. Some of the suggestions proffered before distractions took hold were:Fantomex: "Never use shaving foam with a cooling effect when shaving below the belt."SageSmith: "Never suggest a threesome with your wife and her best mate when you've had a few scoops and they are entirely sober."Simian: "If you go to the bathroom after handling chillies wash your hands before you touch anything....."ImperfectRex: "Tell the truth - it's easier to remember. No-one ever died from washing every day."Wise words.HereComesTreble's cryptic first post of the day – "He had no arms or legs. He couldn't see, hear or speak. This is how he led a nation." – was revealed to be the tag-line of his as-yet unmade motion picture extravaganza. Limni was immediately on board (seeking a producers credit no doubt): "I think you should call your film Torso. I would probably pay money to see it."HumofEvil kindly suggested a slightly darker finale than might have been planned, but one that is bound to secure Oscar short listing: "I imagine a moving scene where he presses the big red button with his tongue. Ending all of us."After Lazybones asked for ideas of mountainside campsites that aren't haunted, RustyJames recalled the time he went camping without a tent or sleeping bag – "isn't that just being homeless?" Sheep2 was quick to ask. "I just assumed I wouldn't really need a tent as it was summer. I also naively imagined I would probably meet some beautiful French peasant girl who would fall in love with me and let me sleep in her farmhouse (her father would be away)," continued Rusty. Remember, just because you saw something in a movie once doesn't mean it will happen to you. This goes for flight attendants and French maids as well. Or so I'm told.MendozaLives tried to offer some more sensible advice: "Still sounds a bit dangerous. Make sure you tell people where you'll be camping. Why don't you just stay at a nice inn?" Eventually Lazy was swayed to consider the Lake District as an alternative. CraggyIsland however was unconvinced that the safety concerns had all been addressed: "I'm seeing Lazy in a '999' special. Perhaps it can pay for Christmas in the Buerk household?"The other more games-related topic of discussion in the afternoon centred around one of the blog's regular topics: trophies and achievements. It was kicked off by StilTeD recalling the masochistic relationship he was currently having with the Terminator Salvation game:"There are few things in this world as utterly soul destroying, fun repellent and monumentally turgid as this game… I am so close to the end. I've come too far and it's now so very personal. That platinum will be mine and I will have earnt every sparkly glimmer. Paid in blood, in torment, in age."CunningStunt was one of a few to counter: "Why on earth would you play a game that you don't enjoy?" The debate levelled out with most people agreeing that as long as what you are playing remains enjoyable, then who are we to judge? As CatZilla nicely put it: "How can someone who has spent 28 days on MW2 criticise someone spending two evenings on TS?". And thus the topic was put to bed, for at least a week or two.Quotes of the day" My Girlfriend made me watch Champions League last night, why can't we just switch it off and talk once in a while?"GrizzlyDeer"I have a portfolio of outdoor skills. The only outdoor thing I can't do is hang-glide."LazyBonesFridaySatansallsmiles brought news of one whose feet (or four rubber stubs) he feels he is unworthy to clean. Risen from the dead, all hail our new Molten Messiah™, the resurrected PS3. Along with a string of associated miracles, this should raise the price of the eBay auction.It only takes one believer to stand up and shout from the roof tops of his new found spirituality, and sure as eggs is Red Lion Branded eggs, more idiots follow suit, and a whole slew of console miracles floated to the surface. CatZilla believed that Liverpool's draw on Thursday night was also thanks to the same miracle source. Cameroon95 seems to have the Lee Majors Stuntman of PS3's, as his smashed through a car windscreen and took another two years before it YLOD'dAnd of course a miracle occurred at lunch time, with Rooney suddenly deciding that £150,000 a week was reason enough to stay on with Master League team Manchester United, rather than a transfer to Man Blue, as had been played out in my PES league game the night before.Fallout: New Vegas came out, with some 'boxers getting their deliveries last night, the blog was awash with acute radiation sickness. There were also tips for those still stuck on the wrong side of the continent in Fallout 3 while Elquesodiablo seems to have redecorated Brighton to look a little bit more like Vegas-On-Sea.RedDread is still trying to distinguish Birmingham from the post-nuclear holocaust New Vegas, while Killerbee would prefer the rad land postal service to that provided by Shopto.Discussion then turned to the best bin to store all your rubbish in, and whether to succumb to your Megaton urges.Colonicus then brought us all back to Nu Earth with the boast that his PS2 could survive a Fallout-style apocalypse. Blasphemer!In true blog style, and in the spirit of inclusivity, the conversation turned to how long, and how many posts, users had put into the blog. Using the Rule of Tony (or RoT) and discounting the quotes from TV, Film and Book, there seems to be a whole page or two of original content stored on the Guardian Servers created solely by Chatterboxes. Hopefully the Linux Server running on a modded Xbox in the living room of Greg Howson never gets turned off and that essential list of zombie weapons is never lost. Heaven forefend. All praise to the PS3, no offence, etc.Quotes of the week"In our fathers' times you needed to be able to strip an engine of a Ford Sierra or hang a door to be considered a real man. Before that, you probably needed to go to war to prove your worth. Ever since the dawn of time these trials have existed; caveboys had to kill a dinosaur in hand-to-hand combat to complete their rite of passage to become a caveman. Well this weekend, I made those same steps in the modern era. I fixed a YLOD PS3."RustyJames, On his heroic/mad sounding fix for a broken console"...the rest will be released on receipt of your pancreas."Bloatboy... and some say the art of negotiation is deadGames:Fallout: NV, Medal of Honour, PES, Enslaved, Super Meat Boy.This week's Best of was brought you by: Foolsgold, Seren, Onedaveofmany and Smellavision... and crudely edited by Tjvs. With Officepest out of the office on – cough – "study leave", special thanks to SerenVikity for pulling a double shift.
There is no other game festival in the world like GameCity – I know, I have been to a lot of them. SXSW beats it for cross-cultural cool, the Independent Games Festival is more important, and the London festival is growing in stature and diversity. But GameCity is about the right size with about the right mix of events and attracts just about the right audience. It is mostly free, and you can go up and talk to anyone from Keita Takahashi to Goldeneye creator Martin Hollis – I know, because I went up and talked to them.Anyway, I just wanted to cobble together a list of things from the fest. We have some more video going online soon, including some very lengthy interviews, so this is just a quick taster.Jonathan Blow on Braid and The Witness.The world-renowned indie game developer presented a two-hour walkthrough of Braid, showing the original prototype before explaining the intricate design and metaphysical thinking behind every time-warping puzzle. He talked about exploring the consequences of rule changes, about how special and general relativity don't 'fold' in the game, and how he was reading Gravity's Rainbow when he started the project. He also talked about his forthcoming game,The Witness, a 3D adventure about epiphany. It was hugely refreshing to hear someone talk about a game in terms of themes and philosophies rather than lighting effects and intuitive controls.Adam Saltsman and the ideas bucketOn Friday, the developer of Canabalt and Gravity Hook sat in the GameCity tent in the Old Market square and surrounded by pictures and ideas drawn by younger visitors, started to write a game. Eight hours later he had aworking projectup and running, accompanied by music from Rebecca Mayes. It's raw stuff at the moment, but we'll see what develops. And he's a really charming man as well.Chris Hecker on Spy PartyThe veteran of the US indie scene brought his new project to the event – and it's enormously intriguing. Hecker billsSpy Partyas an asymmetrical two-player game about perception and deception: one participant is a spy, loafing about at a high society party attempting to carry out a series of covert missions; the other is a sniper trying to identify and then assassinate the spy. It's a tense and amusing set-up, rich in strategy, and it's all about watching and reading other human beings. Importantly, it's really, really hard and requires masses of skill and experience. Hecker says he came up with the idea wondering what you'd get if you crossed the Sims with Counter Strike...All the great games in the GameCity tentOver the space of four days the public were exposed to a range of independently developed titles that many of them would normally never get the chance to experience. Game design students from the University of Wales, Newport, were there in force showing off titles like first-person art shooter,Colour Runnersand Dare to Be Digital winner, Mush, byAngry Mango– a rather beautiful Windows Phone 7 platformer which emerged from the X48 Game Jam earlier this year. I also lovedProjector Games' remakes of titles like Bubble Bobble and Bomberman, designed to run on huge screens with hundreds of competitors.The Gamesblog breakfastsI 'oversaw' four debates at the excellent Broadway cinema, covering everything from the imminent launch of Kinect to whether games are capable of exploring serious issues, the five most important games ever made, and finally, the future of gaming. I'm hoping everyone present discovered a few titles they'd never heard of, and that they enjoyed the daily expert panelists. Ste Curran fromOne Life Left's story about drowning a duchess in Dwarf Fortress will certainly not be forgotten (however hard we try), while the likes of Hecker andRichard Brooksbyattempted to de-rail my every argument, much to the amusement of everyone else. Terrifying stuff for me, but hopefully reasonably interesting for everyone else. Oh and a massive thank you to Electronic Arts for kindly donating several copies ofNeed For Speed: Hot Pursuitas prizes for those who guessed my ludicrously subjective 'five most important games' choices. They were MUD, Pac-Man, Super Mario Bros, GTA III: Vice City and The Sims.I'll be back next year.
They seem never-ending - and it might be that the smartphone patent wars are going to continue until the earth is swallowed by the sun. There's even the possibility that by that time, every company on earth will be involved in them.Update12 November:Spansion is suing Samsung. Microsoft is suing Motorola over Motorola's refusal to license patents on "Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory" (FRAND) terms for technologies it uses in Xbox and, yes, smartphones. Motorola has responded with a lawsuit against Microsoft. (Readabout FRAND and why companies sue.)9 November:The latest to join the fray is a company called SmartPhone Technologies, which has filed a suit in the Eastern District Court in Texas (famous as the place where would-be giant-killers holding patents file suits).Cited as defendants in the suit are HTC (in its various guises, including a company called Exedea which is a wholly-owned subsidiary), Nokia, Sony Ericsson and Kyocera.I know - Kyocera still makes smartphones? That was my reaction too. But the lawsuit relates to older ones.The 25-page complaint starts out with the claim that "SmartPhone is the exclusive licensee of the '275 patent, entitled 'Method And System For Single-Step Enablement Of Telephony Functionality For A Portable Computer System'."SmartPhone, based in Houston, says that the patent is infringed by Nokia's E71, Sony Ericsson's Xperia X10, Kyocera's Zio,It also lays claim to a patent called "Power-Conserving Intuitive Device Discovery Technique In A Bluetooth Environment", which it says is infringed by HTC's Hero smartphone, plus the Nokia E71, Sony Ericsson Xperia X10, and Kyocera Zio.And so on.It's all laid out above in George Kokkinidis's graphic, used with permission fromdesignlanguage. There's alsomy not-even-close-to-a-design-award-winning graphic(known internally as "explosion in a spear factory").Update:we've put in the cleaner version by George Kokkini of designlanguage, with permission. You can find the old cluttered version at the link in this paragraph.The Economistwrote aboutthe smartphone patent wars in October, when it noted that"HISTORY buffs still wax poetic about the brutal patent battles a century ago between the Wright brothers and Glenn Curtiss, another aviation pioneer. The current smart-phone patent war does not quite have the same romance, but it could be as important"and that"Since 2006 the number of mobile-phone-related patent complaints has increased by 20% annually, according to Lex Machina, a firm that keeps a database of intellectual-property spats in America."Its conclusion?"essimists predict an everlasting patent war, much as the wider information-technology industry seems permanently embroiled in antitrust action. The Wright brothers' legal skirmishes were put to rest only by the outbreak of the first world war. With luck, the smart-phone patent battles will end more quietly."To which we'd say: don't count on it.Note: we'll aim to make this the permanent page for this graphic, and the lawsuits relating to it. If you know of new lawsuits, or if any of these have been settled, please tell us in the comments.
Certain things go together. Fish and chips, for example. Horse and carriage. Star Wars and sequels ...George Lucas's seemingly never-ending saga may have left the cinemas (forthcoming 3D adaptations aside), but there are still plenty of complex back stories to fill in the gaps. While some may consider this as welcome as Brian Glazer at Old Trafford, demand clearly exists with, for example, The Force Unleashed shipping some 7m copies worldwide.Those sorts of figures make a sequel inevitable, whatever the critics may have said about the first game. Happily, some of those negative comments have been taken on board for this epic sequel which, while still limited in some ways – no online play, sadly – retains the good bits of the original while tinkering, mostly successfully, with the formula.Spoiler alert: The Force Unleashed finished with your character, the Sith apprentice Starkiller, turning on mentor Darth Vader and, apparently, sacrificing himself to start the rebellion. The Force Unleashed II starts, thanks to Vader's cloning programme, with a new Starkiller, who's been created to murder rebel leader General Kota. Things don't go to plan, however, as Starkiller 2.0 is having flashbacks to his former/original existence and, instead of assassinating his former ally, he sets off to rescue him – and to find Juno Eclipse, the object of Starkiller 1.0's affections.Confused? You ain't seen nothing yet, as many lengthy cut scenes will testify. While these will no doubt keep the fans happy, they could arguably distract from the gaming action. Or, indeed, provide welcome respite from the frequently frantic battles.It's here that the tweaks are most noticeable, with the camerawork more controlled and the targeting more focused than before. While the lightsaber action is, perhaps inevitably, pretty standard – Hit X. Hit X again. Hit X several more times – that's not what sells 7m copies, anyway. Happily, what does – the Force powers – are even better than before with Push, Grip and Lightning all more powerful, more controllable and more combinable: you can pick up a bit of scenery, charge it with Force Lightning and turn it into an impromptu and powerful grenade.The best addition, however, is Mind Trick, a proper bit of Jedi power where you can convince Stormtroopers etc to end it all themselves (and there are a LOT of ledges for them to jump off), fight for you or declare "there's a spy in our midst" and start shooting their colleagues.While the last game impressed with the variety of enemies, TFUII takes a "less is more" approach, reducing the variety but upping the intelligence. The result is a frequently challenging (if disappointingly  linear) journey to some truly epic boss battles.Scenery is, of course, massive and massively impressive, and the possible repetitive nature has been broken up with some freefalling levels and the odd exploratory moment. Whether this will be enough to keep the game fresh over its lengthy running time is debatable, but LucasArts' claims that The Force Unleashed II as their Empire Strikes Back doesn't seem too wide of the mark.• Game reviewed on PS3
Top 10 UK games, week ending 30 OctoberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fable III(16+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (3)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (33)Wii (6)PSP (5)53 (1)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (34)PC (7)24 (5)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)35 (–)Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II (16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)16 (2)Medal Of Honor(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (45)37 (–)WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2011(15+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (43)Wii (4)PS2 (3)18 (4)Professor Layton and The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)29 (–)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (32)DS (14)PC (10)1510 (9)Pro Evolution Soccer 2011(3+)PS3 (60)Xbox 360 (28)PS2 (4)PSP (3)4Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track &copy;2010UKIELtd
Sadly, my iPhone (3G running iOS 4.0.1) didn't grant me a lie-in this morning. But thousands of others reliant on their repeating wake-up calls were woken up one hour late this morning, owing to a bug acknowledged by Apple more than three weeks ago when it affected users in Australia and New Zealand (where Daylight Saving began, of course, three weeks ago).iPhone DST bug believed to have affected thousands – US next?Though the one-hour time shift was automatically accounted for on the iPhone's clock, the alarm clock on devices running iOS 4.1 failed to adjust (suggesting they're set relative to GMT - which in turn would suggest that if you travel abroad and leave your alarm on it will go off at strange times of day).The upshot: thousands of alarms went off an hour late. Twitterquickly filled up with people complaining about the fault(or using it as an excuse for lateness).The bug appears to affect alarms set to repeat;users are advised to set new non-repeating alarms until Apple pushes out a fix. And with the US set to migrate to new daylight saving hours next Sunday, one would expect an update imminently.Apple has been contacted but hadn't responded to me at the time of writing. The company promised a fix after faulty alarms hitting Australia and New Zealandearlier this month, but Apple may roll any minor software update into its behind-closed-doors iOS event for developers in the US later this week.For now, Mashable has five "stylish" – we'll let you be the judge – alarm clock apps that will wake you up on time.
Before music video director Chris Milk unleashed the wonderfulArcade Fire/Wilderness Downtownproject on the online world, he had started brewing another ingenious web-based video - this time amemorialto the legendary Johnny Cash.Ain't No Grave was the last thing Cash recorded in a studio. Milk's tribute has been to invite fans to submit their own single frame for the video - and 250,000 have been submitted so far. Viewers see a video composed of some of those frames, but can also choose director-curated frames, highest-rated frames, abstract frames and so on.If you want to contribute, the site randomly picks three frames to choose from and then a palette of simple brush and drawing tools, all in black and white, and superimposed on the original frame.The structure is simple but visually effective. Black and white offers a consistency between very different frames, as does speed and the limits of the on-screen tools. Credit has to go to the Cash Estate for allowing this project to go ahead; the music industry isn't known for its support for web experiments, however compelling.The Johnny Cash Projectstrikes another note too, though. Isn't this themutualisationof the music video? Take one artist, and one well-defined, well-thought out project that channels that enthusiasm and energy to create something new, something more dynamic. The success of crowdsourcing all comes down to the way in which it is managed, and this is imaginative and powerful. It's also never definitive, because it changes with every new frame that is uploaded.
One of Google's most influential product engineers, Lars Rasmussen, has parted ways with the company to join Facebook.Rasmussen becomes the third product co-founder to leave Google in a week, suggesting ina newspaper interviewthat the sheer size of the company meant it was becoming increasingly hard to get things done.The co-founder of Google Maps and Google Wave joinsChad Hurley, the co-founder of YouTube, andOmar Hamoui, the co-founder of mobile advertising platform AdMob, at the Mountain View exit door.On the death of Google Wave, which wasaxed after 15 monthsin August due to disappointing takeup, Rasmussen said: "We were not quite the success that Google was hoping for, and trying to persuade them not to pull the plug and ultimately failing was obviously a little stressful."It wasn't something that I would like to bet my life on, but all that excitement we created when we first unveiled the project was based on something real. It takes a while for something new and different to find its footing and I think Google was just not patient," hetold the Sydney Morning Herald.Rasmussen, a University of Edinburgh computer science graduate, said Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg won him over with a "compelling personal pitch", and that the social network was "a sort of once-in-a-decade type of company"."The energy there is just amazing, whereas it can be very challenging to be working in a company the size of Google," he said. And therein lies the problem. "The single biggest problem" for the company with more than 23,000 employees, says Om Malikat Giga Om."For the longest time Google has been the beacon for the smartest and most talented people in the world, especially from an engineering perspective," Om writes."If these super-smart people start getting frustrated by their inability to get anything done, then they are going to follow Rasmussen to somewhere else where they can find a more receptive and nurturing environment."His new brief – a compelling enough pitch for the move from Sydney to San Francisco – is: "Come hang our with us for a while and we'll see what happens."
In September, the Games blog attended a Los Angeles preview event for WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2011 – out now – which was timed to coincide with this year's Summerslam.During the press evening we spoke to WWE legendBret Hartabout his relationship with video games, game designerDan Ryanabout the challenges involved in making a wrestling title, wrestlerKofi Kingstonabout his love of gaming, and THQ creative directorCorey Ledesma, who, having announced plans for the game's unlockable content to the press, made some fairly controversial comments about the second-hand gaming market.
Some big titles arrived this weekend - namely Fable III and Force Unleashed 2. I haven't got a copy of Force Unleashed 2 through yet but am a big fan of Fable III - what about you? Does it live up the Molyneux hype? Madden 2011 also got a look in this weekend as a warm-up for the NFL game at Wembley. What about you then - how was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple countersues Motorola over multi-touch iPhone patents &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"As expected, Apple has responded to a patent suit from Motorola with its own legal action, accusing the company of violating six patents related to multi-touch features found in the iPhone."Lessons from Evernote's flight from .NET « Tim Anderson's ITWritingEvernote says that since giving up .Net for C++, it's got an app that starts five times faster, and uses half the memory. Tim Anderson looks at why it did: "WPF is not only based on .NET. It also uses DirectX and hardware acceleration under the covers, enabling rich multimedia effects. The layout language of WPF is XAML, giving freedom from scaling issues which cause hassles in the native API. So what are the lessons here? Is WPF no good?"It is not so simple. WPF is brilliant in many ways, offering the productivity of .NET coding and a powerful layout framework. However it was a technology which Microsoft itself hardly used in its key products, Windows and Office – a warning sign."Microsoft: Our strategy with Silverlight has shifted &gt;&gt; Mary Jo FoleyBasically, it's HTML5 in future for cross-platform products.Enterprises: We'll run Windows XP even after retirement - ComputerworldNot a large survey (950 companies) so don't stake your house on its precision. Still: "Microsoft has been pushing XP customers of all stripes, including enterprises, to upgrade to Windows 7. While Dimensional didn't query IT professionals about what operating system they were leaving behind as they migrated to Windows 7, they're doing the latter in increasing numbers. More than a third, or 38%, of those polled said their companies have implemented a partial roll-out of Windows 7, up from 15% in January 2010, the last time Dimensional surveyed IT administrators and staffers."Six percent of the companies have fully deployed to Windows 7, a six-fold increase over the 1% who said the same back in January."Larry And Sergey Wanted Steve Jobs To Be Google's First CEO &gt;&gt; Business InsiderInteresting detail. They didn't actually get as far as asking him, as he was already re-ensconced in Apple.Exploring Earth's History with Wolfram|Alpha &gt;&gt; Wolfram|Alpha BlogLikely to make creationists' brains melt.LIVE BLOG: Microsoft Earnings Call &gt;&gt; Business InsiderEverywhere has done well apart from Online. Which still hasn't.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Being asked to save the world while sitting in your living room is the kind of request gamers take in their stride. And&nbsp;whileFate of the Worldarms you with environmental data and renewable energy policies rather than grenades and rocket launchers, the result is still compelling.The action takes the form of a turn-based data-management simulator – think Football Manager, but with biofuels. You're given a budget with which to implement various schemes across different geopolitical areas, each of which have different long- and short-term costs. Put an emissions cap on a growing economy, stifling growth, and they'll get fed up and throw your agency out of the area. Encourage investment and prosperity and there'll soon be environmental consequences. Each turn sends you forward five years – and you're informed as the game progresses of the many changes that take place in the world as temperatures increase. As if the sheer difficulty of Fate of the World wasn't sobering enough, watching the planet crumble – wars and natural disasters are often triggered inadvertently by your decisions, and you're informed each time a major species becomes extinct – really brings home the enormity of the impact of climate change.Multiple scenarios are available offering differing challenges and targets – from managing the oil crisis to protecting the Amazon rainforest – meaning there's a great deal of replayability for those wishing to learn as much as they can about the issues handled in the game.There's even an anarchic "Dr Apocalypse" mode in which your goal is to raise temperatures around the world as much as you can without losing the political support of different regions.This dark humour crops up throughout the game and helps alleviate moments where things may get a little too dry. If a regime is refusing to bow to demands, why not sponsor an insurgency force to take them out? Better yet, if a country has an unforgivably high population to emissions ratio (I'm looking at you, North America), why not covertly sterilise the population?Though the variables on offer can be a little bewildering,, by using real data models  the game provides a fascinating simulation of what the next 200 years have in store for Earth. President Arnott not only failed to prevent catastrophic climate change but ended up being barred from most continents – I can only hope my real-life counterparts fare better.
The news that, according to the national security review at least, cyber attack comes second only to terrorism as the gravest security threat facing the nation will have come as a great surprise to most citizens. We are conscious of the annoyances of malware, viruses, worms, spam and phishing, but for most these are just minor irritations, not threats to the nation's survival.Yet the other day we had the foreign secretary gravely intoning why, in the midst of the most savage spending cuts in living memory, it is suddenly necessary to give an extra £500m to GCHQ to protect us against nemesis in cyberspace. At the same time, in America, we see the Pentagon setting up a whole new cyber command, USCybercom, with all the usual paraphernalia and awash with funding.What, you might ask, is going on?There seem to be two broad answers to the question. The cynical one is that this is just the latest development of the military-industrial complex that is the bane of industrialised economies. Changes in society and warfare patterns threaten the future prosperity of this colossal set of vested interests.Aircraft carriers, missile systems and tanks are of little use against ragged-trousered terrorists and so a new and sinister threat has to be manufactured to ensure reliable cash-flow for BAE Systems &amp; co into the next century. In which case, cyber security will do nicely.And, say the cynics, the strategy is succeeding. According to theNew YorkerjournalistSeymour Hersh,  the military-industrial complex in the US has morphed into "a military-cyber complex". Hersh says that the US government spends between $6bn and $7bn annually for unclassified cyber-security work and about the same on the classified part.The alternative explanation is that the threat really is more serious than many of us had supposed. The arrival of theStuxnet wormwas a salutary event because of its sophistication and the fact that it targeted a device that plays a critical role in innumerable industrial processes. Could it be that the threat truly has ratcheted up? Is there a real threat of "cyber warfare"? If so, what could be done about it?At a seminar in Cambridge last week, Dr Herbert Lin of the National Academies of the USA gave a sobering overview of the challenges posed byconflict in cyberspace. The central problem is that, in the online domain, the attacker has most of the advantages. Passive defences (better firewalls, anti-virus precautions etc) can have some effect, but they're never going to deter or prevent determined or sophisticated attacks.So what does a nation do?One answer is to seek lessons from the policy of nuclear deterrence. Many policy-makers see cyber deterrence as the only feasible policy in an offence-dominated domain. After all, we have lots of experience with nuclear deterrence and we know it worked. So maybe that's the way to go?Alas, no. As Dr Lin put it, while nuclear and cyber deterrence raise the same questions, the answers are different and much less satisfactory in the online case. Deterrence is a tool for dissuading an adversary from taking hostile action, but it depends on being able to identify the potential attacker. Nuclear deterrence worked for various reasons: only nation-states were potential adversaries; attacks would have been easy to detect and would have come from outside one's territorial boundaries. It was possible to demonstrate that one possessed the capability for devastating retaliation and it would have been easy to determine when hostilities had ceased.None of this applies in cyberspace. The resources to mount attacks are not the sole prerogative of nation-states. It may be difficult to distinguish an attack from incessant malware and cybercrime. Identifying the source of an attack can be problematic and an astute attacker might leave a false trail leading to a country that would regard massive retaliation as an act of war. There's no obvious way of demonstrating a capability for retaliation. There's no precedent for countries targeting nuclear strikes on companies. And there's no obvious way of establishing that hostilities have definitively ceased.The inescapable conclusion is that deterrence won't work in cyberspace. We need a better idea. The £500m we've just donated to GCHQ suggests that it won't come cheap.
