Apple is expected to buy personalised talk-radio app Swell for $30m (£17.7m) adding to its existing iTunes radio music streaming service and Podcast app.The deal will see Swell’s chief executive Ram Ramkumar, who was chief architect for Amazon’s Visual Search, and other key members of its team join Apple and the free app and service shut down this week,reports Recode.Swell raised $7.2m in funding from Google Ventures, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and InterWest Partners among others for an app that provided a personalised radio service using both podcasts and live streaming radio.Personalised radio worth $30mThe app has been described as the &quot;Pandora for talk radio&quot;, learning the listening habits of users and suggesting and building a personalised radio experience, highly tuned for listening in the car.&quot;Let Swell personalise your audio experience so you can lean back and enjoy the content you’re interested in,&quot; explains the companyin its US-only App Store listing. &quot;Listen to what Swell plays. If you like it, keep listening; if not, just swipe to move on.&quot;&quot;Swell learns what you like as you go and will continue to deliver the content most relevant to you,&quot; the company said.Replacing the unloved Podcast appApple’s own Podcast app, which used to be integrated directly into the iPhone and iPad’s music player, allows users to subscribe to podcasts and listen to them, but does not provide a learning, personalised service.It is also not well rated in the iTunes store, with many preferring third-party paid apps like Pocket Casts, Instacast and others. Swell was well liked by both critics and users, with a 4.5-star average rating on Apple’s App Store.Swell had been testing an Android app for the service. It is likely that the app will be killed off and not released to the public.Apple and Swell had not responded to request for comment by the time of publication.Apple bags Pharrell Williams, Kylie and Maroon 5 for iTunes Festival 2014Apple lets parents down over in-app purchases, says EU
Google’s latest project from its Google X “moonshot” division is every bit as ambitious as some of its robotics and communications projects like Glass.Google wants to map how the human body behaves when it’s healthy, which could dramatically improve modern medicine.What are they doing?The Baseline study is a scientific investigation into what it means to be healthy. It will collect data from healthy individuals, crunch the numbers and define a healthy state for a human being from real-world people.Why study the healthy?Why study someone who isn’t sick? Modern medicine is good at treating diseases with obvious symptoms. But at the point at which a disease is showing symptoms severe enough to send someone to the doctor, the disease has been running wild within that person’s body for a good while.By defining a baseline of what it means to be healthy, it is a lot easier to detect changes and pick up serious, life-threatening diseases before they become dangerous. Catching illness much earlier can either diminish the impact or neutralise the disease before symptoms appear.Who&apos;s being studied?Google’s study will initially take 175 volunteers from various groups of ethnicity, habit and area and conduct testing of methods and practices to inform a much larger study later on. That small select group of people is expected to expand to around 400 or so by the end of the year.Where are they?The study is currently limited to the US, but Google will not say where for fear of biassing the study. Participants will know they are part of a clinical study but may not know which. By keeping the location a secret the study can screen out bias of people specifically seeking out Google’s study, which could skew the results.When&apos;s the study and how long is it running?The initial pilot study will run this summer, with further participants added as the year draws to a close. The plan is the run the study on a long-term basis for as much as 10 years or longer.Who’s running it?The man in control of the study is Dr. Andrew Conrad of Google X, but Google is not conducting the experiment alone: Duke University and Stanford University medical schools are working closely with the search giant to design the experiments and study the data.The actual study of participants will be conducted by a clinical partner, which is standard practice for human studies.What are they doing to the volunteers?Each of the 175 participants in the study, and those joining later, will be examined very much like a trip to the doctors. Bodily fluids, including blood and saliva will be collected and their DNA sequenced.Family genetic history, data on how they digest food, how they react to drugs, how fast their hearts beat and other biological data will be collected and collated.The point of the study is to document the underlying chemistry of a healthy human body, far beyond the standard observable conditions of a healthy person. The complex body chemistry will define a normal state, making it much easier to see when something has changed indicating something might be wrong or a disease might have just taken hold.What are they doing with the data?The data will be collated and anonymised by the clinical researchers. From that point the biochemical data will be compared with the person’s lifestyle, age, habits and other physical factors to create a detailed picture of what a healthy person looks like on the inside and out.Qualified researchers, both within Google and the wider academic community, will then be able to analyse the data to see if their are any biochemical signs of one lifestyle or another and to create a “biochemical fingerprint” or baseline from which changes can be easily identified.It is hoped that the data will also reveal patterns to illness that allow doctors to pinpoint the very early stages of disease, or even biochemical patterns that indicate an increased likelihood of developing a disease. Someone’s body chemistry who can digest fatty foods better ensuring low cholesterol will look different to others that cannot, highlighting those that could be susceptible to high cholesterol and heart attacks, for instance.Does Google have access to that wealth of data?Studies like Baseline are strictly controlled by government regulation, as well as being reviewed by independent ethics committees know as Institutional Review Boards. The study will be run by a doctor at a medical clinic who will be acting as the principle investigator – similar to the professors and doctors that oversee scientific and medical projects in academic labs that employ PhD students – despite Conrad leading the project from Google’s end.The principle investigator will be the one responsible for the data and it will be anonymised before being analysed. The participants in the study are also volunteers, who must agree and sign a consent form before taking part. They may also leave at any time.Where does Google come in?Google is providing money to get the project off the ground, in a similar way to other scientific funding bodies. It will also aid in the initial protocol design for the pilot study.Google has built a team of around 100 scientists, including Conrad, who was the chief scientific officer of a diagnostics lab firm LabCorp, and Dr. Vikram Bajaj, a biochemist and chemical physicist who moved from University California Berkeley.Bajaj previously worked on early disease screening and point-of-care testing, which aimed to help speed up diagnosis of disease and allow doctors to begin accurate treatment of the disease as quickly as possible.Google will also lend its programming and computational expertise, helping with the computer analysis of the data – something that is traditionally very expensive for academics to get access to.Eventually, Google will also design and develop new wearable technology to monitor the health of participants in the study, providing more data on things like heart rate, blood pressure and possibly going as far as body chemistry as they go about their daily lives – the ultimate quantified self.But why now?A study like Baseline is traditionally prohibitively expensive to accomplish. The biochemical analysis was costly and time consuming, the DNA sequencing used to cost $100,000s and the computer analysis was restrained by processing power.Now the molecular analysis tools have dramatically decreased in cost (DNA sequencing of a person’s whole genome now costs more like $1,000), and the access to new tools has both sped up testing and made the analysis of very complex biochemical interactions with the body possible.Google’s vast computing power, used to run its search engine and various other services, also make a big contribution to how effective the study can be.Studies in the last decade have attempted to do something similar, but have fallen through because of the sheer cost of operating them.What’s in it for Google?The benefits for science and medicine is clear. What’s not clear is what Google gets out of it. Baseline is being funded by Google X, which was set up to “focus on problems that affect millions of people in their daily lives and try to tackle them from a completely new perspective”.Google Glassand the company’sself-driving carsare also products of Google X. Google states that the “research is intended as a contribution to science; it’s not intended to generate a new product at Google.”That sounds altruistic, and it could be, but it could also give Google a route into a lucrative health market much further down the line, not directly from this study or the experiments and data from within it, but from spin-off ideas.Google’s chief executive Larry Page has beenoutspoken about the potential benefits of data mining healthcare information, which has been a taboo subject for years over fears of profiling and use of the data by companies to exclude individuals.Having failed to convince others to open up medical data, Baseline seems to be Google’s self-funded attempt to kickstart a new healthcare data revolution, proving the benefits first-hand.What is it going to do for me?Google’s Baseline is first and foremost an academic exercise – there is no immediate outcome for the general public. But the science and data behind it could radically improve the way modern medicine operates.Switching from a system predicated around the treatment of symptom-displaying disease to a system that could identify issues before they become a disease – preventing the disease in the first place – could improve the health of the general public and reduce the financial burden placed on the healthcare system treating people when a disease is intrenched and difficult to treat.That is likely a long way off from now, but scientists have to start somewhere and Google’s funding is certainly a big help to get things off the ground.•Google’s self-driving car: How does it work and when can we drive one?
&quot;Are we there yet? Can I have a sweet? Can I have another sweet? Can I have another sweet when we get there then? When are we getting there? Are we there yet? I WANT A SWEET! And a poo …&quot;Travelling with children can be marvellous fun, as you explore the world, open their minds and realise that it&apos;s your turn in I Spy just as a17th-century three-masted Mediterranean trading shiphoves into view. Fun for all the family.Alternatively, it can be hellish, because many children get bored easily on long journeys, and it&apos;s your job to sort it out. Ideally by getting there already. But also by providing entertainment en route, whether you&apos;re in a plane, train or automobile.I&apos;ve noticed a trend among friends who are parents: the act of &quot;loading up the tablet&quot; becoming a vital part of the holiday preparation process – referring to the process of loading apps, TV shows, films and/or music onto a device or two, for strategic deployment during the journey.Apps aren&apos;t a replacement for traditional non-digital travel entertainment for children – looking out at the real world, reading books, making polite conversation, hitting siblings with vicious right hooks – but rather a Plan B, C or D, depending on parents&apos; resolve.With that in mind, here are some of the apps I&apos;ve turned to in my own family&apos;s travels, with an emphasis on those available for both Android and iOS, and a sprinkling of iOS-only ones thrown in. If you&apos;re loading up the tablet for a summer holiday, they may come in handy.Note: some of these apps use in-app purchases (signified by &quot;IAP&quot; alongside the price) but I&apos;ve taken care to choose ones that do this responsibly, in a way controlled by parents – no £69.99 truckloads of SmurfBerries, in other words.Endless Alphabet.Endless Alphabet (iOS/Android)A troupe of colourful monsters teach children the alphabet in this app, which is full of humour and charm. Kids form words by dragging letters into place, before watching comical animations acting them out.£4.99 (iOS) / Free + IAP (Android)Me Comics.Me Comics (iOS/Android)Launched earlier this year by British startup Made in Me, this is a collection of digital comics from brands including Disney, The Beano and Transformers. Kids can read and record their own voice narration. Note: the comics are sold as in-app purchases to parents, so you&apos;ll want to buy a few before heading off on a trip.Free + IAPDisney Storytime.Disney Storytime (iOS)Something for Disney fans here: an app providing access to some of Disney&apos;s most famous tales, from The Lion King to Frozen. Children can read, listen and/or record their own narration. Parents buy virtual credits which children can then spend on stories, so again, prepare by downloading a few before setting out.Free + IAPToca Mini.Toca Mini (iOS/Android)Toca Mini is a wonderfully open-ended app from publisher Toca Boca, which gets children to create their own characters using colours, stamps and tactile touchscreen controls. Perfect for trips, especially when parents are setting creative challenges for children to complete.£1.99Minecraft – Pocket Edition.Minecraft – Pocket Edition (iOS/Android)Chances are if your child is one of the millions playing Minecraft, this&apos;ll already be on the tablet that they use most often. If not – or if they&apos;re new to Minecraft&apos;s charms – a long trip is just the thing to get up to speed on crafting, mining and battling things that go boo in the night.£4.99Petting Zoo.Petting Zoo (iOS/Android)This marvellous app from developer Fox and Sheep has apparently been downloaded more than 1m times, and thus deployed on a number of trips already. It&apos;s a series of interactive animal animations by illustrator Christoph Niemann, ready to be stretched, flipped and wobbled by kids&apos; swipes.£1.99DreamWorks Dragons Adventure.DreamWorks Dragons Adventure World Explorer (Windows)This game came out just recently for some Windows Phone smartphones and Windows 8 tablets, and is notable because it&apos;s designed specifically for children to play while travelling: using Nokia&apos;s Here Maps to turn the world around their current location into gameplay quests, set in the world of the How To Train Your Dragon films. Very inventive.FreeDinosaur Mix.Dinosaur Mix (iOS)Created by UK developer Cowly Owl, this is a fun and engaging stomp into the world of dinosaurs, as children put parts together to make a brightly-coloured dinosaur, then wander around picking up the right food, and finding eggs to swap limbs and heads in and out.£1.99BBC iPlayer.BBC iPlayer (iOS/Android/Windows Phone)On iOS and Android here in the UK, the iPlayer app is a must for any parent contemplating a long journey with a child likely to tire quickly. Again, it&apos;s all about the pre-trip preparation, using the app&apos;s offline feature to download shows from CBeebies and/or CBBC for watching on the go. While the app is available for Windows Phone too, that version requires 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi to work, so may not be as suitable as the iOS and Android editions.Free (UK)Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo.Mr Shingu&apos;s Paper Zoo (iOS/Android)A zoo populated entirely by paper animals created origami style is a great idea (well, until it rains, obviously) – and it&apos;s also the theme of this engaging game. Children fold together animals, then keep them happy by playing with them and buying virtual accessories – the twist being that there are no in-app purchases, so they earn through playing, not paying.£1.99Night Zookeeper Teleporting Torch.Night Zookeeper Teleporting Torch (iOS)The work of another British startup, this is also a creative app based on a zoo. This zoo is full of magical (non-paper) animals, and forms the basis for a series of drawing, reading and writing activities for children, structured in &quot;missions&quot;. When not travelling, parents can join in by setting their own missions from an online dashboard.FreeBBC CBeebies Playtime.BBC CBeebies Playtime (iOS/Android/Windows Phone)Another app from the Beeb, this time for its preschool channel CBeebies. The app is actually a umbrella for a series of games and creative activities based on individual shows, with new ones being added regularly. The roster currently includes Swashbuckle, Show Me Show Me, Alphablocks and more. UK-only.FreeTynker Premium.Tynker Premium (iOS/Android)Something more educational, here, and nicely timed ahead of the introduction this September of programming to the British educational curriculum at an earlier age. Tynker aims to introduce kids to coding through fun exercises, with itsmost recent update adding a sandbox modefor children to make their own games.£2.99 (iOS) / £2.93 (Android)Hopster TV.Hopster TV (iOS)Another UK startup, Hopster, has been compared to Netflix – because it charges parents a simple monthly subscription to get unlimited access to streaming TV shows. In this case, for children, with additional educational games around shows like Ben &amp; Holly’s Little Kingdom and Paddington Bear. For travelling, it also has a mode to download some videos to watch offline – hence its inclusion here.Free + IAPJustin's World: Jigsongs.Justin&apos;s World - Jigsongs (iOS/Android)Justin Fletcher is one of the most recognisable faces on British children&apos;s TV, and he&apos;s also fronted a series of apps in the last year. This one blends music with jigsaws, as children solve the virtual puzzles, then watch Justin sing songs including Old MacDonald, Twinkle Twinkle and The Grand Old Duke of York. Nicely done, even if the earworm risks for parents on a long journey are high...£0.69Jack and the Beanstalk by Nosy Crow.Jack and the Beanstalk by Nosy Crow (iOS)Whether travelling or not, Jack and the Beanstalk is one of the best-crafted storybook apps on iOS, telling the familiar fairytale with lots of interactivity – including some well-worked mini-games in the giant&apos;s castle – but never at the expense of the actual reading.£2.99Shu's Garden.Shu’s Garden (iOS/Android)Shu&apos;s Garden was one of my finds of the last year: a relaxed game for children based on exploring a planet, picking up seeds and then planting them to see what grows. The way the main character rolls and bounces around the world is great fun, but figuring out how the plants grow is what will hold kids&apos; rapt in the longer term.£0.69 (iOS) / Free (Android)Yo Gabba Gabba! Music is Awesome!Yo Gabba Gabba! Music is Awesome! (iOS/Android)Children&apos;s TV show Yo Gabba Gabba! has found a healthy audience of children and adults alike, with music always a central ingredient. This spin-off app sees its colourful cast getting their wiggle on to music played by children using virtual instruments, with a colouring mode thrown in for good measure.£1.49 (iOS) / £1.17 (Android)Astropolo.Astropolo (iOS)The perfect choice for children who are starting to look up and wonder about the galaxies above. Astropolo is a collection of eight space-themed mini-games, making full use of the iPad&apos;s features – microphone included. The papercut-style visuals are lovely to look at, while its education is worn lightly, but effectively.£1.99Dr Panda's Toy Cars.Dr Panda’s Toy Cars (iOS/Android)My younger son loves his toy cars, but they&apos;re not much fun when stuck in a car or train seat for a few hours. This, from popular kid-apps brand Dr Panda, is a fun alternative: eight vehicles to drive around a pair of virtual cities, including a police car and fire engine. The play is open-ended too: children can supply their own storylines, just as they would with real toy cars.£1.99 (iOS) / £1.79 (Android)First Focus: Ladybird Baby Touch.First Focus: Ladybird Baby Touch (iOS/Android)This app&apos;s for very young children: those who when they&apos;re not sleeping on a long journey tend to be hollering and/or reaching for the nearest device to chew. Ladybird&apos;s visual app may (possibly) take their mind of the latter: four animations designed to draw their attention, stimulate their senses and help their eye-tracking and focusing skills in short doses.£1.99Sago Mini Space Explorer.Sago Mini Space Explorer (iOS)The Sago Sago studio makes well-crafted apps for pre-school children that are open-ended: children explore an on-screen world at their leisure, rather than follow particular goals or tasks. This latest example is set in space, with lots to discover – including some familiar faces from the company&apos;s previous (also thoroughly recommended) apps.£1.99Gocco Zoo.Gocco Zoo (iOS/Android)More drawing in this app from Japanese developer Smart Education – and another zoo. Children choose an animal, paint it whatever colour and texture they like, and then snap photos of their work. Some animals and tools are free, with parents able to make one-off in-app purchases to unlock everything.Free + IAP (iOS) / £1.99 + IAP (Android)Dino Dog – A Digging Adventure.Dino Dog – A Digging Adventure (iOS)If dinosaurs are your child&apos;s current craze, this sits neatly alongside Dinosaur Mix on an iPad. It&apos;s a mixture of gameplay (Boulder Dash-ish digging for prehistoric bones); animation (cut-scenes with Dino Dog and his friend Bonnie the Bear) and education (collecting the different dinosaurs) – a fun package.£1.49Kung Fu Robot.Kung Fu Robot (iOS)Finally, this – the off-the-wall adventures of a kung fu-kicking robot, told in an eye-catching interactive comic format, with children swiping down through the story to read it. Extra mini-games add to the fun, with parents able to pay for the second and third episodes once the first free one is done.Free + IAPThat&apos;s 25 recommendations from me, but what apps have your children enjoyed, that you&apos;d suggest other parents may want to try when travelling?The comments thread is open for your thoughts, while some of The Guardian&apos;s previous children&apos;s apps roundups are linked below.•30 best Android apps for kids in 2014•50 best Android apps for kids from 2013•50 best iOS / Android apps from 2013 that parents can trust•50 best iOS / Android apps for kids from 2012
With 130,000 ravenous consumers of geek culture in attendance, it&apos;s no wonder video game publishers have increasingly taken to revealing new titles at the San Diego Comic-Con. Just as the movie and television companies have moved in to publicise their latest super hero and mildly SF/fantasy-themed wares, so the games industry now times specific genre announcements to capture the lycra-clad buzz.Amid the excitement over Mad Max: Fury Road, Wonder Woman&apos;s new outfit, the Avengers: Age of Ultron footage and the cast announcement for Game of Thrones season five, here are the key video game titbits from this weekend&apos;s event.Firefly OnlineThe TV series was cancelled over a decade ago but fans of Joss Whedon&apos;s space cowboy adventure will soon get the chance to re-live it. Firefly Online is a strategic multiplayer role-playing game featuring much of the original cast, including Nathan Fillion, of course. Developed by Quantum Mechanix and Spark Plug Games its coming to iOS and PC next year. The game was announced a couple of weeks ago, but Comic-Con got the first gameplay trailer. It looks a bit, um, basic at the moment.Adventure Time: The Secret of the Nameless KingdomWell, the video game tie-ins with Pendleton Ward&apos;s wonderful animated series have been pretty dire so far, but this trailer is okay – if only for the fact that Ward himself narrates most of it, with the help of Finn and Jake. It&apos;s basically old-school Zelda with jokes, and hits Xbox 360, PS3, PC and 3DS in autumn.Atari: Game OverNo, this isn&apos;t a game, it&apos;s Microsoft&apos;s documentary on the fall of Atari and specifically the digging up of all those ET carts, buried in the New Mexico desert. Comic-Con got a new trailer for the programme as well as a panel discussion with the filmmaker, Atari co-founder Noan Bushell and ET game designer, Scott Warshaw who said on stage, &quot;I am proud to have designed the worst video game of all time.” Wow, so he worked on Duke Nukem Forever as well? Tough break.Zelda hero Link to star in Monster Hunter 4 UltimateFans of Capcom&apos;s creature slaying series discovered this weekend that Link, star of the Legend of Zelda series, will be a playable character in the forthcoming 3DS instalment, Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate. This was already known in Japan, but previously it wasn&apos;t clear whether Western versions of the game would get the extra character, who&apos;ll be wielding the Master Sword, of course.Lego Batman 3Comic-Con got a new trailer of the latest Lego super hero tie-in, due out on just about every current platform imaginable later this year. At a panel discussion, developer Traveller&apos;s Tales also revealed that players will get to control the 1960s TV version of the Dark Knight in one special mission – and he&apos;ll be voiced by Adam West, who receieved a standing ovation when he ventured onto the stage.Halo: NightfallThe five-part, live-action series set to premiere alongside Microsoft&apos;s epic Halo: Master Chief Collection appeared at Comic-Con courtesy of a new trailer. Produced by Ridley Scott, the series introduces a new character, agent Jameson Locke, who is expected to play a role in the forthcoming Halo: Guardians game.
Reddit, the social news site which bills itself as &quot;the front page of the internet&quot;, is to redouble its efforts on advertising as part of a drive to make the most of its 114 million monthly users.The site, which is almost entirely user-led, allows anyone to create a forum, or &quot;subreddit&quot;, devoted to a single topic. The best of these subs, created and moderated entirely by volunteers, have thousands or even millions of subscribers.They frequently appeal to hyper-specific groups, with subreddits such asr/learnpython(25,000 subscribers),r/foxes(31,000 subscribers) andr/TheLastAirbender(99,000 subscribers) theoretically offering dream demographic targeting to advertisers.But Reddit wants to make the most of that potential without alienating its visitors, many of whom are attracted to the site by the absence of any of the bells and whistles typical to the internet in 2014.“One of the things you have to be careful of when you have a site that’s 100% community-driven is how best to support that community and not make them feel like you’ve sold out,” Kevin Rose, general partner at the venture capital firm Google Ventures,told the New York Times&apos; Mike Isaac. “You just don’t want that community to blow up on you.”To that end, Isaac reports, Reddit has hired a new head of business strategy, Ellen Pao, formerly of VC firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.The site hopes to make ends meet with well targeted, native-style advertising. For instance, a coding academy could buy an ad unit at the top of r/learnpython offering help to the subs&apos; readers. The ad, while clearly marked as such, would look and feel just like a typical reddit post, which would hopefully encourage users to treat it like other content on the site.Reddit is owned by American publishing leviathan Conde Nast, but operates independently from the firm&apos;s main unit.•Reddit women protest at new front-page position
Amazon will launch a credit card reader to take on Square, PayPal and iZettle, according to leaked documents.The leaked inventory documentdiscovered by technology site 9to5Macshows office supplies store Staples taking stock of an Amazon Card Reader, alongside competitors from PayPal, Square and a Staples-branded card reader.The card readers connect to a smartphone to allow individuals and companies to accept payment via credit card.Amazon WalletThe inventory document indicates the card reader will go on sale in the US on or around the 12 August for $9.99 (£5.89).Amazon has been making moves within the payments space for a while, allowing retailers and services like Kickstarter to use Amazon as a payment processor.With 237 million active user accounts, Amazon boasts one of the largest collection of accounts with credit cards, rivalled by Apple and a handful of other companies.Amazon is expected to launch a new payments system for shops and stores based on its Kindle Fire tablets, which will act as the local retailer&apos;s till system processing payments directly through Amazon in a similar manner to the way it operates its Amazon Marketplace with third-party sellers.The company recently launched a new “Amazon Wallet” application for Android available through both its own Amazon Appstore and the Google Play store, which allows users to store and organise gift cards and store loyalty cards.Amazon has been looking at developing a person-to-person (P2P) payment system for a while through its Amazon Local Commerce team, according tojob postingswhich specifically list P2P payments as one of the responsibilities.It is unknown whether the payments system and credit card reader will be launched outside the US, to compete with iZettle – the largest and most establishedEuropean mobile credit card paymentscompany.Amazon did not respond to requests for comment by the time of publication.Amazon lets shoppers add goods to their baskets directly from Twitter
If there’s a depressing slogan for the early era of the commercial internet, it’s this: “Privacy is dead – get over it.”For most of us, the internet is complex and opaque. Some might be vaguely aware that their personal data are getting sucked, their search histories tracked, and their digital journeys scoured.But the current nature of online services provides few mechanisms for individuals to have oversight and control of their information, particularly across tech-vendors.An important question is whether privacy will change as we enter the era ofpervasive computing. Underpinned by theInternet of Things, pervasive computing is where technology is seamlessly embedded within the real world, intrinsically tied to the physical environment.If the web is anything to go by, the new hyperconnected world will only make things worse for privacy. Potentiallymuchworse.More services and more things only mean more data being generated and exchanged. The increase in data volume and complexity might plausibly result in less control. It’s a reasonable assumption, and it leaves privacy in a rather sorry state.Many of the future predictions about privacyreflectthisbleakdiagnosis. If privacy isn’t dead yet, then billions-upon-billions of chips, sensors, and wearables will seal the deal.But before jumping to such conclusions – and bearing in mind the immense power of established tech-vendors and theirinterest in this space– there may still be reasons to be positive. In particular, the fundamental differences between pervasive computing and Web 2.0 provide a beacon of hope.One difference is that with pervasive computing, much of the technology becomes tangible and familiar. This makes issues of privacy more readily apparent to users. Web browsing histories stretching back over time are one thing; Google Glass is quite another.If you can physically witness aspects of data collection, it short-circuits what has traditionally been a long feedback loop between privacy risk and cumulative effect. The hope is that the increased awareness inspires action.This ties to a second difference: the technology itself could enable action. Unlike the web, where offerings tend to be one-size-fits-all, pervasive computing is driven by the individual, focusing on customised, person-centric services and experiences.If the technology supporting this properly places individuals in the driving seat, it could also be used to provide individuals with the opportunity to take control of their personal data.Moving from the abstract webIt has taken years for the sort of awareness and backlash that we’re now starting to see against Facebook, Google, and other major internet vendors that trade in personal data.This is a product, in many respects, of the inherent obscurity of data collection by web-based services.Moving from the web to the Internet of Things, many aspects of technology shift from being abstract and hidden, to being grounded in the real world.In the real world, people have expectations, depending on the place and situation, about what behaviours are reasonable. What is acceptable in a pub may not be appropriate at a conference.As technology becomes part of physical space, behaviour that violates social norms becomes more obvious, and new norms will develop around technology-based interactions. This, in turn, should make issues of privacy more prominent and pressing.Google Glassis a case in point. The aim of Glass is to bring closer the digital and physical realm. Even before Glass was released, there weremovementsto limit its use, with the term“glasshole”rapidly entering the vernacular. We now see Glass being banned frombars,restaurants,strip clubs, andcinemas.The rapid appreciation and evolving responses to the implications of Glass – be they related to privacy, economic, or legal concerns – is a phenomenon not seen in the world of Web 2.0, and provides an early indication for how the Internet of Things could develop differently.Personalisation and customisationBeyond tangibility, the other element at the heart of fully-realised pervasive computing is personalisation and customisation.The Internet of Things is about more than just internet-connected fridges. Instead, it represents the move to having ever more objects networked and embedded.This leads to the goal of pervasive computing, where all these things can all be used in various ways, to achieve personal, customised goals. The vision is that different individuals will be able to use the same things and services differently from those around them.To take a domestic example, sensor-embedded kitchen devices might support precision-control gastronomic cooking in one home, while at the same time offering the potential to remotely monitor the food consumption of elderly relatives in another.This is a huge shift from Web 2.0 – and even from the current generation of mobile apps – in which services and their uses are defined by vendors, leaving users with little option but to adapt. To get the most from next-generation technology, it should accommodate our different likes and preferences in relation to things, people, place, and time, tailoring its functionality to those preferences.As the nature of pervasive computing has personalisation woven into its fabric, it offers the promise for real privacy protection. Privacy preferences and controls can be made part-and-parcel of the process of individual customisation – built-in to the technology’s operation.How all of this develops will depend considerably on the lead proponents. If technology develops within thewalled gardensof a few dominant vendors – with the superficial illusion of control within their walls – we will end up bound by theircode.This would not only be bad for privacy – as the industry’s track-record makes clear – but more generally, vendor-dominated silos would constrain and limit the potential of the emerging technological landscape.This is part of the reason for thinking positively and proactively about privacy: its fate is intimately bound with that of the Internet of Things as a whole. And if there is the vision and commitment to realising pervasive computing in a way that is open, diverse, innovative, and high-value, then privacy may just stand a fighting chance.Jat Singh (Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge) andJulia Powles (Faculty of Law, University of Cambridge)are working on collaborative projects in technology, law, and policy•Evgeny Morozov: Tech pioneers in the US are advocating &apos;algorithmic regulation&apos; - but if technology provides the answers to society&apos;s problems, what happens to governments?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBose accuses Beats of using patented noise-cancelling tech &gt;&gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaBeats’ products that allegedly use the technology “can also be used for noise cancellation when no music is played, a feature that Beats also advertises,” the suit states. “Thus, Beats specifically encourages users to use the infringing functionality. Beats advertises no method to turn off features that cause end users to directly infringe.”Interesting given Apple is one of Bose&apos;s biggest resellers. Apple has been using Bose headphones and speaker docks to advertise and demonstrate its iPods and the iPhones for years.US falling behind Europe on electronic payments &gt;&gt;&gt; Euromoney MagazineA large gulf is emerging between the US and Europe as Americans remain wedded to cheque payments and signature credit cards, while an efficient standardized payment systems takes root in the single market.If Europe ever gets its own Google-scale web firm, it&apos;s hard not to see this distinction being at the heart of the competitive advantage.Hold the Phone: A Big-Data Conundrum &gt;&gt;&gt; New York TimesLaura Trucco, a Ph.D. student in economics at Harvard, followed a hunch. She wanted to see whether my experience was unique. But how? When people become frustrated with a slow phone, she reasoned, they search Google to figure out what to do about it. So, in theory, data on how often people search for &quot;iPhone slow,&quot; as provided by Google Trends, can measure the frustration globally. (Data for only the United States show similar results.)Because this data is available weekly, she was able to cross-reference these searches against release dates of new phones. The charts show the results, which are, to say the least, striking. In the top chart, there are six distinct spikes, and they correspond to releases of new iPhones.Alternative interpretation: your phone feels slow when you&apos;re bombarded with advertising for a new, faster phone.SpaceX&apos;s lawsuit against the Air Force is gaining steam &gt;&gt;&gt; The Washington PostA federal judge has ordered a review of a U.S. Air Force contract to put dozens of military satellites into orbit. The contract, which was awarded to longtime federal partner United Launch Alliance, is being contested by SpaceX over claims that the bidding process was non-competitive.Capitalism! In! SPAAAACE!Apple Confirms Purchase of Book Recommendation Maker BookLamp &gt;&gt;&gt; Re/codeBookLamp, for its part, posted a statement that says its service &quot;will no longer be available as our company evolves its mission.&quot; Its present mission, apparently, being to make its way to Cupertino and do whatever Apple says to do. Before being snapped up by Apple, the company had a &quot;book genome project&quot; that aimed to analyze books content and style and provide those that liked one book or author with recommendations for other books that might be of interest.Discoverability in the iBookstore is fairly terrible, so this technology could be put to good use.Suspect&apos;s Facebook post: &apos;Y&apos;all will never catch me&apos; (they do) &gt;&gt;&gt; CNetWhen Ireland saw that the police department was featuring his image, he couldn&apos;t resist commenting. Calling the police &quot;cowards,&quot; he added: &quot;Y&apos;all will never catch me.&quot;You know how this ends, don&apos;t you?#WantedWednesday became #TakenThursday. As the Baltimore Sun reports, Ireland was arrested by police the very next day. They say they received tips as to his whereabouts.Nobody ever said criminals were smart, but give yourself up through a Facebook post? Social media in action right there.Rumour: Motorola Is Working With Google On Shamu, A Possible Nexus Phone With A 5.9&quot; Display &gt;&gt;&gt; Android PoliceAccording to information made available to us, Motorola is working on a device with Google code named Shamu. The device is supposed to be targeted at major US carriers, and unspecified carriers in other parts of the world, which would probably include the markets that currently have access to Nexus devices, though this detail is still unclear.The phone is supposed to carry a sizable 5.9&quot; display of unknown resolution, and - interestingly - a fingerprint sensor. It will also allegedly be targeted for a November release. The release time frame is - as always - not something to place bets on. It can change very quickly depending on a variety of factors.Something tells us Google is unlikely to release a Nexus smartphone that big, but phablets are certainly popular. A Motorola Nexus could be quite something.&apos;China&apos;s Google&apos; Baidu Working On Partial Self-Drive Cars &gt;&gt;&gt; TheNextWebPhilosophically we have a fundamental difference to look at this type of things. I think in the future, a car should not totally replace the driver but should really give the driver freedom. Freedom means the car is intelligent enough to operate by itself, like a horse, and make decisions under different road situations.Whenever the driver wants to resume control, you can do that. It’s like riding on a horse, rather than just sitting in a car where you only have a button.Sci-fi filmmakers will be happy. That&apos;s pretty much what they&apos;ve all been predicting for 40 years or so. Then you have the danger of an idiot driver causing an accident when you could simply have a machine drive.We think this scenario for driverless cars is more likely to get approved, though.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
Price £20,270MPG 74.3Top speed 121mphIt’s been a while since I picked up a hitchhiker. You don’t see them much any more. Remember those road junctions heading out of town with their parades of young people? Acne, backpacks, Iron Maiden T-shirts and cardboard signs saying, “The North” or “Anywhere” or, once, “Home”?Anyway, last week I spotted one. A smart fellow on the slip road out of Luton airport, with cabin luggage and thumb cocked. I pulled up, wondering, as you always did, if I’d regret it. Would he talk incessantly? Would he try to convert me to heavy metal? Or kill me and chop me up with a chef’s cleaver? No, he was Juergen from Berlin, a photographer whose shoulder bag had been nicked in arrivals. Welcome to Britain.“Been waiting long?” I say, because that’s what we always said. “No,” says Juergen, “not even a minute.” Maybe his luck is about to change. He tells me how he was robbed (put his bag down to buy a coffee – newbie), and we start talking about destinations. And journeys. And other rides. He once caught an all-nighter with a trucker who sang “Ace of Spades” over and over… Then we move on to the World Cup (he is German) and cars (we are men), and this newHonda Civic Tourer.I explain that “tourer” is the posh word for an estate and that though Honda is Japanese, the Civic is a very British affair. It’s designed, developed and built in Swindon. I suspect Juergen thinks I am lying. To show him I am not making it up, I wow him with a few facts. “This Civic has the lightest engine in its class – a super-frugal 1.6 i-DTEC diesel with 74.3mpg and CO2emissions of a piffling 99g/km. That means no road tax and no congestion charge. It’s all part of Honda’s eco-driven Earth Dreams Technology range and…” Juergen looks slightly panicked. He peers at me, I notice his hand clutching the door handle. Maybe he thinks I am about to chop him up with the chef’s cleaver I’ve hidden in the boot…Inside story: the new Civic has a calm and clean interior.The ad that accompanies this new car is calledInner Beauty.It’s made by the team which brought us the brilliantHandsad for Honda’s range last year. The ad takes you on a hyper-quick journey through the interior world of various objects – a golf ball, a suitcase, a guitar amp – to reveal the inner beauty of each, before tunnelling through the Civic.The car may not be your idea of beauty, but it is certainly practical and functional. It has a class-leading 624 litres of boot space, dozens of innovative safety features and driver aids and a set of Honda’s multifunctional “Magic” seats – all three back seats fold flush into the floor, which increases the loadbay to 1,668 litres. Other “magical” stuff includes the fact this is the world’s first production car to boast a rear adaptive damper system. A laser checks the road surface every 10 milliseconds and adjusts the suspension accordingly.We arrive in the capital and, to make up for the theft, I drop Juergen outside his hotel door. “Thanks for the ride,” he says. And then, nodding at the Honda: “You’re better at building cars than playing football…”Ride round the worldChris Evans explains how Ride25 works.Cycling enthusiasts and entrepreneurs John Readman and Rob Hamilton have set up Ride25. It’s aim is to riding around the world more accessible for everyday cyclists by splitting the route into 25 separate three-to-five day “tours”. You simply commit to one tour at a time – you could ride just one leg, or ride them all, back to back or months, even years apart. Most tours are about 4 days long with between 70 and 90 miles a day. It’s not just about the cycling though... it’s about the camaraderie, stunning landscapes, charity and sharing your day’s adventure over a meal and a few drinks in the evening. Here’s a video to explain what it’s all about. For more details, go toride25.comEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
You are trying to book theatre tickets online with a rarely used credit card. Prompted to give a password, you find you can no longer remember it. The result is a failed transaction and a minor rise in blood pressure.It gets worse. While shopping later on, you drop your car keys. An opportunist picks them up and wanders around the shopping mall's car park pressing the unlock button until your vehicle lights flash on. The result is a stolen car and a major rise in blood pressure.Nor are you alone. Electronic security has become a headache for millions of people as they struggle to keep their systems and devices secure – though one leading expert believes he has found a solution. According to Frank Stajano, reader in security at Cambridge University's computer laboratory, each of us needs an electronic aura, a field that would extend no more than two or three feet from our bodies and which could be generated in a similar way to a Wi-Fi signal, only over a very short distance. Crucially, signals generated within the aura would uniquely identify its owner and permit only his or her electronic devices to work when they are close to that person.Outside your electronic aura, your electric car keys would not be able to function, for example. You could drop them in a supermarket but they would be of no use to a thief, because the keys could only operate in the presence of your aura.Even more ambitiously, Stajano is designing a handheld device that can remember thousands of log-in names and passwords.This device – which he calls a pico, after the Italian philosopher Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, who was famed for his prodigious memory – would interact automatically with websites for banks, theatres, cinemas, rail companies and others. You would simply hold the device over your screen to access one of your accounts.The device would, again, be perfectly secure because it could only function inside an individual's electronic aura. If one was dropped or lost, it would provide no security threat and would be simply replaced by a backup."Passwords are a disaster today," says Stajano. "You have to remember dozens of them. And they have to be in different cases and include numbers and not be proper dictionary words – and you are not allowed to write them down and on top of that you have to change them every two months. We have to find a way to avoid having to remember them all the time."The answer is the pico, which can store countless log-ins and passwords, and the aura that will allow the pico to operate securely, says Stajano, who has been given a £1m grant by the European Union to develop a system based on these concepts."The pico unlocks only when it finds itself inside an aura of safety around you," he said. "This aura is created by smaller devices that you would have on your person and which you are not likely to take off: your glasses, your watch, and your shoes. They could be in your clothes or jewellery. They could even be in the form of a subcutaneous implant. We call these devices 'pico siblings', and you would have a number of them on your person. Only if there are several present would it be possible for your aura to be generated and your car keys – or your house keys or your pico device – to feel comfortable and remain unlocked."Other computer researchers are investigating different methods to improve computer security. One popular approach involves the use of biometric systems – retinal scans or fingerprints – to replace passwords.However, these are open to abuse, Stajano argues. "Biometric systems work well at border controls or in other settings where a person has to be present for scrutiny. But when you are logging on remotely to a system – for example, when you are trying to get into your bank account via your laptop – security could easily be breached. You could use a photograph of a person's eye to fool a retinal scanner, for example, or use a copy of a fingerprint."Such drawbacks would not affect the Cambridge pico system, though Stajano acknowledged that a lot of work still needed to be done on its development."Websites will have to be designed in formats that recognise signals from a pico, for example. However, we are consulting with major service providers on this issue."Similarly, his team is looking at the kind of aura-generating devices that people would be prepared to place around their bodies: badges, jewellery, belt buckles and wristbands."The problem with computer passwords is only going to get worse," said Stajano. "With our pico project we are going for the long-term solution."
America's willingness to back the pioneering entrepreneurs that have transformed its industries and fuelled its economy should not be underestimated. From Henry Ford to Thomas Edison and, more recently, Steve Jobs, those who have harnessed technology to create vast wealth cast a long shadow over the new world's corporate history.Loyalty to the visionary may go some way to explaining why, the day after Amazonwarned that its operating loss in the coming September quarter could be as high as $810m, support for its founder shows no sign of wavering.Jeff Bezos has a reputation for sacrificing profits in favour of long-term growth, but the warning still came as a shock. Wall Street had been expecting just $8m. The shares dived 15%, wiping £15bn from Amazon's stock market value.The heads of British chief executives have rolled for less. Tesco's business may be shrinking, but it was still making a £3bn profit whenPhilip Clarke was oustedlast week. Two years ago,AstraZeneca's David Brennan had to fall on his swordearlier than planned because of a lacklustre drugs pipeline.But reaction to Amazon's profit warning among the analysts who set the tone on Wall Street was a series of reiterated buy recommendations. "One of the best management teams on the internet," cheered broker RBC Capital Markets. "We still have conviction," declared the equity strategists at Morningstar.The reasons given for the upcoming losses are a very diverse range of aggressive, well-funded investments. Amazon is investing in faster dispatch for all goods, with more Sunday and same-day deliveries. More ambitiously, it wants to become an online grocer, bringing fresh food to the doorstep just like Ocado or Sainsbury's. AmazonFresh drivers are already dropping off weekly shops in Los Angeles and San Francisco.Even more ambitiously, Amazon Studios is having a stab at becoming the next HBO or Netflix, committing $100m in the current quarter alone to commissioning its own shows. This spring, it gave the green light to six full series. There is a new instalment of the Birmingham crime dramaPeaky Blinders, co-produced with the BBC, and supernatural thrillerThe After, fromX-Filescreator Chris Carter. There are no half-measures here: a third wave of pilots later this year will include no fewer than 10 new shows.Amazon may make more money from general merchandise, but its window display has always been entertainment – books, music, films, TV series; a sector that will sooner or later be sucked into a black hole. Digital downloads are doing away with the need for warehouses full of CDs and box sets.And Amazon is far from dominant in the download arena. The device makers and software writers – Google with its Playstore and Apple with iTunes – are already building billion-dollar music and video retail businesses. And so Amazon is building its own devices. First a tablet, then a set-top box, and now a mobile phone.Creating hit television series, running an online supermarket, making smartphones: these are difficult things to do well, even for companies that specialise in only one of them at a time. None the less, Amazon's can-do approach has proved doubters wrong in the past – most notably with its Kindle tablet.But Bezos wants customers to live in a company town, in the same way that some of its authors write books that are published by Amazon, reviewed by Amazon customers, sold in its online store, and read on its Kindles. The model has a niche in the book trade, but how many people will watchThe Afteron a Fire TV box, while munching popcorn delivered by AmazonFresh?Amazon should focus on retail and forge alliances – with device makers, TV companies and studios. Unfortunately, while Bezos has achieved much, his turbulent relationship with the publishing industry suggests alliances are not his strong suit.Wage inflation? We'll believe it when we see itThe timing of the first interest rate rise in more than five years will depend on how many workers get a decent wage rise. Bank of England rate setters let it be known at their last meeting that inflation-busting pay is a key indicator of an economy's health, and a trigger for higher rates.Optimists believe that, after six years of falling real incomes, workers are due an above-inflation rise. So far it hasn't come, but they argue that staff shortages will soon translate into higher pay.As the Bank's regional agent network recently reported, the UK is facing the worst recruitment difficulties since the beginning of 2008. Recruitment agencies are also recording record rises in starting salaries for new employees. So wages are on the up. Are interest rates too? The flipside of this argument can be found in the minutes from July's MPC meeting.Officials said a halving in average weekly earnings growth to 0.7% in the three months to April, from 1.4% in the three months to January, could reflect a trend for new jobs to be "concentrated in lower-paid sectors". It added: "Perhaps relatedly, recent employment growth had been more heavily skewed towards lower-skilled occupations."Rate setters also worry about self-employment, up by 700,000 since 2008 and accounting for more than two-fifths of job creation in this parliament. Many new members of this 4.5 million-strong sub-group are redundant public sector workers picking up contract work. Then there are the 100,000 or so construction workers who have probably rejoined the ranks of the self- employed. It is a mixed bag of people, some of whom could see their incomes rocket as the economy recovers, and others who won't.George Osborne said last week he expects a bumper tax take in January when the self-employed pay their contributions. He may be right. But it may not be all they are paying. Higher  mortgage payments could be another hit on their bank account soon.RBS shares are up – but the watchdog still lurksRoyal Bank of Scotland has set an upbeat tone for the start of the half-yearly reporting season for high street banks. Belting out its profits a week early, the bailed-out bank has raised the bar for rivals.Barclays and Lloyds Banking Group were dragged up the FTSE 100 leader board on the back of the 10% jump in the RBS share price on Friday; handily, Barclays and Lloyds are due to report his week. Better news about the economy was demonstrated in the dramatic fall in RBS's provisions for bad debts, and official data showing the economy has recovered the losses it incurred during the banking crisis. Such things bolster sentiment.But as RBS spelt out, no matter how much good news there is around, there is always the lingering problem of conduct and litigation risks. This week may well provide more evidence of these party poopers.
The tiny student team behind4PMhave made a number of bold design choices in crafting their story-cum-game. It explores alcoholism, for one, with the lead character struggling to hold her professional life together and come to terms with her past.Equally, it is exceedingly short, coming in at around half an hour on the first play-through, with little reason to return more than a couple of additional times to explore variations in the narrative. Furthermore, interaction is streamlined, with the player effectively walking the protagonist through each scene, making occasional choices that affect the conclusion.As a result, many gamers are likely to ignore4PM. After all, it lacks the spectacle and excess that so many consider defining qualities of "real" games. 4PM's world is a place without heroics; sex doesn't sell here, there are certainly no car chases, and there's little time even for triumph or success. Which is exactly why others will revel in exploring this distinct game world, as it probes some of the darker realities of life.For this is a truly striking creation; a well-written, thoughtful short story in video game form that will intrigue fans of succinct narrative adventures such asGone HomeandDear Esther, even if it fails to quite meet their standard of excellence.It is somewhat technically limited, but the cinematography in every scene is considered with care and to great effect, and for those willing to throw pocket change at something different, it is a fascinating example of a game's ability to challenge and provoke without using brute sensationalism as a tool.
If big-budget console releases leave you cold, and you've grown tired of swiping at your mobile screen to flap birds and clash clans, the web browser has been especially fertile for great games of late. Take the minimalist, intergalactic, parking-themed puzzlerSpace Valet. Brimming with charm and buoyed by fantastic audio, it is, effectively, a traditional block-sliding puzzle. Developer Benjamin Davis tasks the player with cramming spacecraft into parking bays using an overpowered tractor beam. It's a playful distraction spawned from a two-week game design competition themed around the concept of the "space cowboy", and well worth some time.Still not absurd enough? The Space Cowboy Jam contest also inspired "CorgiSim" to craft point-and-clickCorgi Simulator 2071. The tale of a kidnapped canine trying to escape his galaxy-hopping captors, it's extremely tongue in cheek and deliberately lo-fi, but guaranteed to put a grin on the face of anyone who tries it.Away from absurd spins on sci-fi conventions, CEJ Pacian'sWeird City Interloperis a text-adventure in the classic form – in layman's terms, a game built entirely from words. Picking your way through an engrossing tale of conspiracy in a gloriously distinctive fictional world, it proves that games can provide tremendous escapism and detail purely through the medium of the written word.
Back in Pokémon's heyday, Nintendo released a plethora of tie-in games that were – on the whole – excellent.Pokémon Trading Card Gamewas one such title. Originally released on the Game Boy Colour 14 years ago, this adventure title is based on the real-world card game that is still going strong today. And just like the more traditional Pokémon titles, gamers must catch 'em all – this time there are more than 220 cards to find – and battle eight gym leaders in order to become the ultimate champion.This 3DS port stands up remarkably well. The rudimentary plot and repetitive visuals let it down slightly, and the original's multiplayer mode – where gamers could battle and trade with one another – is missing. There was also a far superior sequel that was only released in Japan, and it would have been preferable if Nintendo had brought that one to Europe instead.Regardless, the title's core battling gameplay remains excellent. Gamers must build a deck of 60 cards and get the right combination to survive numerous tricky and compelling challenges.It's by far the deepest Pokémon RPG system introduced in the history of the franchise, and a must for fans who missed out first time around.
Want to know if someone is internet-savvy? Just ask them why anyone should care about&nbsp;net neutrality. If they understand the technology, stand by for a lecture on why it is vital that all data on the network should be treated equally by ISPs, and why it is essential that those who provide the pipes connecting us to&nbsp;the network should have no influence on the content that flows through those pipes.On the other hand, if the person knows no more about the net than the averageLOLcatenthusiast, you will be greeted by a blank stare: "Netwhat?"If, dear reader, you fall into neither category but would like to know more, two options are available: a visit to the excellentWikipedia entryon the subject or comedian John Oliver'sdevastatingly sharp explication of net neutralityon YouTube.The principle that all bits traversing the network should be treated equally was a key feature of the internet's original design. It was also one of the reasons why the internet became such an enabler of disruptive innovation. Net neutrality meant that the bits generated by a smart but unknown programmer's application, for instance the web, file-sharing, Skype and Facebook, would be treated the same as bitstreams emanating from a giant corporation. Neutrality kept the barrier to entry low.So far, so good. But the problem with general principles, however admirable, is that they sometimes create inflexibility. In that sense, net neutrality is like the principle that one should never, ever, tell a lie, not even a small one: excellent in principle, unfeasible in practice. The internet works by breaking each communication into small data packets and dispatching them, often by different routes, to their destination, where they are reassembled into the original communication. This was fine in the early days, when most communications were files and emails, and it didn't matter if the packets failed to arrive in an orderly stream. But once innovations such as internet telephony, streaming audio and video emerged, it looked like a good idea to give them privileged treatment because otherwise quality was degraded.When media corporations such as Netflix came along, they were outraged that their bits had to travel in the same third-class carriages as everybody else's. Which, of course, led big ISPs to the idea that they could put those bitstreams into a fast lane and charge their owners accordingly, thereby earning more revenue and throwing neutrality out of the window.In the US, the neutrality buck stops with theFederal Communications Commission(FCC), historically a doughty supporter of the principle. Since last January, however, the FCC has been impaled on the horns of an appeal court decision. Verizon, the huge US ISP, successfully challenged the FCC's rules on neutrality. The court ruled that the commission did not have the right to prevent Verizon from&nbsp;charging a fee for traffic carried on its network and since that point Verizon has been billing Netflix for providing a fast lane for its content to Verizon subscribers.Mulling its options in April, the FCC concluded that, to stay within the law, it would have to allow ISPs to charge for providing fast lanes so long as the terms were "commercially reasonable". Anticipating the outrage that this violation of the neutrality principle would generate, the commission put the draft ruling out for a period of public consultation that closed on 15 July.You can imagine what happened. The commission was deluged by public comments, most of them online. It had toadd extra capacityto cope with the fallout from Oliver's broadcast. By deadline day, it had received nearly a million submissions, the vast majority of which were probably hostile to the proposed new ruling.Also received werea much smaller number of submissionsfrom corporations. Verizon, for example, filed a 184-page comment written by five lawyers. Comcast, another huge ISP, submitted a 71-page document. Other companies (internet giants and telecoms mainly) did much the same.Guess which submissions the FCC will take seriously?You know the answer. All the public submissions will be read and most of them rejected. This not because FCC officials are biased or corrupt. It's just that they can't do anything with expressions of outrage or affirmations of values. They're charged by Congress with making rules that can stand up to legal challenge. They need submissions that have evidence and arguments, things that most laypeople are not in a position to provide. Sad but true: even in a democracy, rulemaking can't be done by plebiscite, online or off. And that noise you're hearing is theghost of Edmund Burkecheering.
American billionaire oil magnate J Paul Getty once said, "If you can count your money, you don't have a billion dollars." Yet even for us non-billionaires, keeping a handle on how much cash we have can be difficult. Keeping a record on paper or on a spreadsheet and manually noting every single purchase and expenditure is time consuming. Some banks offer fancy online visualisations of your current account. Others will send you text reminders when your funds drop below a specified level. But when you hold accounts at different banks – not to mention credit cards, store cards and all the rest – the usefulness of these services pales.You might be pleased to hear that this situation is beginning to change. It is becoming possible for users to see – in real time, on one screen – all their account data at different financial institutions. The formal name for this service is "account aggregation". It's been around in the US for nearly a decade but is now making a splash in the UK thanks to a plethora of new – and often free – apps for iPhone and Android devices. The apps aim to help you answer basic questions about your finances  — Am I overspending at Waitrose? Do I need to cut back on eating out? Has joining Amazon Prime been a false economy?Besides providing useful insights, the free apps are easy to set up – just enter your online banking credentials and you're done. But there's no such thing as a free lunch, and this may explain why they're not catching on as quickly as they might. A look at the most popular UK smartphone banking apps reveals that while all seek to collect large amounts of financial data on their users, not all companies treat your data the same way. While some app providers earn money by charging you to use their services, "free" app providers earn money by essentially selling your data.Britain's most popular personal finance app isOnTrees. The free iPhone app aggregates credit card, loan, billing and current account data to show users how they are spending their money.Money Dashboardis another free app offering a similar service. Both apps – like nearly all UK banking apps – run on a US-based platform called Yodlee, a major data-cloud service provider to global banks. It also sells data feeds of UK bank customers to UK app startups that hope to make money by selling insights into your spending habits.But not all UK banks use Yodlee, and if that's the case the apps will ask you for your bank account log-in details and pass this data on to Yodlee, which will collect (or "scrape," in industry parlance) account information from your online banking platform, then save it on Yodlee's servers. Yodlee's data – both the direct bank feeds and its screen scrapes – are updated many times a day, and may even be real-time in some cases. Yodlee feeds this to UK app providers such as OnTrees, which crunch the numbers and then send those impressive pie charts and graphs of your spending through the ether to your iPhone.OnTrees says its free app has helped thousands reach their savings and spending goals. But if you think OnTrees and its ilk are altruistic financial fairy godmothers, think again. If you read the privacy policies of OnTrees or Money Dashboard, it's clear that in exchange for their free apps, you are granting them access to your personal financial data. Or, more precisely, a licence to monetise your data as they see fit.OnTrees's privacy policysays it will analyse your bank data "to provide information about third-party products or services that you might find interesting; and use the content to create and analyse aggregated data about their users provided that you are not identifiable from the aggregated data".Money Dashboard's privacy policyis clearer: "We also use personal information in performing statistical analysis of users' behaviour as a whole; and to help in the creation of anonymised statistical data which we may use at our discretion (including licensing to third parties)."Charlotte Oates, marketing and communications manager at OnTrees, says her company is trying to strike a balance between providing users with a free service and generating revenue. "At the moment we're not sharing the data with anyone because we're in the early stages of our business," she&nbsp;tells&nbsp;me.But OnTrees – which was acquired by financial service comparison site Moneysupermarket in April – might eventually leverage user data to sell financial products through Moneysupermarket, says Oates. Under this scenario, OnTrees would collect a commission on any sales leads that it might generate."There's a dashboard in OnTrees that shows how much money has come into your account over the last 30 days and how much has gone out," Oates explains. "If we see that over the past 90 days more money has come into someone's account than gone out, we could tell the customer 'why don't you think of opening one of these savings accounts?' That's the sort of recommendation we plan to make. But it's not something we are currently&nbsp;doing."Jeffrey Chester of theCentre for Digital Democracyis sceptical of OnTrees and its parent company, Moneysupermarket. "Whatever OnTrees is saying needs to be looked at in the context of what its owner, Moneysupermarket, is actually doing," Chester says. "Its business model today might very well be narrow, but it is part of a larger financial apparatus that's designed to sell your data. These apps are digital Trojan horses. They are promising you the convenience of an effective online tool but they are really there to spy on you and engage in predatory lending practices, which the UK has a large problem with."Shopaholics beware: your phone could soon warn you if you’re overspending. Photograph: Tom Wang/AlamyWhile apps like OnTrees remain free, the value of such companies grows with every additional bit of data they collect. And although there are not yet any global standards for attaching a monetary value to data, this seems likely to change. As aWorld Economic Forum reportpointed out some years back: "Personal data will be the new 'oil' – a valuable resource of the 21st century. It will emerge as a new asset class touching all aspects of society."Oates at OnTrees agrees: "Data is a huge asset right now. It's absolutely a marketable asset. When we originally set up the business we knew that the data we would be getting from our customers would be very valuable."But she says the company risks alienating its users if it uses the data indiscriminately. "People in the UK care a lot about privacy. A lot of our customers call us to ask how we will use their data. I think there are big concerns. We're focused on growing our market and our user-base right now, before we would start challenging the privacy relationship we have with our users."App makers might want to adopt clearer and more straightforward data usage policies to address privacy concerns. A good place to start is to do away with the term "anonymised statistical data" – a prevalent but essentially meaningless term that appears over and over in apps' terms of use.Professor Latanya Sweeneyof Harvard University proved the term meaningless more than a decade ago when she demonstrated that87% of all Americans could be uniquely identifiedusing only three bits of information: their postcodes, birth dates and gender. So now imagine how much these free apps might know about you if you give them access to all your credit cards, bank accounts, and loans. Throw in GPS location data that the apps might also collect and you have a pretty complete picture of a person's life.As UK finance app developers consider ways to make money from the vast pools of data they hold on users, they are closely following how a Zurich-based startup is moving ahead with its own monetisation plans. TheNumbrsapp – available only in Germany at the moment – resembles OnTrees, with one added feature: you can make payments and move money to and from your bank accounts from within the app. The company says it has begun testing ways to use the trove of data it collects on its users to help insurance companies better assess risk when selling health, life, and liability insurance policies. So if you're spending too much money at McDonald's, or visiting your local pub too many times a month, Numbrs will know – and so will your insurance&nbsp;company.Charlotte Oates of OnTrees said she doesn't see her company going in this direction because of privacy concerns in the UK. "That's probably not something that we would do at the moment. There are big security concerns in the UK, and it's a very different market. People here are still a little hesitant to move their money around with apps and use their data this way."But not all UK finance apps seek to monetise your data.Xero, a cloud-based accounting software provider, promises to save small-business owners time and headaches by storing their bills, invoices and account data in its cloud – for a monthly fee."What most small businesses lack is a way to easily upload their banking data," Gary Turner of Xero told me. "They have usually had to enter the data manually or download a CSV file and then key it into accounting software."Xero collects financial data through Yodlee's platform as well as through direct feeds to banks. But since it charges £9.25 a month, it doesn't have to sell users' data – though Xero does collect data on them so that it can provide "relevant insights" to its small-business users, Turner explains."We found, for example, that customers who put 30-day payment terms on their invoices typically get paid in 45 days," Turner says. "We wanted to share this insight with our customers. We were able to tell our customers, 'If you want to get paid in 30 days, put 15 days on your invoices'."Clearly, UK customers should read privacy policies of apps and weigh the risk to their privacy before downloading. Yet in some cases, merely logging into your online bank account means you are interfacing with Yodlee's platform, since so many banks use Yodlee. Should you worry about Yodlee delving into your data? Robert Courtneidge, a mobile payments specialist and lawyer representing Yodlee in the UK at LockeLord LLP, says not. "Yodlee is a technical service provider on behalf of the banks," he explains. "They present themselves as a company that can hold your data more securely than your bank&nbsp;can."Services like Yodlee and its competitors are regulated in the US by theFederal Financial Institutions Examination Council. The EU, for its part, isworking on a payments directivethat will regulate aggregate services like Yodlee if the next EU parliament votes to approve the draft rules.Whether or not the regulatory landscape adapts, Courtneidge thinks aggregation is here to stay.He also sees a new trend emerging: simple smartphone apps that allow people to send money to friends, family and local businesses. Such apps – originally developed for customers without bank accounts in African markets – are getting a push in Europe from banks and private equity investors. The idea is that they would replace cash for small purchases, and allow for integration with personal finance apps, so users could gain a clearer understanding of their&nbsp;spending.In April major banks in the UK began supportingPaym, a "peer-to-peer (P2P) payments system" app that allows people to send money using only a mobile phone number. But is it really easier than cash? Courtneidge isn't so sure: "At this point it takes longer to send five quid through one of these mobile apps – both people have to sign up for them – than simply giving someone cash."However, banks sawBitcoin's surge in popularity as a wake-up call. Their response has been to push their own P2P systems to traditionally cash-only small businesses – such as tanning salons, pop-up shops and corner stores – that might have considered accepting Bitcoin. Courtneidge thinks P2P startups will try to make mobile payments an appealing and hi-tech replacement for cash by making them extremely easy to use – and even wearable. "P2P will probably be in all wearable technology," Courtneidge tells me. "It will take the form of a wristband or a retina chip in your eye. That's where it's all headed."Yet as banks and P2P startups make the case for a cashless society, more people in the UK are actually turning to cash. For many, doing business with currency provides just as clear an insight into one's personal finance situation as do apps. Indeed, arecent report by the Payments Council and Link, which runs the UK's cash machines, found that cash payments still accounted for 52% of all payments in 2013. Which lends credence to the idea that even in an age of mobile wallets and smartphone finance apps, cash may still be king.
It will be another unsettled summer in the makeshift tent communities that line the valleys, mountains and border towns of Lebanon for the 300,000 children who have escaped Syria’s civil war.But these young refugees, baking in the blasting heat of the Levant and under constant threat of violence, polio and other illnesses, are the incongruous beneficiaries of a confluence of two UK technology initiatives. This summer, they’re going to learn to code.The multi-award-winning Raspberry Pi – a credit-card sized computer that plugs into a TV and has the processing power of a desktop PC – is arriving in the area, a far cry from its origins in 2006 at the University of Cambridge’s Computer Laboratory.The brainchild of Eben Upton and his colleagues, the idea was inspired by what they viewed as a lack of university applicants’ software skills. Keen to get people coding, they prototyped the board and released it in 2011 for an astonishingly low £25, and never expected to ship more than 20,000 units. In June 2014, during a gala reception at Buckingham Palace, they announced that they’d sold 3m units.The Pi has been widely adopted in the UK and throughout Europe and the US, particularly among educators, who see it as a cheap and open way of getting computers into classrooms with multimedia functionality, internet capability, and two in-built programming languages: Python and Scratch.It can also play high definition video and, with add-ons like touchscreen LCD monitors and cameras, the device can be a low-cost, highly functional publishing platform.It’s been a huge hit this year, the Year of Code, the initiative that introduces kids to the power of computer science via community meet-ups, hack days, coding clubs and other events. And although the UK will be the first country in the world to cement programming into the school curriculum for five to 16-year-olds, the Maker movement and other home-brew communities are infecting kids around the globe with the coding bug.But how did this British innovation go from a hobbyist curiosity in middle England to the war-torn middle east? And, more importantly, how will coding help these kids face the harsh realities of displacement, civil war and survival?Eliane Metni is a second-year doctoral candidate at the University of London’s Institute of Education. Based in her home town of Beirut, she helms the International Education Association, a Lebanese NGO committed to global learning opportunities through ICTs for Lebanon and throughout the Arab world. In 2011, she was contacted by a European educators group looking for a way in to the region, hoping to use the Raspberry Pi to give voices to adult women.But after using the system herself for a few months, Metni realised that the target demographic identified by the European researchers overlooked the real opportunity: schoolkids.She dug into the community and discovered a very active, thriving educator scene in the UK, using it to take learning paradigms in a new direction: “The trend [in classrooms] is to give kids a tool, like a tablet. But the Pi, through the programming languages Python and Scratch, gives the opportunity for users to construct the content and to build knowledge, rather than just receive information” she explained. The Pi is intended to be used to create as well as to consume.Metni developed a curriculum for Dhour el Shweir Public Secondary School, supported by the Lebanese Telecom Ministry and the personal funds of Minister Muna Bustros. After a year of piloting the programme with 55 Pis, the results were unveiled at the school in May as part of Pi4L (Pi for Learning), with a wide range of games, programmes and systems the kids in the Beirut institution had developed during the school year.Meanwhile, James Cranwell-Ward was settling into his new job as the Innovation Lead in Lebanon for for Unicef. He’d been one of the early hobbyists who’d played with the Pi when it was first released, and on a return trip to the UK in December 2013, he was impressed by how the Pi community had accelerated, particularly amongst educators.The success of the final Pi4L project, and Metni’s year of pilot work, caught his attention. He had been searching for an out-of-the-box solution for the under-resourced and under-supported educators trying to serve the needs of the children in the overcrowded camps. The pair connected and, six months on, they’re bringing the coding ethos and the Pi to five locations around the country.“This is somewhat a radical idea, to use coding - or even the concept of cheap computing - in a refugee population,” Cranwell-Ward explained. “But it’s a concept that is well-understood in other countries, so it’s a matter of packaging it for the context we’re in.”In fact, Cranwell-Ward realised quickly that Lebanon was an one of the better locations in the middle east for this initiative.”In Lebanon we don’t have many of the same problems as other places Unicef is active in,” he said. “Rolling blackouts are well-understood, so we have generators ready. Everything we’ve developed is designed to be offline even though the country has good network connections via 3G.” And the camps provide ample televisions to use as monitors. The greatest challenge has been the up-sell.In many ways, Metni did most of the hard work in the year preceding their meeting. She faced down opposition from the educator community in particular, who asked why they should bring coding into schools. Metni laughed. “They said, sure, at university level, but younger? What are they going to do with it?”Her out-of-the-box solutions and ongoing successes helped Cranwell-Ward sell to his team. “I didn’t want to embark on a huge research project that would take years to get something that would ultimately never see the light of day. I wanted to take something relatively off the shelf and adapt it for the context,” he said. The pair identified a core curriculum in Arabic developed by the Khan Academy, that they could store on an offline server, and is distributed for free.“I set my price point from the beginning at $100. I’m currently about $110 dollars per unit and at volume I’ll hit the mark.” During the initial pilot phase, the 60 Pis they’ve acquired will be used in school lessons by more than 30,000 refugees. Later, they intend to roll it out to the rest of the community.But in addition to the traditional learning curriculum, Metni and Cranwell-Ward are emphatic that the kids will also use the Pi’s programming language Scratch to build programmes and games. “It attracts kids who might not necessarily be programmers. It also allows other ways of letting kids think in small, visual chunks,” said Metni.“It’s approachable to non-programmers, and that’s non-threatening.” Building things in Scratch - from concept to delivery - will help make real essential lessons about their human rights and other issues that affect them, from water sanitation to protecting themselves from violence and abuse that can arise in a refugee situation. And, it’s fun.It’s also part of gaining skills to be part of the future global community. “The rate at which tech is being rolled out into our lives is phenomenal and coding - or the understanding of technology and how to manipulate it - is going to be a core component of our lives and our children’s lives moving forward,” Cranwell-Ward said, echoing the Year of Code manifesto. “There needs to be some basic understanding of what technology is, how it can be manipulated, how we can use it to help ourselves, and not just be a consumer or slave.” This is the most important part of this initiative for Cranwell-Ward.“The Raspberry Pi allows us to standardise across the globe,” he explained. “Imagine in a few years’ time that we could have a child who’s come from a setting like this who’ll go on to build the next Facebook or Twitter. That’s the potential,” he says. “Its not out of the realms of possibility.”Listen to our interview with Eliane Metni and James Cranwell-Ward onTech Weekly
It&apos;s sunny and beautiful outside, but you can&apos;t spend thewholeweekend lolling about in the garden wondering if you should light up the barbecue, thereby angering the rain gods into immediate action. No, at some point you should go inside and play video games. It&apos;s okay, it&apos;s healthy. They help with hand-eye coordination and everything.Anyway, here are five new titles that are worth a look between paddling pool sessions.Destiny (Beta) – Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4Bungie has opened the beta test of its ambitious space adventure to all Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3 and PS4 owners. This sprawling cross between Halo and Borderlands needs no introduction; just download and marvel at the beautiful presentation and smooth co-op experience. Lots of content is missing and I&apos;ve been slapped off the server a few times, but it&apos;s worth it to see what all the fuss is about. Find out more on theBungie website.4pm – PC, MacThis is a short, but fascinating interactive drama following an alcoholic woman, Caroline Wells, who wakes up with the mother of all hangovers then struggles through a day that gets progressively more disturbing. It&apos;s serious and clever, with woozy visual effects to simulate drunkenness. But there is also a dark humour running through the 40-minute narrative. It&apos;savailable on Steamfor £2.99.The Nightmare Cooperative – PC, MacLucky Frame is one of my favourite UK studios – its eccentric but beautifully crafted games always look and feel great. Nightmare Cooperative is no exception, a merciless turn-based roguelike that requires you to control all the members of your battle party simultaneously. The aim is to protect your village from invading monsters – and that&apos;s it. But, although it looks simple and accessible, there is tactical depth in abundance.It&apos;s £6.99 on Steam.Guacamelee! Super Turbo Championship Edition – PS4, Wii U, Xbox OneThis crazed Mexican-themed platform adventure, already a cult hit on PlayStation, has players leaping and fighting banditos and skeletons through a variety of brashly drawn environments. This updated version adds new enemies and areas and gives the whole thing a lovely visual polish. Frantic, ridiculous and utterly engrossing, it&apos;s available via eShop, PSN and Xbox Live.Traps n&apos; Gemstones – iOS, Android, WindowsThis is another Metroidvania-esque platformer, recommended by veteran games writer Stuart Campbell on his Twitter feed. Channeling the spirit of Spelunky, it&apos;s essentially a treasure quest through a pyramid filled with traps, chests and relics. The controls are super responsive, the chambers exciting, and the action deliciously fluid. Developed by talented Swedish studioDonut Games, it&apos;s currently on sale, too, £1.99 on Android and £2.99 on iOS.
Can you doGerry Adams's accent? It&nbsp;doesn't have to be Gerry, actually; anyone from around those parts will do –Brian Mawhinney,Christine Bleakley, you choose. OK? Now say, "cash cow" – you know, as in a business or asset that generates a healthy return.See! It comes out as Qashqai, no? And once you've got it into your head, you'll find it hard to get it out again. From now on, the car is a Nissan Cash Cow with a Belfast accent. In our family it got out of hand, and we started to spake Norn Iron (very badly – offensively, too, most likely) on stepping into the car. Less of a drive, more like a meeting of the Northern Ireland Assembly.Whereas, in fact, Nissan named its compact crossover after the semi-nomadic mountain people of south-western Iran, of course. (Rugged, tough, go-anywhere, that's what they're trying to say, not Stormont.) Not to be confused with the Touareg of Saharan north Africa, of course, who have already been taken by Volkswagen for its crossover SUV. Watch out for the Mazda Mbuti, the Mitsubishi Nukak-Makú, etc.The irony is that any new car is the antithesis of a cash cow, though experts (even more so than me) say that a Qashqai's depreciation should be less precipitous than its rivals'. That's because it's a very good car.Which it is. Not a blast to drive, though it doesn't lean over too much on corners as some of these soft-roaders do. And the 1.5-litre diesel in this one is quietly strong enough and unfussed, and returns impressive fuel consumption and CO2figures. Outside, it's attractive if&nbsp;not eye-catching; inside, it's unfussy and classily put together. This touchscreen idiot was pleasingly unflummoxed by the controls. And, as a tall passenger, pleasingly uncramped in the back, though he would have liked a&nbsp;bigger view and more light if he was spending a&nbsp;long time back there. The luggage space has been increased since the previous model, and is easily accessed.Basically, it's a practical, comfortable, affordable (to buy and run), safe family car. I'm not a massive fan of the whole SUV-crossover genre. Because they take up more room – by the side of the road and in the supermarket car park – than they need to. And because of the lie they have built into them: with their raised ride and tough-boy looks, they pretend they could take on the mountains of south-western Iran when they're more suited to the supermarket run. But I note that the Qashqai people have mostly moved down from roaming the mountains and live a&nbsp;more settled existence. And this is&nbsp;an excellent car for the suburbs, of&nbsp;Shiraz. Or Belfast.Nissan Qashqai 1.5dCi manual 2WDPriceFrom £22,690Top speed113mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption74.3mpgCO2emissions99g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating6/10
Following last month’s alpha test, where a small number of players helped stress-testDestiny(out 9 Sep), the new game from the creators of Halo, this month it was the larger, more fully featured beta test. The game that’s gradually being revealed brings together Halo’s near-perfect shooting mechanics and cautious, cunning enemy AI with the trappings of a massively multiplayer game. That means when you’re on a mission you can co-operate with other players nearby or if you prefer, ignore them completely. Areas in the beta test varied between wide-open spaces and claustrophobic tunnels, all with the sense of post-apocalyptic decay that is video game designers’ flavour of the month. There’s also a central hub area, the Tower, where you can re-equip, acquire new missions and perform awkward dances in front of players whose avatars suggest they might be girls.
Giotto used his architectural knowledge to introduce perspective to his painting, while Leonardo da Vinci brushed up on his anatomical drawing skills by sketching cadavers. In Pokémon Art Academy you’ll begin your monster drawing career with a painting by numbers-style rendering of Pikachu’s head, graduating to full-body portraits and lessons in use of paintbrushes, pens, pencils and drawing layers. Learning alongside you is AI-student, Lily, whose efforts are so terrifying that the most inept human artist will be reassured at the comparative beauty of their own attempts. There are also tips to help you capture the essence of each Pokémon, which you will find inhabit a zone somewhere between pointless and actually insane.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKWii Sports Club, Wii UWii Sports was the game that accidentally defined the Nintendo Wii. Its small set of sport-themed mini-games didn’t even feature Mario, but became the instant staple of families, shared houses and late-night drinkers. It’s not easy to update a classic, but Wii Sports Club’s HD revisions do a decent job (with added online playability for when family rivalries boil over). Tennis initially seems a bit finicky, but actually just demands movements that are more precise and “tennis-y” than the original; after-pub mainstay bowling benefits from similar refinement, a flick of the wrist predictably curving balls into skittles; baseball uses the Wii remote to bat and the gamepad to field, a system that works beautifully; and to play golf you put the gamepad on the floor, letting you see the head of your club as you line-up a swing. That leaves boxing, which feels as broken and futile as ever.Nintendo, £28.75-£34.99
After so many years of economic gloom, it’s nice to have some good news. On Thursday, such tidings came in the form of a surge in the valuation of Facebook, which climbed to more than $192bn in the wake of good first-quarter earnings.This means that, as of Friday morning, the social network is now worth more, at least on paper, than Toyota ($189bn), AT&amp;T ($184bn), Coca-Cola ($180bn), Disney ($150bn) and even Bank of America ($164bn).How could that have happened?Valuing a companyThe total value of a publicly-listed company is pretty easy to work out: you just take its share price, and multiply it by the number of shares it has issued. That tells you what investors think its worth – it’s the price where buyers and sellers equal out.What a company “should” be worth is a little tricker. For private companies, say a small family-run grocery store, the convention is, roughly speaking, that a business is worth some multiple of how much profit (or sometimes just cash) it generates.So for a shop that does steady trade over time, a fair price might be about five years’ worth of profits. If the business can show it’s been growing rapidly each year, and is making more and more money, we might decide seven or eight years’ profit is fairer. There’s no exact science.The same principle can be applied to corporate giants, and is known as valuing companies based on their fundamentals. This is where things get quite strange for companies like Facebook.Last year, Facebook generated net profit of just under $1.5bn, meaning its current valuation is equal to about 128 times the profit it generated last year.There are lots of reasons to think Facebook’s profits in the future will be higher than they were in 2013: it hadn’t really sorted mobile advertising at all last year, and a sharp rise in its mobile revenue suggests it now has. It can still do more to monetize its mobile app. It has huge reach, to 1.3 billion consumers. It’s clearly a company worth a lot of money.But there are also lots of risks ahead for Facebook: it’s not a given that profits will always go up. Once Facebook’s mobile apps have adverts in place, where does next year’s double-digit growth come from? The site’s user base isn’t growing. A new generation of social networking apps, which allow users to take their contacts lists (sometimes called a social graph) with them to other services, is coming. Regulators might decide that Facebook’s market share has grown too large. The global advertising market may decline.A valuation like Facebook’s – the market deciding a company is worth more than a century of its profit stream – isn’t just optimistic. It isn’t just wildly optimistic. It’s euphoric. Imagine the best possible business scenario, imagine it’s already happened, and then price it into the company’s stock.When Mark Zuckerberg floated Facebook on the stock exchange, he instantly became a billionaire several times over - on paper at least. Photograph: Shannon Stapleton/Reuters/CorbisThe companies Facebook has beaten out in value terms generate much more cash today than Facebook does, and have done so for quite some time, which means we can be more confident they should be able to keep doing it. But investors like exciting companies, and as a result, the boring solid earners almost get punished simply for doing consistently well.Toyota generated $17.7bn net profits last year (value: 10.5 years). AT&amp;T made $18.2bn (10.1 years), while Coca-Cola reaped $8.5bn (21 years), Disney brought in $6.1bn (24.5 years) and Bank of America collected $11.4bn (14.4 years)Whether you think the US stock market is too optimistic or too dismal right now, there’s clearly a huge disconnect between the tech world and other sectors – which is leading some people to mutter, worriedly, that the whole sector is once again in a bubble.Cashing inSo here’s the tricky part: how do you make money off this?Even if you personally think a company is overpriced, it’s very hard to profit from that belief. You’ve got three choices: buy the shares in the hope of riding the wave, short the company (place a bet that its stock price will fall), or stay out entirely.BuyLet’s imagine we’re someone who regards himself a savvy investor, and that we think Facebook and its ilk are over-valued based on their fundamentals – but we know just how hyped they are, and we can see the stock prices tick upwards day after day.We might think the people buying the shares are morons – but we’d quite like to ride the moron wave. We can cash out quickly, before the market decides (if it ever does) the stock is overpriced. So we buy Facebook.Savvier still investors, with even more cash to play with, spot that retail investors like you and me are buying Facebook to play the market. So it’s not a bad idea for them to do the same.'We might think the people buying the shares are morons – but we’d quite like to ride the moron wave.' Photograph: Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesLots of people are putting lots of cash into the stock for entirely rational reasons: some think the company is good, others think its stock price will rise because of other actors in the market.The hard part is predicting when, if ever, the edifice will crumble and the stock price fall. Cash out too soon and you miss out on a chunk of profit. Cash out too late and you might lose a fortune.It’s a fundamental part of market theory that knowing this ahead of time is all but impossible: if there was good information a stock was about to fall, a major investor with millions at stake would’ve already acted. If anyone knows a fall is coming, it’ll happen right now. So until new information comes in, markets move unpredictably – what’s known as a random walk.Stay outTech’s a bubble, you decide. I’ll keep well away. This works perfectly fine if you’re a retail investor – though if the bubble doesn’t pop (or maybe even isn’t a bubble at all) your returns will be lower than your neighbours. But for professional fund managers, a few years of disappointing returns versus your rivals will quickly leave you searching for alternative employment.When you play the game of funds, you win, or you’re fired.Short itThere’s always the bold option: be the one visionary who predicted the fall before it happened. Place a bet that the share price will fall (known as a “short”) and rake it in big if that happens. The downside is, even if you’re absolutely right about a bubble, you won’t make money until everyone else agrees with you. That might be tomorrow, or it might be in 10 years time. It might be never.If it doesn’t happen quickly, you’ll soon rake up huge losses. There’s a famous saying attributed to John Maynard Keynes, one of the giants of economics: “The market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent.” It’snot entirely clear that he ever actually said that, but if he did, he wasn’t wrong (he very rarely was).The wrapFacebook might be worth more than 100 times its most recent year’s profits. It might well not be – no one, including Facebook itself, knows. The same holds for the rest of the sector, and to an extent the rest of the market. Across most of America, recreational gambling is discouraged or illegal. But when it comes to your savings and your pension fund, it’s all but mandatory. Good luck – you’ll need it.
Apple has released the latest version of its OS X “Yosemite” computer software in beta form for those eager to test it before its full Autumn release.The new tenth version of OS X replaces “Mavericks” and continues Apple’s redesign of its software across computers and portable devices.The free download is available on a first-come first-served basisfrom its websitewith 1m downloads available.Change of tact for AppleIt marks the first time Apple has made a pre-release version of its software available to the general public. Previous versions of both its iOS smartphone and tablet software and its OS X computer software have only been available in beta form to developers ahead of their general releases to the public.To install the free software users will have tosign up using Apple’s site, as well as have a Mac computer with OS X Mavericks 10.9 installed with at least 2GB of memory and 8GB of free disk space.Apple recommends that users who want to test the new software do so on a second computer because it could be unstable and cause errors due to its untested form.Users who do install the beta software will be able to upgrade to the final version of Yosemite on its release in the Autumn.Big changesYosemite marks the biggest visual change in the last three years for Apple’s computer software, bringing it closer to its iOS mobile software in appearance.Apple has also added features that tie the two together, like “Continuity” which allows users to send files back and forth between desktop computers and mobile devices.Users of Apple’s iPhone will also be able to place and answer calls on their desktop computers.•WWDC 2014: Apple demos OS X 10.10 ‘Yosemite’, its latest desktop software
They include some of the biggest literary names on the planet, among them Stephen King, Donna Tartt, Paul Auster, James Patterson and John Grisham; a Pulitzer prize winner in Jennifer Egan; and four from this year's Man Booker longlist, Joshua Ferris, Karen Joy Fowler, Siri Hustvedt and Joseph O'Neill. Then there are first-time writers, historians, biographers – all of them part of an unprecedented campaign against the world's biggest books retailer, Amazon.The writers have lent their name to a letter objecting to Amazon's tactics as it negotiates over ebooks with Hachette, the fourth largest publisher in the US.As the standoff continues, Amazon has been slowing down delivery of Hachette books, preventing pre-order and removing previous discounts.It is "thuggish behaviour", said the Maine-based thriller writerDouglas Preston. "I'm talking to so many young authors, struggling debut authors who have worked for years and years to get published and then Amazon does this and crushes their hopes and dreams of building an audience."Earlier this week Preston had nearly 900 names - also including Jeffery Deaver , Lee Child, Barbara Kingsolver, Clive Cussler, Anita Shreve and Philip Pullman  – backing a letter that he intends to publish, full page, in the New York Times."I have never seen in my entire life authors coming together like this," he said. "Ever. For any reason."Amazon has been throwing its weight around for quite some time in a bullying fashion and I think authors are fed up. We feel betrayed because we helped Amazon become one of the largest corporations in the world. We supported it from the beginning, we contributed free blogs, reviews and all kinds of stuff that Amazon asked us to do for nothing."We thought we had a fairly good partnership but i n the last half dozen years Amazon's corporate behaviour has not supported authors at all."UK ebook salesHe said Amazon was treating authors as "cannon fodder" and it had to stop."We're not against Amazon as a company – we would like to see it sell books, be profitable and successful. What we object to is harming authors who have nothing to do with this dispute to gain leverage."Outside Amazon and Hachette, no one fully knows what the dispute is about. But it is understood to be a battle over ebook revenue with Amazon thought to want 50% from every ebook instead of 30%.The stakes are high. In the UKthe Publishers Association released figures this week showing a 10% rise in digital sales to £132.5m between January and April, compared with the same period in 2013.Those sales have grown 305% over the past five years and are showing little sign of slowing.The dispute is all in the US but everyone in publishing fears it will have ramifications across the industry.Philip Jones, editor ofthe Bookseller, said: "Everybody I speak to thinks this negotiation is pivotal to what happens next. We won't know what the terms are when they eventually settle at but I think there will be a line drawn in the sand – a line we all have to live with."It is not the first time this sort of dispute has happened."The difference here is that Amazon is so big, so dominant that it has a much wider and chilling effect," said Jones. "Particularly on the ebook market where if you are not being sold or actively promoted on Amazon you really are dead in the water."He too had never known writers so angry. "That's the thing that's different this time – we've seen writers take sides which is remarkable and deeply worrying for Amazon. Becoming widely known as book author-unfriendly is not a great place for Amazon to be."Amazon has tried to win round the authors who, in one statement, it labelled as Hachette's "human shields".Earlier this month it proposed giving authors 100% of royalties while the impasse continued– a move rebuffed by Hachette.The company says it is fighting for better prices for its customers. In a recent interview with the Wall Street Journal Russ Grandinetti, senior vice-president of Kindle content, said: "This discussion is all about ebook pricing. The terms under which we trade will determine how good the prices are that we can offer customers."Amazon has also had support from self-publishing authors. Hugh Howey, something of a poster boy for self-publishing, was one of those behind apetition on Change.org supporting Amazon for creating a level playing field and characterising Hachette as the bad guys. Under the title 'Stop fighting low prices and fair wages' it had, on Thursday, 7,367 signatures.Amazon, launched by Jeff Bezos 20 years ago, is a difficult company not to use. It is also an easy company to dislike – the Guardian revealed in 2012 Amazon had paid almost no UK corporation tax despite recording £7bn sales.The British historian Amanda Foreman is one writer who has signed the letter even though she is not published by Hachette."It is not for me a purely economic question in the way that some critics have said: 'It's just Hachette authors.'"She believes there is a bigger danger with Amazon controlling both supply and demand. "They become a single pipeline for ideas&nbsp;… you simply cannot allow that to happen and the danger is so terrifically present."She believes Amazon needs to be reined in. "It is a company that has managed to grow at the expense of companies that play by the rules. It doesn't have to pay its taxes or go through any of the common practices that we demand of bricks and mortar companies. It sells its books as loss leaders in order to support nappies and batteries. An entire industry is being held hostage in Amazon's pursuit of a wider market share."Few people can see the Hachette-Amazon dispute being resolved soon. Preston has talked about developing a longer-term strategy, although what that might be is another question.He insists however that the writers are prepared for a long haul. "Honestly we are hoping Jeff Bezos will come to his senses and settle this problem with Hachette without hurting authors. Let these two corporations juke it out&nbsp;… just don't hurt us. If he does we can all go to writing books but if Jeff wants to take the long hard road with us, we will walk that road with him."A spokeswoman for Amazon made reference to statements Preston has made during the dispute.She said: "Mr Preston says: 'We have many loyal and committed readers. They listen when we speak. That represents power.' He is completely missing the point. It's not readers who should be listening to Mr Preston, but Mr Preston who should be listening to readers. And they have clearly expressed a preference for e-books priced less than $10."Even four years ago when readers expressed such a preference, Mr Preston responded by saying publicly, 'The sense of entitlement of the American consumer is absolutely astonishing'. It's pretty clear it's Mr Preston who feels entitled. And what's 'astonishing' is that he thinks readers won't recognise an opportunist who seeks readers' support while actively working against their interests."• This article was updated on 26 July 2014 to edit a garbled quote at the end of the text.
Google has reportedly closed a $1bn deal to acquire gaming video streaming site Twitch.Theunconfirmed report by GamesBeatplaces Twitch at the heart of a revamped YouTube push to attract a hardcore group of users to the dominant video platform and tap into the rising gaming trend.The purchase,first reported in May, would be the biggest by Google since it acquired YouTube in 2006. It would give the search giant access to the rapidly expanding Twitch user base, which currently numbers 45 million monthly users who watch an average of 106 minutes of video a day.What is Twitch and why does Google want it?It’s essentially the YouTube for live gaming: people broadcast themselves playing and/or talking about games while other people watch them (either live or via archived footage) while chatting about it.Twitchallows gamers to stream live gameplay videosfrom desktop computers,Microsoft’s Xbox OneandSony’s PlayStation 4consoles.That ease of use has lead to millions of dedicated users a month logging on and watching hours of video, something Google certainly finds attractive. But it&apos;s more than sheer numbers that makes Twitch a useful addition to Google.YouTube and Twitch are both benefiting from the same trend: people going online to watch other people playing games – an artform that traditional television has usually struggled (in the west, at least) to make compelling viewing.Gaming channels like PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart, Vanoss Gaming, Yogscast, Sky Does Minecraft and others are hugely popular on YouTube: PewDiePie is the most popular channel on the service with 26.4m subscribers, andnearly 300m video views in April alone.Gaming is thus one of YouTube&apos;s biggest genres alongside music. Buying Twitch would shore up that status, making YouTube the number one platform for e-sports as well as&quot;Let&apos;s Play&quot; videos. Oh, and the huge and engaged audience to show ads to is obviously part of the appeal too.But can Twitch survive inside Google?In some ways, Twitch is that classic tech success story: it was in the right place at the right time with a reasonably good platform. The fans did the rest. Set up in 2011 by live-streaming specialist Justin.TV, the service provided a slick method of streaming game footage just as the concept of professional gaming – or esports – was really taking off.Team games such as League of Legends and Dota 2, as well as first-person shooters like Call of Duty, were beginning to attract vast global audiences, and Twitch provided a way for gamers everywhere to watch and share the excitement of championship events, wherever they were taking place. Last year&apos;s League of Legends world final drew 32 million online viewers.Twitch&apos;s appeal to its core audience is that it gets the mood right, it feels like an extension of themselves rather than a large corporate entity, something Google must heed to avoid losing them.In old media terms, YouTube is a tabloid, Twitch is a hobbyist magazine – and continued success in the digital media age will be about understanding the differences between those two user-bases. Twitch grew super-fast, but the wrong hands could smother it. This isn&apos;t an audience that hangs around; it reacts quickly and decisively. The clue is in the name.Twitch plays Pokemon - a phenomenonThe game streaming site has also played host to some of gaming&apos;s biggest live hits like Twitch plays Pokemon, which saw over 100,000 players simultaneously play a game of Nintendo&apos;s classic Pokemon attracting 55m views.“Twitch Plays Pokémon” was half art project and half reality show for the 21st century. The idea was relatively simple. Pokémon Red, the 1996 Game Boy hit that kickstarted the Pokémon franchise, ran on an emulator hooked up to Twitch.Viewers could enter button commands in the chat window, and they got passed onto the emulator, which entered them in order.In theory, it harnessed the wisdom of the crowds to find the best way through the game, with playing 24 hours a day, seven days a week.It didn&apos;t quite work out like that with 1,000s of users all trying to control the action, each level taking ages to pass through. But it showed that a new kind of entertainment, essentially a remix of existing technology, could prove very popular indeed.Google is likely looking to tap into that emerging space with a Twitch purchase, something YouTube has failed to capitalise on.Google on the brink of buying Twitch and Mike Bithell on his Bafta award winning game Thomas Was Alone
What’s white, male, straight, and occasionally hangs out with Asian guys? Silicon Valley.Twitter became thelatest tech giant to release its diversity report this week, and in news that will surprise few who have been paying attention, the geek squad issubstantially less diversethat the cast of The Big Bang Theory.Overall, 70% of Twitter’s employees are male. That number moves to 90% when you just count Twitter’s tech employees, and 79% if you’re looking only at its leadership. Fifty-nine percent of Twitter’s employees are white, 29% are Asian. Only 2% of employees describe themselves as black or African American; 3% as Hispanic or Latino. This is a stark contrast from the company’s user base. According to thePew Research Internet Project22% of online African Americans are Twitter users, compared with 16% of online whites.We now have diversity reports from Twitter,FacebookandGoogle. They tell the same tale.• Worldwide, Facebook’s employees are 69% male, 31% female. In tech, the gender gap was bigger again – 85% men to 15% women.• In the US, 63% of Facebook’s employees were white, 24% Asian. Hispanics accounted for just 6% and African Americans 2%.• Google’s staff is 70% male and 30% female.• Some 61% of its workforce is white, 30% Asian, Hispanics represent 3%, blacks 2%.“We are committed to making inclusiveness a cornerstone of our culture,” Twitter said in its report. It might not be much, but it’s a significant shift in tone since CEO Dick Costolo’s Twitter spat with critics of its boys’ club mentality, which publicised the diversity issue ahead of its initial public offering last year.Last year, Vivek Wadhwa criticised the “elite arrogance of the Silicon Valley mafia” for the company’s all white, all male board, and its “male chauvinist thinking” in theNew York Times. Costolo took to name-calling on Twitter, branding Wadhwa “the Carrot Top of academic sources”.The two went on to have a somewhat more nuanced debate, in which Costolo said diversity was about more than “checking a box [and] saying ‘We did it!’” Twitter has also since appointed Marjorie Scardino, the highly regarded former Pearson chief executive, to its board –a sign, at least, that the company is serious about change even if it has a long, long way to go.This is an industry-wide issue. About 49% of information technology businesses have no women on their boards, compared with 36% of the 2,770 largest public companies in the country,accordingto a report released by GMI Ratings last year. Apple’s Tim Cook has promised a diversity report in the near future. Don’t expect it to Think Different.Google would like, in part, to blame the system – as will its peers, if you ask – pointing out lower rates of computer science degrees for women, and minorities&apos; college education and graduation rates, as reasons for its homogeneity.Rashad Robinson, executive director ofColor of Change, a lobby group that pressed for Twitter to release the report, said he was pleased Silicon Valley was at last recognising it had a problem but he said the numbers showed the tech firms had issues across the board – not just in tech jobs.The stats show that a skills gap in tech alone is no explanation for why so many jobs in marketing, sales and other areas were so disproportionately going to white, male candidates, he said. The lack of diversity across the companies suggest tech firms had issues across the board, and had failed to move far from the cultural roots even as they have become massive, international businesses. “It’s time for these companies to grow up and become part of the larger culture,” he said. “They are no longer running businesses in their parents’ garages.”Robinson said the valley had clearly been in denial for a long time about its hiring culture. “These are people who like to think of themselves as liberal, progressive or at least open minded,” he said. “I would go there and they’d say ‘We bundled for Obama.”
Ransomware, malicious software that encrypts user data and then demands payment for decryption, just got even stronger.Security researchers at Kaspersky Lab report that a new strain of ransomware, called &quot;Onion&quot;, which uses the anonymising network Tor &quot;to hide its malicious nature, and to make it hard to track those behind this ongoing malware campaign&quot;.The malware is a successor to the notorious Cryptolocker ransomware. When infected, Cryptolocker would scan a user&apos;s computer for documents, particularly Microsoft Office files, and then encrypt them using a secret key before demanding payment from the user.Although the fees are high – frequently in the hundreds of pounds – and demanded through bitcoin, many users paid up in an effort to retrieve their files. In November 2013, evena US police forcepaid a ransom of $1338 to get their data back.Once a computer is infected with Onion, the software encrypts the user&apos;s files, just as Cryptolocker does. It then initiates a countdown, warning users that they have 72 hours to pay up, or all files will be lost forever.But where Onion, which researchers believe originates from Russia, differs from Cryptolocker is how it communicates with the &quot;command and control&quot; server that accepts the payment and, if the attackers decide to play ball, releases the decryption codes.The new malware communicates using Tor, the anonymising service that encrypts communications, then bounces them through a series of relay nodes in order to prevent eavesdroppers from determining the festinate of the connection.Onion, which so far only affects Windows PCs, is not the first malware to use Tor to protect its creators. The banking malware Zeus, seen in the wild in the first half of 2013, takes that crown.But Fedor Sinitsyn, senior malware analyst at Kaspersky Lab, says that &quot;now it seems that Tor has become a proven means of communication and is being utilised by other types of malware.&quot;The Onion malware features technical improvements on previously seen cases where Tor functions were used in malicious campaigns. Hiding the command and control servers in an anonymous Tor network complicates the search for the cybercriminals, and the use of an unorthodox cryptographic scheme makes file decryption impossible, even if traffic is intercepted between the Trojan and the server.&quot;All this makes it a highly dangerous threat and one of the most technologically advanced encryptors out there.&quot;Employing Tor also leaves cybersecurity organisations with fewer options for fighting the malware. Cryptolocker was eventually halted temporarily by a concerted effort to take down the servers that control it. But if Onion&apos;s commands come from a darkweb server, it&apos;s practically impossible to trace them back to the source.Kaspersky recommends users keep regular backups, in case they are infected with the malware, as well as employ regularly updated antivirus software.•Gameover Zeus and Cryptolocker return: thieving malware rises a month after police action
Wikipedia has been forced to ban users inside the US Congress building from making edits to the collaborative encyclopaedia, after at least one member of staff began trolling the site.A number of edits, apparently made in jest, have been picked up bythe automatic twitter bot Congress Edits, which monitors Wikipedia for changes to the site made by accounts with IP addresses coming from inside the US legislature.For instance, one such edit changed the Wikipedia page for Reptilians, the lizard people who are the subject of numerous conspiracy theories which say that they control everything from the British monarchy to the American government.The wag added the line &quot;these allegations are completely unsubstantiated and have no basis in reality,&quot; which was duly tweeted out by the account.Reptilians Wikipedia article edited anonymously from US House of Representativeshttp://t.co/B7VLkhLsb8&mdash; congress-edits (@congressedits)July 23, 2014Other edits accused the Cuban government of faking the moon landings, and named the former defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld as an alien wizard.It seems that those edits were the final straw for Wikipedia&apos;s administrators, who implemented a 10-day ban on any changes coming from one particular IP address within the US Congress, &quot;due to disruptive editing originating from that address&quot;.Users within the legislature can still edit the site if they sign up for an account – and other IP addresses within Congress also still work, as shown by the latest (innocuous) edit tweeted by Congress Edits:Orly Taitz Wikipedia article edited anonymously from US House of Representativeshttp://t.co/vXmm2ssQkl&mdash; congress-edits (@congressedits)July 25, 2014Congress Edits is indirectly the brainchild of journalist and coderTom Scott. In early July, Scott createdParliament Edits, a Twitter account tracking anyone making edits to Wikipedia from a parliamentary computer.Scott&apos;s creation followed in the footsteps of numerousnews storiesof embarrassing edits to Wikipedia coming from within the House of Commons.Someoneadded informationabout MP Mark Pritchard&apos;s divorce;someone exciseda &quot;controversy&quot; section from Andy Burnham&apos;s page entirely; and someonecleared referencesto Lord Razzil&apos;s shareholdings in an African mining company.There have beenat least 5,900 editsfrom parliamentary IPs in the past decade.Scott also released the code to the Parliament Edits bot, allowing similar accounts to be set up for other nation&apos;s legislatures.Those led to their own stories: In mid-July, the Russian clone,RuGovEdits, discovered thatsomeone inside the Russian governmentwas editing the Wikipedia pages referring to the attack on MH17,changing the textto accuse Ukrainian soldiers of downing the Malaysian Airlines plane.•Which Wikipedia pages have been edited the most from inside the Houses of Parliament?
Phonics are now a standard part of early-years education in British schools, with millions of children learning to read through letter sounds. Inevitably, there are apps for that too.Two have been released this week based on familiar phonics brands in the UK: Jolly Phonics and Teach Your Monster to Read.The former is a program used by schools in more than 100 countries, while the latter is a website with a series of free phonics games, backed by charitable fund the Usborne Foundation.Both apps are launching initially for Apple&apos;s iOS platform, charging parents upfront rather than using the currently-controversial system of in-app purchases.Teach Your Monster to Read: First Stepsis a £2.99 app for iPad, whileJolly Phonics Letter Soundsalso costs £2.99, but is available for the iPhone as well as Apple&apos;s tablet.Neither app tries to replace the phonics materials being used by children in schools. Instead, they use letter-sound based mini-games to complement that learning: revision that feels like play rather than homework for the 3-6 year-olds they&apos;re aimed at.The fact that their release coincides with the first week of the summer holidays for schools in England may be a coincidence, but may nevertheless appeal to many parents as a better use of children&apos;s screen time over summer than pure games or television.The Jolly Phonics Letter Sounds app.Each app has its own selling points: a choice of British or American audio for Jolly Phonics Letter Sounds, for example, and narration from Horrible Histories star Simon Farnaby for Teach Your Monster to Read: First Steps.British parents are increasingly spoiled for choice when it comes to homegrown phonics apps. UK-based teacher Christopher Thorne has built an online educational brand –Mr Thorne Does Phonics– using YouTube and mobile apps, while startupHip Hop Henhas released a series of fun &quot;abc learning games&quot;.Children&apos;s TV star Justin Fletcher fronted theJustin&apos;s World Lettersoundsphonics app; book publisher Penguin has itsLadybird: I&apos;m Ready for Phonicsapp; and the Oxford Reading Tree books – their Biff, Chip and Kipper characters are a familiar sight in British schools – havealso been turned into apps.Where some developers may be missing a trick is in releasing their phonics apps only for Apple devices, rather than those running Google&apos;s Android software, including Tesco&apos;s Hudl, which has been a popular family purchase in the UK.While some of the apps listed above are available for Android –Justin&apos;s World LettersoundsandLadybird: I&apos;m Ready for Phonicsfor example – most remain exclusive to Apple&apos;s iOS.•It&apos;s time more parents started paying for children&apos;s apps
Comixology, the digital comics company owned by Amazon, has begun offering users backups of their purchased comics, without copy-protection and in open file formats.The New-York based firm,purchased by Amazon for an undisclosed sum in April 2014, had previously only allowed users to access their purchased comics through its branded apps on iOS ad Android and its online web app.But from Friday, readers can also download their comics as PDF or CBZ files, the latter a file format specifically designed for comics, and read them on any device that they want, online or off. The downloads will also contain no digital rights management (DRM) systems, software which prevents users from accessing their media on unauthorised systems.&quot;Offering DRM-free backups to you and our customers-to-be is another step in taking comics further, and serves our mission to turn everyone on the face of the planet into a comics fan,&quot; the company&apos;s CEO and co-founder, David Steinberger, said in an email to customers. &quot;There is much more to come.&quot;At launch, availability is limited to a small number of participating publishers, led by Image Comics, publisher of hits such as the Walking Dead. Also involved are Dynamite Entertainment, Zenescope Entertainment, MonkeyBrain Comics, Thrillbent, and Top Shelf Productions.Notably absent are Marvel and DC, the two biggest publishers in the industry. Each of them sells their books through Comixology, as well as having their own co-branded apps tied into the company&apos;s ecosystem.Amazon itself offers users the ability to back up digital purchases without DRM in some, but not all, of its services. The company&apos;s music downloads are unprotected MP3 files, but videos downloaded through its Instant Video service are protected. As for Kindle books, some have DRM and some do not; the company no longer warns customers before purchase which are which, and all downloads are in a proprietary format which cannot be read by other devices.&quot;The reading landscape has changed and you can&apos;t dictate how people read a book or even how they buy a book nowadays - if the readers wants it on their iPad they will find a way whether you have it for sale digitally or not,&quot; says Doctor Who artistMarc Ellerby. &quot;Ownership&apos;s a big thing in e-reading and I&apos;ve been selling a modest amount of my ebooks as DRM free PDFs viaGreat Beastfor the past few years, but I&apos;ve got a sneaking suspicion that this move from Comixology will hit those direct sales.&quot;The move is the second major change introduced at Comixology since it was purchased by Amazon. The first involved the company removing in-app purchases from its iOS app, in an apparent attempt to stop paying Apple a 30% cut. &quot;Since Amazon bought Comixology we&apos;ve really felt the force of their new conglomerate owners,&quot; says Ellerby. &quot;Is this a step forward for the company in general? I very much doubt it. It seems Amazon is being forceful with one hand and gentle with the other.&quot;On Thursday,Amazon announced quarterly lossesof $126m (£74m), even with a 23% increase in revenue to $19.34bn. The company pinned the blame on heavy spending on its Fire Phone, as well as new services including grocery delivery and video streaming.•Comixology removal of in-app purchases sparks user backlash
Smartshoes could be the next big thing in wearable technology, an Indian startup claims, revealing a pair of internet-connected shoes that connect to Google Maps and guide the wearer with small vibrations.Theshoes from Ducere Technologiesconnect to a smartphone using Bluetooth.“The shoes are a natural extension of the human body,” Krispian Lawrence co-founder and chief executive of Ducere Technologiestold the Wall Street Journal. “You will leave your house without your watch or wristband, but you will never leave your house without your shoes.”Blending in with existing apparelThe challenge faced by Google Glass and other wearable technologies is that they rely on the user being prepared to wear an extra item of apparel. Smartglasses are particularly noticeable, and have caused much debate over whether they could ever become a mainstream piece of technology.Ducere believes that simply adding to the shoes people already wear in a more subtle and non-intrusive way, wearable technology can fit into everyday lives.Insoles will be available to turn any existing shoes into smartshoes. Photograph: LechalThe Lechal shoes - which means “take me along” in Hindi - were originally developed to help navigation for the visually impaired, but applications for fitness and the sighted were quickly realised.Taking directions from the smartphone, the left or right shoe buzzes when walkers need to turn at a junction or fork, but are also packed with sensors to record distance travelled and calories burned.The small module that records data and connects to smartphones that slots into the heal of the shoe or insole. Photograph: LechalThe shoes and removable insoles containing the electronics and will be available for around £80 in September, are compatible with iPhones, Androids and Windows and are charged by an interactive charger that reports its charge status at the snap of your fingers.•Google smartwatches reviewed: LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live are a promising step in the right direction
The BBCcancelled its popular science show Tomorrow&apos;s World in 2003after 38 years, but every so often, there are calls to bring it back.Rose-tinted nostalgia, or a recognition that there&apos;s a science and technology-shaped gap on primetime television here in the UK? The former presenter Maggie Philbin is the latest to call for a revival for the latter reason.&quot;I really wish I had been given a fiver for the number of people who have said &apos;why isn&apos;t Tomorrow&apos;s World on now?&apos;,&quot;she said this week, at the launch of a report by the UK Digital Skills Task Force.&quot;A programme where parents, as well as children, know what it is – there&apos;s a lot of science and tech on the telly, but people don&apos;t recognise it was a science or tech programme – people know that programme and it ought to come back.&quot;Philbin cited fears of a growing tech-knowledge gap between parents and children, suggesting that a revived Tomorrow&apos;s World could help to narrow it, and leave parents less &quot;petrified&quot; of the technology their children are growing up with.What do you think, though? If Tomorrow&apos;s World did come back, how could and should it be adapted for the way TV viewers – and, indeed, technology and science have moved on since 2003?Should it focus more on gadgets and futurology, for example, or address some of the gnarly issues around privacy, data security and government surveillance thrown up since last year&apos;s NSA revelations?How could it address both tech-savvy and tech-novice audiences, or would it have to pick one or the other? Who&apos;d be good presenters, and how would it sit alongside other current BBC shows in its genre likeBang Goes The Theory(which Philbin co-presents) andClick?Should a Tomorrow&apos;s World reboot even be a TV show? Maybe it could be an app – native or web – with interactivity and community as key features. The comments thread is open for your ideas.•Maggie Philbin: Tomorrow&apos;s World for the next generation
Rock&apos;n&apos;roll starChubby Checker, best known for his 1960 version ofThe Twist, has settled the 2013 lawsuit he brought againstHewlett-Packardover a &quot;penis-measuring&quot; app.Checker, real name Ernest Evans, had been seeking half a billion dollars from Hewlett-Packard for &quot;irreparable damage and harm&quot; caused by theChubby Checker, an app for Hewlett-Packard&apos;s Palm OS platform.The settlement agreement has not been disclosed, and neither side has accepted liability, but Hewlett-Packard has apparently agreed not to use the singer’s stage name, related trademarks, or likeness on their products.Checker hadclaimed in 2013that the penis-measuring app had violated theCommunications Decency Act, a claim which was thrown out of federal court in August last year. His claim against trademark infringement, however, was allowed to proceed and was scheduled for October.&quot;This lawsuit is about preserving the integrity and legacy of a man who has spent years working hard at his musical craft and has earned the position of one of the greatest musical entertainers of all time,&quot;explainedChecker&apos;s coincidentally named lawyer, Willie Gary, at the time.The Chubby Checker app allowed users to input the shoe size of a man (UK, US and European shoe sizes were accepted) to return a measurement of his penis.The app was withdrawn from theWebOS App Catalogin 2012 after a cease and desist order from Checker&apos;s lawyers.Some estimates showedit had just been downloaded just 84 times at a cost of $0.99. This news story – priceless.•How to improve your love life with hi-tech sex toys
After the white-hot excitement of Wednesday&apos;s Man Booker longlist announcement, literary chatter has now inevitably turned to the most pressing question: which, if any, of these works is suitable for video game conversion?Discussed only in hushed tones, but no less noticeable, it has become a marked disappointment of these major awards that not one winner in 45 years has found itself immortalised in interactive entertainment form. In 1981, the year that iconic arcade hit Pac-Man was released, Salman Rushdie&apos;s magical realist opus Midnight&apos;s Children failed to re-emerge as a pill-chomping maze game, despite doubtless interest in the concept.And in 1993, when the world turned its attention to seminal first-person shooter Doom, Booker winner Roddy Doyle must have stood by in quiet ignomy as his warm and gently comic novel Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha failed to rematerialise as Dublin-based blaster, Paddy Clarke Die Die Die. Even Hilary Mantel&apos;s historic double win has not captured the attention of game creators. Somehow, there is no Tudor-based Wolf Hall stealth adventure, complete with Sir Thomas More boss fight and protestant reformation DLC. What do these people have to do?So, now that the thrilling mushroom cloud of revelation has faded, let&apos;s enter the nuclear winter of serious thought. Do any of these Man Booker highlights stand a chance as video games?To Rise Again at a Decent Hour – Joshua FerrisDescribed by the Guardian as &quot;dismayingly funny in the way that only really serious books can be,&quot; Ferris&apos; state-of-modern-life novel follows curmudgeonly dentist Paul O&apos;Rourke as he discovers that someone has set up Twitter and Facebook accounts in his name, and is having more fun in his life than him.Video game potential:OK, O&apos;Rourke needs to be subtly recast as an elite special forces operative, and the Facebook entries would need to be coded references to a crazed eastern European terror plot, but with these miniscule changes, Ferris may be on to something. 7/10Us – David NichollsA troubled family embarks on a grand tour of European cities, which may save the tattered inter-relationships or tear the characters apart at last.Video game potential:Limited. Perhaps an experiential drama in the style of indie hit Gone Home, or a retro-themed text adventure. &quot;You are exploring St Peter&apos;s Basilica in Rome. Do you, a) admire the statue of St Peter Enthroned, attributed to 13th-century sculptor Arnolfo di Cambio, or b) attempt to repair the dysfunctional relationship with your neglected son over a wretchedly expensive ham and cheese panini?&quot; 6/10Orfeo – Richard PowersAn aging composer sets up a science lab to look for musical components in DNA strands. But when Homeland Security discovers his potential bio-weapon and forces him to flee, he plans one last &quot;calamitous artwork&quot; in retribution.Video game potential:Hasn&apos;t Call of Duty already done this one? 6/10The Wake – Paul KingsnorthSet in the years following the Norman invasion of 1066, Kingsworth&apos;s gripping post-apocalyptic novel follows a small band of guerrillas as they take on the might of the French army.Video game potential:This is more like it – bloody combat, pagan gods, a protagonist crippled with self-doubt. Think Max Payne meets Ridley Walker in the Lincolnshire Fens.Andthe novel was crowd-funded, so there&apos;s a built in monetised community. 9/10The Blazing World –Siri HustvedtA female painter must combat the innate misogyny of the New York art establishment by creating for herself three male pseudonyms.Video game potential:Here is a real opportunity to explore and indeed expose the phallocentric excesses of the sexist games industry. However, could she be an archeologist? A sexy archeologist? With two guns? There, perfect. 10/10Which previous Man Booker novels do you think would work as video games?
Internet search engines such as Google should not be left in charge of "censoring history", the Wikipedia founder has said, after the US firm revealed it had approved half of more than 90,000 "right to be forgotten" requests.Jimmy Wales said it was dangerous to have companies decide what should and should not be allowed to appear on the internet. His comments came after the bosses of the leading search engines met the heads of European data watchdogs on Thursday.Google has been at the centre of a censorship row since the European courts ruled that people should have the right to request that "irrelevant" personal information about them is removed from search results.Since May, the firm has received 90,000 requests for links to be removed, relating to more than 300,000 pages. More than half of these requests have been approved, it told European data watchdogs.The authorities have been concerned that the Google has been notifying the owners of pages that are delisted, which led in one case to a person being written about again by the Wall Street Journal.Google initially made it known that a paedophile, politician and doctor were among the initial removal requests, but has since acknowledged there are some more compelling claims.Wales's position was backed by Rohan Silva, a tech entrepreneur and former adviser to David Cameron, who tweeted that it was "good to hear (Wales) fighting the good fight against internet censorship".But the Labour MEP Claude Moraes accused Google of failing to implement the EU ruling properly. He also said the firm was not mentioning the fact that data supervisory authorities were the final arbiters in disputed cases and it was not junior staff making decisions on such issues.Christopher Graham, the UK information commissioner, said some of Google's concerns were overblown."Google is a massive commercial organisation making millions and millions out of processing people's personal information. They're going to have to do some tidying up," he told BBC Radio 5's Wake Up to Money on Thursday."All this talk about rewriting history and airbrushing embarrassing bits from your past – this is nonsense, that's not going to happen. There will certainly be occasions when there ought to be less prominence given to things that are done and dusted, over and done with. The law would regard that as a spent conviction, but so far as Google is concerned there's no such thing as a spent conviction."
&quot;Your phone’s operating system is compromised,&quot; Victor Cocchia, chief executive of Vysk Communications, tells me point blank.&quot;There are millions of new pieces of malware created each month, and the bad guys’ software will almost always circumvent the good guys’ software. That’s why we do everything outside of the phone.&quot;Outside? For most people, a smartphone case is an accessory to (hopefully) keep their screen from cracking when they drop their phone. To Cocchia, it&apos;s a piece of high-end security hardware that can solve the problem of vulnerable smartphone software.His invention is called the QS1, a $230 case for Apple&apos;s iPhone 5 and 5s and Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 that is due to start shipping in the winter of this year, promising &quot;complete privacy&quot;.Cocchia says it was born out of the need to have an encrypted conversation with a Cambridge professor about another product entirely.“We couldn&apos;t talk over the telephone because his phone was most likely hacked because of tremendous commercial applications to it. At the time I was dealing with heads of state around the world, so for sure my phone was hacked,&quot; he says.Cocchia’s certainty that our phones are compromised is likely part marketing spiel, but the vulnerability of smartphone software is real – and the sophistication of mobile malware would surprise many people.Cocchia thinks that the only way to properly encrypt a smartphone is with a combination of software and hardware. Hence the gigantic black case of the QS1, which includes its own circuitry, batter pack, microphone and shutters for the rear and front-facing cameras.&quot;The encryption is happening on the hardware chip. The communication then goes through the phone, so this way there&apos;s no way for someone who&apos;s got control of the phone to hear what you&apos;re saying,&quot; he says.&quot;And then we decided just in case any of those were compromised, we would put a mechanical device on the phone that physically jams the microphones.&quot;Physically jamming the microphone is what Cocchia calls “lock-down mode” where, even if the microphone is turned on remotely, the hacker can’t listen to whatever it picks up.Cocchia is an excitable character who clearly relishes the chance to make definitive statements – including telling the Guardian that the QS1 is &quot;the most secure form of communication in the world&quot;.So much so that &quot;agencies&quot; are already buying it, and that he&apos;s already supplied three presidents with the case. An assertion that&apos;s impossible to prove, given his (understandable) unwillingness to name them.Calling your product &quot;unhackable&quot; is quite a claim, though: most other mobile security companies have shied away from that kind of statement, including the QS1&apos;s most obvious competitor: the Blackphone.That handset&apos;s main vulnerability is its baseband– the black box that communicates with cell towers, and has low-level access to the device&apos;s microphone and GPS, which the Blackphone does not encrypt.Cocchia claims that the QS1 protects its owners because all its encryption happens outside the phone, leaving no metadata trail. He adds that Vysk does not collect any information, so cannot be forced to hand over data to governments if requested: it simply doesn&apos;t have the data to hand over.The Guardian spoke to four security experts about Vysk&apos;s claims, and none could point to an obvious flaw in the QS1 that could be exploited by hackers. On the face of it, the device looks solid, although without properly testing it, that can&apos;t be proved.Egemen Tas, vice president of engineering at security specialist Comodo, called for Vysk to release the source code for public scrutiny.&quot;In order to gain the confidence of private, anonymous or sensitive users and have a wide spread adoption, they should make their core technologies open source and open to an independent audit,&quot; said Tas.&quot;This will allow us to see if they have introduced some sort of an innovation which turns iPhones and Android phones into secure phones used by certain government agencies, or if they’ve introduced a new VOIP network which offers a certain degree of call encryption and anonymity.&quot;Cocchia told The Guardian that Vysk does have plans along these lines, but that he is currently unsure how much will be released, and when.
Tech tycoonKim Dotcomhas told the Guardian that &quot;governments want to engage in mass surveillance and have total citizen control&quot;, before a crowd fundraising event for theMana Internet party, the political party he founded to contestNew Zealand&apos;s September 20 elections.Dotcom also reiterated his promise that five days before the election, the world will &quot;witness a moment of truth&quot; at an event alongsideGlenn Greenwald, the former Guardian journalist who broke theNSA revelationswithEdward Snowden. &quot;We&apos;re about to make history&quot;, he said.The eccentric entrepeuner behind file-hosting siteMegauploadestablished the Internet party inMarch 2014, which has merged with theMana Partyduring the election campaign, led byLaila Harré.Internet party candidates will take second, fifth and sixth places on the candidate list.The party has focused on mobilising the youth vote, with42% of people aged 18–24not voting in New Zealand; a low turnout which is echoed inglobal trends.TheParty Partywas originally scheduled for January and had released 20,000 tickets before the Electoral Commission in New Zealandcancelled the eventowing to fears it breached electoral law, because the event was free.Taking off to PARTY PARTY in Christchurch with 1000 party people tonight :-)pic.twitter.com/axDpliI1tN&mdash; Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom)July 24, 2014Explaining his plans from a helicopter over South Island, Dotcom said he believes that governments globally will be &quot;knocked out by the internet population&quot;, and his hope that his party will &quot;abolish mass surveillance and rejuvenate politics by giving the internet generation a voice.&quot;&quot;Everyone should care about their basic human right to privacy. More and more people do. Governments want to engage in mass surveillance and have total citizen control. We have just woken up.&quot;When asked whether the Internet party could work in the UK or elsewhere, Dotcom said: &quot;100%. Someone is starting an Internet Party there. And evenJimmy Walesapproves of us. So stay tuned.&quot;Of young people&apos;s current political apathy, both in New Zealand and the world, Dotcom believes political parties need to change their approach to capture Generation Y voters, hence the Party Party event. &quot;Music is a powerful tool to get the youth interested in politics.&quot;Hanging at the Internet Party@InternetPartyNZ@KimDotcom@lailaharrepic.twitter.com/MAYNx9PHdZ&mdash; Martyn Bradbury (@CitizenBomber)July 23, 2014&quot;We are currently polling 2.8 in &apos;landline&apos; polls. Our voters don&apos;t even know what a landline is. They are all mobile and online. The youth in New Zealand is embracing us. We make politics cool and direct. We have the apps and sites for youth to engage.&quot;I&apos;m just shaking my head about the incompetence of the New Zealand government in all tech and internet matters. They don&apos;t have a vision for the future. They are not thinking bold thoughts like how can we double our GDP by focusing on growing our tech and internet sector. That&apos;s where real growth is going to happen in the decades to come.&quot;The internet is the biggest gift to mankind and we need to protect it from overreaching governments and greedy corporations.&quot;Dotcom, who lives on a60 acre estate in Auckland, isstill facing extraditionto the US on copyright infringement, money laundering and racketeering charges relating to Megaupload, and is alsobeing sued by six Hollywood studios, and in Juneoffered a £3m bountyfor help in fighting the case.He also told the Guardian he is still seekingprivate prosecution against GCSB, New Zealand&apos;s equivalent to the NSA andGCHQ, after his house was raided. &quot;It&apos;s highly likely. My legal team is working on it.&quot;Megais a cloud service and hosting successor to Megaupload. Last monthhe announcedthat he would be taking his new digital music service Baboom public on the Australian Securities Exchange by the end of 2014.•Kim Dotcom: &apos;I&apos;m not a pirate, I&apos;m an innovator&apos;
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInstagram accidentally leaks ad for their second snapchat ripoff &gt;&gt;&gt; BetabeatLast night, Instagram leaked word of an app called &quot;Bolt,&quot; a new, unanticipated photo messaging service. Considering Instagram is owned by Facebook, this adds Bolt to the growing portfolio of Facebook&apos;s messaging services, which include Messanger, WhatsApp, Slingshot and Instagram.Facebook really wants to get Snapchat&apos;s users.Guests refuse to leave Airbnb host&apos;s house &gt;&gt;&gt; CNN.comSo, if unwanted strangers won&apos;t leave, just call authorities and have them booted out, right? That&apos;s where Tschogl&apos;s nightmare really begins. In California, renters who occupy a property for more than 30 consecutive days are considered full-time tenants on a month-to-month lease with rights to occupancy protected under the state&apos;s tenant law.Reminder: if you rent your house to someone for two months, you&apos;re a landlord.Alleged Sony Xperia Z3 images leaked &gt;&gt;&gt; UbergizmoThe images do not tell much concerning what is underneath the hood for the smartphone, but it does point to what the exterior will be like should the Xperia Z3 hit the market, boasting of rounded edges instead of the flatter and sharper edges that are found on the Sony Xperia Z2.The sides look remarkably like the Xperia Z Ultra, which is certainly not a bad thing. If it&apos;s as thin and well built, Sony could have a winner here. Let&apos;s hope it&apos;s slightly smaller than the Z2.Pirate Bay launches mobile site, teases more expansions &gt;&gt;&gt; TorrentFreakOver the years the Pirate Bay site has undergone many changes to make it harder to shut down. The tracker was put into retirement, torrents were traded in for magnet links, and the site moved its servers to the cloud.Pirates go mobile. What remained the same, however, was the site&apos;s general appearance and its lack of support for mobile devices.Twitter&apos;s staff male-dominated &gt;&gt;&gt; BBC NewsThe data released by Twitter on Wednesday showed that, overall, only 30% of its staff were female. The data followed a trend among tech companies that showed an under-representation of women.Sony to pay up to $17.75 million in 2011 PSN hacking settlement &gt;&gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe lengthy settlement agreement (PDF) offers a number of benefits to users affected by the breach: a free downloadable PS3 or PSP game (from a selection of 14 titles), three PS3 themes (from a selection of six), or a three-month subscription to PlayStation Plus. Users who took advantage of Sony&apos;s &quot;Welcome Back&quot; promotion back in 2011 can choose one of those benefits, while those who didn&apos;t get a free game back then can choose from two of the three benefits.That didn&apos;t take long at all.Josh Topolsky of The Verge is joining Bloomberg &gt;&gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn joining Bloomberg, which had been seen as a lucrative but not necessarily cutting edge destination for reporters and editors, Mr. Topolsky is bucking the trend of young, web-native journalists leaving established media brands for smaller, more nimble start-ups.Something in those old media companies, then?You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hackers and cybercriminals are using flaws in Microsoft’s Internet Explorer to search computers to discover what kinds of security software they are running and how to take control of them, security researchers claim.The exploits are allowing digital reconnaissance to be performed on a massive scale, across whole companies, computers, web servers and users without their knowledge, exposing holes in their security and allowing criminals to intelligently attack vulnerable machines.“By knowing what security software is installed, the hackers can determine if their attack is going to work,” Jaime Blasco, director of AlienVault Labs security firm that discovered the techniques, told the Guardian.“That way they will only attack a computer they know is vulnerable and avoid alerting security companies to their presence.”&apos;Determine which software can be attacked in the future&apos;The hackers aren’t solely interested in security software. They also probe systems to discover software that might be vulnerable, including PDF readers and other user applications, which can be attacked to take control of a computer.“They collect information through Internet Explorer on the software running on the machine to determine which software can be attacked in the future,” Blasco explained. “The hackers also share details of web server and computer vulnerabilities with others inside the community.”Cybercriminals surveil a company’s users, checking for specific vulnerabilities through Explorer before setting up a trap for unsuspecting users, gaining access to their computer on the company network and from there gaining access to data and systems within a company.&apos;Regular cybercriminals are learning from the highly skilled&apos;“We’ve seen it from different groups in China, targeting the US defence department and government employees,” said Blasco. “But we’re also seeing this kind of technique used more and more often.”“In the beginning we only saw these techniques being used by very skilled attackers, but in the past few months we’ve seen regular cybercriminals adopt them too,” he said. “Regular cybercriminals are learning from the highly skilled.”The reason Internet Explorer can be exploited in this manner is because of its tight integration into the Windows software, which gives it access to other software features. Third-party browsers such as Firefox or Chrome are not integrated into Windows to the same degree, so they are less likely to expose this kind of data.Use a third-party browserMicrosoft is aware of the vulnerabilities, and has patched a few, but Blasco has seen some sit open for more than a year after the company was made aware of the security hole.&quot;We’re aware of the reported issues, one of which has been addressed in newer versions of Internet Explorer,&quot; a Microsoft spokesperson told the Guardian. &quot;Each version of Internet Explorer is more secure than the last and contains new and improved security features that help protect customers.&quot;&quot;We are actively investigating the other issues and continue to recommend customers upgrade to the latest modern browser, Internet Explorer 11,&quot; they said.Blasco recommends people ditch Internet Explorer and use a third-party browser like Google’s Chrome.“Chrome is designed with security in mind,” explained Blasco. “It has a suite of security features in place that means that even if attackers find a hole in one layer they have to bypass other security measures that are in place.”Chrome is not without its own vulnerabilities. In August 2013 asecurity flaw offered unrestricted access to user passwords, while some of the Chrome extensions available through Google’s Chrome storehave been found to contain malware.•Windows XP users urged to dump Internet Explorer
Amazon has reported a rise in sales on Thursday but posted a bigger-than-expected $126m (£74m) loss for its second quarter, sending shares sharply lower in after-hours trading.Revenue at the company rose 23% to $19.34bn but losses increased as the firm spent heavily in a bid to expand its business with its first smartphone, the Fire Phone – which goes on sale in the US today – and to expand new services including grocery delivery and video streaming."We continue working hard on making the Amazon customer experience better and better," said Amazon's chief executive officer, Jeff Bezos.Shares of Amazon dipped 10%, to $358.61, in after-hours trading as the company said it expected further losses of up to $810m in the upcoming quarter – compared to a $25m loss in the third quarter last year.Amazon's Fire Phone goes on sale in the US on Friday, facing stiff competition in a market dominated by Apple, Samsung and others. The company surprised many by launching a high-end, technologically advanced phone at a premium price and there has been scepticism among analysts about its likely success.Before the earnings announcement Colin Gillis, director of research at analyst BGC, issued a report on the company that began with the haiku: "It's a feat to lose money with $20bn in net revenue."The company's shares had already slumped close to 10% before the latest results were released. Amazon said it expected another big hike in revenues next quarter to between $19.7bn and $21.5bn, 26% higher than a year ago.The company has long argued it is focusing on building a business for the long-term and shown little concern about losses. Recently Amazon has been even more ambitious than usual. Along with the phone and groceries, it introduced Zocalo, a document storage and sharing service, and a programme to give readers access to as many ebooks as they want for a monthly fee.Amazon's ambitions have also put it at loggerheads with publishers. The retailer is in a long-running dispute with Hachette about the price of e-books that has led to it delaying shipments of books from best selling authors including JK Rowling, Stephanie Meyer, David Foster Wallace, and Donna Tartt, author of this year's Pulitzer Prize winner, The Goldfinch.Amazon also clashed with Warner, briefly pulling pre-orders of DVDs of its blockbuster The Lego Movie among other titles amid another pricing dispute.
Education technology startupTynkeris expanding to Android, after attracting more than 8.8 million children to computer programming courses through its website and iPad app.The company haslaunched its Android tablet app on the Google Play app store, including a new mode – also available in the iPad version – for children to create their own games.Tynker is one of several firms whose apps&apos; visual programming interfaces are aiming to help children take their first coding steps, with rivals including fellow US companyHopscotch, and British startupKuato Studios, with its Hakitzu Elite app.Until today, Tynker&apos;s iPad app focused on a series of exercises where children learn programming concepts including functions, subroutines and conditional logic by solving puzzles.It is available in afree versionwhere parents buy the different puzzle packs as in-app purchases, as well as apremium version aimed at schools, where the packs are included in a single upfront price. For now, Android is getting the premium version.The new game creation mode – Tynker Workshop – is the biggest change to Tynker&apos;s app. It uses the same visual programming language as the exercises, but encourages children to create their own projects.They can create from scratch using characters and backgrounds provided by the app, or use nine pre-built game &quot;kits&quot; based on popular genres: Brick Breaker, Arcade Shooter, Scavenger Hunt and Physics Game for example.&quot;The first app has been extremely well received, and we&apos;ve had lots of requests for the update, particularly kids being able to build their own things,&quot; Tynker&apos;s chief executive Krishna Vedati told the Guardian.&quot;The templates that we are providing – and there will be more of those – can kickstart the kids, and they can go from there, making their own things once they get used to it.&quot;Tynker is planning to let children use the same login details for its apps and website, so they can work on their projects across multiple devices, for example on a computer at school – the company says its service is being used by more than 10,000 of them – and a tablet at home.•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps•Aardman gets kids coding with Shaun the Sheep contest•Kids coding book Hello Ruby: &apos;It&apos;s not a girl/boy thing&apos;The new mode makes Tynker more of a direct competitor to Scratch, the visual programming language developed within the MIT Media Lab, which is a popular choice for schools running programming lessons for children.A big part of Scratch&apos;s appeal is the ability for children to share their projects online for others to download and alter. Vedati said Tynker is taking a cautious approach to community features, preferring to give teachers moderation tools to control how projects are shared.&quot;We are looking at ways to do programming with peers: can I share a program with my friend, iPad to iPad for example, so we can work and play together?&quot; he said. &quot;We are also thinking about communities within the family, where kids might want to send projects to their brothers and sisters, parents or grandparents.&quot;Vedati added that Tynker is thinking about how it can work with hardware, so children can use its programming language to control devices too: &quot;Why can&apos;t a kid create their own alarm clock and weather app? We want to go down that path...&quot;Tynker is also hoping to pick up more schools as partners in the UK, with 400 already using its courses and app. This year will see programming introduced into the British educational curriculum at a much earlier age – a development greeted with excitement but also concerns about the challenge of training up enough teachers by the end of the summer.Technology companies have been trying to help: witnessGoogle&apos;s £120k of funding for training run by coding clubs network Code Club, andMicrosoft&apos;s investment of £334k in &apos;Back to School&apos; sessions run by UK body Computing at Schools.Startups like Tynker are hoping to be involved too: Vedati says that Tynker has been working on its lesson plans and other resources for British teachers, drawing on its work in the US including a number of programming-focused summer camps this year.One criticism of kids&apos; coding apps is that while they can introduce programming concepts in a fun and accessible way, it&apos;s not always clear how effective a stepping stone they are to the specific languages that older children with an aptitude for this kind of thinking may be learning.&quot;Can they go from making games in Tynker to making native apps for Android and iPhones?&quot; said Vedati. &quot;That&apos;s one of the things we&apos;re looking at, from the point of view of can we handshake them off to a mainstream programming language?&quot;•&apos;Why all of our kids should be taught how to code&apos;
They say don&apos;t meet your heroes – and usually they&apos;re right. Work on a film magazine for a few weeks and you soon discover that the actors you once idolised are often spoiled, petulant monsters who would rather be anywhere else in the world than in stuffy hotel room answering your dumb questions.Then Sega asked if I wanted to interview Sigourney Weaver.Due out in October, Alien: Isolation is a terrifying survival horror video game, set 15 years after the events of Ridley Scott&apos;s original movie. A remote space station has picked up a distress call from the Nostromo and now contact has been lost with the facility. In an ironic act, Weylan Yutani has sent out Ripley&apos;s daughter Amanda to investigate. When she arrives, she discovers something has gotten on board the dark and claustrophobic station. Something … alien.Early previews of the game have been hugely positive – it is a nightmarishly tense adventure; with Ripley playing a long cat-and-mouse game against a cruelly relentless xenomoprh sporting advanced artificial intelligence. There are no pulse rifles, no massive shoot-outs. Just exploration and fear.Return of the Nostromo gangIn July, Sega announced that developer Creative Assembly would be adding two bonus missions, both set during the original Alien movie. In &quot;Crew Expendable&quot; the player selects one of three characters then takes part in the action just after Brett&apos;s death, the aim being to lure the monster into an airlock. In &quot;Last Survivor&quot; you&apos;re Ripley, desperately activating the self-destruct sequence before legging it to the Narcissus shuttle. Most of the cast returned to record new dialogue for the sequences. Including Weaver.I said yes, I would like to interview her. But I was worried.Ripley, and by extension Weaver, is my teenage hero. I watched Alien with my parents when I was far too young, on an old VHS rental copy; then when I was 13, I snuck in to the cinema to watch James Cameron&apos;s sequel, a brilliant, terrifying experience that had me sleeping with the blankets over my mouth (to protect me from face huggers) for several months. I sort of enjoyed Alien 3, I tolerated Resurrection.I always thought Weaver as Ripley was amazing, though: tough, enigmatic, physical, guarded. She was the perennial outsider, her crew distrusted her, and later the marines and prisoners abused her. But she always knew better. Something in my fragile and lonely teen self related to that. I wanted to be Ripley.The terror of video game conversionsFor her part, Weaver was nervous about the game. She&apos;s been here before. &quot;Oh yes. I&apos;ve been approached a number of times to do video games, but this was different - it had so much story, so much character, it was sort of more emotional and at the same time, it seemed like it would be a very visceral experience. You have to go through that ship on your own - it&apos;s going to be wild for people to do that.&quot;The film has really held up - I think because of the way Ridley shot it – and it really takes that material... it&apos;s a homage to what he did so brilliantly, but it also takes it in a really creative direction.&quot;Of course, you could argue that any actor is going to say this about their latest project. But then, heck, Weaver doesn&apos;t need the money, she doesn&apos;t need to curry favour with Sega, she doesn&apos;t need to be in a stuffy hotel room in New York talking to a series of journalists. But on time, and with a small group of staff, she walks in, smiling and welcoming to everyone. She speaks with passion and interest about the game, and about how it reminded her of the original movie.Which is exactly the effect Creative Assembly was hoping for.Reanimating the AlienThe team has been obsessive about recrafting the retro-futuristic look of Scott&apos;s set design. When work began on the game, Fox opened its huge Alien archive to the developers and they trawled it at great length.&quot;There was a lot of stuff that hadn&apos;t been in the public domain before,&quot; enthuses Hope. &quot;Everything from blueprints to continuity polaroids, to photographs of the set from different angles, which gave us an amazing insight into how the environment was constructed. We were all really familiar with the film but it wasn&apos;t until we got the archive that we saw high resolution images of things like the costumes. It means we could study and understand them, and then replicate them in the game.&quot;He&apos;s in no doubt about what his favourite discovery was. &quot;[Fox] found an eight-track reel and didn&apos;t know what it was - it was in the bottom of an old cardboard box that hadn&apos;t been opened for 35 years. I just said, I don&apos;t care, just send it to us. It was the original sound effects archives - lots of weird noises, moaning sounds - you even had the 1970s British sound engineers calling out the take numbers prior to the recordings. We could take that source material and put it in the game.&quot;So how did Weaver feel treading those dark corrifors once again? &quot;Oh, it was so spooky!&quot; she laughs. &quot;I spent so much time in those corridors and huge hangers. Films take so long to shoot, and as a young actor I was constantly wandering around and thinking, gosh, how great it is that they&apos;ve built these wonderful sets for us, not thinking that it&apos;s really for the viewer.&quot;But yes, it took me back - the attention to detail, especially to Ridley&apos;s humorous often bizarre little touches, the odd little toys and gizmos - they really worked hard to get that. It seems like a labour of love.&quot;No such thing as franchisesI ask her if she realised at the time that Alien would be a phenomena, that it would last. As an actor, she had been reticent at first about taking on a sci-fi role. She&apos;d studied drama at Yale, famously with Meryl Streep, starring in a succession of avant garde and classical theatre productions. She didn&apos;t want to be Princess Leia.&quot;I remember Ridley pulled out some sketches of the sets and the alien itself, and the eggs... I realised I&apos;d never seen anything like this in a film. I just thought, I want to be part of that.But in those days, you never really thought about creating a franchise. Whatwewere interested in was taking this very sparse script and, with a wonderful group of actors, bringing people into space, in this very new way. It was space as a real environment, a working environment, with people griping and bitching. It was no longer this sleek Kubrick-style sterile environment, it wasn&apos;t fantastical.&quot;Indeed, Scott famously went to great lengths to make life difficult for the actors, hoping to accentuate the troublesome relationships between the characters. He had the set built as a claustrophobic complex of small rooms and narrow corridors, just so they couldn&apos;t get away from each other.And he wound them up. Before interviewing Weaver, I spoke to the game&apos;s creative lead, Al Hope, who said that during the voice recording sessions, the cast happily gossiped about the filming process. &quot;Yaphet Kotto, who played Parker, was talking about how Ridley Scott had told him to antagonise Sigourney off camera,&quot; says Hope. &quot;He wanted them to be at each others throats.&quot;It was not about feminismI talk to Weaver about how she got the role of Ripley and her legendary audition (she was originally up for the role of Lambert, but her performance led to a last-minute switch). And of course, Ripley&apos;s famous gender switch. &quot;In the original script that they bought, it was all male characters. Walter Hill and David Giler changed it... but having Ripley as a woman wasn&apos;t a big feminist statement - they thought no-one will ever guess this girl will end up being the hero. That&apos;s why they did it – for the surprise factor.&quot;Now, of course, the surprise factor is gone, but the Alien: Isolation team had the sensible idea of maintaining a female lead – with an obvious candidate. &quot;When we started it felt like it had to be a female character - it&apos;s such a large part of the universe,&quot; says Hope. &quot;We were extremely fortunate that we already had a character, Amanda, whose story hadn&apos;t been told. She is in no way a clone of her mother, but she does share some of those traits: courage, perseverance and clarity of thought under pressure.&quot;Weaver loved the idea. &quot;I thought it was wonderful – very daring,&quot; she exclaims. &quot;I found it touching, too - I mean, I didn&apos;t even know she had a daughter until Jim Cameron created one for me. The idea that never having seen each other, Amanda would go into space, follow in her mother&apos;s footsteps... it was very moving to me.&quot;Fear and reproductionWe go on to talk about the alien itself – what it is about that monster that still scares people. When Creative Assembley showed a demo of the game at E3 running on the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset, one attendee ripped the device off in terror and fled the room.Interestingly, Weaver says that Scott kept her well away from the actor who inhabited the alien suit (&quot;I never saw him sitting down drinking a tea&quot;) – she barely saw the monster until that climatic scene in the shuttle. That has fed something in her, a fascination that she&apos;s been playing out ever since.&quot;I guess what interests me about the alien is that I still don&apos;t know what it wants,&quot; she says. &quot;I feel like it&apos;s not interested in eating me, itisinterested in me for reproduction, but there&apos;s much more going on - it&apos;s a much more multidimensional creature than a regular horror film. It&apos;s the implication that there are species out there like this. What do we as humans... I mean, what will we have to deal withthat?&quot;We play as we dream... aloneWeaver doesn&apos;t play video games, but she seems interested in them. She has played Alien: Isolation, of course (&quot;The flame-thrower isverygood,&quot; she drawls) and is intrigued by the immersive story-telling possibilities of the medium.&quot;I think there&apos;s a whole new world, a bigger world, of using gaming to enter into stories and experiences,&quot; she says. That&apos;s going to be incredibly satisfying... the idea that you could enter into perhaps famous stories – you could enter into the world of Kubla Khan – I think that sounds fascinating. You could enter the movie in your own mind, you could enter great pieces of literature. I think there&apos;s a huge horizon there - I think many people will be seduced by this experience. It&apos;s unique and very, very exciting.&quot;All through my life I have watched the Alien films, studied the critical theory (especially Barbara Creed on the &quot;Monstrous Feminine&quot;) and played Alien games. I played the original Alien movie conversion on Commodore 64, a challenging and atmospheric action RPG that, like Isolation, never really allowed you to kill the monster – if you saw it, you were dead. I played the okay Aliens game from Electric Dreams Software, a prototype first-person shooter with jump shocks aplenty. None of them got close to the sheer, trembling terror that seems so natural to Alien Isolation. Of course there are worries about whether this can be maintained over a whole game; we&apos;ve only seen a fraction of it – we&apos;ve got to keep things in perspective. Other promising Alien games have crashed horribly, as Sega well knows. But right now, it&apos;s not hard to see why Weaver committed to this one.It&apos;s like 1979 all over againAfter the interview, I step out into the hotel corridor, shaking and excited. Al Hope is out there waiting. He tells me that a huge cheer went up throughout the studio when they got the call from Fox confirming that Weaver and the other actors would be coming back. &quot;Recording them was an unforgettable experience,&quot; he says. &quot;When we started, we had a dream we could do something like this, and to have those actors reprise their roles, some of them for the first time, it was magical.&quot;When they went into the sound booths and started recording their lines, it felt like being transported back 35 years to when we first heard Veronica Cartwright screaming, &apos;get out of there!&apos;.&quot;Weaver does another few interviews. Everyone comes out the same – elated, trembling, smiling. She is engaging and funny, and disarmingly friendly. She happily has her photo taken with some of the interviewers, and she didn&apos;t mind that one of my questions was actually a meandering and pretentious theory about Freudian messaging. I&apos;ve interviewed actors before, plenty of them, but I was starstruck this time. Just utterly starstruck. When I left the room, along with elation, there was relief.Sometimes, it turns out, it&apos;s okay to meet your heroes. Sometimes they&apos;re Sigourney Weaver.•Alien: Isolation – preview•E3 2014: Alien Isolation preview – new crafting system and enemies revealed• Accommodation and travel expenses were paid by Sega.For information on the Guardian&apos;s policy covering paid-for trips, please see theeditorial codeorthis article on transparency and trust
Just one in 25 new Virgin Media customers who were offered parental controls on their broadband chose to turn them on, new figures on internet filters have shown.The response was slightly better for BT and Sky, where 5% and 9% of customers chose to enable the filters. But of the four major UK internet service providers, only TalkTalk a saw significant proportion – 36% – of users accept the offer of parental controls.The figures werereleased by the communications regulator Ofcomin its second report on the industry&apos;s internet safety measures. The measures were introduced by the UK&apos;s four largest ISPs following an agreement between the department for culture, media and sport (DCMS) and the industry, which committed them to offering &quot;family-friendly network-level filtering&quot; by the end of 2013.Virgin Media&apos;s figures are skewed somewhat by the unique nature of its broadband product. Because the firm sells cable broadband, the majority of new installations involve an engineer visiting customers&apos; homes.The report says that &quot;many engineers avoid the full broadband activation process altogether on the grounds that the process adds to the installation time. As a consequence, Virgin Media estimates that since the launch of Web Safe in February 2014, only about 35% of new customers had been presented with an unavoidable choice about implementing the filtering service.&quot;The ISP accepts that it failed to meet the commitment it made with DCMS, and is &quot;dramatically streamlining&quot; the activation process so that engineers are less likely to skip it.The difference in take-up among the ISPs could be down to the varying ways they present the option of filters. While all ISPs require users to make an active choice about whether or not they have parental controls, the presentation varies wildly. BT, for instance, presents users with the option of controls as a natural part of the set-up, and offers them two buttons, one marked &quot;continue to set up Parental Controls&quot; and one marked &quot;I don&apos;t want Parental Controls&quot;.But TalkTalk presents users with a pop-up window and two sets of radio buttons, for child filters and malware protection. Both radio buttons are set to turn the filters on unless the user actively changes them.The next target for the ISPs is to offer the same &quot;unavoidable choice&quot; to existing customers by the end of 2014, to ensure that every account holder of a British internet connection has specifically declined the offer of censored internet.The introduction of the filters has been a rocky road. When BT introduced its filtering in December 2013, some users were outraged to learn that categories including &quot;gay and lesbian lifestyle&quot; and &quot;sex education&quot; were included as choices for parental censorship.&quot;The internet is a vital gateway for many young people, especially lesbian, gay and bisexual young people,&quot; said Stonewall&apos;s Ruth Hunt at the time. &quot;Anything that prevents them from accessing vital support poses a threat to their wellbeing.&quot; After an outcry, the company changed the wording on its website.In January 2014,Sky mistakenly blocked a code library called jQuery, essential for the operation of many websites. A month later, the British pornography industrycomplained that the filters weren&apos;t blocking enough, letting users who had turned on filtering access adult material.•Internet filters blocking one in five most-popular websites
All right, own up: did you steal Mike Weatherley's sword on World of Warcraft? If so, you'd better watch out. He's really upset about it. So much so that, as David Cameron's chief adviser on intellectual property, he hasasked ministers to consider passing a lawthat would mean people "who steal online items in video games with a real-world monetary value receive the same sentences as criminals who steal real-world items of the same monetary value".Weatherley, the MP for Hove, East Sussex and a Warcraft player himself, says that since players can spend serious amounts of real-world cash on items, even though they exist only online, they should be offered the same protection as victims of theft in the world of solid objects."If you've spent £500 building up your armed forces and someone takes them away online, I guess you can feel hard done-by and you want your £500 back," hetold Buzzfeed. He also pointed out: "The perception from some people is that if you steal online it's less of a crime than if you steal physically."It's hard to argue with his logic. Gamers spend a lot of money on virtual items, and invest time in building armed forces or gigantic warships. These things may be nothing more than a collection of pixels on a screen, but the money isn't virtual, and neither is the time, or the feeling of having been robbed.There are international precedents for giving virtual items real-world value in the courts. In 2008, a woman in Tokyo realised her virtual husband had divorced her without warning, and as revenge she used the man's login information to delete his avatar. Essentially, it was virtual murder, though she was jailed for "illegally accessing a computer and manipulating electronic data".In the same year, two Dutch teens were also found guilty of forcing a younger player to log into his RuneScape account and hand over an amulet and a mask, the digital-age version of stealing another kid's lunch money. The Dutch court ruled: "These virtual goods are goods (under Dutch law), so this is theft."However, it's hard not to feel Weatherley's argument crumbled a little bit when he said that if it was "a minor thing, a £5 item", he wouldn't waste the authorities' time – "but if I found someone doing it a thousand times over, then it's obviously a problem." So, whoever stole 1,000 wizard robes from Weatherley, he's coming after you – with the full force of the real-life law.
The artistLot Amorós, and engineersCristina Navarroand Alexandre Oliver won theNext Thingsaward in 2013 for the Flone invention, an H-shaped airframe which transforms smartphones into airborne apparatus. It is able to fly up to 20 metres, and take photographs and video from above.Flone has been designed to be cheap and simple to make. The airframe is wooden, and is powered by a standalone battery and four propellers.&quot;We tried to simplify all the technology of our drones , and also the way of controlling,&quot; Amoróstold the BBCat the Sonar+D event in Barcelona.An interesting feature of Flone is that the smartphone in the air is remotely controlled from a smartphone on the ground using the accompanying Android app and a Bluetooth connection.&quot;What we are seeking is to change a little bit the concept that drones are something that only people with money can afford,&quot; said Oliver.The first ever flight of Flone.Drones(unmanned aerial vehicles) are everywhere, and their uses are as widespread as the ground they cover.When drone-use first hit the public consciousness, it was usually in relation tomilitary use and warfare. Now, people are waking up to the positive and creative possibilities of drones.This montha competitionrun by National Geographic for drone photography producedstunning results. More drone pictures can be found onDronestagram.After theFukishima nuclear disaster, a team from the University of Bristol designed a drone tomeasure levels of radiation.In June, the Federal Aviation Administration in America evenlaunched an investigationinto whether a congressman had broken regulations after he used a drone to take his wedding photographs.DIY drones are not new. Plenty of tutorials exist on how to build a drone, but with the Flone, Amorós, Navarro and Oliver have taken the pursuit of mass drone ownership to new heights.Here&apos;s how to make your own Flone.•Anki robotics founder Boris Sofman on why it&apos;s a small leap from zippy toys to self-drive cars – podcast
It is the oldest cliche in the great book of video game cliches: never underestimate Nintendo.The industry veteran is a master of comebacks and agenda-setting lateral business moves; it practically invented handheld gaming as a viable global entertainment platform; it watched its 95% console market share eaten away by the Mega Drive, and then pummelled its upstart competition with a hundred classic SNES games.Then it fell behind Sony and Microsoft in the tech arms race, so it built the Wii out of old bits and pieces it found in Radio Shack and sold a 100m units.As for the Wii U? It&apos;s been a sorry tale so far. A bungled announcement, an inability to explain what the GamePad is for, a lack of games, the dwindling support of the major third-party game publishers. It all looked pretty grim for a while.But in a surveypublished by IHS Technology and Gamer Network this week, consumers showed a 50% increase in &quot;purchasing intent&quot; for the Wii U, after a wonderful showing at the E3 games event in Los Angeles.Big, bright family games like Yoshi&apos;s Woolly World, Captain Toad&apos;s Treasure Tracker, Super Smash Bros and Mario Maker promised fun in abundance; a world away from the grittily bombastic, grim-faced action adventures duking it out in however-many-frames-per-second on PS4 and Xbox One.And then there&apos;s Mario Kart 8, easily a game of the year contender with half the year to go. It is a sublime and inventive addition to a much-loved series, combining all the traits we have come to expect from top line Nintendo-developed titles: accessibility, variety and depth.Kids can play against each other, parents can play against kids, adults can play against each other, and everyone has a chance – and yet skilled driving is always rewarded. It will be a key feature of many lazy days during the coming school holidays (note: families can still go outside while not enjoying video games – it&apos;s okay to have both).The key thing is that there&apos;s not much coming from the other &quot;next-gen&quot; consoles to counter Mario Kart 8 this summer. There will be a few interesting digital-only releases, but the mainstream schedule is, as usual, a wasteland until September.This gives Nintendo several weeks to really push the Wii U, centred on Mario Kart 8, but also reminding people about a back catalogue that, while hardly an embarrassment of riches, is certainly not an actual embarrassment. Super Mario 3D World, Wind Waker HD, Pikmin 3, Wonderful 101 and Lego City Undercover are all there to be discovered.Nintendo is even trying to improve the Wii U&apos;s online functionality. A new update allows players to finally transfer data and accounts from one machine to another, and to navigate more easily to the eShop digital store.And there are hints that the company may finally be making games that genuinely explore the capabilities of the GamePad, the Wii U&apos;s &quot;second screen&quot; controller that promised a future of asymmetrical multiplayer experiences, but then delivered... a gigantic Fisher Price tablet that pretty much acted as a glorified mini-map for most titles.At E3, Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto showed off a couple of interesting experimental concepts – Project Giant Robot and Project Guard – that use the device in interesting ways. And the team-based shooter Splatoon has promise.PlayStation 4 and Xbox One have some amazing titles lined up for later in the year, and even more in 2015. Let&apos;s not get silly here: Wii U is not going to trouble them for some time – if ever. But it can safe itself from the nosedive.And right now, you can get Wii U and Mario Kart 8 in a bundle for £240 and that&apos;s probably the most fun you&apos;re going to have with a games machine this summer (while you&apos;re not outside at the beach or cycling or, you know, hand-gliding off the Malvern hills or whatever).Nintendo needs to move fast – with its marketing, with its special offers, with whatever it has. Fun and light have always been the dual currencies of the Nintendo empire, and we need both right now.•Nintendo at E3: Zelda and Star Fox for Wii U a much-need shot in the arm•E3 2014: Nintendo and the conquest of joy•Nintendo reports annual loss as Wii U stalls
Apple is working with Swiss watchmaker Swatch on a line of “iWatch” smartwatches, according to reports.Apple’s highly anticipated smartwatch entry will not be one iWatch, but a range of watches in a variety of branded styles and costs, people familiar with the dealtold Venture Beat.The majority of expectation has been around one smartwatch model, made directly by Apple, but the report indicates that Apple may follow a similar path to Google and itsAndroid Wear smartwatches, partnering with several watchmakers to create iPhone-compatible smartwatches.&quot;I find it difficult to believe that Apple would want to relinquish control,&quot; said Ben Wood head of mobile devices at research firm CCS Insight, talking to the Guardian. &quot;It would be a radical departure for Apple.&quot;&quot;They may partner with them to get some aspected of intellectual property, but Apple likes to control every aspect of the devices they make and that means owning it, controlling the message – it’s Apple’s brand,&quot; said Wood.All about fitness and healthSwatch is the largest watchmaker in the world, operating under 18 different brands. The plastic Swatch watch was the watch of the 90s, popular with children and adults alike.Apple will focus its smartwatch efforts on the expanding fitness and health market, pushing itsHealth kit softwareas the central repository for the “quantified self” movement on the iPhone.&quot;A number of the watchmakers like Pebble and Swatch, may decide that they want to integrate with Apple’s Heath kit,&quot; explained Wood. &quot;Therefore they might be a partner, because they may have devices they’re going to announce which actually link into Health kit – a way of making the devices compatible with an Apple phone.&quot;The company’s latest advert for its iPhone 5S focuses entirely on third-party fitness gadgets and apps including trackers like theMisfit Shineand Fitbit, Nike’s running apps and Adidas’s miCoach smart football.•Apple’s patent application reveals ‘iTime’ smartwatch•Android Wear: the good, the bad and the fixable with apps•Google smartwatches reviewed: LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live
If there&apos;s one lesson we learned from the 2014 EU and local elections, it&apos;s that voters are fed up with politics and politicians.They stay away from the polls in droves, and when they vote for minority parties, it&apos;s only when those parties have enjoyed such sustained notoriety – and generous coverage from the national media – that they seem &quot;electable.&quot;The referendum on alternative voting was the only positive outcome that I&apos;d hoped for from the coalition - and watching the Tories knife the Lib Dems in the back over it (&quot;alternative voting: totally undemocratic and unfit for purpose, except that we use it to choose our own leaders&quot;) was a heartbreak.You could ask for no better example of the arrogance, corruption and complacency that &quot;first past the post&quot; elections breed than the #Drip stitch-up, in which the party leaders decided in a smoke-filled room to create a bunch of sweeping, illegal powers for government, declared a fake emergency, lied to the public about the substance of the legislation, whipped their MPs to vote for it, and predicted – correctly – that MPs in the run-up to an election are unlikely to rebel and risk losing the whip when they&apos;re about to start campaigning to keep their jobs.These are the actions of parties who know that so long as they are all equally terrible, none of them will lose votes to the other - and since no one would throw away a vote by balloting for a minority party, there&apos;s no risk to any of them from acting in such a manifestly undemocratic fashion.First past the post polling is a horrendous collective-action problem. If the party you really support has no hope of taking office, the &quot;rational&quot; thing to do is to vote for the major party you hate least, to head off the party you hate the most. This is something that every doorbell-ringer for a minority party knows all too well.&quot;I&apos;m Mr Notachance from the Yellow Party, and I&apos;d like to ask for your vote on election day.&quot;&quot;Yellow Party! Well, I love what you stand for, but come on, you haven&apos;t got a snowball&apos;s chance. It&apos;s throwing away my vote.&quot;&quot;May I ask how you will vote?&quot;&quot;Oh, I used to hold my nose and vote Labour, but honestly, who can bear it anymore? To be honest, I&apos;ll probably stay at home and throw up into a bucket.&quot;You hear variations on this theme a lot - no one wants to vote for the minority party because everyone knows that no one wants to vote for the minority party. As time goes by, the number of people willing to vote at all declines, so that a smaller and smaller number of ever-more cynical people elect representative that are answerable to fewer and fewer voters, and policy gets more and more corrupt.Now, if there&apos;s one thing the internet&apos;s good at, it&apos;s collective action problems. Reducing the cost of working together is at the center of the Internet&apos;s biggest success stories, from Wikipedia to GNU/Linux to Theyworkforyou. It may be that with the right code, we could crudely bodge a kind of AV system into the establishment-friendly, incumbent-favouring first past the post system.Here&apos;s how that could work:&quot;Yellow Party! Well, I love what you stand for, but come on, you haven&apos;t got a snowball&apos;s chance. It&apos;s throwing away my vote.&quot;&quot;Oh, I&apos;m not asking you tovotefor me! Not quite, anyway. All I want you to do is go on record saying that you would vote for me, if 20% of your neighbours made the same promise. Then, on election day, we&apos;ll send you a text or and email letting you know how many people there are who&apos;ve made the same promise, and you get to decide whether it&apos;s worth your while.&quot;The current MP, Ms Setforlife, got elected with only 8,000 votes in the last election. If I can show you that 9,000 of your neighbours feel the same way as you do, and if you act on that information – well, we could change everything.&quot;This threshold-style action system is at the heart of Kickstarter (pledge whatever you like, but no one has to spend anything unless enough money is raised to see the project to completion) and it&apos;s utterly adaptable to elections.In democracies all over the world, voting is in decline. A permanent political class has emerged, and what it has to offer benefits a small elite at the public&apos;s wider expense.We hear a lot from tech circles about &quot;disruption&quot; of complacent, arrogant and entrenched industries. Politics is the foremost example of such an industry and it&apos;s overdue for disruption.•UK&apos;s Drip law: cynical, misleading and an affront to democracy
