Another day, another day of game-related discussion!
I couldn't tweet during William and Kate's nuptials last year. My hand kept reaching for the BlackBerry I had left at a friend's house the night before and finding nothing. History was unfolding before me and I had no one with whom to share my vital thoughts about Princess Beatrice's hat, Kate's dress or Pippa Middleton's bride-upstaging bottom. Well, apart from my sister, parents and the two old family friends who were watching it with me, but really, what's chatting to a handful of real people compared with being part ofa community of millions enthusiastically forming itself under the #RoyalWedding hashtag? I felt like Robinson Crusoe before he even met Man Friday.The phenomenon is too new for any official research to have been carried out, but anecdotal evidence suggests I am not alone in finding that Twitter has become embedded in my TV viewing (non-) life. Social networking sites – especially Twitter, because it is designed to exchange real-time responses among a loose group of people – are restoring a sense of excitement to television.Event TV was thought to be dying as channels proliferated, people timeshifted their viewing and audiences fragmented in a way that madethe viewing figures of yesteryear(21.6 million to find out who shot JR, 28 million every time Eric&nbsp;and Ernie popped their Christmas hats on, 32.3 million for the 1966 World Cup) seem like the fevered dream of an overstrained ITV exec. "Watercooler moments", whereby people gathered the next day at work to talk about a particular attention-snagging programme or plot twist, were deemed to have vanished. Now they are back. The only difference is you don't have to wait until the next day to share your amazement, vent your spleen or bemoan the death/betrayal/surprisingly good profiteroles of your favourite character, singer or#gbbocontestant.Reality and talent shows, designed to&nbsp;elicit passionate responses and – in&nbsp;the latter's case – lucrative votes, naturally produce a deluge of tweets. I&nbsp;did not actually see a minute of the last series of The X Factor, but thanks to my Twitter timeline, I did not need to. Like a doctor reading through someone's notes without seeing the patient itself, I was able to keep abreast of the situation and form a sufficiently authoritative opinion on vital points (Frankie Cocozza's hair, drugs and dismissal, Gary Barlow's relative hotness and his&nbsp;slagging off Carol Decker who then tweeted her reaction and got an apology) to sound credible to other interested parties.The news too is both added to and vociferously discussed – especially so last year,&nbsp;when everything, everywhere, happened so fast that if a global microblogging site had not existed we would have had to invent one the minute the Arab spring kicked off. Newsnight too draws comments, though not&nbsp;nearly as many as Question Time – perhaps because Question Time's ask-and-answer format is more comment-friendly, or maybe because of a general sense that while David Dimbleby twinklingly acknowledges his online nickname (The Dimblebot – though, alas,@dimblebotis not him), Jeremy Paxman would be liable to come down and give you a good clip round the ear if he found you tweeting about instead of paying attention to his&nbsp;show.This reflexive element – further strengthened by the fact that many of the people you are seeing on screen are also present online – has revitalised television for the viewer. Unlike sex, watching television is invariably more fun with&nbsp;someone else, and now there is always&nbsp;someone ready, willing and able, in 140-character doses, to gasp,&nbsp;cry, insult, commend and sigh&nbsp;with you.The notional Paxman's point is valid. If you are commenting about what you are seeing on screen, you cannot be paying complete attention to&nbsp;what is going on there. I may now turn to Twitter instead of the Radio Times to see whether a documentary or debut episode of a new series is truly worth watching, but once I am there, my focus is – as with too many other aspects of my online life — too often split between watching and commenting. On the other hand, there&nbsp;is an argument that much of what we are offered is only worth half our attention. If The X Factor, Britain's Got Talent, The Apprentice and their ilk couldn't be shared, if we couldn't supply at least as much entertainment again ourselves as they do, would they be as popular and have lasted as long?The interesting thing is that when quality drama or documentaries do come on, Twitter tends to quieten. People still prefer to follow the story than each other. My timeline went mad with anticipation before Sherlock, for example, and exploded with exuberant love, appreciation, praise and plot-dissection afterwards, but during each episode all was silent. Well, not quite all, but close enough. Brilliant documentaries will result in brief urgings to&nbsp;watch – often including times of the repeats, which kind thoughtfulness never fails to warm the cockles of my heart – but no long, real-time exchanges during broadcast. People will still pay undivided attention if the material is worthy of it.This early era of genial, unforced bonhomie may, however, be coming to an end. More and more programmes are actively encouraging Twitter activity (Channel 4's One Born Every Minute is, I think, the most recent to have added its own hashtag, #obem, to&nbsp;its publicity and credits) and Twitter&nbsp;itself is actively encouraging producers to use the medium. Three years ago, the former vice-president of Current TV,Chloe Sladden, was hired to foster relations between the site and television. She now oversees a team of&nbsp;people dedicated to enmeshing politicians, celebrities, producers and&nbsp;programmers in this particular bit&nbsp;of the web.Mere engagement, you see, is only the beginning. Plans are afoot to allow/gently marshal/force (delete according to taste) Twitterers into becoming content creators as well as commenters. In the US you can now direct-message as well as phone and text your votes to The X Factor. Tweets now frequently run along the bottom of breaking news stories and one can all too easily envision a future that contains a structured reality show starring Demi Moore in situations suggested by her avid and occasionally criminally insane followers. If you want to make it happen, just tweet using #OMFG!Come on, people. I want to see it trending by teatime. Go, go, go!@lucymanganTweeters to follow@gracedentFor hilarious commentary on all TV – from reality and documentaries to EastEnders.@caitlinmoranDitto – plus Sherlock, Doctor Who, music and news.@stuheritageFor reality shows such as The X Factor.@DeborahJaneOrrEspecially good on Newsnight and Question Time.@danielmaierReliably funny, pops up chatting about all sorts of TV. Writes for Harry Hill's TV Burp (and the Guardian) so has a good eye for&nbsp;detail.@indiaknightGood virtual sofa companion for drama such as The Killing and Borgen.@naomialdermanGreat on picking apart drama, character and structure.@boydhiltonHeat's TV and reviews editor: watches everything, knows everyone.@thegarethmcleanBarbed commentary on drama.@michaelhoganJoker who blogs for the Daily Telegraph on X Factor and Strictly.@tracey_thornThe Everything But The Girl singer watches lots and is very funny.
Block 305.04pm:We are going to wrap this up for the day, and what a day it has been.After the biggest ever day of online protest politicians have been deluged with opposition to SOPA and PIPA and a lot of people who didn't know the legislation even existed do know. Not all of them are happy, according to their comments on Twitter. With Wikipedia largely unavailable for the day, it looks like there will be a lot of people handing in homework late.The coordinated protest by Google, Reddit, Wired and thousands of other websites large and small seems to have paid off. This has proved a black day of the bills' supporters withsome major defectionsfrom both sides of the political spectrum.Marco Rubio, the senator tipped as a potential vice presidential pick, has come down against the bills and other senior Republicans including Arkansas senatorJohn Boozman, have joined him.Katie Filbert, president of Wikimedia DC, Wikipedia's Washington chapter, says:Open  internet  has  always  been  vital  to our goal of empoweringindividuals and communities through free access to global knowledge. While we recognize  that copyright holders have legitimate concerns regarding their property rights, we do not believe that the solution should come on the backs of millions of innocent online users. Open Internet, likefree speech, must always be protected.It ain't over yet. PIPA is still up for a vote on January 24 and similar legislation is being pushed throughin other countries. We will be keeping you informed as this story develops.Block 29My source in DC: "We just got word the whole House system is down... the campaign is working."#wikipediablackoutMelt the phones!&mdash; Jimmy Wales (@jimmy_wales)January 18, 20124.03pm:Jimmy Wales, Mr Wikipedia himself, just Tweeted this:Block 283.41pm:Ryan Devereaux,our man on in midtown Manhattan, reports back from the protests against PIPA's New York supporters:Roughly 300 protesters assembled in front of the offices of New York senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Chuck Schumer this afternoon to denounce the legislators' co-sponsorship of PIPA. Gathered inside a barricade pen, the demonstrators heard from an array of speakers, including a number of prominent figures in the tech industry.New York Tech Meet Up Chairman, Andrew Rasiej, coordinated the demonstration and introduced each speaker. Rasiej claimed the protest was essential to maintaining the vitality of New York City vibrant tech sector."This is about the future of New York, jobs for New York and the future of the open web," he said."What we're seeing here is a classic example of our 20th century politics clashing with the realities of a 21st century connected humanity and a global economy," Rasiej added.Rasiej, and the string of speakers he introduced, called on senators Schumer and Gillibrand to pull their support for the controversial legislation. Many pointed out that the tech industry in New York city employs tens of thousands of individuals; including women and young people, who are often excluded from other industries. On top of that, the speakers added, the industry continues to grow.Andrew McLaughlin, executive vice president of Tumblr, said a free and open internet empowers disenfranchised movements and people to have their voices heard.Meanwhile, Redditt's co-founder, Alexis Ohanian, said the struggle to combat the bills was, "a fight to save democracy.""Let this be the beginning," Ohanian added.As the speakers wrapped up, a pair of young men familiar to those who've covered New York City's ongoing Occupy Wall Street protests took to the podium. Using the familiar "people's mic" the two called for "nerd out" march to Time Square several blocks away. Approximately 200 protesters made their way to the iconic stretch of Manhattan amid chants of "We want innovation, not stupid legislation," and "What is it we wanna get? Freedom of the internet!"Upon arrival to the square the protesters, including one young woman holding a sign that read "Give me lolcatz or give me death," continued to denounce both SOPA and PIPA as a small contingent of passers-by and police looked on.Block 273.24pm:Interesting point fromGene Koo,executive director at Civics Inc,  a non-profit organization founded by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, via our ownAmanda Michel.The list of supporters/opponents looks like most bipartisan thing I've seen in Congress for some time. Why is that?As we reported earlier Florida senatorMarco Rubio, a man tipped for the top of his party, has come out against SOPA/PIPA. Here in New York ourRyan Devereauxhas been attending a rally againstCharles Schumer, one of the bills' Democrat supporters. At the weekendObamaofficials made clear that they were against the legislation as it stands.Anti-SOPA: Marco Rubio Photograph: Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesDivided they stand.Block 263.20pm:Here's a great speech thatClay Shirkygave at TED on how SOPA threatens freedom of speech.Block 253.00pm:I've been talking toDavid Pescovitz, co-editor, managing partner, ofBoing Boing. He said he was delighted with how today's protest has taken off. But he remains worried about SOPA and PIPA.This pending US legislation does nothing but support the Hollywood studios, multinational record labels, and huge global publishers who are unable or unwilling to keep up with the future. The proponents of this legislation fear the future, and the openness it promises. And so even as their old models are dying, Big Media is attempting to hold on to a false sense of hope without a care of how their actions would impact the rest of the Web. If their efforts didn't pose such a threat to Internet security, free speech, and innovation, they would just seem pathetic. But as it stands, this legislation poses a very real and dangerous risk to the infrastructure of the Internet and our online freedom.Block 242.20pm:O'Reilly Media, the tech publisher, has gone dark today so I'm luck enough to have co-optedAlexander Howard, O'Reilly's Government 2.0 correspondent, to comment:Today, we're seeing an unprecedented mobilization across the Internet, enabled by an increasingly networked society, social media and a number of tech companies and website owners taking principled stands in support of freedom of expression and the Open Web.I support the right of Internet companies and services to use their platforms -- much in the same way that I suppose freedom of expression online -- to educate their users about proposed legislation that would harm a free and open Internet, as we understand that term today. Given that SOPA and PIPA have received very little coverage on the broadcast television networks whose parent companies support them, these actions are quite important, in terms of alerting citizens to what's happening in Washington. I believe that the "how" of these blackout is, in other words, an important consideration, along with the whether, why and when.My publisher,O'Reilly Media, has decided to 'go dark' today as well.In doing so, we hope that we both spread awareness of what's at stake, educate our community and give citizens the ability to learn more and take action. I was heartened to see that theOnline News Associationand theAmerican Society of Newspaper Editorshave come out against these bills. (If you'd like to read my feature on these bills, you can view a cached versionhere:The 'blackout' by Wikipedia, Reddit or Boing Boing, along with many other blogs and Craigslist's prominent interstitial, are leading to greater awareness of both the content and ramifications of these bills. From what I'm seeing and hearing here in DC, they're also leading to greater civic engagement between citizens and their representatives in Congress, I believe that would be a net benefit for both the communities of those services and the United States as a whole.Block 232.05pm:Wikipedia hasn't gone completely dark today. In fact, there areplenty of ways to access the site, which Wikipedia has acknowledged. (It's a protest, not a total shutdown, after all.)And if you search for SOPA andWikipedia, you'll find that page is still up. Seems Jimmy Wales thinks there's some information that should stay up, protest or no protest.Block 222.04pm:Readers of Vice have helped it collect numerous examples of copyright violations by, oh no,US lawmakers– including on the website of Lamar Smith, author of Sopa. As the Vice writer Jamie Lee Curtis Taete writesMy point is  that, if these people aren't able to abide by EXISTING copyright laws, they clearly lack the understanding to create stricter ones and, ideally, should just GTFO.Block 211.59pm:One of the memes developing today is #factswithoutwikipdedia.Ernest Hemingway and F.Scott Fitzgerald briefly owned a barbershop together in Paris in the '20s.#FactsWithoutWikipedia&mdash; biblioklept (@biblioklept)January 18, 2012Block 201.58pm:Facebook may not be directly taking part in today's Sopa protest but social network wunderkind Mark Zuckerberg hasmade his feelings clear.The internet is the most powerful tool we have for creating a more open and connected world. We can't let poorly thought out laws get in the way of the internet's development. Facebook opposes SOPA and PIPA, and we will continue to oppose any laws that will hurt the internet.The world today needs political leaders who are pro-internet. We have been working with many of these folks for months on better alternatives to these current proposals. I encourage you to learn more about these issues and tell your congressmen that you want them to be pro-internet.So far 128,689 people have liked his post. No wonder politicians are backing away from this legislation.Block 191.33pm:Back toRyan Devereauxat the Sopa protest in New York. He's been listening to speakers including Tumblr's executive vice president, Andrew McLaughlin, who's been arguing that the bill threatens free speech movements from around the world.Tumblr's exec VP Andrew McLaughlin says the web enables disenfranchised ppl & movements worldwide to be heard.#sopatwitter.com/RDevro/status/…&mdash; Ryan Devereaux (@RDevro)January 18, 2012Block 181.28pm:Scott Edwards ofAmnesty Internationalhas weighed in on the dangers of Sopa. He arguest that the universal declaration of human rights can be interpreted as guaranteeing people the right to intellectual property. Article 27 states:Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.He goes on:If we try and put aside the cynical read of the genesis of Sopa (there arevery significant commercial interestsin controlling digital content), efforts to protect IP rights are in keeping with UDHR Art 27, all things equal. Indeed, a government that made no effort to address widespread IP infringements would be failing in its human rights obligations on that dimension.But the problem with Sopa and a similar bill in the Senate – Pipa –isn't that it is an effort to combat online piracy. The problem is that the effort as pursued endangers a broad range of human rights enjoyment by making it harder to share and access information and speech.It would create a powerful and unprecedented market incentive to censor user generated content. And their passage would signal very clearly to countries around the world that it is OK to sacrifice some rights in the name of some other good.Block 171.16pm:Ryan Devereauxreports there are at least 100 protesters against Sopa at the protest outside the offices of two New York senators, including Reddit co-founderAlexis Ohanian. You canfollow his live tweets here.Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, "This is a fight to save democracy...Let this be the beginning."#sopatwitter.com/RDevro/status/…&mdash; Ryan Devereaux (@RDevro)January 18, 2012Block 161.00pm:Here's a summary of events so far today.Many prominent websites, including Wikipedia, Google, Reddit, Facebook and BoingBoing, have joined a day of protest against the Stop Online Piracy Act.Some blacked out their homepages, others made their entire content unavailable.  Google urged users to lobby Congress before a planned Senate vote on January 24, saying Sopa "would censor the web and impose harmful regulations on American business".The protest appears to be having an effect: political support for the Sopa appears to be waning.A prominent Republican, Florida senator Marco Rubio, came out against the proposed legislation, saying it was an "unreasonable expansion of the federal government" that would have "unintended consquences". Other Republicans pulled their support.Demonstrators have gathered outside the offices of New York senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand.The senators are supporters of the legislation, which now appears to be under attack from all sides.Block 1512.41pm:Diana Hubbard, a user of the nascent social media sitePinterest, which acts as a sort of online pinboard, has collecteda slew of protesting sites on her page.A Pinerest user, Diana Hubbard, has posted pictures of dozens of sites protesting against Sopa.Block 1412.24pm:Earlier today ourcolleagues in the UK ran Guardipedia,a (not very serious) effort to keep the well of web knowledge full in the absence of Wikipedia. It's a fun read.Block 1312.22pm:We've dispatched reproterRyan Devereauxto the offices of  New York senatorsCharles SchumerandKirsten Gillibrand, where a protest is expected to begin soon. We'll have more from him when he arrives on the scene.Block 1212.08pm:You can count on theWall Street Journalto be on the wrong side of popular opinion. Well, you could, if you could find the page.The WSJ posted a pro-#SOPA(pro-censorship) editorial. But I can't read it, because it's behind a paywall. Guess it won't change my mind.&mdash; Eleanor Saitta (@Dymaxion)January 18, 2012Block 11Firefox protests against the Stop Online Privacy Act12.07pm:Missing Wikipedia yet?McSweeney's, the  whimisical publishing house set up by Dave Eggers, has written to the rescue (pun intended). It has replaced itshomepage with a protest page, listing ten facts to help you through the blackout.It starts well: "A triangle is a geometric figure that has three sides." I think we can all agree on that.But I'm afraid it ends on a far darker note: "You know that girl you really like? She doesn't like you nearly as much and never will, unless your interest in her suddenly vanishes, in which case she may well start to like you. This may seem like a paradox, and it is, assuming that a paradox is a medieval weapon of torture."Block 1011.39am:It looks like the protest is paying off. Support for the bill received a major blow over the weekend when Obama officials came out against it. But now it's the Republicans who are lining up to burst the Sopa bubble, with Florida senatorMarco Rubiocoming come out against the legislation.Rubio is a rising star in the Republican party and seen as one of the leading candidates for the vice presidential ticket this year. Hehas this to say on Facebook:Earlier this year, this bill passed the Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously and without controversy. Since then, we've heard legitimate concerns about the impact the bill could have on access to the Internet and about a potentially unreasonable expansion of the federal government's power to impact the Internet. Congress should listen and avoid rushing through a bill that could have many unintended consequences.Rubio joins at least two other defector from his partys.Politico reportsthat Republican representatives Ben Quayle from Arizona, and Lee Terry from Nebraska have also pulled their names from Sopa. (And yes, Quayle is one ofthoseQuayles – son of Dan, the vice president who couldn't spell potato.)Block 911.33am:If only you had access to Wikipedia, then you would know that Mike Godwin, former Wikimedia lawyer and internet legal ace, inventedGodwin's Lawto describe the phenomenon that eventually all online arguments end in comparisons to Hitler and Nazis.My colleagueRyan Devereauxpoints out that, thanks toRaw Story, we're there already.Who can resist Bruno Ganz's impeccable Hitler, shouting: "Jimmy Wales you mother****** I have a book report due on Thursday."Block 811.10am:Live now to our correspondentOliver Bukeman, who has been monitoring blackout developments on the ground in New York City.Tense scenes here outside the central branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, after goateed hipsters and schoolchildren clashed early this morning over access to the library's limited number of copies of the concise edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica.I witnessed one particularly uneasy standoff between a local web designer and a youngster researching an essay on dinosaurs (who pointed out, rightly it seemed to me, that the Encyclopedia Britannica probably doesn't list the entire cast list for the Big Lebowski anyway, so it wasn't going to settle the argument the web designer was having with his girlfriend).NYPD officers are attempting to restore calm by randomly arresting uninvolved onlookers.Block 710.59am:It's not just the US that is being impacted by the proposed anti-piracy legislation. I've been talking toIvan Sigal,executive director atGlobal Voices, an international community of bloggers that stretches from Libya and Syria to China.As he points out, US secretary of state Hillary Clinton has made two major policy speeches about the importance of free speech online in the last three years. "It's time for another one," he says.""For the US giovernment to use the same tools to protect copyright that the Chinese government uses to limit free speech is not acceptable. WE hear from Chinese writers that the Chinese government looks to legitimize it's policies by pointing to the West. This would be a gignificant victory for them."Sigal says the legislation will force established internet firms to police themselves more vigorously and limit the freedom that users currently experience online. Secondly, he says it will stifle creativity, making it hard for new firms to start up unless they have "lawyered up," he says. "The tech community isn't just in Silicon Valley. It's in South Africa, Kenya, it's global," he says.Sounding very lawyerly,  Sigal says the legislation is a "confusion of class". He says: "If someone uses a Ford Mustang to rob a bank, you don't sue Ford."Block 610.47am:Wikipedia is down, and students everywhere are panicking. My colleague Brian Braiker has been monitoring the worldwide frustrationvia the means of Storify.WTF WHY IS EVERYTHING BEING BLACKED OUT!!!! I HAVE A FUCKING PROJECT DUE IN 5 HOURS!!!! I NEED WIKIPEDIA!!!! FUCK FUCK FUCKKK&mdash; Sorority Girl (@SratGirlStories)January 18, 2012Here's a sample tweet:Block 510.18am:Matthew Inman,creator of massively popular webcomicThe Oatmeal, knows a thing or two about online piracy.  Almost his entire output was being ripped off by a website at one point, leading him to post this.But today he's behind the anti-SOPA barricades. His site is blacked out but well worth a visit if you want to see Oprah Winfrey in space, riding a jet ski, with Jesus.Under SOPA he worries that using the mighty O's image might trigger a law suit. "Orwellian bullshit makes me sad," he writes.Block 4Wired censored its homepage in protest at Sopa.9.54am:Over atWired, someone has gone mad with the censors' pen. The magazine has blacked out most of the words on its site in protest at Sopa and Pipa.Click on"uncensor this page"and you can read why Wired is so worried:Under the current wording of the measures, the Attorney General would have the power to order ISPs [internet service prividers] to block access to foreign-based sites suspected of trafficking in pirated and counterfeit goods; order search engines to delist the sites from their indexes; ban advertising on suspected sites; and block payment services from processing transactions for accused sites.If the same standards were applied to U.S.-based sites, Wikipedia, Tumblr, WordPress, Blogger, Google and Wired could all find themselves blocked.Such requests would need to be reviewed and approved by a judge. But accused sites would get little notice of a pending action in U.S. courts against them, and, once blacklisted, have little effective means of appeal.Block 3Google blacks out its logo to mark the Sopa day of action.9.44am:Across the web the blackout is being marked in different ways but the site most people are likely to see is Google's.Google has stuck a big black block over its famous logo, probably its most minimalist doodle to date. Below the search box is a link to a Google site explaining SOPA and PIPA and letting people know how to take action.So Obama has thrown in his lot withSilicon Valley paymasters who threaten allsoftware creators with piracy, plain thievery. -&mdash; Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch)January 14, 2012Over the weekendRupert Murdochtook to Twitteraccussing Google and Obama of selling the media industry out to internet pirates in order to boost the profits of Silicon Valley firms.YesterdayDavid Drummond, Google's chief legal officer,said this in a blog post:Fighting online piracy is extremely important. We are investing a lot of time and money in that fight. Last year alone we acted on copyright takedown notices for more than 5 million webpages and invested more than $60 million in the fight against ads appearing on bad sites. And we think there is more that can be done here—like targeted and focused steps to cut off the money supply to foreign pirate sites. If you cut off the money flow, you cut the incentive to steal.Because we think there's a good way forward that doesn't cause collateral damage to the web, we're joining Wikipedia, Twitter, Tumblr, Reddit, Mozilla and other Internet companies in speaking out against SOPA and PIPA. And we're asking you to sign a petition and join the millions who have already reached out to Congress through phone calls, letters and petitions asking them to rethink SOPA and PIPA.Block 29.30am:It's morning in America and theGreat Internet Blackouthas begun. The English language version ofWikipediais offline (sort of) along with popular news sharing siteReddit.Also taking part in the protest are theicanhasCheezburgernetwork, home of those adorable cat photos, as well as thousands of other sites. All are protesting proposed anti-piracy legislation going through  the US congress.The backlash against stop online piracy act (Sopa) and Protect IP act (Pipa) has sparked the biggest online protest in history. Google has blacked out its logo in protest.There's a full list of participants in the day of action here.Later today the protest enters the real world when protesters are expected to demonstrate outside the offices of New York senatorsCharles SchumerandKirsten Gillibrand, who have supported the bills.Over the weekend the Obama administration came out against key components of Sopa, effectively killing the bill in its current form. But its main sponsors are fighting to get it back on the table and Pipa is up for a vote in the Senate on January 24.The tech community is keen not to paint this as a battle between Silicon Valley and Hollywood, which has poured millions into lobbying for tighter copyright laws. But this looks set to be a  defining battle in the war between old and new media.We will be live blogging events throughout the day and hearing from experts about this complex but important issue.Block 1
Yahoo's problem is that the internet doesn't care for runners-up. The company that founder and "chief yahoo" Jerry Yang finally deserted this week has never recovered from losing the top spot in search to Google. Nothing else it has been able to do since has ever been able to recapture the lost momentum, whether it was photo-sharing site Flickr or its investments in Asia.The Yahoo formula had been simple – traffic. However, its problem was that it came too early: founded in 1995, Yahoo was quick to get into search, mail, news, finance – but struggled to keep with the new ideas that drive internet popularity today. It failed to break through into Europe in force, was overhauled swiftly by Google's algorithmic approach to search, and has been unable to gain any traction in social media dominated by Facebook.While many of the great US technology companies such as Microsoft, Apple or Google are successfully driven by their founders, that has not been the case with Yahoo. The company has largely been led by a succession of outsiders – such as former Hollywood executive Terry Semel and Carol Bartz, who memorably alleged she had been "fired over the phone" by people who she said "fucked her over". It has never been able to match the vision of the early years, when Yang and co-founder David Filo, both Stanford University PhD students, called it "Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle" – in effect, the first guide to the web.The problems were apparent in 2008 when Microsoft bid $45bn for Yahoo – a last-ditch effort by the software giant to keep pace with Google. Yang led a hopeful revolt and three months later, Microsoft walked away. The loser, though, was Yahoo – whose shares were trading at $15.83 on Wednesday and have never come close to the $31 offered by Microsoft. Later, Yahoo and Microsoft merged their search operations, but by then it was far too late.No longer number one in anything important, or fashionable, Yahoo is in serious financial decline in an industry where returns increase for those out front. The depth of its problem is revealed by its results. In 2008 revenues were $7.2bn (£4.6bn), for 2010 turnover was $6.3bn – and in figures yet to be reported for 2011 the company is on track to hit $5bn. Under the covers the numbers show that larger "display" advertising is holding up, at least until Facebook gets going, but search advertising is crumbling. That subset of revenues is down by 45% to $1.4bn for the first nine months of this year.Compare that with Google, a company still dominated by one product – search. Its most recent quarter's revenue of $9.7bn is nearly double what Yahoo will now achieve in a year. Search, in short, is not in crisis; only Yahoo is. And Yahoo, like another early internet pioneer, AOL, has proved unable to develop or acquire another hit product to replace it. Flickr, oncethephoto-sharing website, now hardly matches Facebook – and Yahoo's minority Asian investments, including its holding in Chinese Google rival Alibaba.com (a market where Google has had problems) do not provide a path to control.Expectations for Yahoo are now so battered that the departure of Yang led to a modest 3% rise in the company's share price, as it is expected that its Asian assets could be offloaded. Its 35% share in Yahoo Japan was valued at $6.4bn at the last set of results and its 29% share of Alibaba.com is valued at $1.3bn. No wonder Yang thought "the time has come for me to pursue other interests outside of Yahoo".The little-known incoming chief executive, Scott Thompson, will need to find a solution that has eluded everyone before him. Nobody will be surprised if Thompson's answer is to sell up.
Political support for controversial online anti-piracy legislation began crumbling on Wednesday as leading websites staged an unprecedented one-day protest against the measures.Wikipedia, the sixth most-visited website on the planet, pulled its English site offline Wednesday in protest of the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa), which is currently pasing though the House of Representatives, and the Protect IP Act (Pipa), a similar bill under debate in the Senate.Other tech giants, including popular news sharing site Reddit, also pulled the plug while Google censored its name.The protest gained fresh momentum Wednesday when senator Marco Rubio of Florida withdrew his support for Pipa. Rubio is a rising Republican star who is seen as a possible vice president pick this year and a future presidential candidate.Rubio said that since the introduction of the bill "legitimate concerns" had been expressed about the impact it could have on access to the internet "and about a potentially unreasonable expansion of the federal government's power to impact the internet." On hisFacebook page, Rubio wrote: "Congress should listen and avoid rushing through a bill that could have many unintended consequences."Other lawmakers followed suit in rapid succession. John Boozman, senator for Arkansas, withdrew his support for Protect IP on his Facebook page, writing that the feedback he had received from constituents was "overwhelmingly in opposition" to the act."The goals of the Protect IP Act are commendable, but the potential for damaging unintended consequences is its major flaw," he wrote  Movingforward, I will work with my colleagues, the stakeholders and the American people to find a workable solution that protects intellectual property rights while promoting an open and vibrant Internet."Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee  came out against the legislation as it stands. "There needs to be a balance," he told people at a speech in Springfield.SenatorJohn Cornyn, a Texan Republican, also expressed his views via Facebook. "SOPA: better to get this done right rather than fast and wrong. Stealing content is theft, plain and simple, but concerns about unintended damage to the internet and innovation in the tech sector require a more thoughtful balance, which will take more time," he wrote.Three other Republican representatives, Ben Quayle from Arizona, and Lee Terry from Nebraska, also pulled their names from Sopa. North Carolina's congressman Patrick McHenry came out against the bill, tweeting that he opposed Sopa and would support an alternative bill drawn up by Darrell Issa, the Republican congressman who has led the charge against Sopa.Collapsing political support came as websites in Washington failed under a deluge of traffic from anti-Sopa activists.Lamar Smith, who as chairman of the House judiciary committee introduced SOPA, said: "I hope the facts will eventually overcome thefears."Smith's spokesman added: "We knew it was coming, but it is disappointing."The Republican backlash follows clear signals from the Obama administration that they will not pass Sopa or Pipa in their current form."While we believe that online piracy by foreign websites is a serious problem that requires a serious legislative response, we will not support legislation that reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines the dynamic, innovative global Internet," White House officials said this weekend.But despite the victories, the tech community remained concerned that anti-piracy legislation would be rushed through Congress. Yesterday Chris Dodd, former senator and chairman and CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), slammed Wikipedia and others protest plans, calling them "dangerous" and a "gimmick". He called on Congress to engage in meaningful efforts to combat piracy.A vote on Pipa is still expected in the senate on January 24. Protesters have been demonstrating outside the offices of New York senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, who have supported the bill."This is the biggest online protest in history, and it's no wonder," said Holmes Wilson, co-founder ofFight For The Future, a lobbying group. "Internet users have grown up around the abuse of copyright laws to punish political speech, creativity, and successful businesses. So the thought of giving rightsholders the power to erase entire sites from the web is horrifying to us."Roughly 300 protesters assembled in front of the offices of New York senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Chuck Schumer this afternoon to denounce the legislators' co-sponsorship of PIPA. Gathered inside a barricade pen, the demonstrators heard from an array of speakers, including a number of prominent figures in the tech industry.New York Tech Meet Up Chairman, Andrew Rasiej, coordinated the demonstration and introduced each speaker. Rasiej claimed the protest was essential to maintaining the vitality of New York City vibrant tech sector."This is about the future of New York, jobs for New York and the future of the open web," he said. "What we're seeing here is a classic example of our 20th century politics clashing with the realities of a 21st century connected humanity and a global economy."Rasiej, and the string of speakers he introduced, called on senators Schumer and Gillibrand to pull their support for the controversial legislation. Many pointed out that the tech industry in New York city employs tens of thousands of individuals; including women and young people, who are often excluded from other industries. On top of that, the speakers added, the industry continues to grow.Andrew McLaughlin, executive vice president of Tumblr, said a free and open internet empowers disenfranchised movements and people to have their voices heard.Meanwhile, Reddit's co-founder, Alexis Ohanian, said the struggle to combat the bills was, "a fight to save democracy.""Let this be the beginning," Ohanian added.
There are many reasons to dislikeSopa and Pipa, the pair of internet censorship bills working their way through the US Congress. They are (another) example of the influence of corporate money on American politics: US media firms have cumulatively donated tens of millions of dollars to the bills' authors. They are (another) example of representatives refusal to represent the public:they tried to rush the bills through at the end of last year, with no public consultation. And the proposed technical solution – censorship enforced through the domain name system – would not have the effect they want it to have, but its technical side-effects would break important parts of the internet.But maybe you don't care about all of that. Maybe politics bores you, maybe technical details make your eyes glaze over. Here's why you should care anyway: the proposed law that would result from Sopa and Pipa will only work if you are put under 24-hour digital surveillance.The old media firms in the US aren't out to get you personally, of course – they don't really care about you in particular. What they dislike about you is your willingness to share things with your friends, and with the world at large. Sopa/Pipa would allow private companies to assert that a foreign site is "dedicated to theft of US property". Once a US media firm had made such an accusation, they could then black out the domain name of the accused site, so that if a user typed ReallyEvil.co.uk into their browser, nothing would happen (all of this could be based on an accusation: Sopa and Pipa seem to regard the niceties of a trial as an undue burden).The proposed blackout wouldn't remove the site itself from the internet, of course, it would just make the domain name inert. This is where Sopa and Pipa really get scary. They don't just propose making US media firms into judge, jury and executioner, they propose forcing every site on the internet to pitch in on the proposed censorship and, critically, they imagine punishing not just the original sites but anyone else who doesn't censor them well enough.The scary bit of legalese here is the idea that the law would apply not just to actual copyright violations (the nominal goal of the law) but to any site that was "facilitating the activities" of copyright infringement, a term nowhere defined but vague enough to include mentioning the existence of such sites, which is enough to make them findable. Like a fast-spreading virus, the proposed censorship moves outwards from the domain name system, to include any source of public web content in the US.If the phrase "any source of public web content" seems like a dry detail, substitute the name of your favourite web publisher: you. The US is, for the moment at least, the world's premier host of sites that support user-generated material – Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, Wikipedia, Reddit, on and on. And under the proposed law, every one of those sites would have to take steps to prevent publishers, which is to say people, which is to say you, from helping anyone find out about the existence of sites the US media firms don't like. And since the law doesn't require a private company to provide any advance notice before the blacklisting, these sites will be forced to spy on their users, in advance and all the time, to make sure you are not talking about sites media firms in the US do not want you to talk about,even if you are not a US citizen.Sopa and Pipa are, quite simply, an attempt to create a privatised form of international censorship, and because the censorship would have to be nearly total to be effective, they would have a profound and chilling effect on any form of public conversation among ordinary citizens. It would render the internet a place where the only content to be seen or heard or read is produced by professionals, with the rest of use relegated to the role of pure consumption.As Congress continues to push the bills through, this side-effect of a "consumption-only" internet is starting to look like the goal of the bills in the first place.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter@commentisfreeandTumblr

Block 110.48am:It's the day the free world (well, students, journalists, and PR consultants) has been dreading: Wikipedia is down,in protest at proposed US anti-piracy legislation, and it'll stay that way until 5pm today.But fear not! Guardipedia is here to help.One of my senior colleagues has informed me of something called the Encyclopaedia Britannica, which seems to be some sort of paper book (I know!) containing all sorts of facts.The good news is, I've fetched it from the library upstairs - all 29 volumes of it - and I'm going to use it to answer any factual questions you throw at me via Twitter (@Guardian) or the comments section below.The bad news is it was published in 1989, and doesn't seem to contain anything in the way of recent information.What is tattooed on the back of Megan Fox's neck? I couldn't tell you.Where was Arthur Scargill born? Now we're talking.Fire away!Block 211.01am:This really is technological doomsday. Not only is Wikipedia down, but something seems to be wrong with our comments system. We're working on it, but in the meantime, tweet your pre-1989 factual questions to either@Guardianor@PatrickKingsley.Meanwhile:here's a great animationexplaining what Wikipedia are protesting about.Block 311.18am:So this is what the 90s was like! People must have had very sore thumbs.Anyway, exciting news: I have my first question. My colleagueAndrew Gilchristwants to know about a book called the King of the Gypsies, which is apparently by a bare-knuckle fighter called Bartley Gorman.Now for the crushing disappointment. Andrew, there is absolutely no reference to Bartley Gorman in Britannica, or in this dusty thing called the Biographical Dictionary I found in that library place upstairs.Sorry to let you down. And please forgive the time it's taken to get back to you. These books don't have hyperlinks. Weird.Block 411.25am:A tweeter by the name of@Jet_Lauasks:How many pages are all 29 volumes together?Good question, Jet! I'll be right back.Block 511.48am:Several observant readers have raised the pertinent points that a) the Encyclopaedia Britannica isonline; b) you can actually bypass Wikipedia's blackoutthusly.Now this is all well and good - but you're spoiling the fun, people. Lighten up.Moving swiftly on, commenterPeter4321has a question: "Who killed JFK?"Great question, Peter! And after 13 minutes of searching, I have an answer. Of sorts. It's from the section on theWarren Commission, formally "President's Commission On The Assassination Of President John F Kennedy":The commission reported that the bullets that had killed President Kennedy were fired by Lee Harvey Oswald from a rifle pointed out of a sixth-floor window of the Texas School Book Depository ... This conclusion of the commission was later questioned in a number of books and articles and in a special ciongressional committee report in 1979.So there. Hope that helps. If you want more info, have a look at page 501 of the 12th volume ("Trudeau - Zywiec") of the fifteenth edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, published in 1989.Block 611.58am:MaxtonWalkerasks:Did Queen Victoria ever play bass for Led Zeppelin? It said she did on her Wikipedia entry last time I looked.... whileQuetzalcoatlUkwants to know:In Charles Dickens' novel Bleak House is the slum Tom-All-Alone's completely fictional or was it an actual area of London, or perhaps based on a real area or areas of the metropolis?And thenSamJordisonwas wondering:Could you list the complete works of Charles Dickens in a handy cut and paste format for me?I'm on it, guys, I'm on it. Bear with me.Block 712.00pm:By the way,@Jet_Lau, it's taking too long to count all the pages, but so far I've got through at least 11048. Hope that helps.Block 812.13pm:If you're wondering why this is all taking so long, it's because this research lark is a nightmare. There are no hyperlinks, no searchboxes - and what the devil's an "index"? Bloody unhelpful, that's what.Moving all those encyclopaedias was a complete fiasco, by the way. They each weigh about five kilos. I had to stack them skyscraper-style on my chair, wheel the chair to the lift, and then when the lift got to the second floor, they all fell over and blocked the corridor. What a rumpus.Wikipedia (and all journalists who starting work pre-2000): I salute you.Block 912.21pm:Right,SamJordison, here are the complete works of Charles Dickens, who is "generally regarded as the greatest English novelist", apparently. (Er - Martin Amis, anyone?)Anyway, so: The Pickwick Papers (1837); Oliver Twist (1838); Nicholas Nickleby (1839); The Old Curiosity Shop (1841); Barnaby Rudge (also 1841 - prolific!); "two novels published in a 'clock framework', later abandoned, under the title of Master Humphrey's Clock" (whatevs!); Martin Chuzzlewit (1844); Dombey and Son (1848); David Copperfield (1850); Bleak House (1853); Hard Times (1854); Little Dorrit (1857); A Tale of Two Cities (1859); Great Expectations (1861); Our Mutual Friend (1865); The Mystery of Edwin Drood (1870, unfinished).And then there are the Christmas stories: A Christmas Carol (1843); The Chimes (1845, for 1844 [?!]); The Cricket on the Hearth (1846, for 1845);  The Battle of Life (1846); The Haunted Man (1848).Does that help, Sam?The rest of you, I'll be right back!Block 1012.39pm:Phew. That was painful to look up. This whole thing is painful. First, you have to sift through this "index" thing (all two books of it), and if you're unlucky it'll give you about 17 different references to read, all in different volumes. Most often, the most relevant reference will be the last I try, and usually it'll take me about a week to find the volume it's in.I think I need a shower.Block 1112.43pm:I'm sure you've noticed, but we've updated the picture above, to illustrate my research pain.Block 1212.50pm:My colleague Rob Booth has just popped by to note that by refreshing a Wikipedia page five whole times, he managed to find out the population of Cheshire town, Hartford. It's 5,500.So 90s.Block 1312.56pm:A big thank you tobatcow, who has very kindly answeredLushattic's question about why Parmesan cheese smells of sick."It's Butyric Acid," says batcow, which is apparently in both parmesan cheese and sick.Cheers batcow. Forget Britannica, I'll just get you guys to help.Block 1412.59pm:Just to clarify: commenterbatcowis not found in both parmesan cheese and sick, but butyric acidis. Sorry for the confusion.Block 151.01pm:MaxtonWalkerwas asking earlier about whether Queen Victoria ever played bass for Led Zeppelin. Unfortunately, Britannica's a bit equivocal about this. There's no rock reference in Vic's bio, and no entry at all for Led Zeppelin, so I can't confirm or deny anything as yet. I'll have a look at the Biographical Dictionary upstairs in a minute.Block 161.12pm:I've just been to the library again to researchQuetzalcoatlUK'squestion about whether the slum Tom-All-Alone (featured in Dickens' Bleak House) was based on a real area of London.Interesting place, the library. Quite quiet. No search terms, unlike Wikipedia, and everything is arranged alphabetically. Weird.More significantly, Quetzalcoatl, I'm afraid it contained little literary criticism, so I can't shed any light on Tom-All-Alone.Can anyone else give Quetzalcoatl a hand? Cheers.Block 171.18pm:By the way, over on Comment is Free, there's now a pollasking whether you miss Wikipedia or not. I have voted "yes".Block 181.21pm:And just to recap,here's a great animationexplaining what Wikipedia are protesting about.Block 191.25pm:Interesting question earlier fromChannel Four Food. They asked: "how do you boil an egg?"I'm probably the wrong person to ask, but I usually just boil the water in a saucepan, then plop the egg in for roughly three minutes forty five seconds, and then dig it out with a ladle.Block 201.38pm:I can never find the right volume.Block 211.38pm:This is crazy. Apparently Nelson Mandela is still in jail? That's what the book says, anyway.Block 221.46pm:Right. Just off for five minutes to grab a sandwich, so I'll leave you with a few quickfire answers. Check for accuracy.jonesthescribe: "What was the population of the USSR as your copy of the Encyclopaedia Britannica went to press?"Answer: 285,796,000.Cryogenic: "When was the dawning of the Age of Aquarius?"Answer: 1997.kaff: "How will I be able to do my homework???"Answer: With difficulty. With an immense amount of difficulty.AprilMiles: "Who would win in a fight; tiger or crocodile?"Answer: Crocodile.Josifer: "Why don't you pass the time by playing solitaire?"Answer: It's not on my computer.Block 231.56pm:I'm back. And I've just had it confirmed that printed encyclopaedias have no cut-and-paste facility. Bizarre.Block 242.01pm:Currently investigating which medical student's diary contained the earliest known instructions for playing golf, following a question from commenterPaxGrass.I think the answer's in volume 5. Thing is, I have no idea where that is.Block 252.05pm:Oh I give up. Can't find volume 5. Sorry PaxGrass. And sorry to anyone else who wants info relating to things beginning with "G", pre- or post-1989.But, PaxGrass, as a consolation I've looked up something else you were after: the 39 steps. I can non-exclusively reveal that they are a flight of, er, 39 steps that descend a cliff in Kent, and were featured in John Buchan's adventure novel of the same name, which was later adapted into an eponymous film by Alfred Hitchcock.Block 262.17pm:My colleague Joanna Gearywanted to knowwhich British newspaper had the biggest circulation in 1989, and what that circulation was.Britannica is not too forthcoming on that score, I'm afraid, but it did impart the following:Despite earlier fears of possible damage from competition by radio and, later, television, many newspapers have proved to be still attractive to consumers and hence profitable. Newspapers have, for instance, retained their importance as vehicles for advertising.Good to know!Block 272.32pm:A charming request from commenterSharonodea:My favourite Wikipedia article is Minor Characters In Father Ted. Reading a list of all the priests ever to feature in the show, and what they did, never fails to lift my spirits when I'm feeling down. Can your Encyclopedia Britannica offer me anything similarly cheering?Very happy to help, Sharonodea. How about something from Probability Theory, which starts on page 132 of volume 26:It will occur that a knowledge of the coefficients "wK" can be made tantamount to a knowledge of the square of the absolute value of the wave function - i.e., the solution of the central equation of quantum mechanics. Thus it may be expected that some analytic structure of the quantum-mechanical wave function is essential to obtain the successive state values of a classical mechanical system.Lovely.Block 282.35pm:My colleagueJames Ballinforms me that I've mixed up two different Britannica collections: Ready Reference, and Knowledge in Depth.Profound apologies in advance to the librarians, if that's the case. I know not what I do.Block 292.47pm:Just to recap, in case you're only joining me now (slowcoaches!): I am Wikipedia. Or should I say, Guardipedia.The online reference library is down today,in protest at proposed US anti-piracy legislation, and so, as a replacement resource to all stricken students and journalists, I am answering as many factual questions as I can.As I was saying earlier, a senior colleague has informed me of something called the Encyclopaedia Britannica, which seems to be some sort of paper book (woah!) containing all sorts of facts.The only problem is that it was published in 1989, and doesn't seem to contain anything in the way of recent information.So, if you've any pre-89 voids in your factual repetoire, let me know, and I'll do my best.Block 302.54pm:Currently working on a request from commenterCharliemij, who asks:what are the three different ways in which a green sea turtle breath? And does it apply to all turtle species, or just Chelonia mydas?Will be right back.Block 312.57pm:By the by, great spot fromPaxGrassin the comments, who notes that Wikipedia have exempted theirSOPAandPIPApages from the blackout. SOPA and PIPA are the US anti-piracy acts Wikipedia is protesting about.Block 323.13pm:Blimey,Charliemij- that was a tough one. Britannica seems to suggest that turtles can breathe through both their lungs, and their bottoms - AND through tissues at the back of their throat. Am I right? From the wording of your question, you sound like someone who knows their turtles.Block 333.19pm:Bbanoasks about Maria Moliner, who is:the amazing woman who wrote a whole 2 volumes of the first and definitive dictionary of Spanish usage in her living room over 15 years using library cards, a board balanced on two chairs to organise it and a portable typewriter, while working full time and having a family.Bbano, I'm afraid you know considerably more about Maria than Britannica does. Apologies.Block 343.24pm:Pertinent question fromllamala: how tall is a mountain? "I think it's 300m but a mate has said it's 3000ft. Which is correct?"You are, llamala. A mountain is a landmass taller than 1000ft, or just over 300m.Block 353.33pm:Bit of a stinker fromlamid, who asks:What are the names of the four stomachs of a cow?An easy one, you might think, but Britannica rejects the terms of the question. Viz:Actually, the first three of these chambers (rumen, reticulum, and omasum) are thought to be derived from the esophagus ... Slowly the products of microbial action, and some of the microbes themselves move into the cow's true stomach and intestine ...And frustratingly, the name of this "true stomach" isn't mentioned. Soz.Block 363.53pm:Right. Shoot me, but I've got to go. I know this has been a huge resource to you all, and I've certainly learnt a lot (namely: what an index is, what the 90s was like, and something about cows) - but, like all good things, Guardipedia must sadly come to an end.If you still need facts, I suggest you wait until tomorrow, whena certain websitereturns. In the meantime, sate your quest for knowledge withthis great animationabout anti-piracy laws, and tune into our US liveblog, for full updates on theGreat Internet Blackout.Lastly, massive thanks to my colleagueHannah Waldram, who has been playing a blinder below the line.
This year's presidential election in the US is already spawning some interesting mobile apps. We've covered theNYTimes Election 2012 appfrom the New York Times, but The Economist has its own app available:Electionism.It's a different beast from the NYTimes native iPhone app. Electionism is aimed at tablets, and is a free HTML5 web-app accessed via the browsers of Apple's iPad, Amazon's Kindle Fire and Samsung's Galaxy Tab, with other devices to follow.The Economist worked with Canadian technology firm Pressly on the app, although the project was run by The Economist Group Media Lab, an internal team within the publisher."It's not that we're down on native apps," says Ron Diorio, vice president of business development and innovation for The Economist Online."I produced our The World in 2012 iPad app, and we're just finishing off The World in Figures iPad app too. Electionism is just another opportunity for us to explore what we're seeing in our data both internally and externally: that browser use on tablets is pretty high."In other words, Electionism is more about exploring the potential (and current limits) of HTML5 publishing for tablets, rather than any dogmatic positioning in the native-vs-HTML5 debate."Instead of saying what's going to win or what's not going to win, we should all be focusing on the reader being the winner," he says."If we can produce something that 98% of people can access – and I'm aware there are a lot of combinations of software and tablet we haven't got to yet – if we can make it open, the better we can be."The app will serve up content from The Economist and its sister intelligence service CQ Roll Call, while the company's journalists will also share their favourite links from other sites in a Noted Elsewhere section.Tweets from political candidates, commentators, publishers and other experts will also be aggregated. More content modules will be added to Electionism in the coming months."This is an experimental place for the group itself, aggregating the content from CQ Roll Call and The Economist, mixed with Twitter feeds and some custom curation," says Diorio. "It's a great platform to test things out that we might not be able to do in our more traditional brands."Diorio accepts that by going down the HTML5 route, Electionism can't benefit from the "huge audience" frequenting the various app stores for iOS, Android and other platforms. However, he suggests that Electionism may yet become a native app, if there is sufficient demand.Electionism isn't a subscription-based service like theFinancial Times' HTML5 offering. Diorio says The Economist's sales team is "optimistic" about the role advertisers will play, with potential to take on sponsors for specific sections of the app, or to sign up regional sponsors for the whole thing. Different ad formats will also be explored."What we have here is the opportunity to be flexible," he says. "There's nothing to say we couldn't run full-page interstitials similar to what you see in app-magazine experiences. We have the best of both worlds, so the commercial people will – given the opportunity and some data about usage – push that forward."Electionism is an interesting first shot from the group's Media Lab team, which Diorio says is being funded partly by The Economist's North American operation, and partly by The Economist Online.The aim: to rapidly prototype new ideas, based on taking a step back to think about changing opportunities for digital publishing over the next 12-18 months, rather than just in the short-term. The team is part of wider efforts across The Economist Group to grapple with these issues."There are 1,000 flowers blooming, but my role is to take that process that's been encouraged for rapid prototyping, and tie that into a large group of entrepreneurial startups here in New York," says Diorio."I'm constantly meeting new companies, presenting our problems to them and trying to understand what we can do together. Pressly is one of 6-7 relationships we have established, and the Group has been very supportive in making this happen."
The London-based lawyer at the centre of a long-running row over internet piracy has been suspended for two years and ordered to pay £76,000 in costs.Andrew Crossley, the sole solicitor behind now-defunct law firm ACS:Law, admitted six charges against him at a Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal hearing on Monday.ACS:Law sent tens of thousands of letters on behalf of clients demanding £500 "settlement" payments from people it accused of illicitly downloading music and adult material. Many of the accused denied the accusations and ACS:Law wascriticised by a patents county court judgefor bringing "the legal profession into disrepute" and failing to provide "documents which plainly should have been provided [as evidence before the court]".The law firm's controversial practices were made public in late 2010 afterits website was targeted by computer hackersand private details of thousands of internet users were leaked online. ACS:Law eventuallyshut downin February last year.Crossley on Monday admitted charges including using his position as a solicitor to attempt to take advantage of others and of acting where there was a conflict of interest in pursuing the claims.He denied a seventh claim of failing to put in place safeguards to prevent the data loss that came in the aftermath of the website attack, but the tribunal ruled that he had taken inadequate steps to prevent such an intrusion.The Solicitors Regulation Authority dropped a charge that Crossley had provided false information in statements made to the courts.David Potts, head of business litigation at Ralli, the law firm that represented some of those accused by Crossley, said the ruling would be welcomed by innocent recipients of ACS:Law letters."This is undoubtedly a good day for consumers, in particular those who may have been inappropriately sued by Mr Crossley's clients, whose position has now been vindicated not only by the patents county court but also by the decision of the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal," Potts told the Guardian.James Bench, spokesman for a consumer group that represented others who claimed to have been falsely accused, also welcomed the ruling, but said: "It is a disappointing indictment on the legal regulatory system that it has taken almost three years to finally draw this matter to a close."
What is the capital of Niger? The number of Michelin-starred restaurants in Paris? The average length of a giraffe's neck?If you wake up this morning with a pressing need for an answer to any of these questions, or more, fear not: even if Wikipedia is blacked out, and you haven't got an Encyclopedia Britannica to hand, you should still be able to find what you're looking for.First things first: Wikipedia has made clear that its English content isstill available on mobile devices and smartphones, so if you have either of those, you're sorted.The site also says that to make sure English Wikipedia is "accessible in some way during an emergency", users can disable JavaScript in their browser to avoid the protest message and go directly to the page as usual.If that sounds like hard work, you could try searching for a page in Wikipedia and pressing refresh when the blacked-out message comes up. Before the site has the chance to flash it up again, click the red button with a cross on it.Or you could scroll down to near the bottom ofthis Storify from Andrew Lih, author of The Wikipedia Revolution. Under the heading Coping with the Blackout, he gives a step-by-step guide to accessing Wikipedia in English:"1. In a web browser, bringing up the Google search engine results page (Serp) for the desired topic2. Mouse over the righthand side of the result, which should bring up arrows and a preview of the page.3. At the top, click on "Cached" and you will retrieve a copy of the page from Google's servers."Lih adds what he calls a "disclosure": "Providing these hints of workarounds should not be interpreted as a stance for or against the blackout effort." He also links to an article in the Washington Post that advises users desperate for knowledge to eitherlook for other online sources, visit a library or - as a last resort - "call your grandpa".If you don't mind a little wait, you could also utilisethe newly born Guardipedia,orpost a question on Twitterwith the hashtag #altwiki in the hope that a journalist from the Guardian, the Washington Post or National Public Radio will answer your query.
A selection of 20 apps for you today:HMV Listening PostBritish retailer HMV wants people to buy more CDs. Hence this app, which gets you to scan a CD cover (or just text-search for an album), then tap on a "Buy CD" button to buy it from the company's mobile web store. There's no option to buy digital, and no link to the cloud service of 7digital, the company HMV part-owns.iPhoneNoteStarYamaha has a new sheet music app for iPad which scrolls the notation while letting you slow it down, zoom in on notes and isolate individual keyboard tracks. There's an in-app store to sell the sheet music and backing tracks, with artists covered including Adele, Lady Gaga and The Beatles.iPadNando'sRestaurant chain Nando's has launched apps for iPhone and Android. It offers directions to outlets, incorporates Facebook check-ins, and uses the social network's Events features to help friends plan meals. A forthcoming update will add the company's menu.Android / iPhoneAirbnbAirbnb helps people find interesting accommodation when travelling, from castles and villas through to bunking in someone's back room. It's had an iPhone app for a while, but is now available on Android too.AndroidMetamenus for The ExpendablesWhat for the what? This is an official second-screen companion app for action flick The Expendables, with an intro from Sly Stallone, on-screen menus to control the Blu-ray disc, and notes, actor info and other content to complement the film.iPhoneRed Hot Chili PeppersWhat they got, you got to get it on your smartphone. Possibly. The socktastic rock band get their own app, courtesy of Mobile Roadie.Android / iPhoneCall of Duty EliteWe wrote about Activision's companion app for the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 game when it launched on iPhone. Now it's available for Android too, helping keen players fine-tune their strategies on the go.AndroidLittle EmpireBuzzy Android game of the week is Little Empire, which claims to be the "world's first location based services mobile MMO game in 3D". That means a combination of tower defence and real-time strategy, with the player's location subtly worked into the gameplay.AndroidFrederic – Resurrection of Music CompleteA musical battle game starring... Frederich Chopin? That's the idea here, complete with nine remixes of his famous classical compositions, multiplayer features, and the chance to win jewellery made to celebrate Chopin's 200th birthday.iPhone / iPadBest of BritainSamsung and Visit Britain have teamed up for a tourism guide app for the UK, to celebrate the upcoming Olympic Games. And in a suitable spirit of inclusivity, the app is available for... Oh, only Samsung devices.AndroidMoodagentMusic player Moodagent has been ported to Windows Phone, promising to create playlists based on your current mood. That involves setting sliders to tell it how you're feeling, or choosing a suitable track from your library and letting it generate a playlist of similar songs.Windows PhoneMediaPilotiPad app MediaPilot hooks into a DLNA/UPnP home network to access music, videos and photos – either on the device or on a compatible big-screen TV.iPadFacebook Cover DesignerGot your spiffing new Facebook Timeline? This app wants to make your cover picture – the big image at the top – look good. It offers Instagram-style filters to create an image, and then upload it to Facebook from the app.iPhoneCaverns of MinosLegendary British games developer Jeff Minter has released his latest iOS game, Caverns of Minos. It's a retro shoot 'em up that also works with the iCade gaming peripheral.iPhone / iPadDungeon RaidThe iPhone version of Dungeon Raid was a fearsomely addictive RPG-puzzler. Now it's made the leap to Android, as you trace paths of items on a grid and level up your character. Puzzle Quest meets Bejeweled, a bit. Excellent.AndroidFrintrFrintr turns iPhone photos into photo mosaics, and also pulls in photos of your Facebook friends to achieve the same effect. It's based on the website of the same name, and there's a separate HD version for iPad.iPhone / iPadArtist GrowthIn a band? Artist Growth is an app that wants to help you manage your finances, merch inventory, upcoming gig calendar and other daily business tasks.iPhoneAccenture myExpensesAccenture staff who want to capture and record their expenses while out and about on business? There's an Android app for them. An example of the kind of B2B apps that are becoming an increasingly important part of the apps industry, even if they often fly under the radar.AndroidTinydesk for WordpressPower WordPress bloggers may be interested in this slick-looking iPhone app, which helps compose and edit posts on the move. It works with blogs hosted on WordPress.com, as well as self-hosted sites.iPhoneMcDonald's Morning AppThe Irish division of the fast-food chain has launched an iPhone app. It includes an alarm clock feature, streaming Irish radio stations, and digital vouchers to get cheap breakfasts.iPhone
Wikipedia has taken its English-language content offline as part of a "day of darkness" in protest at US anti-piracy laws that it says could "fatally damage the free and open internet" and "severely limit people's access to online information".As of 5am on Wednesday, anyone trying to access the online encyclopediawill have been greeted with a blackened screenand a message exhorting them to "imagine a world without free knowledge"."For over a decade, we have spent millions of hours building the largest encyclopedia in human history," reads the message, adding that the website will still be available on smartphones and mobile devices. "Right now, the US Congress is considering legislation that could fatally damage the free and open internet.For 24 hours, to raise awareness, we are blacking out Wikipedia."The legislation that has prompted Wikipedia -along with other sitessuch as the blogBoing Boingand user-generated news site Reddit,which will go down at 8am EST– to take such drastic action is the House of Representatives bill to stop online piracy - known as Sopa - and its Senate equivalent, the protect intellectual property act known as Pipa.The bills, which have been hailed by the media, film and music industries as a big step towards helping the fight against piracy, have been denounced by Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia, as "destructive legislation" that would "set a frightening precedent of internet censorship".The message on the blacked-out Wikipedia site continues: "Wikipedians have chosen to black out the English Wikipedia for the first time ever, because we are concerned that Sopa and Pipa will severely inhibit people's access to online information. This is not a problem that will solely affect people in the United States: it will affect everyone around the world."Boing Boing is even more direct, warning  the proposed legislation "would certainly kill us forever". Google, which is functioning as usual, carries a message reading "please don't censor the web!" and links to a site warning the bills will do just that, as well as "impose harmful regulations on American business".Sopa and Pipa propose that anyone found guilty of streaming copyrighted content without permission 10 or more times within six months should go to jail. Any site accused of "enabling or facilitating piracy" could be shut down. The bills have many heavyweight supporters in the entertainment industries, which has characterised the issue as a battle between Hollywood and Silicon Valley. Among the backers is Rupert Murdoch, who has lambasted the White House for indicating it would not support the most extreme elements of Sopa and, on Tuesday tweeted: "Don't care about people not buying movies, programs or newspapers, just stealing them."On its site, Wikipedia says the bills will not be effective tools for fighting copyright infringement."They put the burden on website owners to police user-contributed material and call for the unnecessary blocking of entire sites. Small sites won't have sufficient resources to defend themselves. Big media companies may seek to cut off funding sources for their foreign competitors, even if copyright isn't being infringed.'Foreign sites will be blacklisted, which means they won't show up in major search engines. And, Sopa and Pipa build a framework for future restrictions and suppression."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung says not interested in buying RIM | ReutersAnd Boy Genius Report goes back to the drawing board.Sources: Four More Board Members Will Be Following Yang Out the Door &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThe week of the long knives at Yahoo:Sources said four other directors will also step down soon. As I wrote last week, in a post suggesting Yang might also go, the prime candidates to go appear to be: Chairman Roy Bostock, Arthur Kern, Vyomesh Joshi, and Gary Wilson.Don't censor the web &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogTop Google lawyer David Drummond:Fighting online piracy is extremely important. We are investing a lot of time and money in that fight. Last year alone we acted on copyright takedown notices for more than 5 million webpages and invested more than $60 million in the fight against ads appearing on bad sites. And we think there is more that can be done here--like targeted and focused steps to cut off the money supply to foreign pirate sites. If you cut off the money flow, you cut the incentive to steal.Hitler Hears About Google Search Plus Your World - YouTube"When I search for Katy Perry I want her Facebook page and her tweets, not her empty Google+ page." Yes, Downfall is back.HP Pavilion Elite m9600 Desktop PC series -  Limited Warranty Service Enhancement Program for HP Pavilion Elite Desktop Model Numbers e9150t, e9180f, e9180t, m9600t, m9650f, e9280f, e9280t, and e9290f - c03087285 &gt;&gt; HP Business Support CenterA US court-ordered mandate to repair defective models. Not clear whether this applies to the UK. (You may already know the answer.) Worth hassling HP if your model and serial are on the list.Why are Android smartphones bigger than the iPhone? &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball"If I'm right [that it's because chipsets and batteries for LTE need to be bigger], we will start seeing smaller LTE Android handset sets a year or so from now, and the tech press will collectively forget the 'bigger is inherently better' mindset that pervades phone reviews today."Noted.FOSS Patents: Oracle says each day's worth of Android activations generates $10 million in annual revenues for Google -- and strengthens Google+"Oracle's pleading also contains a very interesting portrayal of Google's Android-related business model and the economic value Android represents to Google, which is pertinent to Oracle's argument that its infringement lawsuit must be adjudicated at the earliest opportunity."Oracle is liberally taking Google at its word to generate the worst possible case for damages against it. Wonder if Google will try to play down the value of Android when this comes to trial?Troubling Google Contractor Allegedly Caught Vandalizing Open Street Map (Updated)"The official blog of Open Street Map reports tonight that someone at a range of Google IP addresses in India has been editing the collaboratively made map of the world in some very unhelpful ways, like moving and deleting information and reversing the direction of one-way streets on the map."Google sent the following statement to ReadWriteWeb on Tuesday morning. 'The two people who made these changes were contractors acting on their own behalf while on the Google network. They are no longer working on Google projects.'"Google's Augean department has been busy again, it seems. What part of "don't be evil" is so hard to understand, whether for staff or a contractor?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Guardian Technology editor  Charles Arthur takes us through some interesting trends from CES 2012 – 3D printing, ultrabooks and smart TV. Plus Aleks is joined by Matt Brian from The Next Web and Guardian developer Dan Catt to discuss this week's news – which includes Michael Gove's plans to revamp IT education in UK schools, Google's trouble with Kenya's business directory Mocality, and the latest on the US's proposed SOPA and PIPA legislation.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Email the producertechweekly@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Mid-week already! Let's talk games.
The end of an internet era has come with the resignation of Jerry Yang, the 43-year-old co-founder of Yahoo, from his position on the company's board after 16 years.Yang's reign as chief executive, between June 2007 and January 2009, included the disastrous decision – from Yahoo shareholders' point of view – to reject a $44.6bn (£29.1bn)takeover offer from Microsoft in February 2008, which priced the company at a 50% premium on its share price at the time.Yang's rejection was based on internal forecasts that suggested that Yahoo would grow to become worth far more than Steve Ballmer's offer — which turned out to be completely wrong, a fact that was exposed by the credit crunch and the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008, followed by a downturn that has exposed Yahoo to increasing pressure from competitors such as Facebook and Twitter.Announcing Yang's resignation — which had been expected after theappointment of ex-PayPal president Scott Thompsonto the chief executive's chair on 4 January —Roy Bostock, the chairman of Yahoo's board, said: "It has been a pleasure to work with Jerry. His unique strategic insights have been invaluable. He has always remained focused on the best interests of Yahoo!'s stakeholders, including shareholders, employees and more than 700 million users. And while I and the entire Board respect his decision, we will miss his remarkable perspective, vision and wise counsel."The role of Bostock, who chaired the board through the Microsoft bid and has been on it since 2003, is also under threat as Thompson tries to wield his new power and shake up the organisation as it struggles to build its revenues and profits. Analysts expect his departure in the near future.Yahoo's revenues peaked in the fourth quarter of 2007, before Facebook rose to dominate the social web, and the appointment of Carol Bartz as its straight-talking chief executive – following the ousting of Yang by corporate raider Carl Icahn, who bought a huge tranche of Yahoo stock soon after the bid was announced, and then launched a proxy battle with the board.The was no indication of where Yang will go.According to SEC filings, he still owns about 47m Yahoo shares, which at today's stock price of $15.43 would be worth roughly $725m.Rick Summer, an analyst at the brokers Morningstar, commented: "We have been relatively pessimistic on the likelihood of any sort of major divestiture creating a great deal of upside for investors. Jerry Yang was certainly an impediment toward anything happening."This is a company that's been mired by a bunch of competing interests going in different directions. It was never clear what this board's direction has been. We can certainly look back to several years ago, when they were not able to get a successful exit or sale to Microsoft. We obviously know that was not a particularly prudent move. Still, however, here we are."Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli &amp; Co, said: "This is clearly a positive. Yang has been viewed as a roadblock to a deal or even a restructuring. Hopefully it leads to new blood on the board. It provides a more objective and unemotional approach to strategic alternatives."It's also good for the new CEO. He has one less entrenched legacy board member to resist his vision."Yahoo is being encouraged to divest itself of its holding in the Chinese business-to-business company Alibaba, to bolster its cash reserves while freeing it from a complex cross-shareholding.The company has also lost ground in the broader web marketplace. Microsoft's Bing search engine, which powers Yahoo's search in an ad-sharing deal, has crept ahead of Yahoo search in absolute share in the US in the past month, suggesting that Yahoo is seeing fewer users.
One of the finest iPhone games of 2011 is coming to Xbox Live Arcade this month, finally arriving on the platform it was originally designed for. The ridiculously clever word gameQuarrelbegan as a downloadable Xbox title back in 2009, but Scottish developerDenkiwas unable to secure publisher support for the project and last spring had to make most of its staff redundant.However, after a critically acclaimed debut on iOS devices in August, the game has now earned an Xbox release courtesy of publisher, UTV Ignition Games. "To be frank, Quarrel seeing the light of day at all last year on iOS was the single best achievement to unlock," says lead designer, Gary Penn. "But that's not to take anything away from the 'original' version being released at last – that definitely feels like a full closure of sorts and a blessed relief."Described as a fiendish cross between Risk and Scrabble (with elements of TV show Countdown chucked in), Quarrel tasks players with defeating a group of AI opponents in a series of word creation face-offs. Victory, gains the winner of each bout new territory on the game map, but spreading your forces to thinly means you have less letters at your disposal in forthcoming word fights. In November, the title was awarded a Scottish Bafta for best video game.According to Penn, the new Xbox version will boast four-player online and local multiplayer options with avatar support, as well a brand new set of features and game modes: "Showdown is a series of head-to-head matches with each character and some new board variations," he explains, "while Challenge presents you with a set of special 'missions' focusing on specific Quarrel qualities, such as trailblazing. Plus, artificial players are more human and entertaining than ever."The Xbox version of Quarrel will launch on 25 January for 400 Microsoft Points. The first essential XBLA purchase of the year? We think so.
As thousands of websites, including the English version of Wikipedia, prepare to "go dark" Wednesday in protest against internet censorship, a new explanation is emerging for the would-be censors' acts: they simply don't understand how the internet works. The evidence suggests otherwise.Search on the these terms –"don't understand" Sopa Congress– and you'll find a lots of blogposts and news stories making this point. Sopa, of course, stands for the Stop Online Piracy Act, which may or may not be stalled at the moment.Change "don't" to "doesn't' and "Congress" to "Rupert Murdoch" in that search and you'll find a bunch of new ones stemming from Murdoch's spate of Tweets over the weekend, in whichhe denounced Sopa opponents and took special aimat his longstanding object of loathing, Google. Two of the resulting "he doesn't understand" pieces came from people whose work I greatly respect: seethis post at the Guardian by Jeff Jarvis, andthis one by Mathew Ingram at the GigaOm technology blog.I beg to differ. What we're seeing does not derive from any misunderstanding. Rather, I'm convinced, this concerted push to censor the internet, through measures that would fundamentally break it, stems from a very clear understanding of what's at stake. Indeed, legislation like Sopa, or its US Senate companion, the Protect IP Act (Pipa) – and a host of activities around the world – share a common goal. These "fixes" are designed to wrest control of these tools from the masses and recentralize what has promised to be the most open means of communication and collaboration ever invented.Sopa is now, apparently, on hold in the Congress. But no one believes the copyright cartel and its allies will give up on their goals. And that is whya host of websites – including Wikipedia – will go darkon 18 January, to bring even more public notice to this trend.Now, it's fair to say that some individual members of Congress have demonstrated, via their public statements, a lack of attention to the technical details of how the net works. I assure you, however, that the staff members who have taken dictation from Hollywood and its allies know precisely what their measures would achieve, if enacted. And I assure you that Rupert Murdoch and his top staff are fully cognizant of the realities they fear and loathe.So, why do they make unsupportable statements?Because they don't dare make an honest argument. If they were saying what they believe, it would go roughly this way:"The internet threatens our longstanding control of information and communications, and that is simply unacceptable. Therefore, it is essential to curb the utility of the internet for everyone else."Some Sopa opponents have their own semi-blind spot. We are sometimes reluctant to acknowledge that, despite the copyright industry's blatantly bogus claims about losses from infringement, there are at least some losses. But copyright holders have always suffered some losses to infringement. They, and society, lived with the trade-off. Information could spread more widely, with great benefits to all, despite some losses.The people who want to protect "intellectual property" from all infringement have set up a binary choice. They tell us that if we do not agree to their absolute control, we are endorsing stealing. This is another lie, though it's been an effective one until recently – when people began to realize what was at stake.In fact, if the issue is binary, it can be framed as a choice between no freedom of speech and freedom of speech. After all, the logical extension of absolute control is a permission-based information economy, in which we need permission to quote anyone else. And since all journalism and entertainment is built upon borrowing from other creators, nothing new could be legally created without permission.It can also be framed as needing permission to innovate – one of the clear effects of Sopa and other such bills. Because they would give Hollywood and other IP owners easy ways to shut down new ideas simply based on allegations, investors would stop funding most things that didn't have prior assent from the various existing cartels. This is not speculation: major technology investors have said precisely this.Two of my own websites will go dark Wednesday. Both, as well as my books, are published under Creative Commons licenses that permit free copying and distribution of my work for non-commercial uses. My first book has been available as a free download since 2004, when it was first published. Last week, I received the latest in a steady series of royalty checks from the publisher. This is not counter-intuitive. It is the reality of the world we now inhabit.The lawmakers and Murdochs and Hollywood types and others who are trying to lock down this emerging ecosystem are fully aware of how things work. They have what they consider good reasons for their efforts. But if they succeed, they will destroy most of what I and many others have been working toward. They will create an information monocolture where regimes work with corporations to control more than what we can read, hear and watch, because they will control how we can speak beyond the room we're in at the moment.The stakes are that high. I wish they didn't understand what they're doing, but they are too smart to know otherwise.
Former senator Chris Dodd, the chairman and CEO of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), has slammed plans by prominent websites such as Wikipedia and Reddit to protest against proposed anti-piracy legislation, calling a planned blackout day a "gimmick".Internet entrepreneurs – including Craigslist founder Craig Newmark, Alexis Ohanian, the co-founder of news sharing site Reddit, and Brad Burnham, whose Union Square Ventures has backed firms including Twitter and Foursquare – held a press conference in Washington earlier in the day as the tech community fights to put a halt to Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) and Protect IP act (Pipa), two anti-piracy bills being scrutinised in Washington.The proposed legislation has raised concerns in the tech community that Hollywood and other established media entities are using the piracy issue to stifle online innovation.To protest the legislation several of these sites have vowed to go offline for the day."The American dream is still alive and kicking," said Reddit's Ohanian. "There is no other industry in the world where you can take an investment that's less than the cost of a Ford Focus, give it to some college students and create a $1bn business."But Dodd countered that protesting against the legislation by taking websites offline was "irresponsible" and a "disservice"."A so-called 'blackout' is yet another gimmick, albeit a dangerous one, designed to punish elected and administration officials who are working diligently to protect American jobs from foreign criminals," Doddwrote in a statement. "It is our hope that the White House and Congress will call on those who intend to stage this 'blackout' to stop the hyperbole and PR stunts and engage in meaningful efforts to combat piracy."But leaders of the internet community warned that Sopa and Pipa threatened to stop innovation by making it easier for media firms to litigate against start-up companies. Burnham said Google or Facebook would be able to survive. "Google has 200 lawyers on staff; they can fight these cases to a standstill," Ohanian said.But he warned that the new proposals would kill off less well-funded firms and put off investors like himself.Rebecca MacKinnon, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation and a founder of international blogging site Global Voices Online, told the meeting, sponsored by the Washington lobby group Progressive Change Campaign Committee: "We need to ensure that there is a balance. If you want to guarantee 100% accountability and zero infringement, you are going to live in North Korea."She said activist sites across the world often link to copyrighted material, and the bluntly written legislation could stop that exchange for information.The meeting came as Reddit, Wikipedia and other sites prepare to "go dark" by taking their sites offline on Wednesday in protest against the proposed bills now going through Washington."Had this legislation existed in 2005, Steve Huffman and I never could've started Reddit, so perhaps it's fitting that the community is playing such a vital role in combating it," said Ohania, who added that he would join protestors who intend to picket the offices of senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, who support Pipa."It will probably be the geekiest, most rational protest ever," Ohanian said.The Obama administration came out against key components of Sopa over the weekend, suggesting it was still open to some form of anti-piracy legislation.But speaking to the Guardian, Ohanian said: "We still have to defeat Pipa in the Senate and send the unequivocal message that we will not let lobbying dollars buy terrible legislation. Which brings me to the only good thing that's come from Pipa and Sopa: the response. We're seeing Americans rise up to take their government back through a leaderless, online-based movement."The meeting was also addressed bycongressman Darrell Issa, a Californian Republican who has campaigned against Sopa. Issa and senator Ron Wyden are proposing a Sopa alternative called the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act, or the Open Act. "We expect to have more co-signers in the House than Sopa," he said.He said the level of protest was compelling evidence that congress needed to slow down before passing any legislation. Pipa is expected to receive a vote on January 24.Despite the Obama administration's objections Lamar Smith, chairman of the judiciary committee overseeing the legislation and SOPA'a main sponsor, said he hoped to start working on the act again in February."I am committed to continuing to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to send a bipartisan bill to the White House that saves American jobs and protects intellectual property," he said.
Millions of students, fact hunters and general knowledge buffs are set to receive a shock on Wednesday when the digital encyclopaedia Wikipedia shuts down for 24 hours in protest at internet piracy laws being considered by US legislators.Jimmy Wales, the founder of the world's fifth most popular website, is instituting a global "day of darkness" for the English-language version of Wikipedia, which will see its 25 million daily users blocked until 5am on Thursday.Wales is calling for a "public uprising" against the stop online piracy act (Sopa) and protect IP act, two US bills which he has called "destructive legislation" that, if passed, would "endanger free speech and set a frightening precedent of internet censorship for the world".Others joining what has been dubbed "black Wednesday" include the user-generated content recommendation websiteReddit, technology news siteBoing Boing, and theCheezburger network of humorous sites.When web users visit Wikipedia on Wednesday morning they will not be able to access the 3.8m English articles it holds. Instead, they will see an open letter encouraging people to protest against the legislation. Wales issued a tongue-in-cheek warning to students to make sure to "do your homework early". "They may have to dust off their old Encyclopaedia Britannica," he said.The proposed legislation is the product of years of lobbying by the piracy-hit media, film and music industries and would make it easier for copyright holders and the US government to cut off access to websites accused of containing illegal films, music and TV programming.Opposing them are some of the most high profile of the new wave of digital companies that have grown rapidly over the past decade to challenge the traditional media, film and music industries, including Wikipedia and Google. The latter is not shutting down for the day, but will be highlighting the issue on its US home page.The issue has dragged media heavyweights into the fray, with Rupert Murdoch – whose News Corporation owns content producers including 20th Century Fox, the Hollywood studio behind blockbusters such as Avatar –taking to Twitter to attack president Barack Obamaafter the White House indicated that it wouldnot support the more draconian elements of Sopa."So Obama has thrown in his lot with Silicon Valley paymasters who threaten all software creators with piracy. Plain thievery," Murdoch wrote in a series of tweets, which also accused Google of facilitating&nbsp;piracy.Stephen Fry, a prolific tweeter and digital media evangelist, came out in support of Wikipedia , saying that he felt "ashamed" of the entertainment industry. "Good for Wikipedia,"he tweeted his 3.7 million followers. "Ashamed to work in an industry many of whose leaders have tried to push this revolting law through."Opponents of the bills argue they are too broad and could amount to Chinese-style censorship of free speech on the internet, stifle innovation and lead to the unfair closure of numerous websites.Most of Silicon Valley has rallied to protest against the US bills, with a letter expressing concern over the legislation signed by the founders of internet heavyweights including Twitter, YouTube, eBay, Yahoo, Flickr and Craigslist.Companies including Google, Facebook, Twitter and Zynga also took outa full-page ad, entitled "We stand together to protect innovation", which ran in newspapers including the New York Times.However, none of the global big hitters have opted so far to join Wikipedia's call for a "day of darkness".A Google spokesman said: "Like many businesses, entrepreneurs and web users, we oppose these bills because there are smart, targeted ways to shut down foreign rogue websites without asking American companies to censor the internet. So tomorrow we will be joining many other tech companies to highlight this issue on our US home page."Wikipedia's aggressive move appeared to be undermined by atweet from Dick Costolo, the chief executive of Twitter, who tweeted: "Closing a global business in reaction to single-issue national politics is foolish." However, Costolo clarified his position on Tuesday saying that his comments referred to Twitter not being willing to close down globally for a day, and that it was not a "value judgment" about Wikipedia's action.He also tweeted for people to"watch this space" about Twitter's own protest plans.Twitter general counsel Alex MacGillivray pointed out the company had backed the letter expressing concern over the proposed legislation.Wales said: "[Costolo] is not critical of Wikipedia at all on this, that is 100% false. He is 100% supportive, he has been badly misinterpreted. Twitter should stay up, it is helping the public organise the protest."Wales maintained that despite the receding threat of the Sopa bill becoming US law as it stands, it was still important that Wikipedia went through with its pledge to shut down."We are grateful of the comments from the White House, but the bills are still very much alive, particularly protect IP in the Senate," he said.Although the legislation is American, Wales said a vote held among the Wikipedia community had come down in favour of a global blackout – albeit not with an overwhelming majority: 591 voted for it and 479 were against.Wales said the case of Richard O'Dwyer, the British computing student who faces extradition to the US over running a pirate TV and film website, is proof online piracy legislation is a global issue."The community considered the option of a US-only blackout but decided in favour of global," Wales added. "The primary considerations are that, as you have seen in the UK with the recent extradition hearings for Richard O'Dwyer, the US law can have an impact on people everywhere."The UK is looking at its own measures to tackle piracy through the Digital Economy Act, with much-delayed plans to send out warning letters to serial offenders before they face having their internet connection cut off.A coalition of the big six Hollywood studios – Fox, Warner Bros, Paramount, Disney, Universal and Columbia –won a landmark high court rulinglast year to force UK internet service providers to block individual websites accused of promoting piracy.
As soon as I am in front of my computer in the morning, I have an urge to checkWikipediaregarding something I heard on the radio while I was still in bed. For a moment, I have to sit on my hands. Once the moment passes, I feel more confident. Even if I regularly use Wikipedia for research, this assignment is to write about not using it. Surely I won't need it for that.I'm aware that Wikipedia isgoing darkto protest against the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) – I got a press release – but I know little about the act itself. If only there were some short, well-sourced article about it online, one that came top when I Googled ...It's astonishing how reliant on Wikipedia I've become, both for work and as a way to waste time when I should be working. My browser history shows I've consulted it 34 times in the last seven days, on subjects as diverse asVincent Van Gogh,Blue Monday,flexicurityand Madonna.Over the past month I've looked up eschatology, dog meat consumption,The Killing(I wondered if the Danish title, Forbrydelsen, actually meant "The Killing"; it doesn't), rubric, geomagnetic reversal andLittle Mix.I treat the website as an extension of my brain: if I can get the information quickly enough, it's almost as if I knew it already. I've been known to read my phone under the table while answering my children's questions about the solar system with total authority. Today, I will have to say, "It's complicated", and leave the room.Questions are regularly raised about Wikipedia's reliability and bias, but it's a perfect starting point for any subject one knows nothing about, and I generally use it not so much to check facts as to cure a failure of imagination: one link leads to another, down trails of inquiry it would never occur to me to pursue otherwise. That can be the only reason I actually looked up "wrinkle" the other day.I'd love to be able to say it's made me more intelligent, but the knowledge I glean from Wikipedia stays with me, on average, for about a week. I dimly recall that eschatology is "the science of the last things", but three weeks after the fact I have no idea what vexillology is, or why I even cared. It's not in my dictionary.The real miracle of Wikipedia is that its user-friendliness corresponds exactly to the idleness of my curiosity. When any more effort is required to find something out, it usually turns out I didn't want to know that badly.
Electronic Arts has struck a deal with Katy Perry, singer of hits including I Kissed A Girl, to appear in its mega-selling franchise The Sims.Electronic Arts said that the "extensive and exclusive creative collaboration" would see the development of "multiple games" within the burgeoning Sims franchise that would feature "Katy Perry-themed in-game content and virtual goods".Perry, who recently split from her husband Russell Brand, will also appear in new global advertising and marketing campaigns for The Sims on TV, online and in stores that sell the titles.Steve Schnur, worldwide executive of music for EA, said that Perry has been a fan of the Sims for "several years" pointing out that she made a recording of her song Hot and Cold in a style called "Simlish" for the game The Sims 2. The song became the most popular music video of its kind."I always like to think of myself as a cartoon, and now I'm a Sim," said Perry.Perry will also work with The Sims Studio to create accessories, clothing, hairstyles, furniture and props for The Sims games "that truly celebrate the imagination that she brings to her performances, music videos and life".The collaboration will begin with the launch of a Katy Perry-themed collector's edition for The Sims 3 Showtime, which will launch in March.Sims 3 Showtime allows players to live out a "rags to riches" story with the Sim characters to become "singers, acrobats and magicians, or even moonlight as a DJ"."Today marks the start of the most integrated and exciting collaboration with any artist in the history of The Sims," said Schnur. "No performer could better represent the humour and fun of The Sims brand."
Max Payne fans will have to wait a little longer before reacquainting themselves with the tough New York Cop. Rockstar has announced that the third title in the series of gritty shooters will not be released in March as previously slated. The Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of the game are now due to hit shelves on 15 May in North America and 18 May internationally, with a PC version coming on 29 May in North America and 1 June elsewhere.The news will have a significant impact, not just on the game-buying plans of Max fanatics, but on parent company Take-Two's accounts for the year – it now expects to make a loss for fiscal 2012, with net revenues expected to fall by $210m to $230m. Take-Two chairman and CEO Strauss Zelnick commented, "We do not take changes to our release schedule lightly, and this short delay will ensure that Max Payne 3 delivers the highest quality, groundbreaking entertainment experience that is expected from our Company."This is nothing new for perennial perfectionist Rockstar, of course. The publisher's most recent titles, Red Dead Redemption and LA Noire, were both subject to long delays before release. Take-Two meanwhile, is attempting to put a positive spin on the news, with Zelnickstating, "Fiscal 2013 is poised to be one of our best years ever, with anticipated substantial revenue growth and Non-GAAP Net Income of over $2.00 per share. We are well positioned to deliver growth and profitability over the long term."Max Payne watchers have already had to wait almost a decade since the last instalment of the franchise. And expectations are high: the latest addition has featured on just about every 'most anticipated games of the year' list produced since Christmas. The game promises a dark, dramatic story, with Payne re-locating to São Paulo and starting a new life as a security contractor amid drug gangs, paramilitary squads and billionaire real estate moguls. You can check our previewhere.This is not the only high profile release to fall foul of slippy release dates recently. Last week, Ubisoft announced that its squad-based military shooter Ghost Recon: Future Soldier would be postponed from 31 March to 25 May.
Lots of publishers and startups are making apps for kids, but how big is the demand for them? Swedish studio Toca Boca appears to have found a healthy market. The company has just passed 5m downloads 10 months after launching its first app."We reached 4m in December and then 5m on 15 January, with December being by far the best month we've ever had," says chief executive Björn Jeffery. "We have a fairly sizeable team of 12 people now, but we were profitable in December, and now have around 200,000 daily active users."As Jeffery explainedlast time Apps Blog interviewed himin June 2011, Toca Boca makes digital toys focused on play, rather than book-apps or educational products. The company – a subsidiary of Swedish media company Bonnier Group – puts its strong December down to several factors.First, there was the release ofToca Kitchen, an app based around cooking that was promoted to users of the company's existing apps with a video trailer for a couple of weeks beforehand. Second, there was afree Christmas versionof previous app Toca Hair Salon, with a suitably-festive Santa Claus character.But most importantly, Toca Boca has been experiencing organic growth through word of mouth, as parents with iPhones and iPads recommend its apps to one another, and then download more of the company's catalogue if they like them.Jeffery says that one key lesson from Toca Boca's first 10 months as a business is the power of free. "It gets the word out for sure: whenever we give something away for free, everything else sells more," he says."You have to get out of that media mindset of thinking that if you give something away for free, it's impossible to charge for it again. We've found the opposite effect. When we give something away, we sell three, four or five times more of the thing that we're selling."Jeffery says Toca Boca has tried "a truckload" of digital marketing strategies since its first apps came out, including paying for mobile advertising, which he describes as "expensive and severely underdeveloped… it didn't work for us at all".But he identifies another factor in Toca Boca's slow-burning success, which is the difficulty parents have in finding the best apps for kids on Apple's App Store.Apple has a curated Apps For Kids collection promoted on its App Store homepage, but otherwise these apps are spread between several categories – Books, Education, Entertainment and Games – with sales low enough to rarely appear high in the charts and be discovered that way."A lot of parents are looking for apps, and there are a lot of great kids' apps out there, but they're not finding each other," he says. "The market is not really working that well, but in our experience, when people find something which is nice and you have other apps available, they will look for them. That has really helped us."Back in June, Toca Boca was not using any in-app purchases or advertising in its apps, and that remains the case. Jeffery says that the company would have "made a lot more money" if it had changed strategy, but remains confident that a pure pay-up-front model remains a good way to win parents' trust.Toca Boca also remains committed to the idea that its apps are about far more than children hunched in a corner or sat in the back of a car playing alone."Our apps are designed to be played together, whether it's kids and kids or kids and their parents," he says, before stressing that they are also not aiming to cannibalise physical play."I don't think digital will replace physical play, and I don't think it should. Different play patterns are important if you want your child to develop. There's a time and place for both, but these toys are just tools. It could be our Toca Tea Party app, or it could be a pen and paper."Jeffery has strong views on the increasing competition in the kid-apps market, particularly when it comes to some of the big traditional toy brands who launched their first apps in 2011."A lot of those big brands are underperforming to an extent that I'm almost surprised they would let a lot of those apps be released under their brands," he says. "A lot of them are so bad, they're hurting the brands! It's physical toy makers who haven't embraced digital properly. I expected more from them."Jeffery also notes that relatively few developers are focusing on pure play in their apps for kids, with most concentrating on education or books. He says Toca Boca tries to work with "learning rather than education: learning for life rather than learning for school". The settings in some of its apps: a kitchen, a shop, a hair salon – bear this out.What now in 2012? Toca Boca is planning to release 10-12 apps for the year, with a continued focus on open-ended play. The company may add a few staff, but Jeffery says it wants to stay as nimble as possible, so as not to be caught out in the fast-moving apps market.He admits that Toca Boca has fielded regular offers from brands and publishers of work-for-hire projects. "We've said no to everyone so far," he says."We're trying to make a brand of our own, and doing the right things. We could always make a collaboration, but that's rarely what these big brands want to do. They want a developer to solve their app problems. I have no problems with that – it can be a good business – but that's not what we are."Finally, what about Android? Thus far Toca Boca has focused on iOS devices, and while it's likely to explore Google's platform early this year, Jeffery is still distinctly wary."They do sell a lot of hardware, but they're still not selling a lot of software," he says. "People are downloading a lot of Android apps for free, but that's hard for us: we won't put ads in our apps, and we won't do freemium either."Given Jeffery's earlier comments on the power of free, a good idea might be to launch a free app to take the Toca Boca brand onto Android, and have a separate (different) paid app available to see if the former stimulates sales of the latter."We'll give Android a go – after all, a lot of households have one parent with an iPhone and another with an Android handset," says Jeffery."There's nothing political: we're not against Android. The idea of play-on-touchscreens is universal, but it comes down to constraints of time and resources. Whatever time we spend doing Android, we could be doing something that actually reaches more kids on iOS."
App success and failure? Chris Stevens has been there, and he's literally written the book. It's calledAppillionaires: Secrets from Developers Who Struck It Rich on the App Store, and is based on interviews with the developers of Doodle Jump, Harbor Master, Stick Wars and, yes, Angry Birds.Formerly a journalist, Stevens struck gold on the App Store in the early days of the iPad in his Atomic Antelope developer incarnation with book-app Alice for the iPad. He also tasted disappointment with sequel Alice in New York."The book is the result of being repeatedly told at parties that people have a great idea for an app," he says. "I wanted to talk to people who've had great success to see what similarities they had, if any. There's a huge mythology already surrounding the App Store, and I wanted to get to the bottom of it."What Appillionaires isn't is a book encouraging readers to believe that they can have a guaranteed hit on Apple's store. In fact, one of the key points Stevens makes is the element of luck, and the need for developers to have realistic commercial expectations, even if they're shooting for the moon creatively."It's a tricky place to be, and success isn't easy," he says. "You're dealing with this global market of uncontrollable whims and different consumer preferences. Yet the App Store seems so accessible: you pay $99 to sign up as a developer, and success seems much more tangible."What kind of patterns did Stevens notice when conducting the interviews for his book? One big one is often used as a stick to beat Angry Birds-maker Rovio with: the fact that it released 52 (comparably) unsuccessful games before its monster hit."The companies I talked to all failed massively; they were extremely unsuccessful before they hit on the right app," he says. "But here's a different perspective on that: in the world of science, scientists trying to create a successful compound fail hundreds of hundreds of times. So if Rovio failed 52 times, it's more of an admirable trait. They persevered."A more surprising pattern that Stevens noticed among development teams who've had big App Store hits is the way so many of them were related: husband and wife, brothers, or cousins. He thinks the apps world – in its earlier days at least – may have lent itself to that kind of collaboration: talented duos working from their homes.He notes, too, that the developers interviewed for the book often had nothing to say about any "formula for success", talking instead about how creative whims led them to their hits."The Doodle Jump brothers swerved from app idea to app idea based purely on their whims at the time," he says. "There was one for Kanji Japanese characters, an exam revision app for pilots, a game with bunnies and carrots… Huge success can come out of this chaotic, non-formalised structure."Stevens points to infamous photo-sharing app Color as the flipside of this pattern: a startup that raised a huge amount of money – $41m – and seemed to have plenty of elements in place for a hit app. Before failing spectacularly.More recently there's the experience of UK studio ustwo – who Stevens has worked with on the Nursery Rhymes with StoryTime book-app – whose Whale Trail game got rave press reviews, huge word of mouth and a global Game Of The Week promotion from Apple, and went on to sell 140,000 copies on iOS. A hit, but not the next Doodle Jump or Angry Birds.Success can't be guaranteed, then. But when it does strike, how has it changed app developers? Are they all buying speedboats and counting their loot on desert islands? In a word, no."This was the question they answered with the least fluency," says Stevens. "They seemed to have no idea if it had, they were just really focused on creating more apps that they loved. Maybe that's just a common consequence of having a creative spirit: it's less about the cash, and more about the effect your work is having on the world."He points to the developer of Stick Wars as a particularly interesting case study. His game took off, yet he stuck to his original plan of joining the Navy. "He's now the pilot of a nuclear submarine," says Stevens. "That was his initial plan, and it was completely unchanged by his success on the App Store. He jokes that he updates the app when his submarine surfaces."Stevens also points to a notably different culture from independent app developers when it comes to sharing information, whether that be lessons from making their own apps, or sales figures and usage stats once they've been released."That willingness to share seems to exist in most indie developers," he says. "They realise that sharing ideas and information doesn't necessarily deplete your own stock. A lot of bigger companies are incredibly materialistic and cagey. Although also, if people aren't talking about their revenues, it's because they're incredibly small."For that reason, Stevens is optimistic about the future for small, independent app developers armed with creativity, enthusiasm and low overheads, even as big brands and publishers invest more in this market."It's reassuring that there is still this meritocracy on the App Store where good-quality work can shine through," he says. "There will still be a place for the indie developer."In the meantime, Stevens is also keen to see whether Apple's next move is a democratisation of e-books as well as apps. He'd like to see the company make part of its Xcode development tools accessible to authors and designers with no coding skills, so they can self-publish on its iBooks store."The biggest problem I see is accessibility. Authors cannot program Xcode. Solve that problem and you put content creation in the hands of the creatives, not the digital strategy managers," he says."The question is not how to save the publishers, but how to kill them, and let storytellers get on with the storytelling. Where is the Apple Garageband equivalent for writers? The Xcode wall is too high to climb at the moment."
The blockbuster acquisition by AT&amp;T of Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile network in the United States may have collapsed, rejected by regulators nervous of price inflation were the number of national networks to have fallen from four to three, but European deal makers are undeterred.Austria, a four-player market, now faces the same dilemma. Hutchison Whampoa, the conglomerate controlled by Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing and owner of the Three brand, wants to take out one of its rivals, leaving just three competitors.Greece is already contemplating a duopoly, from a merger proposed by Vodafone. Regulators have yet to approve the deals, and this is by no means guaranteed. Switzerland in 2010 blocked a consolidation which would have left just two competitors.These maneuverings matter to UK consumers because a scenario is beginning to emerge in which we too could be left with a choice of three. If this happens, could consumers be faced with higher prices, and for a potentially inferior service?The UK network at most danger of being toppled is Three. The newest entrant, loss-making since launch and the smallest by a country mile, Three has argued vocally for protection from regulators to ensure this remains a four-player market – which could create some interesting dilemmas as it pushes for consolidation in Austria.Urgings from bank analysts to squeeze out a British network are becoming insistent. Their employers, starved of action since the credit crunch, are hungry for the fees that could be earned if Europe's largest economies consent to a series of telecoms mega-mergers.Their arguments are being listened to because cash is about to be poured into rolling out super-fast mobile broadband across Europe. The costs are high. The largest-ever sale of British airspace, due to start at the end of this year, could raise up to £4bn for the Treasury,according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.To this sum must be added the cost of building the masts, and laying fibre optic cables to connect them. The UK's largest network, Everything Everywhere, has promised to spend £1.5bn over the next three years. Multiply that by three, to take account of lower investment by smaller players, and £8bn could be spent on masts and spectrum in the UK alone to make 4G a reality.No wonder the C word is back in fashion. If consolidation is to take place, it should probably happen before billions are poured into creating four duplicate 4G networks.Bernstein Researchanalyst Robin Bienenstock has argued eloquently against such wastefulness:"Encouraging telecom operators to duplicate massive infrastructure is not just like encouraging them to build the London underground all over again, but like encouraging them to do it in the same space again and again. In fact the London underground equivalent of a spectrum constrained, multiple build approach to wireless is like getting four companies to build quarter-size London undergrounds that barrel down one tube – all of them in other words – pretty uncomfortable, poor quality and crowded."Telecoms watchdog Ofcom, on the other hand, insists it wants four players. In its much-disputedrules for the UK auction, revised and published for a second consultation last week, it says further consolidation could be harmful:"It is likely that a reduction in the market from four credible national wholesalers to three would lead to a reduction in competition, and hence to an adverse impact on consumers … Other things being equal, this would be likely to give firms an incentive unilaterally to raise prices or to be less competitive in other ways. There is also some risk that coordination between suppliers would become easier, especially if a disruptive competitor were eliminated."Those wondering what consolidation could lead to should cast their minds back 20 years. Vodafone and BT Cellnet had the terrain to themselves from the mid-1980s, but the signal was patchy and prices were high. Mobile phones did not become affordable mass-market devices until a decade later, when two more operators – Orange and the company now known as T-Mobile – had established themselves.And it has taken a fifth entrant, Three, to agitate for cheaper mobile internet access and faster progress towards the 4G auction which will ensure networks have the spectrum they need to support the explosion in smartphones.Crucial to Three's survival will be acquiring a bigger chunk of spectrum in the 4G auction. But Bienenstock believes the rules as drafted by Ofcom make it likely that Three will fail to emerge with a viable network. This is because the telecoms watchdog Ofcom surprised the market by removing special protection from two of the bidders.Current spectrum holdings. Source: Ofcom, January 2012Neither Three, with a 10% market share, nor Everything Everywhere, owner of the Orange and T-Mobile brands in the UK and the largest player with 34%, are now guaranteed any of the much-prized 800 Megahertz spectrum. This is valuable because it travels further, and so requires fewer masts and is cheaper to build a network around.They had argued for special measures because rivals Vodafone and O2 both hold sizeable chunks in the neighbouring 900MHz band, which is also highly efficient. Removing protection from Everything Everywhere, which has sizeable holdings of higher frequency spectrum and an enviable market position is understandable.Removing the protection from Three makes it increasingly likely that the network will be priced out of the auction. Its network would be of a much lower quality than those of its rivals, say analysts, and subscribers would vote with their feet.Elsewhere in Europe, regulators have insisted on redistributing the spectrum holdings of more established operators so that bidders had a chance of emerging from auctions with networks of comparable quality.Ofcom prefers a light touch approach. It has promised to reserve some spectrum, in the 800MHz or other less valuable bands, for a fourth operator (Three) or a "new entrant" – none has yet declared. Under these rules, if a new entrant does materialise, the scenario of Three emerging with a small, poor quality, loss-making network becomes a possibility. Which in my view would leave consolidation back down to four, or even down to three, looking like the only sensible solution.To return to the London underground analogy, the idea of building just two or three tube networks has a compelling logic. In fact it is already happening. Three has a network sharing agreement with Everything Everywhere, and O2 and Vodafone have a European mast sharing deal that includes the UK.But ongoing competition between brands is important not just for prices, but to ensure everyone has a good signal. Weary commuters would be quick to agree that the London underground, without direct competitors, has not always provided the smoothest service.Telecoms veteranBengt Nordström, who now runs the Northstream consultancy, says the lesson across Europe is that the fourth player typically loses money. This is because they tend to hold inferior spectrum, having entered the market last.The only way to ensure viable fourth networks, he believes, is for governments to be less greedy in taking licence fees, and firmer in distributing spectrum equally among competitors.Li Ka-shing may have deep pockets, but Three's owner will not go on subsidising cheaper prices indefinitely. The network will be looking to emerge from this year's UK auction on a more equal footing with its rivals. It is in consumers' interests that it does.• This article was amended on 24 January 2012. A paragraph in the original said: "It has promised to reserve some of the less valuable 2600MHz band for Three or another 'new entrant' – none has yet declared – should they not acquire any other spectrum before the auction. Under these rules, the scenario of Three and/or an unlikely fifth player both owning small, poor quality, loss-making networks becomes more than a distant possibility. Which would leave consolidation looking like the only sensible solution." Bandwith has been corrected to "800MHz or other less valuable bands" and the number of potential players clarified.
A selection of nine apps for you today:Whale TrailWhale Trail made a splash on iOS in 2011, but now ustwo's addictive game has been released for Android too. As before, it involves piloting Willow the Whale safely through the clouds, collecting bubbles. The game has so far sold 140,000 copies on iOS, according to the publisher.AndroidThe Sun for AndroidNews International has launched a subscription-based Android app for The Sun, offering news, picture galleries, "mini apps", and local weather forecasts, as well as a QR code-scanning feature called Sun Scan.AndroidLEGO App4+The latest Lego app for iOS is aimed at 4-7 year-olds. It's a game where they build their own blocky truck, then deliver cargo to earn virtual coins, which can then be used to buy more parts.iPhone / iPadGroupShotGroupShot is a clever iPhone app designed to make your photos of groups of people look better, by allowing you to take a few, then choose everyone's best face for a combined shot where nobody is blinking or has their mouth hanging open.iPhoneUltimate Running RacesCollins and Aimer Media have teamed up to launch an iOS app based on the former's World's Ultimate Running Races book. Its aim: to help runners plan their annual calendar, whatever their experience or ability. That includes plenty of ultramarathons and extreme races for inspiration.iPhone / iPadIBM SametimeIBM has launched an Android app for its Sametime corporate communications service, including one-to-one and group chat, text-to-speech, photo sending and broadcast announcements, among other features.AndroidQuentin Blake: As Large As LifeIllustrator Quentin Blake's work is being shown off in an exhibition at The Foundling Museum until April 2012, and this iPad app is a spin-off from the exhibition, showcasing the works as well as a video interview with Blake himself. Artfinder worked with the museum on the app.iPadNBCUS TV network NBC has launched its official Android app, offering video highlights and previews, schedules, games and a feed of users' favourite shows. Full episodes are due to be added soon.AndroidKrinkKrink is a US company that makes inks and markers used by street artists. Now it's got an iOS app to let everyone pretend they're a Banksy-in-waiting, spraying virtual ink over their photos or blank virtual canvases.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEven Woz Thinks the Android Bests the iPhone &gt;&gt; The Daily Beast"My primary phone is the iPhone," Woz says. "I love the beauty of it. But I wish it did all the things my Android does, I really do."PandoDaily &gt;&gt; the site-of-record for silicon valleySarah Lacy, former TechCruncher and author, launches the newest technology news site on the blog. It already has its accusers. (Hello, Gawker.)I Won a Samsung Galaxy S II - My Review &gt;&gt; Charlie KindelKindel worked on the Windows Phone team (he hated Windows Mobile) and he won a Samsung Galaxy S II in a raffle. (Ah, sweet irony.) His critique of actually using an Android phone (running Gingerbread, as pretty much all the phones you'll see for a while are) compared to a Windows Phone is biting, yet fair.Sarah Lacy's PandoDaily launches with $2.5 million in funding &gt;&gt; GigaOM"Lacy has roped in former colleagues - Michael Arrington, M.G. Seigler and Paul Carr for the new site as guest columnists. Farhad Manjoo, a columnist for Slate and Fast Company joins the group of writers who will write what Lacy calls "exclusives, edgy opinion posts, stellar product analysis, insightful people and culture stories and *real* breaking news." She has also hired a couple of other bloggers for the new company and is in the process of hiring folks to help her with sales and organizing events."That gurgling noise is AOL's investment in TechCrunch going down the drain. Note: you can get investment for a media company, even in Silicon Valley.Samsung says to merge bada mobile OS with Intel-backed Tizen &gt;&gt; Yahoo! Finance"Samsung Electronics Co said on Tuesday it planned to merge its 'bada' mobile software with a platform backed by chipmaker Intel Corp in its latest push to diversify away from Google's Android."Samsung, which emerged as the world's biggest smartphone manufacturer on the back of booming Android models in the third quarter, joined forces with Intel last year to strengthen its mobile software push."In September two Linux software groups, one backed by Samsung, and another by Intel, agreed to jointly develop Tizen, a new operating system for cellphones and other devices, by merging their LiMo and Meego platforms in a bid to gain wider industry and consumer support."So that's webOS, Meego and now bada which have been driven up into the mountains and allowed to, ahem, find their own way home. Is Samsung going to drop Windows Phone too?What if we count the iPad as a Computer... correctly? &gt;&gt; Apple Outsider.deSebastian Peitsch:"Something must have gone horribly horribly wrong over at Deutsche Bank because I just don't see THAT much of an effect. I don't know what Chris Whitmore did but there's just something wrong with his math. Global PC sales were 92 Million in Q3/2011 including 5 million Macs sold by Apple. They also sold 11 Million iPads which brings the total number up to 103 million "PCs". If you look at the Deutsche Bank numbers HP has a market share of 17% (Gartner gives it as 17.7%). To make them drop off to under 15% as the Deutsche Bank graphs shows Apple would have had to sell over 18 million iPads which they simply didn't."Analysts, eh.File-sharing ACS Law solicitor fined and suspended &gt;&gt; PC ProTwo-year ban and £70,000 fine for Mr Crossley. Wonder what will happen to the thousands of pounds allegedly duped out of people accused of illicit filesharing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
It's Tuesday. Doing any multiplayer gaming tonight?
Walking with your head in the clouds can be dangerous – but not as perilous as listening to your iPod. The number of people suffering serious injury or death while wearing headphones for electrical devices such as MP3 players has tripled in six years, according to a US study.An increase in the use of headphones while walking in the street has led to a dramatic rise in the number of injuries, with teenagers, men and young adults the most at risk from hurting themselves while their thoughts were elsewhere, the study says.In compiling the study, experts studied data from 2004 to 2011. They found that 116 people in the US wearing headphones had died or been seriously hurt during that period. The number of people who died or were injured leapt from 16 in 2004-05 to 47 in 2010-11.Most victims were men (68%) and under the age of 30 (67%), with about one in 10 of all cases under the age of 18.Of the accidents studied, 89% occurred in urban areas, and more than half of the victims – 55% – were struck by trains.According to the study, published online in the journalInjury Prevention, 81 of the 116 incidents, or 70%, resulted in death.The study – which did not extend to cases involving mobile phones, including hands-free sets – found that the wearing of headphones may in many cases have played a direct part in the incident, as the users could not hear warnings that they were in danger. In 29% of the cases, an explicit warning – such as a shout, a horn or a siren – had been sounded before the accident.The experts concluded: "The use of headphones with handheld devices may pose a safety risk to pedestrians, especially in environments with moving vehicles. Further research is needed to determine if and how headphone use compromises pedestrian safety."Previous studies have shown that people wearing headphones – or who are distracted because they are talking on a mobile phone – can be affected by "inattentional blindness", a reduction in attention to external stimuli that has also been dubbed "iPod oblivion". This can result, for example, in people paying less attention to traffic when crossing the street. Headphone wearers have also been shown to suffer a reduced ability to hear a range of ambient noises.Kevin Clinton, the head of road safety at the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, said: "Although we do not have robust data about this type of accident in the UK, we have heard of cases in which pedestrians have been knocked down while listening to headphones or talking on mobile phones."If you are using these devices while walking, RoSPA advises that you ensure you are not dangerously distracted and that you remain aware of what is happening around you."
Wikipedia, one of the world's most popular websites, has confirmed it will "go dark" on Wednesday when the site pulls the plug in a 24-hour protest against highly-contentious US online piracy legislation.The online encyclopedia is the sixth most popular destination on the internet and attracts 25 million visitors a day. Starting at midnight on Tuesday the company said its English-language version will be unavailable in protest against the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) and Protect IP, two bills aimed at attacking online piracy.Wikimedia, the foundation behind the site, discussed the move with "Wikipedians" – the authors of its entries – and the company said the majority favored action. Similar blackouts are planned by other websites including Reddit, the popular news sharing site, and the Cheezburger websites, which attract 16.5 million visitors a month to look at funny cat videos and photos."Today Wikipedians from around the world have spoken about their opposition to this destructive legislation," said Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia. "This is an extraordinary action for our community to take – and while we regret having to prevent the world from having access to Wikipedia for even a second, we simply cannot ignore the fact that Sopa and PIPA endanger free speech both in the United States and abroad, and set a frightening precedent of Internet censorship for the world."Wales has been a persistent critic of Sopa, calling it "the worst internet legislation I have ever seen."Before the decision was made Wales tweeted: "Student warning! Do your homework early. Wikipedia protesting bad law on Wednesday! #sopa".Wales made the announcement as the threat of SOPA seemed to be receding. Other tech leaders were less enamored of his move. In a tweet, Twitter CEO Dick Costolo called Wikipedia's plans to pull the plug on its website "foolish" and "silly".Via Twitter, Radar correspondent Alex Howard asked Costolo, Google's Eric Schmidt and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, whether they would have the 'cojones' to follow in Wikipedia's protesting footsteps. "That's just silly. Closing a global business in reaction to single-issue national politics is foolish," Costolo replied.The spat was the first sign of tension amid the major tech players who have so far shown a united front as they have fought Hollywood and the music industry over regulation of the internet. Over the weekend the tech community won a key battle when President Barack Obama came down on their side. Sopa now looks un-passable in its current form.But Wales and others fear that while Sopa now looks severely damaged, Protect IP is still up for a vote on 24 January and there is widespread support among politicians for tighter control of the internet.So far, the Sopa battle has been largely fought out in the tech, media, and business pages. All that could change Wednesday when Wikipedia goes dark.
Hackers have struck Zappos, the online shoe retailer, putting at risk the sensitive information from its database of 24 million customers.Credit card information had not been stolen, Zappos chief executive Tony Hsieh said in a statement, but names, email addresses and other personal information may have been exposed.Zappos, which started out as an online shoe retailer but now sells clothing and accessories, was sold to Amazon for more than $1bn (£650m) in 2009.In an email to staff sent on Sunday and posted on the company website, Hsieh wrote: "We were recently the victim of a cyber-attack by a criminal who gained access to parts of our internal network and systems through one of our servers in Kentucky. We are co-operating with law enforcement to undergo an exhaustive investigation."Zappos has contacted customers asking them to choose new passwords for zappos.com and other sites where they may have used the same or a similar password.Hsieh added: "We've spent over 12 years building our reputation, brand, and trust with our customers. It's painful to see us take so many steps back due to a single incident."The news came on the same day that theSan Francisco Chronicle reportedthat personal banking information and other information had been stolen from tens of thousands of students, faculty and administrators at City College of San Francisco following a deacade-long "infestation" of computer viruses tied to criminal networks in Russia, China and other countries.Ira Victor, a computer forensics and information analyst with Data Clone Labs, said it was still too early to assess the fallout of the Zappos attack. Victor said research had shown the vast majority of people used the same password, or similar ones, for multiple sites."If you get into a database of 24m accounts, you are going to get information that you can potentially use to access private emails, bank accounts, corporate accounts – a treasure trove of escalating attacks," he said.The Zappos hack comes after huge security breaches at Sony and online security giant RSA SecureID last year.
Facebook is reportedly preparing to make its stockmarket debut in May, during which the social networking giant could raise $10bn in the world's biggest technology company float. The timetable would mean Facebook would need to file documents for review by America's Securities and Exchange Commission within the next month for its fundraising, the Wall Street Journal said. Facebook is expected to offer a 10% stake, suggesting a $100bn valuation. British financial public relations specialist Brunwick Group is understood to have been appointed to manage the listing, reportedly scheduled for the third week of May. Brunswick represented online deals site Groupon during its initial public offering last year, and is understood to have worked on Facebook's private placing with Goldman Sachs and its clients. Both Brunswick and Facebook declined to comment.
Congressional leaders are preparing to shelve controversial legislation aimed at tackling online piracy after president Barack Obama said he would not support it.California congressman Darrell Issa, an opponent of Sopa, the Stop Online Piracy Act, said he had been told by House majority leader Eric Cantor that there would be no vote unless there is consensus on the bill."The voice of the internet community has been heard. Much more education for members of Congress about the workings of the internet is essential if anti-piracy legislation is to be workable and achieve broad appeal," said Issa.The news is a major blow for Sopa's backers in Hollywood, who had enjoyed broad support in Congress. But the Motion Pictures Association of America, one of the bill's biggest sponsors, said it would continue to press for new laws. "The failure to pass meaningful legislation will result in overseas websites continuing to be a safe haven for criminals stealing and profiting from America," the MPAA said in a blogpost.The tech community has fought hard to stop Sopa and a rival bill, Protect IP, also known as the Enforcing and Protecting American Rights Against Sites Intent on Theft and Exploitation Act, or the e-Parasite act. Websites including Reddit and Wikipedia are planning to "go dark" on Wednesday in protest against the legislation. Issa said he remained concerned about Protect IP, which will go before the Senate on 24 January.But both bills now look severely damaged after the White House came out firmly against their biggest proposals at the weekend."Let us be clear – online piracy is a real problem that harms the American economy, threatens jobs for significant numbers of middle-class workers and hurts some of our nation's most creative and innovative companies and entrepreneurs," theWhite House said in its first official comment on Sopaand Protect IP.However, the White House said it would not support legislation that "reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risks or undermines the dynamic, innovative global internet."The two bills aim to tackle online piracy by preventing American search engines like Google and Yahoo from directing users to sites distributing stolen materials. The bills would also allow people and companies to sue if their  copyright was being infringed.The White House expressed concern about both these elements and about passing legislation that threatened the openness of the internet. In the online statement it said any new legislation must be "narrowly targeted"."Any provision covering internet intermediaries such as online advertising networks, payment processors, or search engines must be transparent and designed to prevent overly broad private rights of action that could encourage unjustified litigation that could discourage startup businesses and innovative firms from growing," said the White House.The Obama administration also came out firmly against any plans to target the Domain Name System (DNS), a foundation of internet security, in order to tackle sites accused of piracy. Any proposed legislation "must not tamper with the technical architecture of the internet," said the White House.The move effectively scuppers Sopa for now, and puts pressure on legislators ahead of a Senate vote on the e-Parasite act.This weekend Rupert Murdoch – whose News Corporation includes the Hollywood studio 20th Century Fox, took toTwitter to attack the Obama administration for its criticism of Sopa."So Obama has thrown in his lot with Silicon Valley paymasters who threaten all software creators with piracy. Plain thievery," Murdoch wrote in a series of tweets that accused Google of hosting pirated material and selling advertising against it. Google dismissed his claims as "nonsense".Art Brodsky, director forPublic Knowledge, a Washington-based public interest group that has campaigned against Sopa, said: "You can't view this bill in isolation; it's part of a continuum. They will try to muddle through with something."But he said the White House statement was "very helpful" and it was clear that any legislation that tried to make wide-ranging changed to the internet would now face tougher opposition.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 14 JanuaryPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (40)Wii (5)PSP (3)162 (4)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (80)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (2)143 (5)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (37)PC (10)104 (2)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (35)PC (7)125 (3)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (36)PC (10)Wii (3)106 (6)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (75)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (4)427 (12)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)38 (9)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (36)99 (10)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (48)PC (2)910 (7)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (44)Wii (5)3DS (2)911 (13)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)712 (–)Your Shape: Fitness Evolved 2012 (3+)Xbox 360 (100)113 (11)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1314 (8)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)915 (15)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)916 (16)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (97)PSP (3)617 (19)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (34)Wii (24)418 (14)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)919 (18)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)620 (–)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)77UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 10 apps for you today:Brit Awards 2012 with MasterCardThe official app for this year's Brit Awards is live on iPhone, including the ability to vote in the categories open to public votes. It also offers news, photos and competitions to win tickets to the event.iPhoneDancing On IceITV show Dancing On Ice is returning to our screens complete with its own second-screen companion app for iPhone. It offers video catch-ups and highlights, as well as a scoring feature to use when the show is airing.iPhoneWWD: Women's Wear DailyVeteran fashion-industry publication Women's Wear Daily has a new iPad app from publisher Condé Nast. It provides access to a digital version of the daily issue, as well as additional slideshow galleries.iPadCat-NavBritish publisher Persian Cat Press has launched a literary app-discovery app for iOS, promising to guide users "to the cream of the App Store with six new reviews of the best interactive picture books, graphic novels and other immersive writing apps every week".iPhone / iPadPaul SimonPaul Simon is the latest artist to launch his own iPhone app via a partnership with Mobile Roadie (well, a partnership between his label Sony Music and Mobile Roadie). Expect news, photos, tour dates and social features. This being Mobile Roadie, we expect an Android version sooner rather than later too.iPhoneKelly Clarkson OfficialSimon isn't alone in getting an iPhone app this week: US artist Kelly Clarkson has one too, through the same Sony / Mobile Roadie partnership. It has similar features.iPhoneGroovesharkControversial streaming music service Grooveshark – currently being sued by the major labels – had its native apps removed from Apple and Google's app stores last year after complaints from those labels. Now it's back with an HTML5 web-app that works on Android, iOS and tablets from RIM and HP.HTML5YouTube ProYouTube Pro is a Windows Phone app designed to play videos over the network, but also download them to the phone for watching offline. It's available in both free and paid versions.Windows PhoneAmeliaThe latest creative book-app for 3-7 year-olds is Amelia, launched for iPad by Jasseo Interactive. It's about "a busy body Octopus who thinks that having eight tentacles can replace true friendship, only to discover that everyone needs friends", complete with mini-games.iPadVinumVinum is another Windows Phone app, this time to help people discover new wines – or to get an expert opinion on whether the bottle of plonk they're looking at in the shop is likely to be drinkable.Windows Phone
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhere were all the Google TVs at CES? &gt;&gt; Online Video News"...While it's clear that the CE industry needs to do something to fight fragmentation between the dozen or so smart TV platforms, it seems unlikely that Google TV will be its savior in the near future. Google might have more partners than it did a year ago, but they're hardly adopting the platform en masse. Unless something drastic happens, don't expect that to change anytime soon."Android Market is Probably Not Coming to China Anytime Soon &gt;&gt; Inside Mobile Apps"The Journal reported last week that a major goal for Google in China is to bring Android Market to the country and that the company is pursuing partnerships with local carriers to offer the app store on their phones. But a source familiar with the discussions said that such a move is still in the "exploratory" phase and isn't as far along as the Journal suggests. "It's not really happening," they added." The problem -- not surprisingly -- is the regulatory environment.Before Solving a Problem, Make Sure You've Got the Right Problem &gt;&gt; Tim O'Reilly on Google+"In the entire discussion, I've seen no discussion of credible evidence of this economic harm. There's no question in my mind that piracy exists, that people around the world are enjoying creative content without paying for it, and even that some criminals are profiting by redistributing it. But is there actual economic harm?"FTC said to expand antitrust probe of Google to social networking service Google+ &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is expanding its antitrust probe of Google, the world's most popular search engine, to include scrutiny of its new Google+ social networking service, according to two people familiar with the situation. "The competition issues raised by Google+ go to the heart of the FTC's investigation into whether the company is giving preference to its own services in search results and whether that practice violates antitrust laws, said the people, who declined to be identified because the probe isn't public."Recall that Google+ is tiny in terms of traffic and external links compared to sites such as Twitter, Facebook, and even Myspace. Then note how its results appear in the first page of searches.Smaller Magnetic Materials Push Boundaries of Nanotechnology - NYTimes.com"Researchers at I.B.M. have stored and retrieved digital 1s and 0s from an array of just 12 atoms, pushing the boundaries of the magnetic storage of information to the edge of what is possible."Current systems need about a million atoms.Google 'improperly' accessed Kenyan rival Mocality's database &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukGoogle has confessed that a number of people working for it "improperly" accessed the customer database of a rival company in Kenya to boost its own business.Just in case you missed this late on Friday.Microsoft and LG sign patent agreement covering Android and Chrome OS-based devices: agreement provides broad coverage under Microsoft's patent portfolio &gt;&gt; Microsoft"Microsoft Corp. and LG Electronics have signed a patent agreement that provides broad coverage under Microsoft's patent portfolio for LG's tablets, mobile phones and other consumer devices running the Android or Chrome OS Platform. The contents of the agreement have not been disclosed."Which means that Microsoft is getting a payment from 70% of the Android phones being sold in the US; the only one it doesn't presently have licensed is Motorola. Does Google care? Possibly it doesn't: the payments aren't big enough yet to dissuade companies from making Android phones, and it still gets search share. But note how it also covers Chrome OS-based devices. Will Samsung have to sign the same?Snapshot of the computer market, with and without iPad &gt;&gt; Fortune TechThe point about the PC market at present is that it's the consumer part of it which is down, not the business end. The choice of whether to buy a tablet or a new PC (laptop, notebook) is an either/or for most people. It seems they're opting for a tablet.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
That weekend was over far too quickly, but did you manage to get any gaming done? I finally finished Uncharted 3 – loved the woozy desert sequence – and started Lego Harry Potter Years 5-7 with my sons. How about you?
We take it for granted, but the human ability to focus instantly on particular objects in our field of vision, near or far, is a remarkable skill. As camera manufacturers have learned, it is not easy to replicate artificially. Even the most advanced digital cameras use autofocus mechanisms that are far from perfect. But now two US scientists have developed a simple algorithm that looks set to revolutionise the way autofocus works, allowing for greater speed and accuracy in digital photography.The development emerged from a study of the human eye. Johannes Burge, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Texas and his adviser Wilson Geisler wanted to understand how our eyes are able to focus so much more efficiently than a digital camera.Most autofocus mechanisms, Burge tells me, use contrast levels to determine how in or out of focus an image is. "The camera computes the contrast of an image, changes the distance that the lens is focused and computes the contrast again. If the contrast is higher, the camera knows it's going in the correct direction." This process of guessing and checking continues until the contrast is highest. It takes time and uses up battery power, says Burge, "and it also rests on the false assumption that best contrast equals best focus".A second autofocus system called phase detection, used by higher-end cameras, is more accurate, Burge adds, but it has problems of its own: for one, it relies on bulky and expensive hardware.The system developed by Burge and Geisler requires no before-and-after comparison, and could be incorporated into a simple point-and-shoot camera. It works by taking an inventory of the features in a scene. In their study,published in theProceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, they found that humans and other animals extract key features from a blurry image and use that information to work out their distance from an object. Then the eye focuses accordingly."Many small predatory animals use 'defocus' as their primary depth cue," says Burge. "When a chameleon tracks a fly with its eye, there are muscles in the back of the eye that determine what the focus distance is."Burge and Geisler's breakthrough is based on the same principle. Using&nbsp;well known mathematical equations, they created a computer simulation of the human visual system. When the simulation was presented with real photographs of scenes from nature, even though the images varied widely, the patterns of focus remained&nbsp;the same.The algorithm hasn't been tested in an actual camera yet, but Burge is confident that it will work – and have applications in other areas too, such as neuroscience. The pair are applying for a patent on the technology and they've already had interest from a major electronic imaging company. Later this month, they will be presenting their work at a International Society for Optics and Photonics conference in San Francisco. If their work follows through to the marketplace, a future generation of digital cameras may be able to focus accurately in as few as 10 milliseconds.This article was amended on 17/1/12 to link to the correct PNAS article
The gathering storm over online piracy legislation being debated in the US Congress has sucked two more heavy hitters into the fray, with the Obama administration and Rupert Murdoch lining up on opposite sides of the argument.The controversy over the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) going through the House of Representatives and its Senate equivalent, the Protect Intellectual Property Act (Pipa), has intensified. Websites including Reddit and possibly Wikipediaare planning to "go dark" on Wednesdayin protest at the proposals, which they say will lead to government censorship of the internet and be disastrous for innovation.On Saturday, the Obama administration made clear that it would not tolerate several of the more controversial aspects of the two bills, particularly the power to interfere with the architecture of the web by tampering with its Domain Name System (DNS)."We will not support legislation that reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines the dynamic, innovative global internet," said three of Obama's top technology advisers in a statement. The authors said manipulating the DNS by forcing service providers to block access to pirating sites could damage cybersecurity by driving users to much more unscrupulous servers.Just before the White House statement was issued, a sponsor of Sopa – the Texan congressman Lamar Smith – said theDNS blocking provision in the bill would be dropped.Under the two bills, the US department of justice would have the power to censor foreign websites engaging in piracy by requiring search engines, payment portals and online advertising networks to desist from carrying them.Murdoch – whose News Corporation includes the Hollywood studio 20th Century Fox, which is among the companies calling for a legislative clampdown against piracy of films, music and other copyrighted material – launched a tirade against the Obama administration for its criticism of Sopa."So Obama has thrown in his lot with Silicon Valley paymasters who threaten all software creators with piracy, plain thievery," hewrote in a series of five tweets, accusing Google of hosting pirated material and selling advertising against it.The White House statement was not a simple denunciation of Sopa and Pipa. It also makes clear that the administration is in favour of new legislation to combat online piracy, though the authors say it must be narrowly targeted. "Online piracy by foreign websites is a serious problem that requires a serious legislative response," they say.The two bills have led to an outpouring of criticism from proponents of a free internet,Silicon Valley giants such as Google and Facebook, and start-up entrepreneurs.
Amid the frenzy of big-name year-end games releases, the non-download, retail version ofWorld of Tanksslipped under the radar. And yet, despite its modest marketing, this free-to-play tank battle sim has attracted over 5m registrations, a huge success for the online multiplayer shooter.And with good reason. The controls are a doddle to pick up and there are numerous mod options, either earned or bought with real-world money, offering advantages such as superior firepower or camouflage.The 500-plus vehicles, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, look tremendous and the team battles, with 30 vehicles trundling around the various open maps, are evenly matched to ensure that even newbies aren't obliterated within seconds. Simple, destructive and fun.
BioWare and LucasArts developedThe Old Republic, their new massively multiplayer online (MMO) game, over a five-year period and it finally saw the light of day last month. But given that the real nature of any multiplayer online game is only revealed as its participants interact and shape their universe, allowing it a little time to see if it was worth the wait seems only fair. Eagerly awaited asThe Old Republicwas, MMOs rarely reveal their true nature on day one.TORis subscription-based, taking&nbsp;place in a continually expandingStar Warsuniverse, with seemingly infinite story content and engaging linear gameplay. It feels vast, a long-awaited rival toWorld of Warcraft– but&nbsp;with even more detail and fresh, new environments – all of which adds up to some high-end system requirements.Once up and running, you'll be treated to the game's opening cinematic sequences, for my money featuring some of the most impressive lightsaber duels of anyStar Warstitle, both film trilogies included.At which point, and in the interest of full disclosure, I should reveal that my husband provided the voices for some ofTOR's many characters – a fact that I have not allowed to colour my judgment.Gamers can choose to play for the Republic or the Empire and edit their character's visual appearance to taste. There is role play, for example as a Miraluka Jedi who has no eyes but can see by using  the Force, or combat as a female Sith warrior with ice-cool diction. In-game conversations offer characters several options as replies, which can drastically affect the outcome of the story, and the consequences of which cannot be reversed.Combat may take a little time to grasp – although the self-resurrection process is pleasingly simple, and the fact that it takes a while to hone your skills means that there is an advantage in teaming up with other players when it comes to dispatching some of the tougher enemies.One month in,TORis allying quality with quantity in a vast expanse of content backed up by immersive and enjoyable gameplay – and might even tempt staunchWoWdevotees to the Dark Side.
Here's a trick question: who's produced the most books in the past 30 years? Answer: a guy called Charles Simonyi. Eh? Well, I said it was a trick question. Mr Simonyi, you see, is the chap who created Microsoft Word, which is the word-processing program used by perhaps 95% of all writers currently extant, and although Simonyi didn't actually write any books himself, the tool he made has definitely affected the ways texts are created. As Marshall McLuhan was fond of saying, we shape our tools and afterwards they shape us.I write with feeling on the matter. When I started in journalism, I wrote on a manual typewriter. After I'd composed a paragraph, I would look at it, scribble between the lines, cross out words, type some more before eventually tearing the page out of the machine and retyping the para on a fresh sheet. This would go on until my desk was engulfed in a rising tide of scrunched-up balls of paper.So you can imagine my joy when Mr Simonyi's program appeared. Suddenly, I could type away, backspace and delete and overwrite and revise as much as I liked. And no matter how much I hacked away at the draft, I always had a fresh-looking paragraph on which to build. The tide of scrunched-up paper sheets receded. And I could add formatting – italics, bold face type, justification, indentation and other features that began to mimic the appearance of "proper" printed text. Bliss!And I was not alone. It turned out that millions of other writers and hacks were as disenchanted by the annoyances of typewriters as I was. So we went for Microsoft Word like ostriches go for brass doorknobs. And&nbsp;now everyone uses Word or one of&nbsp;its clones. We are all word processors now.But we were – and remain – remarkably incurious about how our beloved new tool would shape the way we write. Consider first the name that the computer industry assigned to it:word processor. The obvious&nbsp;analogy is with the food processor, a motorised&nbsp;culinary device that reduces everything to undifferentiated mush. That may indeed have been the impact of Word et al on business communications, which have increasingly become assemblies of boilerplate cliches. But that's not been the main impact of word processing on&nbsp;creative writing, which seems to me&nbsp;to be just as vibrant as it was in the&nbsp;age of the typewriter or the fountain pen.But has word processing changed thewaywe write? There have been lots of inconclusive or unconvincing studies of how the technology has affected, say, the quality of student essays – how it facilitates plagiarism. The most interestingacademic studyI looked at found that writers using computers "spent more time on a first draft and less on finalising a text, pursued a more fragmentary writing process, tended to revise more extensively at the beginning of the writing process, attended more to lower linguistic levels [letter, word] and formal properties of the text, and did not normally undertake any systematic revision of their work before finishing".My hunch is that using a word processor makes writing more like sculpting in clay. Because it's so easy to revise, one begins by hacking out a rough draft which is then iteratively reshaped – cutting bits out here, adding bits there, gradually licking the thing into some kind of shape.But that's just my opinion. We need more scholarly research on the subject. Which is why it's nice to see that an American academic, ProfessorMatthew Kirschenbaumof the University of Maryland, has taken up the challenge by embarking on a literary history of word processing. "The story of writing in the digital age," he told theNew York Times, "is every bit as messy as the ink-stained rags that would have littered Gutenberg's print shop or the molten lead of the Linotype machine."No sooner had Professor Kirschenbaum embarked on his quest, though, thanhewas engulfed in a tide of molten lead. He tentatively fingered the horror writer Stephen King as the first major American writer to complete a work of fiction in 1983 using the new technology. The science fiction writer Jerry Pournelle, a columnist on the long-defunct computer magazineByte,fulminatedthat Kirschenbaum "hasn't bothered to talk to the people who were actually writing with computers in the 1979-1984 era".Mr Pournelle went on to point out that he and his co-author, Larry Niven, had published a bestselling novel in 1982 which was written on a Z-80 computer that is now in the Smithsonian Museum. And they didn't even use Microsoft Word.
Scotland Yard is investigating what is believed to be one of the first cases of cyber-stalking involving Twitter. The Metropolitan Police confirmed it was examining claims that a 37-year-old man has allegedly been targeting two women who claim to have received offensive, racist and sexually demeaning tweets and emails.It is believed the alleged harassment  has been going on since the beginning of November and may involve as many as five victims. The pair are thought to have been targeted because of their views on Israel and the Iraq war. According to those familiar with the case, the man has allegedly sent more than 16,000 tweets to the victims and tried to contact one of them at work.Although they blocked the tweets, the sender has varied his Twitter address as his messages have become more threatening. His alleged tweets include the warnings: "I am in a war to the death. Stay well clear for your own safety. Don't ever tweet me again"; "Remember watch your back 24 hours a day 7 days a week for life"; and "Want me to tweet you your death place?"Officers are due to interview one of the women tomorrow and have already interviewed her friend. They reported the alleged harassment campaign to police after advice from Harry Fletcher, of the probation union Napo, who advises the all-party parliamentary inquiry into stalking.Twitter has taken down all of the offensive tweets. Fletcher said the allegations showed that new media had to be vigilant. "It is essential that social media providers take steps to block offensive or threatening emails or tweets and that the police take swift action," he said.• On 9 May 2012, following an investigation by police, a 37-year-old man was told he would not face any charges arising from these allegations.
