I will be a returning student next year, and I want to purchase a new laptop. After doing some research, I determined the best and most economical buy was the Asus ZenBook UX305. I have an HP Sleekbook 15, which I got in 2013. Is there a significant difference between the two – enough to make it worth upgrading?LeeBefore buying a laptop for university or college, try to find out if you will need to run any specialised software. If so, this can make a big difference to the choice. If it’s just general purpose software such as Microsoft Office – which most UK and US universities now provide free – then a general purpose laptop should be fine. As you’re a returning student, I assume you have this aspect covered.If I had to describe a “standard” student laptop, it would be something like theHP Pavilion 15or theDell Inspiron 15 5000. These are good performers, reasonably well made, and reasonably priced. They won’t turn any heads, but they are decent all-rounders from top tier suppliers.TheHP Sleekbook 15varied the formula by being relatively thin and light for a laptop with a 15.6in screen, partly by dropping the usual DVD drive. It was taking design cues from Ultrabooks, but unfortunately, it didn’t always deliver. Cheaper versions of the Sleekbook 15 had slow AMD processors, limited battery life (four hours is poor by Ultrabook standards), and below-average keyboards. Most models did not have touchscreens, and I think all of them had traditional hard drives rather than SSDs (solid-state drives).None of this is to imply that the HP Sleekbook 15 wasn’t good enough to do the job, because it was. It could run Microsoft Office, play music and videos, edit photos, and so on. Stand it on a pile of books to raise the screen, plug in a good USB keyboard, and it should easily last you another two or three years. Which does prompt the question: why do you want to replace it?Asus ZenBook UX305 is smaller and lighter than SleekBook 15.Photograph: PR imageThe Asus ZenBook UX305 is a significant improvement on your Sleekbook 15 in almost every way. It’s smaller and lighter, as you’d expect from a laptop with a 13.3in rather than a 15.6in screen. However, it offers a full HD resolution screen of 1920 x 1080 pixels where the Sleekbook only offers 1366 x 768. It is better made, having a brushed aluminium case instead of glossy plastic. It will also be much more responsive, because it has a 128GB or 256GB SSD instead of a hard drive.PocketLint called the ZenBook UX305 “King of the mid-range”, presumably because of its low price. It’s hard to beat at£599.95or$699.Significant differencesThe main difference is that the ZenBook UX305 is much more portable than the HP Sleekbook 15. People who buy laptops with 15.6in screens are usually going to leave them at home, plugged into the mains. People who buy 11.6in or 13.3in Ultrabooks usually want to carry them around and use them in lectures or at local coffee shops. If that’s your plan, then the ZenBook UX305 will be a significant improvement.If you mainly want a faster machine, the UX305 will probably fit the bill, but it’s not really built for speed.Unfortunately, you don’t say which Sleekbook 15 you own. If you have a version with an AMD A4 or A6 chip, then the UX305 should be a lot faster at processing and displaying things, and dramatically more responsive. However, if you have a top model with Intel’s excellent Core i5-3317U and Nvidia GeForce GT 630M graphics, then it won’t be.Apple’s MacBook uses Intel’s Core-M processor to minimise heat and extend battery life.Photograph: James Looker/Future PublishingLike many new ultraportables – including Apple’s £1,049, 12in MacBook – the ZenBook UX305 uses an Intel Core-M processor to minimise heat generation and extend battery life. The Core-M has aTDPof about 4.5Watts, which is cool enough to run without a fan, which means a thinner laptop. However, this involves some loss of performance, and the chip will be throttled if it starts to overheat.The aforementioned Core i5-3317U, which runs at 17W, is slightly faster than the Core M-5Y10 in the ZenBook, though not enough to notice. If your Sleekbook has, say, an AMD A8-4555M, then the Core M-5Y10 should be slightly faster. But if you want a significant increase in speed, the Core-M is not the best choice. You should look for something like a Core i5-5300U, or even aCore i7, though I don’t think those are worth the extra cost.You can compare different processors for speed using Notebookcheck’s tabularComparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks).Student alternativesMost students probably want something cheaper than a ZenBook UX305 or UX305FA, and there are plenty of options. I did a round-up last month inCan you help me choose a cheap laptop?That included a few suggested purchases, to which I’d add the Asus X205TA (mentioned in acomment) for£159.99and theLenovo S21eat£179.99. Neither of those has a touchscreen, but I’m assuming an immediate (free) upgrade to Windows 10.The S21e’s main attractions are its Lenovo’s AccuType keyboard, which I prefer to the Asus keyboard, and that you can get it with Intel’s 2.16GHz N3540 processor, which is faster than the N28xx series. The S21e’s main drawback is that it’s on the larger side for an 11.6in laptop, and the screen has a big bezel. (Argos also has the older, slowerLenovo S20-30for £159.99, but this one has a 320GB hard drive.)However, my current “best cheap pick” is the HP Pavilion x2 at£219, though it’s not such good value at the in-store price, £249.99. This is a convertible so you get a tablet with a dedicated keyboard dock. It feels solid and well made for the price, it has a good quality screen, and the keyboard is above average. It’s a much classier bit of kit than the HP Stream 11.You can treat PCs like these just like tablets: hit the switch and they turn on and off in a couple of seconds. They don’t have much storage – typically 32GB of Flash, with an SD slot to add more – but you can save things directly to Microsoft’s OneDrive cloud, and your student Office 365 account provides a free terabyte.They’re great for carrying around for word processing etc, social networking, video etc, but not for things like video editing or processing large spreadsheets. For more serious use, I’d prefer to go for 4GB or even 8GB, rather than 2GB of memory.Microsoft Surface Pro 3 is very light, fast, tough and works as both a tablet and a laptop.Photograph: AlamyIf money is no object, then theMicrosoft Surface Pro 3(£639 to £1,349) is almost ideal as a student device. It’s very light, fast, tough, and works as both a tablet and a full-spec laptop. It comes with a pen so you can take handwritten notes or annotate existing documents. The main drawback is the accessory keyboard, which is very expensive and not the best for extended typing sessions. (I’m fussy.) However, it works with ordinary Bluetooth keyboards, and at your home base, you can plug in any USB keyboard.The Dell XPS 13 (2015) – which I reviewedhere– and theHP Spectre x360 13-4000naare also worth a look, and there areMacBooksfor those who prefer them.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Since the Snowden revelations, the market for privacy-oriented services has only grown – indeed, it’s likely that it will keep growing. We’re not at peak surveillance, but we’re way pastpeak indifference to surveillance.Running a privacy service comes with two distinct technical challenges: the cryptographic challenge of making messages secure in transit and at rest on your server; and the legal challenge of keeping your promises to your customers intact when a government wants to spy on them.These two problems are intimately entwined, and so are their solutions.The cost of getting it wrong is high. Take Lavabit, the privacy-oriented email provider used by Edward Snowden to communicate with journalists when he was planning his leak: a few months after the Snowden revelations, nearly two years ago,Lavabit mysteriously shut its doors, its website replaced with a message saying that owner Ladar Levinson took the action rather than “being complicit in crimes against the American people.”Later, it emerged that the NSA had secretly demanded that Lavabit insert a “backdoor” into its system so that it could potentially spy on all of Levinson’s customers. Rather than betray their trust, Levinson folded up his business altogether (bravingarrest threats) a process he likened to “putting a beloved pet to sleep.”Shortly after, Silent Circle, a major Lavabit competitor,pre-emptively shut the doors on its email service, apparently believing it was next in line for an NSA order. Groklaw, an investigative news site,also shut down, worried that it would have to secretly turn over information on its sources.Since 9/11, governments around the world have created spying legislation that allows them to demand that companies cooperate in surveillance operations while being sworn to perpetual secrecy on pain of criminal prosecution. In response, companies createddead man’s switches, or “warrant canaries.”Here’s how those work: companies periodically publish “transparency reports,” listing the number court orders they’ve received and whether and how they’ve complied with them. The first of these reports has a line like “Number of secret, gag-ordered surveillance warrants: 0”. If a company receives a secret warrant, it omits the line from its next transparency report.Eagle-eyed watchersnote the omission and conclude that the service is compromised and may no longer be trusted. The service folds.The idea of warrant canaries is not to voluntarily go out of business: it’s to make business-destroying secret warrants useless. “Serve us with one of your secret warrants,” they imply, “and everyone you wish to spy upon will automatically stop using this service, making the whole thing pointless.” This only works if you are based in a territory where the government can’t compel you to lie (that is, to go on publishing a transparency report that puts the number of secret warrants at zero, even when it’s non-zero).Many US constitutional scholars believe that while a government could gag a business in the name of security without falling afoul of the first amendment, ordering it to utter falsehoods would not pass muster. Other countries are less protective of free expression: in Australiawarrant canaries are now themselves illegal. Warrant canaries also only work if they’re published before the first snooping order arrives (that’s why the Electronic Frontier Foundationpublished an all-zeroes transparency reportmonths before launching its new Let’s Encrypt certificate authority service).Warrant canaries are a kind ofUlysses pact– a contract where one party begins negotiations by limiting their own choices (named for Ulysses, who tied himself to the mast to prevent himself from jumping in the sea when he heard the sirens’ songs). But as Ulysses pacts go, it’s a weak one: when it comes down to it, how many business owners are willing to shut the doors rather than tell one teeny-tiny lie on their transparency reports?This matters, because the spy agencies serving the warrants are asking themselves the same question. A warrant canary only prevents secret spying warrants if the agency believes the business owner is committed to publishing – if they think the owner might just go along to get along, they have every incentive to go through with it.There’s another kind of secret spying: malware implantation. This is when a government body orders a company to send some of its customers a software update that includes a backdoor. For example, the Saudi government onceconvinced Research in Motion to backdoor Blackberry deviceswithin its borders. In May, 2014, the anonymously maintained Truecrypt projectmysteriously shut down, leaving behind a cryptic note (possibly with a Dan-Brown-esque secret messagein it). Many believe that they shut down in response to a government demand to weaken some or all of the Truecrypt programs in the wild.In the case of programs that run on user’s computers there’s“binary transparency.”When a program with binary transparency receives an update, it computes that update’s “hash” (a mathematical fingerprint) and sends it to a server maintained by a disinterested third party. It also checks the hashes of all the other updates that have been received by all the other versions of the program that have checked in. If it sees that it has got a special update, it refuses to install it and alerts the user.This is much stronger, more effective Ulysses pact. If a spy agency knows that any attempt to implant malware on a user’s computer through a software update will both fail and raise an alarm, there is absolutely no reason even to try.What’s more, if binary transparency becomes the norm, than any company that doesn’t implement it will become the go-to target of opportunity for spies – they will be under huge pressure to match their competition.As with many questions of technology and regulation, the answer to the problem is a blend of economics, technology and law – but when it comes to malware implantation, all three are on privacy’s side.
The latest smartphone from Chinese upstart OnePlus is a self-proclaimed “2016 flagship killer” starting at just £239 in the UK, but is it really that good?OnePlus has made a name, in some circles at least, for creating solid high-performance smartphones that rival top-end devices from the likes ofSamsung,LGandApplefor less than half the price.Can the OnePlus 2 better the solid startmade by the OnePlus One?Simple, solid and grippySandstone black back feels like light sandpaper, which makes for an easy-to-grip phone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe OnePlus 2 is a significant step up in build quality and design. The all-glass front, metal sides and removable plastic back all feel very well built with absolutely no give or twist anywhere in the body.The default “sandstone black” back cover won’t be to everyone’s taste with its sandpaper-like texture. It helps the phone stay put in your hand, though, where every other metal or glass-backed phone is quickly becoming slippery like a bar of soap. The curvature of the back also makes it easy to hold.The OnePlus 2 is quite thick and heavy by today’s standards at 9.9mm thick and 175g in weight. For comparison the5.1in Samsung Galaxy S6is 6.8mm thick and weighs 138g and the new5.7in S6 Edge+is 6.9mm thick and weighs 153g.LG’s 5.5in G4, however, is 9.8mm thick and weighs 155g.The 5.5in screen has a 1080p resolution and a pixel density of 401 pixels per inch (ppi), which is significantly less dense than the5.5in quad HD screen of the LG G4with 538ppi. The difference is noticeable, the higher resolution screen is sharper, but for the money most users will likely be satisfied with the sharpness of the 1080p screen.Viewing angles are good, but the colour reproduction of the display is somewhat muted. Whether that’s good or bad depends on personal preference, but it makes photos look a little dull compared to the richer screens of most of the OnePlus 2’s competition.One of the OnePlus 2’s most interesting features is a slider for selecting between notification settings: alarms only, priority notifications and all notifications. It works well and is a thoughtful addition.The mute slider on the side works well and makes using Google’s priority notifications much easier.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5.5in 1080p LCD (401ppi)Processor:Octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 processorRAM:3/4GB of RAMStorage:16/64GB; no micro SD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop” with OxygenOSCamera:13MP rear camera with OIS and laser autofocus, 5MP selfie camConnectivity:Dual-Sim LTE, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.1, GPS, Glonass and USB-CDimensions:151.8 x 74.9 x 9.85mmWeight:175gHot and fieryHot to touch but the screen is slightly muted compared to the saturated Amoled screens common on high-end devices.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe OnePlus 2 has Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 810 processor, which is notorious for getting very warm, and a choice of 3 or 4GB of RAM depending on whether it comes with 16 or 64GB of storage space.The phone flies along, with little lag beyond the home button (more on that later), but the OnePlus 2 can get uncomfortably hot. During normal use the phone gets warm to touch, which is fine. When downloading a series of apps during setup, however, it got uncomfortably hot to the touch – there was no way I was putting that in my pocket.It only heats up at the top section of the phone around the camera, top edges and buttons. The bottom stays cool, which means most will not notice it until touching the top or attempting to make a call. No slowdown due to heat was noticeable.Dual sim and USB-CThe sim card tray holds two Sim cards at a time so that two numbers can be used simultaneously.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe OnePlus 2 can take two sim cards, which mean two numbers and plans can be used simultaneously. A work and a personal number can come to the same phone, or a local sim can be used while traveling alongside a home sim to make calls and data cheaper. Dual-sim support is rare in devices available in the UK, but more common in China and devices aimed at developing markets.The OnePlus 2 is one of the first smartphones to come equipped with the newUSB type-C connectorinstead of microUSB. It can be put in either way up and is much easier to use. Even the other end, the one that plugs into a USB port or charger, can be inserted either way up. It is only USB2, however, which means the OnePlus 2 does not benefit from the faster transfer speeds of USB3.USB-C is new and cables are in short supply, which means you will have to carry around the OnePlus 2’s cable to make sure you can charge it. That won’t be a problem in the future, when more devices switch over to the new connector.The USB type-C connector can be plugged into the end of the smartphone either way up, which means no more fumbling to find the right way up.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe OnePlus 2 lasted around 1.5 days per charge in my testing involving listening to three hours of music streamed over Bluetooth, 20 minutes of gaming, 90 minutes of browsing and hundreds of notifications and emails.For most people the OnePlus will likely last two days between charges.Missing featuresThe OnePlus 2 is lacking a few obvious features that are quickly becoming the mainstay of the flagship smartphones OnePlus portends to try and kill.One is near-field communications (NFC), which is under used now, primarily for pairing Bluetooth devices with one tap (no pin required) or setting up a new phone and moving details from an old one.However, in the near future whenAndroid 6 Marshmallowand Android Pay rolls out, which uses the NFC chip and fingerprint scanner to authenticate contactless payments in stops and stores, NFC will become a much more important feature.Wireless charging and is quick charging are also missing, which means the OnePlus 2 takes over two hours to fully charge instead of under 90 minutes.SoftwareGestures and buttons can be modified along with a range of other small tweaks to the standard Android experience.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe OnePlus 2 runs the company’s own version of Android called OxygenOS, instead ofCyanogen OS like the OnePlus Oneafter a falling out between the two companies.Most users will not notice the difference between OxygenOS, Cyanogen OS and standard Android Lollipop experience. It looks good, runs fast, is bloat free and is immune tothe Stagefright security bugout of the box.OnePlus has added a couple of noteworthy features. Its app permissions settings allows users to restrict app access on a case-by-case basis to phone features and personal data such as location, camera and audio recording.Gestures for activating features such the camera and flashlight are also useful, as are options to change the battery icon in the status bar and to arrange the quick settings tiles.Some bugs within the software are present. I was using the latest version of the OnePlus 2’s software but occasionally it would crash, such as when attempting to access the permissions screen of certain apps. The smartphone would also get to 5% battery and instantly shut off, meaning the battery meter wasn’t quite right.CameraThe 13-megapixel camera on the OnePlus 2 is solid, if a little slow.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe OnePlus 2’s 13-megapixel camera is very good for the price, with significantly better detail, sharpness and clarity than almost any smartphone under £300. It doesn’t have quite as good depth of field or image reproduction compared to the camera on theSamsung Galaxy S6orLG G4, for instance, but it is close.Low light performance is decent, but the camera app is relatively sluggish, occasionally taking a while to capture the image, which sometimes means the subject has left the frame before the picture is taken. The five megapixel selfiecam is also solid, surpassing most of the competition.Fingerprint scannerThe fingerprint scanner is great when it works, but can be confused by smudges on the glass home button and software bugs stop it waking the phone every time.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe home button on the OnePlus 2 is a fingerprint scanner, which recognised my thumbs around 90% of the time making it one of the best.It is capable of waking up and unlocking the smartphone straight to the homescreen, which is great when it works. I found that smudges on the glass caused issues, and around 30% of the time the fingerprint sensor failed to wake the phone, which was irritating.The home button can also be very unresponsive requiring a solid push of the thumb to get it to do anything, rather than a light touch as it should be.Apps such as Evernote and Lastpass also can’t use the sensor, as they can on aSamsung Galaxy S6for instance, meaning the fingerprint scanner is relegated to simply unlocking the phone and nothing else. That may change in the future.PriceThe OnePlus 2 costs £239 for the 16GB storage version with 3GB of RAM or £289 for the 64GB version with 4GB of RAM. For comparison a32GB Samsung Galaxy S6costs £415 and an LG G4 costs £340.VerdictThe OnePlus 2 gets a lot of things right, and only a few things wrong. The build quality is great, the design is attractive, the specifications high and the software is good.There are a few software bugs to work out, the sandpaper-like back doesn’t feel premium, it’s quite heavy and the lack of NFC, in particular, is irritating and will hamper futureproofing. The heat issue of the Snapdragon 810 processor remains, but only crops up from time to time.On the whole the OnePlus 2 isn’t the “2016 flagship killer” it claims to be, but it is a very good smartphone for under £300. The biggest issue is actually buying one, which requires an invite – a type of queuing system - that is hard to come by.Pros:fast, powerful, good camera, fingerprint sensor, stock Android with a few useful additions, excellent value, USB-C, dual-Sim, decent screenCons:poor quality speaker, no NFC, no wireless charging, no quick charge, USB-C, difficult to buy, software bugs, gets really hotOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive camera•Google Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageable•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Apple iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper
Three quarters of smartphone ownersadmit to using their devices while sitting on the toilet, so perhaps the only surprise is that it’s taken this long for an app to link them up to other random people also perching on the loo.Released by developer Ricardo Gruber, thefree iPhone appPooductive offers anonymous messaging, with the hook that everyone you encounter will be similarly occupied.“Think of it as a magical place where people from around the globe can anonymously meet to enjoy their time of zen, peace and quite together, by conversing, philosophising and sharing ideas with each other.You can add friends, have group chats or simply enjoy a 1 on 1 conversation... it is so much better and more entertaining then simply reading the back of a shampoo bottle.”Complete with a promotional screenshot with someone frankly sharing more information than we feel is necessary on a family website, the app is unlikely to rival messaging apps like WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger, which have 800 million and 700 million active users respectively.Related:Love in the time of technology: an app for every moment | Eva WisemanGruber will be hoping that Pooductive is more popular with iPhone owners than it was with visitors to crowdfunding site Kickstarter earlier this year.A campaign trying to raise €10k to make the appattracted just three backers and €184 of pledges before it was cancelled.“Most of our personal money has been invested into making this app a reality. However, since we are only students, we no longer have the financial resources needed to sustain the financial lifeline needed to allow Pooductive to reach its full potential,” explained the pitch.The main obstacle to the app’s success is that all those toilet-toiling smartphone users are using their regular social apps: Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and – shudder at the implications here if you like – Snapchat.Update:Pooductive developers Gruber and Marco Hernandez contacted the Guardian to explain that there’s more to their app than just chat.“We hope to connect Pooductive with some big charities that focus on both clean water and improving hygiene in developing countries,” they wrote in an email, adding that press interest came quickly and unexpectedly, so the charitable aspect has not yet launched.“We’re working as fast as we can to realise our mission and get the charities we have already connected to on board. We hope that through this, Pooductive can have a positive impact - past connecting people on the loo - which has always been our intention.”
It’s Thursday. I think we may have featured this game before, but what the heck, it’s pretty beautiful. This is the twin-stick shooter, A Quiver of Crows from Californian studioSheado.net. It’s coming to Steam this autumn.
Hackers have released what appear to be sensitive and confidential details of 33m user accounts on the infidelity site Ashley Madison, including names, addresses, emails and information about their sexual preferences. The data from the website, whose tagline is “Life is short. Have an affair”, was released by hackers from the Impact Team cybergroup, and took the form of a 10GB database on the “dark web” that could be accessed through a specialised web browser called Tor.One coder then created a site for internet users where it was possible to enter a specific email address to see if that matched a customer record, potentially allowing spouses to check whether their partners had an account on the controversial site.Accounts appear to come from all around the world, including 1.2m in the UK, with email addresses from government, the military and large companies, although some of the emails used may be faked because Ashley Madison did not verify customer email addresses. More than 100 user accounts were registered with Ministry of Defence email addresses, and another 100-plus accounts were registered with emails ending in gov.uk, the general government domain, the Guardian can confirm.Related:Ashley Madison database suggests paid-delete option left identifiable data intactAmarried SNP MP whose email address was among the millions releasedsaid she was the victim of a smear campaign. Michelle Thomson, the MP for Edinburgh West, said her identity was “harvested” by hackers. “I am not aware of, or in contact with … Ashley Madison, and look forward to finding out more about what has actually happened,” she said.The leak also appeared to demonstrate that the “full delete” service run by Ashley Madison, which purported to charge users £15 to remove all their information from the dating site, did not work comprehensively. The leaked data included enough information to enable the easy identification of users. The company apparently retained the date of birth, city, state, postcode, country and gender of its former customers, plus information about their relationship status, what they were open to sexually, and what they were looking for in a partner.The allegations that Ashley Madison’s full delete did not work as advertised are at the heart of the stated motivation for the site’s hack, which is thought to have taken place last month. The group that attacked the company said it was motivated by the fact that the full-delete option generated $1.7m (£1.1m) in revenue in 2014.Ashley Madison was set up in 2001 by a Canadian entrepreneur, Noel Biderman, and courted controversy with its explicitly pro-infidelity stance. Its owner, Toronto-based Avid Life Media, said it was working with police and law-enforcement authorities in Canada and the US.“This event is not an act of ‘hacktivism’, it is an act of criminality. It is an illegal action against the individual members of AshleyMadison.com, as well as any freethinking people who choose to engage in fully lawful online activities,” Avid Life Media said in a statement. “The criminal, or criminals, involved in this act have appointed themselves as the moral judge, juror, and executioner, seeing fit to impose a personal notion of virtue on all of society.”A second database leaked by the hackers also demonstrated that senior staff at the site were raising concerns over its security procedures as recently as June. The leaked internal documents show one company vice-president raising concerns over “a lack of security awareness across the organisation”. One was a summary of results of an internal questionnaire, in which employees were asked to list “critical success factors” in their jobs, the areas where “failure to perform well” would hurt them most, and the area where they would “hate to see something go wrong”.Related:Ashley Madison staff raised security concerns before hackBiderman, the company’s chief executive, wrote in the section on what he would hate to see go wrong: “Data exfiltration [stealing], confidentiality of the data. An insider data breach would be very harmful. Have we done a good enough job vetting everyone? Are we on top of it?”Biderman’s response was dated 17 June 2015. Just one month later the attackers stole the user database and demanded that Ashley Madison and its sister site, Established Men, be taken offline, threatening to release the personal information in 30 days if their conditions were not met.In his initial response to the attack, Biderman implied that his greatest fear – an insider data breach – was what had happened. “We’re on the doorstep of [confirming] who we believe is the culprit,” he told a cybersecurity journalist, Brian Krebs, in July. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials. It was definitely a person here who was not an employee, but certainly had touched our technical services.”The personal data that was taken from Ashley Madison is partially protected. But information such as addresses, credit card details and sexual preferences is stored in plain text in the database.The company condemned the attack, but stopped short of verifying that the information leaked online was genuine. In a statement after the data was made public, the company said: “We will continue to put forth substantial efforts into removing any information unlawfully released to the public, as well as continuing to operate our business.”
Top data security analyst Brian Krebs has warned that people could take their lives after their personal details were exposed in a hack of infidelity website Ashley Madison.“We have to be very cautious and I think sensitive to this,” Krebs,who broke the initial story, said. “There’s a very real chance that people are going to overreact. I wouldn’t be surprised if we saw people taking their lives because of this, and obviously piling on with ridicule and trying to out people is not gonna help the situation.”Related:Ashley Madison's paid-delete option 'left data identifying users', post claimsDetails of Ashley Madison’s 37 million users werereleased on to the webon Wednesday by The Impact Team, the organization that claimed responsibility for the theft 30 days ago and demanded that the site shut down by today.The cache of information reveals the personal details – email addresses, names (or pseudonyms), and very specific sexual proclivities – of some 37 million users the site has attracted over 14 years, and it’s not just available to download via suspicious websites, it’s easily searchable.On social news site Reddit, one user claimed he was a gay man now living in Saudi Arabia who had used the service under hisown nameto meet men in the US. He titled his post: “I May Get Stoned to Death for Gay Sex (Gay Man from Saudi Arabia Who Used Ashley Madison for Hookups.)”“I am from a country where homosexuality carries the death penalty,” he wrote. “I BEG you all to spread this message. Perhaps the hackers will take notice of it, and then, I can tell them to (at the very least) exercise discretion in their information dump (i.e. leave the single gay arab guy out of it). As of now, I plan on leaving the Kingdom and never returning once I have the $ for a plane ticket. Though I have no place to go, no real friends, and no job.”Related:Ashley Madison staff raised security concerns before hackKrebs, whoposted about the hack’s outcome todayand has revealed details of other major hacks including the massive data breach atTarget, said the danger from this particular hack had to do not just with the nature of the information but with public shaming culture.Krebs said he thought there was, however, one aspect of the situation that seemed absurd to him: “If there’s schadenfreude, I hope it has to do most with people being amused at the idea of other people thinking you can put this kind of information on the internet without having it get out.”The breach, like the Sony hack before it, has been indexed and hosted by anonymous public-spirited individuals, and that makes the information that much simpler to abuse. Before Wikileaks indexed the Sony emails, Amy Pascal’s emails and the incursion itself (including the rescheduling of one of the company’s films, The Interview) was the biggest story. Since the Wikileaks page went up, there’s been a steady drip of damaging news items for months.Now that its user data – which appears to include accounts using .gov and .mil addresses – is public, questions of blackmail and divorce are in the air and at least one organization (Class Action News, a site that posts information about ongoing suits and connects lawyers with the aggrieved) is on Twitter soliciting litigants.Was your personal info on#AshleyMadison? You may be entitled to damages!http://t.co/trVNJgMkuJ&#10;&#10;#ashleymadisonhackpic.twitter.com/2TamdUtf8n&mdash; ClassActionUS (@ClassActionUS)August 19, 2015Meanwhile, Avid Life Media, Ashley Madison’s owner, has gone into damage control mode, sending cease-and-desists to people who post even the smallest sections of the hack on Twitter,according to a Vice report. “Avid owns all intellectual property in the data, which has been stolen from our data centre, and disclosed in this unauthorized and unlawful manner,” read a notice filed to Vice by Avid’s director of business development, Jamie Rosenblatt.The company released two statements today, one calling the breach criminal (without confirming that the user data was genuine, which Krebs and the Guardian have both done independently) and another saying that no complete credit card numbers were stolen. “Every week sees new hacks disclosed by companies large and small, and though this may now be a new societal reality, it should not lessen our outrage,” said the company in an unbylined statement. “These are illegitimate acts that have real consequences for innocent citizens who are simply going about their daily lives.”Krebs said he suspected the investigation had moved backward, not forward. “I think we’re still a ways off from understanding how this hack occurred,” he said. “The CEO confirmed that they’d been hacked and he seemed pretty convinced it was somebody who had legitimate access to their network at some point and they had strong suspicions about who that person might be. But if they’d apprehended somebody they probably would have said so.Insider breaches are much likelier to succeed than external threats, though Krebs said the lack of email confirmation for the site’s user profiles might give some people deniability. Of course, at least a few of the database indexes popping up around the web are thorough enough to make that excuse a lot harder for some users. “Some of [the hack-checking sites] are saying, ‘yes, there’s a payment record associated with this.’ That’s more problematic.”
The hacked infidelity site Ashley Madison apparently retained enough personal data about users to identify them to spouses – as the site’s hackers have claimed – despite offering a paid-for “full delete” service, which charged users £15 or $20 to remove all their information.On the database of Ashley Madison accounts, which was posted online by the hackers on Wednesday, accounts that had been wiped by the dating service had their real name, username, email and profile information removed as promised. But the company seems to have retained the date of birth, city, state, post- or zip code, country, gender, ethnicity, weight, height, body type and whether the user smokes or drinks – providing enough information to reveal a user’s identity.It also retained what kind of relationship a user was seeking, their current relationship status, what they were open to sexually, what turned them on, and what they were looking for in a partner. For instance, one user marked as having paid for their account to be deleted can be tracked to a specific tower block in London, where knowledge of their date of birth and appearance would easily identify them to friends or spouses.The information security firm Rapid7, however, warned about individuals drawing damaging conclusions from the data. Tod Beardsley, the company’s security engineering manager, told the Guardian: “It’s trivial to set up a fake account on Ashley Madison, since Avid Life Media’s [owner of Ashley Madison] account setup procedures encourages, but does not require, an email address to be verified by the user. This might be done for a variety of reasons by actors ranging from pranksters to bitter divorce rivals.“Second, the majority of ‘real’ account holders tend to use fake, throwaway data and details, for obvious reasons. If some of those fake details happen to coincide with a real person, then it can create a sticky problem for that real person. Finally, even if the real data is a real person, and that person really registered for the site, there is no indication in the data if that person was successful at, or even intending to, pursue an illicit affair.”The allegations that Ashley Madison’s “full delete” was nothing of the sort lie at the heart of the hackers’ assault on the site. The group that attacked the company, calling themselves the “Impact Team”, said that they were motivated by the fact that “Full Delete netted Avid Life Media $1.7m [£1.1m] in revenue in 2014. It’s also a complete lie … Too bad for ALM, you promised secrecy but didn’t deliver.” The hackers demanded that Ashley Madison remove itself from the internet, or warned that they would release the stolen data.Ashley Madison has not replied to a request for comment on retaining information on users who paid for a full deletion.
WhatsApp has rolled out itsweb serviceto Apple iPhone users, allowing them to send and receive messages on their computers as well as their phones.Support for iOS has been a long time coming, but now means WhatsApp offers its web option - which works on both Mac and PC - to users with most phones running Windows, Google, Blackberry and Nokia operating systems.Those with the latest version of the phone app (available for free in Apple’s app store) should find a new “web” menu option under “settings” – although the function is being rolled out in stages and will not be immediately available to all.WhatsApp web will sync or “mirror” data with the phone app, allowing messages to be received and sent in-browser. But the web app is not standalone: the phone must be connected to the internet or the conversation will drop out, and all of users’ messages will remain on the phone.To sync iPhones with the web client, users first must scan a QR code from WhatsApp’s website using their phone.How WhatsApp web appears on iOS.Photograph: ScreengrabWhatsApp’s web client was originallylaunched in January 2015, but this is the first time it has been available for iPhones.In ablogpostto announce the initial release of its web presence, WhatsApp wrote:“Our web client is simply an extension of your phone: the web browser mirrors conversations and messages from your mobile device – this means all of your messages still live on your phone.”At the time, it was stated that the company would “not be able to provide web client to our iOS users due to Apple platform limitations.”WhatsApp instructions for users to gain access to its web version.Photograph: WhatsApp screengrabWhatsApp’s vice president, Neeraj Arora, has sinceretweetedthe good news for Apple fans.The messaging app is one of the most popular across all platforms and wasbought for $19b (£12b) by Facebookin February 2014. Founder Jan Koumreported800m monthly active users in April 2015.•The 10 best messaging apps
A married SNP MP whose email address was among the millions released in a data hack on adultery website Ashley Madison has said she is the victim of a smear campaign.Michelle Thomson, the MP for Edinburgh West, said her identity was “harvested” by hackers who published what they claim to be the personal information, including names, email addresses, phone numbers and partial credit card numbers of the social network’s 37 million users.“Along with potentially millions of others, an out-of-use email address seems to have been harvested by hackers,” Thomson said. “I am not aware of, or in contact with, either Avid Life or Ashley Madison and look forward to finding out more about what has actually happened.“However, having a personal email address linked to an account doesn’t mean that person is really a user of Ashley Madison. Users are able to sign up to the site without responding to an email verification, meaning anyone’s email address could have been used to create an account.”Hackers calling themselves Impact Team posted the 10 gigabyte file called “Time’s Up!” on BitTorrent and the dark web on Tuesday night, calling the users “cheating dirtbags” saying they “do not deserve anonymity”.The Impact team stole the user database in an attack in July, when they demanded that Ashley Madison and its sister site Established Men, both owned by Toronto-based Avid Life Media, be taken offline, threatening to release the personal information in 30 days if their conditions were not met.“Avid Life Media has failed to take down Ashley Madison and Established Men. We have explained the fraud, deceit and stupidity of ALM and their members. Now everyone gets to see their data,” the hackers said in a statement released with the leaked information on Tuesday.Ashley Madison condemned the attack but did not verify whether the information was genuine. “We are actively monitoring and investigating this situation to determine the validity of any information posted online and will continue to devote significant resources to this effort,” it said.The Guardian has independently confirmedthat the email address and details of a Guardian journalist who used Ashley Madison as part of an investigation is in the released database. Others have also spoken about the validity of the information.Brian Krebs, who broke the news of the original hack, said: “I’ve now spoken with three vouched sources who all have reported finding their information and last four digits of their credit card numbers in the leaked database.” And Rob Graham, researcher from Errata security, said he was still analysing the leaked databut agreed that“it appears legit”.But some insist that at one stage Ashley Madison did not verify email addresses for new user accounts, which allowed the creation of many fake accounts, including those of high profile politicians. “I could have created an account at Ashley Madison with the address of barack.obama@whitehouse.gov, but it wouldn’t have meant that Obama was a user of the site,”independent security researcher Graham Cluleysaid.
Senior staff at Ashley Madison, the hacked extramarital dating site, were raising concerns over its security procedures as recently as June, just a month before the site was attacked.Internal documents leaked as part of the attack show concerns over “a lack of security awareness across the organisation” being raised by one vice president. A database containing the documents and more than 30 million user records exfiltrated in the attack, was posted to the internet on Tuesday.One document was a summary of results of an internal questionnaire, in which employees were asked to list “critical success factors” in their jobs, the areas where “failure to perform well” would hurt them most, and the area where they would “hate to see something go wrong”.Kevin MacCall, the vice president of operations, listed the lack of security awareness in the last category, while Trevor Stokes, the company’s chief technology officer, listed “protection of personal information” in the first category, and “Security” in the last.Noel Biderman, the company’s chief executive, wrote in the section on what he would hate to see go wrong: “Data exfiltration, confidentiality of the data. An insider data breach would be very harmful. Have we done good enough a job vetting everyone, are we on top of it.”Biderman’s response was dated 17 June 2015, just one month before the company’s attackers, who call themselves Impact Team, announced that they had successfully hacked the company and were planning on releasing personal information of users if they did not close their doors.Related:Ashley Madison condemns attack as experts say hacked database is realIn his initial response to the attack, Biderman implied that his greatest fear – an insider data breach – was indeed what had happened. “We’re on the doorstep of [confirming] who we believe is the culprit, and unfortunately that may have triggered this mass publication,”he told security journalist Brian Krebs in July. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials. It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.”Security fears were mentioned in two other employee assessments, and privacy was mentioned in one.The personal data that was taken from Ashely Madison is partially protected, with passwords “hashed”, a measure which prevents them being easily re-used to hack into other accounts. But information such as addresses, credit card details and sexual preferences is all stored in plain-text in the database.Ashley Madison has yet to respond to a request for comment on internal concerns over its security procedures.In an earlier statement after the data was made public, it said: “We are actively monitoring and investigating this situation to determine the validity of any information posted online and will continue to devote significant resources to this effort. Furthermore, we will continue to put forth substantial efforts into removing any information unlawfully released to the public, as well as continuing to operate our business.”
Thirty eight new emoji are under consideration by theUnicode Consortium, the organisation which designs and approves emoji, for inclusion in its next release.New emoji candidates include a pregnant woman, bacon and a partner for the dancing emoji woman in the red dress.Unicode 9, an updated official list of approved emoji, is expected to be released around the summer of 2016. Once a Unicode update is released, Apple, Google and Microsoft are free to design the new emoji to add to their operating systems (hence why emoji vary between platforms).The bride may finally wed.Photograph: EmojipediaIn addition to the 38 emoji to reach the “candidate stage” of consideration, 15 more emoji have also been submitted to the Consortium. It is likely that not all will make the cut for next year.Thefull list of prospective emojican be found at Emojipedia, but examples include: shark, carrot and a person taking a selfie. The bride, Santa Claus and the dancing woman in red dress would all find partners. The website dedicated toall things emojihas even mocked up what some of the new additions might look like.Some more designs from Emojipedia guessing at what Unicode 9 might include.Photograph: EmojipediaHowever, even with official approval under Unicode 9, unless the technology companies decide to implement the new characters, they may never be usable.Unicode 8, which wasapproved in June 2015, and included 37 new emoji (examples: a taco and unicorn), has not been picked up by Apple, Google or Microsoft – with the exception of the set of racially diverse emoji.We are bereft to report that, yet again,noredhead emojiis included in the list under consideration.• Which emoji would you like to see produced? Leave thoughts in the thread below
It’s Wednesday. Today’s game is the open-world narrative adventureAfflictionfrom Mastermind Games. It’s set in a small town in fifties America where a meteor strike brings disaster.
Just over half the people who sampled Apple Music have stuck around to use the service regularly, a study by music industry analytics firm MusicWatch has found. Apple recently took a victory lap for hitting the 11 million user mark among people who had sampled its new service, which is meant to compete with similar offerings from Spotify and Pandora. But 48% of those users aren’t there any more.Related:Apple Music has 11m listeners five weeks after launchingThe survey studied 5,000 Apple customers aged 13 and older, two-thirds of whom told researchers that they were either “extremely likely” or “very likely” to pay for the service when their free trials ended. On the other hand, 61% of them turned off the auto-renewal option on the service.Apple disputed the figures. The company told the Guardian that its internal figures put the rate of retention much higher: “Of the people that have signed up for the trial 79% are using the service,” said a spokesman.On the bright side, Apple Music has done nothing to hurt the company’s pay-to-download bottom line: “While it has become popular to use the term ‘streaming wars’ to characterize the current state of the music industry, very few Apple Music users said they had stopped using their online radio, audio on-demand or video streaming services, as a result of using Apple Music,”wrote Russ Crupnick, MusicWatch’s managing partner.Paying subscribers aren’t yet a majority of any business model in the streaming music world that also includes a free option: Spotifyannounced in Junethat it has 15 million subscribers out of its 60 million active users, while Pandora maintains a base of about 3.8 million Pandora One subscribers, according to BTIG analyst Rich Greenfield.Media and tech analyst Mark Mulliganpredicts in a blog postthat Apple’s auto-opt-in will mean that about 6 million subscribers will end up on the books for the first billable month (many realizing they are paying for the first time), dropping sharply once people figure out they are being billed. Mulligan believes by the end of the year Apple could reasonably expect to have 8.7 million paying subscribers. “This assumes a (modest) 5% monthly churn rate and the 25% long term subscriber conversion rate,” he wrote.Greenfield was skeptical about the long-term business model. “Similar to Dash Radio and terrestrial radio, we believe ‘radio’ requires personalities, not algorithm-driven playlists without personality,” he wrote ina note to investors in June. “Human voices and curation are critical to building a brand and personal relationship in radio – not to mention the power that gives you to build a sponsorship/advertising model if so desired.”
Boston Dynamics, the robot company owned byAlphabet, the company formerly known as Google, has taken on a new challenge: the great outdoors.In a video released this week, Mark Raibert, the founder of the company, showed the latest iteration of its Atlas robot going for a walk – more of a stomp, really – through the woods.“My goal is to build robots that rival humans and animals or maybe even exceed humans and animals in their ability to move around in the world, manipulate things, perceive what’s around them,” hetold the crowd. “It’s a pretty tall order.”By way of introduction, Raibert showed the crowd assembled for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Fab Foundation symposium in Boston earlier this month a video of some mountain goats clambering across a steep slope, including a young kid. “One of those animals is right off the assembly line, has no trouble with extremely rough terrain, doing perception in the environment,” Raibert noted.It’s difficult to make metal and circuitry mimic all that natural ability, he said. “We’ve been working hard trying to rival those animals, and as I said, eventually we hope to surpass them, building a whole series of robots that are able to move dynamically [meaning that there is energy in the motion] and balance themselves.”The bipedal Atlas wasn’t the only robot showcased – the company has another four-legged model, LS-3, built to carry a 400lb payload over 20 miles of variable terrain “anywhere a solider might go”.The focus overall, said Raibert, is on balance and dynamics. “Out in the world is just a totally different challenge than in the lab,” he said. “You can’t predict what it’s going to be like.” Eventually, the robot – which currently runs on a tether, but had a backpack full of fuel in the versions used at the DRC – would have “mobility that’s sort of within shooting range of yours”.Fabrication in the robotics world is changing. Raibert said that by the end of the year, Boston Dynamics hoped to have robots with “hydraulic elements just printed into them” instead of separate hydraulics screwed or bolted to the robot’s “bones”.Boston Dynamics has already shown its skills in the real world. The company made two out of the three Atlas robots capable of successfully shutting down a nuclear reactor at theDarpa Robotics Challengethis summer, though the software running the Atlases was developed by other firms.
On Sunday, a New York Times article opened fire onAmazon’s work cultureby detailing a workplace that divides worker against worker and treats the sick and bereaved with no empathy.Related:Amazon exposé shows how little tech has changed the landscapeThe case was that Amazon’s management practices were standouts. But the bigger picture is the way that the tech sector as a whole is reconfiguring work – by design, and sometimes by accident – is in a way that exacerbates inequality, and disempowers both white- and blue-collar workers.On the broadest scale, technology is one of the largest factors contributing to the widening gap between rich and poor in advanced economies. The International Monetary Fundreleased a report in Junewhich showed how “technological progress and the resulting rise in the skill premium” had dramatically worsened the position of less skilled workers.While technologically skilled workers can demand higher wages, those with fewer skills have seen their position deteriorate, in some cases their jobs automated out of existence. (In fact, some economists argue that technology and automationhave been pressing down on job growthfor the last 15 years.)Naturally, all of this advantages those with good access to educational resources, and favours the traditionally privileged: rich, white men in advanced economies.This is nowhere more evident than within the tech industry, which has a notorious diversity problem. Google’s own reporting last year showed that its workforce was 70% male and 61% white; Facebook’s latest report in June showed it was 68% male, and 55% white, with Hispanic and black employees making up 4% and 2% of the workforce respectively.Where tech insiders don’t dismiss concerns about diversity, they generally treat it as a “pipeline” problem which can be fixed by, say, providing incentives for more women to study Stem disciplines.Unfortunately, researchkeepsshowingthatwomen with just that kind of training leave Silicon Valley jobs at much higher rates than men, and much more quickly. They do so because of a culture that is perceived as hostile to motherhood and families, is dripping with nerd machismo, and is frequently openly discriminatory.And then, there’s how the technologies born in the Silicon Valley impact white-collar workers. New advances are promoted for their versatility and convenience, but researchhas suggestedthat for many of us, they simply blur the lines between work and home life, allowing our bosses to contact us at any time and encouraging us to think that we should never stop working.It doesn’t stop at the impact the sector has on the middle class, either. There are companies whose business model involves colonising whole other sectors – and making working-class jobs worse.Uber has become a $50bn company by building an app that puts its drivers – which the company says are independent contractors – in touch with passengers needing rides. But its biggest advantage, and perhaps its real product, is its app: it interweaves data collection, customer ratings and flexible labour contracts into a new, subtly coercive form of employee management.Alex Rosenblat, a researcher at Data &amp; Society, a thinktank in New York, has extensively researched the working lives of Uber’s drivers. They have told her how user ratings and other metrics (like ride acceptance/refusal rates and availability) are collected in order to carry out data-driven management.“Low performers are criticised, good performers are praised,” she says. User ratings are at the heart of the process – Rosenblat says that to drivers they are “everything” – but it’s never clear what kinds of things they have to do to get good ones. The company makes general suggestions, but Rosenblat points out that “Uber doesn’t make the rules clear”.This means that drivers wind up doing extra free labour – above and beyond what might even be necessary – to get higher ratings. This includes the kind of emotional and affective labour which has long been fostered in retail and service industries. Uber drivers provide bottled water and snacks and work hard on their repartee, for free: “[It’s] the kinds of things taxi drivers do for tips. But Uber has taken out tips. So they’re doing all this extra work for ratings,” Rosenblat said.This means that “the passenger becomes a middle manager”. Their ratings provide the company with real-time performance assessments, but perhaps more importantly they encourage drivers to construct an affable persona in advance of those assessments. Meanwhile most of the drivers’ interactions are with the app, and emails from the company.Uber’s work discipline goes beyond the body, and tries to work on the soul of contractors to whom the company says it owes nothing in return. Is this the future of work?While some responses to the Amazon revelations have suggested that the problems of privileged tech workers are somehow definitively different to those at the bottom of the economic pile, the only way we can fix this is to respond collectively, recognising that everyone has a stake in humane, fairly remunerated work.That response needs to demand not the windback of technological progress, but a fairer distribution of its benefits. Labor-saving technology should benefit everyone, and not turn real human workers into robots or, worse, scrap.
Stagefright, the hugely widespread Android vulnerability which Googlefinally patched in early August, is back for a second go.Security research firm Trend Micro has discovereda new vulnerability in how videos are handled in Android, which they warn can allow a hacker to run their own code on mobile devices.Like the flaw in Stagefright, the attack works on nearly every version of Android still in use, from 2010’s version 2.3 all the way to April’s version 5.1.1. As with Stagefright, the researchers have waited for Google to release a patch before announcing their discovery. And as with Stagefright, the patch is not yet available for end-users, because it takes weeks to filter down through the handset ecosystem.Trend Micro’s Wish Wu says: “With this new vulnerability, an attacker would be able to run their code with the same permissions that the mediaserver program already has as part of its normal routines.“Since the mediaserver component deals with a lot of media-related tasks including taking pictures, reading MP4 files, and recording videos, the privacy of the victim may be at risk. Devices with customised versions of Android but with no modification made to the media server component are also affected.”Google did not comment on this story.
Apple has been hit by a second unpatched “privilege escalation” bug in as many months, allowing an attacker to take complete control of a computer by abusing a flaw in the operating system’s memory handling.The bug, which is similar tothe DYLD vulnerability revealed in late July, affects versions of Mac OS X from 10.9.5 through to the recently released 10.10.5. It does not affect the beta versions of the next version of Mac OS X, called El Capitan, which is due out this autumn. As a privilege escalation bug, it opens up the possibility of malware bypassing security measures that are put in place to limit the abilities of malicious code, which somehow ends up running on a users’ computer.Discovered by a researcher named Luca Todesco,who goes by the description of 18-year-old Italian on Twitter, the bug was publicly disclosed on Sunday without giving Apple advance notice to fix the error – something which has earned Todesco no small amount of criticism.One commenter on Apple Insidersummed up the prevailing opinion: “Not notifying the software author first, and giving them some time to release a patch before public disclosure, is pure asshattery, in my opinion.”July’s DYLD bug, which was similarly released without giving Apple advance warning, was patched within the month, but it looks like users will have to wait for El Capitan to see this latest flaw fixed.Apple did not respond to a request for comment on this story.
British startup Blippar recorded a loss of £4.96m in its last financial year, as it more than tripled its headcount in the expectation of future growth in the augmented reality (AR) technology market.The company’s AR mobile apps, which overlay digital information and interactivity over real-world scenes and printed media, have been installed by more than 50 million people since they launched in 2011.Blippar mainly makes its money from selling AR advertising to brands including Coca-Cola, Proctor &amp; Gamble and Nestle, and saw its revenues grow 45% from £3.06m in its 2013 financial year to £4.46m in 2014.However, the company’s net loss of £4.96m in 2014 compared to a net profit of £57.2k the previous year, as it expanded its headcount from 43 to 154 people. Blippar spent more on staff costs in 2014 - £4.72m - than it made in revenues.Mobile AR is an area still in its infancy, however. “The company is concentrated on growing both the augmented reality market and its share of the market, and feels that this growth was positive,” explained Blippar’s directors in financial results filed with Companies House.2014 also saw Blippar acquire one of its rivals,Layar. Its financial filing reveals that it paid £3.9m in cash for the Dutch company, which it valued for its “skilled, experienced staff base, a long tail of customers and an existing user base”.The report explains that in Blippar’s fiscal 2013, which ended on 30 November 2014, the company raised £11m of funding. It also highlights another round of investment after the end of that financial year.Related:Mysterious startup Magic Leap shows off augmented reality action game“In March 2015, the company raised a further $25m (£15.9m) from the issue of ordinary shares. The directors expect to raise further funds through an equity raise in the next 12 months.”In March,Blippar announced a $45m funding roundto fuel its ambitions “to build the first visual search engine for the entire physical world”.Why the gap between the $45m of funding announced in March, and the $25m round referred to in the financial filing? “The investment is in tranches. We cannot disclose more about it,” says Blippar’s global marketing manager Assieh Khamsi.Since the funding, Blippar has acquired a 4.47% stake in AR glasses makerWave Optics.
Early in Google’s history, an executive suggested that the firm adopt the slogan “Don’t Be Evil.” It was more than a motto; it was a mission statement for the new “masters of the universe”, as Tom Wolfe described Wall Street over a decade earlier – a group of geeks stationed 3,000 miles away from New York’s corporate excess and malfeasance.Related:Jeff Bezos defends Amazon after NYT exposé of working practicesTech’s take on capitalism was informed more by 1960s counterculture and the hippies who gathered a few miles north of Silicon Valley at Haight-Ashbury in San Francisco. Contrary to Gordon Gekko’s infamous 1980s mantra, for web companies catapulted from California garages to the New York Stock Exchange, greed wasn’t “good” – and it definitely wasn’t cool.But as Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google have become some of the world’s richest and most powerful companies, their well-intentioned capitalism has begun to resemble the ruthless corporatism more commonly associated with giant banks, insurance firms, and energy companies.This colder, meaner Silicon Valley is on display in afront page article of Sunday’s New York Timesabout the intensely high demands placed on Amazon’s workforce by CEO Jeff Bezos. As the e-commerce giant continues its ambitious play to sell everything to everyone all the time, current and former employees bemoan long working hours and an expectation that workers be available 24 hours a day to answer emails.Staffers are encouraged to send negative feedback to management calling out behavior that’s below the company’s impossibly high standards. And pity employees who suffer a miscarriage or cancer diagnosis, as they are said to find little sympathy from bosses or colleagues.A trade union spokesperson says Amazon staff in the UK and are being pushed beyond their limits and some are developing physical and mental illnesses- link to videoBezosresponded to these claimsin an internal memoobtained by GeekWire, writing that the article “doesn’t describe the Amazon I know or the caring Amazonians I work with every day”.But another tech bubble has burst. The idea of tech employees slaving away miserably runs counter to the image of Silicon Valley propagated by pop culture and the companies themselves, in which workers inhabit utopian workplaces, are fed by gourmet chefs, and spar over ping pong tables and classic arcade machines in recognition of the relationship between play and creativity. Sure, tech employees work as hard as they play. They do, however, in order to happily share in the glory (and profits) of their corporate overlords – or so this narrative suggests. It’s an idea that took hold in the 1950s at the prototypical Valley firm, Fairchild Semiconductor, after it made every employee a shareholder in a then-unprecedented move. Nowadays many tech workers – at Amazon and elsewhere – feel less like the fire fueling engines of innovation and more like cogs.While Amazon’s treatment of workers may be perceived as unfair, it doesn’t appear to be illegal. The same cannot be said, however, of a massive scheme led by Steve Jobs – who, to many, is a paragon of Silicon Valley excellence –to drive down the wages of employees at Apple, Google, Intel, Adobe and othersin the 2000s. Jobs and then-Google CEO Eric Schmidt had secret, felonious agreements in place to not poach each other’s engineers, allowing them to artificially keep wages down. According to Pando Daily’s Mark Ames, so ruthless were these agreements that Jobs, after receiving word that Google fired a recruiter who tried to court one of Apple’s engineers,responded with a smiley face emoticon.If Big Tech’s treatment of salaried employees isn’t always great, then its treatment of contractors, particularly by so-called “sharing economy” startups like Uber and Airbnb, is often atrocious. Although these firms push a narrative that they empower small business owners, their platforms are structured to leverage millions of workers without having to comply with labor laws. Despite operating as employees, Uber drivers do not receive insurance benefits, compensation for day-to-day expenses, nor job security. In turn, Uber has fought efforts from drivers to unionize or reclassify themselves as employees who are afforded the same protections by law as more “traditional” workers. Airbnb, meanwhile, has taken a less overtly adversarial approach toward its hosts, but has in the past beenreluctant to compensate renterswhen guests incur property damage.Tech companies are also complicit in controversial practices more historically associated with older, less egalitarian bastions of American capitalism – like absurdly high CEO-to-worker pay ratios which,according to former US secretary of labor Robert Reich, contribute to America’s worsening income inequality problem.In 2011, Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook made6,258 times as muchas his employees. In 2012, eBay’s John Donahoe made656 timesmore than his employees, and Oracle’s Larry Ellison, despite receiving a salary on paper of $1,took home 1,287 times more than workers in the form of stock options and other awards. Granted, tech CEO pay is often calculated with greater emphasis placed on company performance than in other industries. Butmany experts doubt the efficacy of pay-for-performance incentives.Tech firms are also among America’s worst offenders when it comes to tax avoidance.According to the advocacy group Citizens for Tax Justice, Apple holds $157.8bn in profits offshore – more than any other Fortune 500 company. Much of this cash is held in tax shelters like the Cayman Islands, where the corporate tax rate is virtually zero. That’s allowed Apple –which is now the most profitable company in the world– to pay an effective foreign tax rate of only two percent during the last fiscal year. The amount of public works that could be funded if Apple kept a fairer portion of its profits in ths US – where it sells more iPhones than in any other nation – is astounding.In 2013, Google’s Schmidt was criticized after revealing in anNPR interviewserious doubts about the “Don’t Be Evil” motto. While many expressed sadness over Google’s admission that kindness is not a viable business model, others found Schmidt’s honesty refreshing. By the 2010s, only the most naive consumers could admit that Google cared more about doing good than making profits.Just as some of Silicon Valley’s founders did back in the day, advocates of corporate responsibility and opponents of income inequality would love nothing more than for the new corporate gentry to operate with more kindness and goodness than the robber barons that shaped American capitalism. But let’s not kid ourselves: the new boss is the same as the old boss.
There are two types of Metal Gear Solid fans. Some love the game for its increasingly dense plot, rich with oblique references to philosophy, information science, and conspiracy theories, as well as developer Hideo Kojima’s off-kilter sense of humour andlove of easter eggs. For those people, September’s Metal Gear Solid V is likely to scratch that itch.The other type of Metal Gear Solid fan loves the series for its self-proclaimed “tactical espionage action”. That’s the aspect of the series I’ve always loved: stealth gameplay which verges on pure puzzles at times, throwing the protagonist Snake into a room full of cameras, guards and mines and tasking the player to get to the other side without being seen.But it’s an aspect of the game that the MGS series has increasingly shied away from, as the environments have become more expansive, the gunplay more refined, and the AI less mechanistic, and so for some – for me – the series peaked with the first game.But for the real connoisseurs, there was a follow-up that scratched that itch even better: 1999’s Metal Gear Solid: Special Missions, an expansion pack which took the VR training environment of the first game one step further, and presented a whole disc of stealth puzzles to mull over.Some of us have been waiting 16 years for a worthy follow-up to that game, and we’ve finally got it.Volume is the second game by Mike Bithell, the indie developer behind 2010’s breakout hitThomas Was Alone. Ostensibly a simple platformer, starring Thomas, a red rectangle, it soared on its witty script, performed by comedian Danny Wallace, which addressed topics such as identity, friendship and artificial intelligence.With Volume, Bithell has recaptured that charm, but this time built around the loose framework of 1990s era Metal Gear Solid, rather than 2000s-era Flash platformers.Volume wears its influences on its sleeve.Photograph: Volume/Alex HernThe game stars Rob Locksley, a young hacker doing his best to fight back against an oligarchical dictatorship in a future England, ruled by the villainous Guy Gisborne. If the names don’t spark recognition, the fact that Locksley robs from the rich to give to the poor should: Volume presents a futuristic retelling of the Robin Hood mythos.Its world suggests a future in which the commodification of artificial intelligence has led to an astronomical divide between rich and poor, and ultimately a strengthening of Britain’s class system, with the world split between those who protect (the aristocracy), those who serve (artificial intelligence) and those who feed (everyone else). Like the best science fiction, at times it feels ripped from the headlines: there’s no doubt that Bithell wants to tell a story about our world.Of course, weighty polemics about inequality don’t lend themselves to charmingly witty scripts, and so the whole thing is viewed through a neat angle: Rob (voiced byYouTuber Charlie McDonnell) is essentially the world’s first Twitch terrorist/freedom fighter. Using a military training AI pilfered from Guy Gisborne (Andy Serkis, in a casting coup by Bithell), he loads up simulations of the homes of the rich and famous, and proceeds to rob them, broadcasting his techniques for all to see – and mimic in real life.Fellow streamer Tuck lays into Rob on their first encounter.Photograph: Volume/Alex HernThe conceit plays out nicely, with Rob’s growing fanbase giving him increasing power to battle Gisborne, while they also egg him on to crack tougher and better protected targets. But the heart of the story lies in the interaction between Rob and Alan, his pilfered AI (voiced by Wallace, back for more – and suggesting a potential link between Bithell’s two games). Alan’s not happy about being nicked, and certainly not happy about having his memory wiped, but he grudgingly comes to support Rob’s campaign.Related:Metal Gear Squalid: has Kojima gone too bloody far this time?The heists themselves wear the VR Missions influence on their sleeve, from the mechanics to the aesthetics, but they also innovate in their own way. Crucially, Rob is clear from the off: “no guns”. The virtual soldiers he’s training against may be just programmes, but the people he’s inspiring are very real.That emphasises the puzzle aspect of the game over the action side, with the hardest levels feeling like there’s just one correct solution. But it also means that the forgiving nature of the game’s alert system – which sees guards forgetting you and going back to their patrols if you make it out of their eyeline – can counterintuitively make it harder to play. The temptation to play sloppily, darting in and out of sight, means that the actual solution to the levels’ puzzles gets obscured. Rather than rethinking your approach, you end up throwing yourself at the wall again and again until you give up in frustration.For me, that reached its nadir in a level which sees the player take on a combination of guards with 360˚ visions and lasers, with just a gadget called an “oud”. Try as I might, I couldn’t do it without tripping a laser, and always ended up getting shot tantalisingly close to the finish. Only a well-placed hint over email from a fellow journalist prevented me throwing my laptop at the wall.But then, I’m really bad at games. And the atmosphere, voice acting and plot had me coming back for more even when the puzzles overwhelmed me. Now, if Bithell’s next game could revive the mechanics of 1997 pirate adventure Overboard!, my nostalgia will be complete.Volume is out now for PS4, PC and Mac (version reviewed). The PS Vita edition is forthcoming.
A major security flaw in more than 100 car models has been exposed in an academic paper that was suppressed by a major manufacturer for two years.Flavio Garcia, a computer scientist at the University of Birmingham, and two colleagues from a Dutch university were unable to release the paper afterVolkswagen won a case in the high courtto ban its publication.The research team discovered car manufacturers including Audi, Citroën, Fiat, Honda and Volvo, as well as Volkswagen, had models that were vulnerable to “keyless theft” because a device designed to prevent the vehicles from being stolen could be disabled easily.After years of formal and informal negotiations, Volkswagen has agreed to thepublication of the paperafter accepting the authors’ proposal to remove one sentence from the original manuscript.Garcia and his colleagues Roel Verdult and Bariş Ege, from Radboud University in Nijmegen, said they found several weaknesses in the Swiss-made immobiliser system, called Megamos Crypto. The device works by preventing the engine from starting when the corresponding transponder – embedded in the key – is not present.Related:Documents confirm Apple is building self-driving carBut the researchers showed it was possible to listen to signals sent between the security system and key, making the vehicles vulnerable to “close-range wireless communication” attacks.“Our attacks require close range wireless communication with both the immobiliser unit and the transponder,” the team say in the paper. “It is not hard to imagine real-life situations like valet parking or car rental where an adversary has access to both for a period of time. It is also possible to foresee a setup with two perpetrators, one interacting with the car and one wirelessly pickpocketing the car key from the victim’s pocket.”The computer scientists had wanted to publish the paper at the Usenix Security Symposium in Washington DC in 2013, but the court imposed an interim injunction. Volkswagen complained that its publication could “allow someone, especially a sophisticated criminal gang with the right tools, to break the security and steal a car”.The researchers argued they were “responsible, legitimate academics doing responsible, legitimate academic work” and their aim was to improve security for everyone.The RAC said electronic security systems have improved car security as vehicle theft has fallen 70% in 40 years. However, the overall decrease hides a rise in electronic hacking of vehicles, which featured in four out of 10 car thefts in London last year.Vehicles’ vulnerability wasrecently exposedby researchers from the University of California, San Diego, who hacked a car, remotely activated its windscreen wipers and disabled its brakes, all via text message.In July, Fiat Chrysler announcedit was recalling about 1.4m cars and trucks in the USafter hackers took control of a Jeep over the internet.
Blogging social network Tumblr had a problem. When you release an update to a mobile app on Apple’s app store, you have to include release notes: a short update of what has changed since the last version.But release notes are boring. And they’re particularly boring when they don’t actually contain much more than bug fixes.So Tumblr came up with a solution: what if, instead of release notes, there was some batshit fanfic about the company’s own chief executive, David Karp?No, wait, hear me out.Because it’s amazing:‘4.3?’ roared David Karp across the boardroom table. He spun on his heels, turning his back to the board. His shoulder muscles rippled through his gingham shirt.‘4.3? We can do better than that. We HAVE to do better than that.’The boardroom broke into murmurs. They had done everything right with 4.3. The entire company, top to bottom, had signed off on it. The research was there. It was focus-grouped for 10 months straight. It was a sure-fire hit.Skip to the end:He spun again, now facing outward onto the city he loved. From every street rose a memory. Lexington Avenue, where he learned to ride a bike, and where he got his first broken arm (Maury, who owned the bagel store, came running out when it happened. Good old Maury). Bleecker Street, where he got his first kiss, and saw his first real rock’n’roll show. The Velvet Underground. A sound so raw and real it could only come out of NYC. Finally, he looked down directly on to the street below. The street on which he’d built his business … no, not his business – his dreams. Below was a street on which the creative passions of millions of users had stacked up into a 431-storey skyscraper that housed the collective energy of Tumblr.David Karp pressed his nose against the glass and looked deep down into the canyon of 431st Street. Four-three-one. That’s when it hit him.“Four-three-one. That’s it. Version 4.3.1. That’s what we’ve gotta do. Version 4.3.1 of the Tumblr app for iOS.”Even better?There never was a version 4.3 of the Tumblr app. For whatever reason, the company decided to skip a whole version and just go straight to 4.31. And for lack of any other explanation, we must take it on trust that it’s because Karp was standing on the 431st street of Manhattan’s 220-street grid. Go figure.
Staff at Amazon’s UK operation have developed physical and mental illnesses because of the “regimes” they work under, the GMB trade union has warned.Employees at the online retailer’s distribution centres across the UK were under pressure to be an “above-average Amazon robot”, the GMB’s lead officer for Amazon, Elly Baker, told the Times.Related:Trouble at the mill threatens Jeff Bezos and Amazon's reputationBaker’s comments follow aNew York Times articlethat alleged employee cruelty at Amazon’s corporate headquarters in Seattle, including gruelling working conditions and harsh treatment of staff suffering personal crises, such as cancer and miscarriages.In a rare communication to staff, Amazon’s founder and chief executive, Jeff Bezos,defended the companyafter the investigation was published.Baker said: “It’s hard, physical work, but the constant stress of being monitored and never being able to drop below a certain level of performance is harsh. You can’t be a normal person. You have to be an above-average Amazon robot all the time.”Baker said some employees were suffering from musculoskeletal problems, work-related stress and anxiety. “We’re seeing this specifically because of the regimes they work under.”Amazon UK has been approached for a comment on GMB’s claims.Amazon boss Jeff Bezos.Photograph: Mike Segar/ReutersMore than 100 former and current Amazon employees were interviewed for theNew York Times’s 5,400-word exposé, describing working conditions devoid of empathy and which push staff to their limits in the name of productivity and efficiency.The article illustrated the alleged poor welfare with anecdotes from employees. One woman with breast cancer was allegedly put on a “performance improvement plan”, while another was sent on a business trip the day after having a miscarriage. A staff member with thyroid cancer was also allegedly marked with a low performance score on returning to work and told that Amazon was more productive without her.Employees’ working and personal lives were tracked and quantified, with their movements, productivity and successes or failures being constantly measured, while managers were forced to rate their employees and fire their lowest-scoring workers, according to the article.Related:Why I’m finally going to boycott AmazonInstant replies to emails were expected, even if sent in the middle of the night or the weekends, and employees were apparently encouraged to secretly funnel their back-stabbing or praise through Amazon’s “Anytime Feedback Tool”.The interviews described Amazon’s atmosphere as one that saw employees actively competing against each other, where the fully committed who were prepared to make sacrifices to get ahead thrived, while others were stamped on.More than 7,000 staff work at Amazon’s UK distribution centres in Hemel Hempstead, Milton Keynes, Swansea, Peterborough, Rugeley near Stafford, Doncaster, Dunfermline and Gourock in Inverclyde.In his message to staff, Bezos, who is worth $49.5bn, said: “The [New York Times] article doesn’t describe the Amazon I know or the caring Amazonians I work with every day. But if you know of any stories like those reported, I want you to escalate to HR.”
It’s Tuesday. Today’s screenshot comes from an isometric RPG named Seven. The game is being developed using the Unreal Engine 4 by indie studioFool’s Theory, which is made up of ex-staff from CD Projekt RED.
Clear age ratings will be displayed on UK-produced music videos on YouTube and Vevo, as the government seeks to protect children from inappropriate content online.The new measures, which have been agreed voluntarily by parts of the music industry after a government initiative, will apply to videos that are deemed unsuitable for children and are produced in the UK by artists who are represented by major labels.The announcement on Tuesday will make permanent a pilot programme launched by the government in October 2014. Vevo and YouTube worked alongside the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) and the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) – which represents the recorded music sector in the UK – to create a ratings system so that online videos could be classified in the same way that feature films are.Related:Will age classifications for music videos work?The scheme was launched amid growing concern about the sexual content of videos, including those by Miley Cyrus and Rihanna. Robin Thicke’s Blurred Lines, released in 2013, drew fierce criticism for its apparently lewd lyrics and video featuring naked models dancing. To date, 132 videos have been submitted to the BBFC by labels, with 56 rated as a 12 and 53 classified as 15. Only one has been given an 18 rating – Dizzee Rascal’s Couple of Stacks, which features the rapper brutally murdering people with a knife.Joanna Shields, minister for internet safety and security, said that films shown in the cinema and music DVDs were age rated to inform the viewer and help parents make informed choices. She welcomed “this voluntary step from industry to bring internet services in line with the offline world”.“Keeping children safe as they experience and enjoy all the benefits the internet has to offer is a key priority for this government’s one-nation approach to help families across Britain,” said Lady Shields. “We will continue to work with industry to develop ways to help parents to better protect children online from inappropriate music videos with explicit adult or violent content.”Under the new system, big UK labels will send videos to the BBFC for classification ahead of release, and then pass on the rating and guidance given when releasing their videos to Vevo and YouTube. The government will also announce a six-month pilot to roll out the new system to independent record labels.The announcement brings the practice with online music videos into line with those sold on DVD and other physical media, which were obliged to have age ratings from October 2014 under the Video Recordings Act.Hannah Broadbent, deputy chief executive of the internet safety charityChildnet, said it was encouraging to see UK music labels and digital platforms – such as YouTube and Vevo – stepping forward to help protect children from inappropriate music videos online.“Age ratings can help parents make informed choices online, and it’s particularly important that digital services offer parental control tools that work alongside these age ratings,” she said. “While this is an important first step, there is a need to extend this more widely to content from outside the UK and to ensure that families are making the most of the tools available.“Technical tools are a real help for parents, but we also need to have ongoing conversations with young people to ensure that are able to process, critique and cope with the sometimes upsetting or confusing things they see online.”Vevo said it was exploring ways to link the new age ratings to additional technology that could strengthen age controls on its site, while YouTube said the new ratings would complement its existing restricted mode, which is designed to allow parents to screen certain content.
America’s smartest schools have given Twitter an F. Harvard, Yale and Stanford universities have all sold big chunks of their Twitter stock as the nine-year-old social media company struggles to prove to investors it has a trajectory of growth.Related:Twitter's Dick Costolo to step down amid stalled growth and troll troublesYale University, which has a $23.9bn endowment fund, sold all of its 34,345 shares in Twitter – worth just under $1m at Monday’s stock price – over the last quarter. Harvard University, the world’s wealthiest university with a $36.4bn fund, sold 29,856 Twitter shares between April and June. Stanford, which has an endowment fund worth $21.4bn, sold 18,000 shares.The universities’ sell-offs come asTwitter flounderswithout a permanent chief executive and analysts increasingly question the company’s future as its once-stunning user growth slows to a trickle.Twitter’s shares have collapsed from $52 in April to $29 on Monday, a drop of 44%. Over that period, Yale’s Twitter holdings dropped in value by $788,000.The universities’ regulatory filingswere compiled togetherby Bloombergon Monday.Twitter’s chief executive, Dick Costolo, was last month temporarily replaced by co-founder Jack Dorsey after investors demanded explanations for the company’s stalling growth and lacklustre profits.At the end of last month, Twitter reported the slowest user growth – from 302 million to 304 million active monthly users – since it went public in 2013. Dorsey, who has not confirmed when a permanent CEO will be installed to replace Costolo, told investors that the slowing growth was “unacceptable and we’re not happy about it”.This article was amended to reflect that Yale’s Twitter holdings dropped in value by $788,000, not $788m.
Google’s new operating system is called Marshmallow. The new name was revealed on Monday not in a press release but in a statue outside Google’s office in Mountain View, California. This will be the 13th official, renamed iteration for theLinux-basedoperating system, on which the company’s mobile phones and tablets are run.Eleven of the other names for the mobile system software kept with the dessert theme (the first two were just Alpha and Beta):CupcakeDonutEclairFroyoGingerbreadHoneycombIce Cream SandwichJelly BeanKitKatLollipopThere are s’more features available in the software development kit, as detailed with minimal fluff on Google’sAndroid Developers Blog, including native fingerprint support and a power-saving mode called Doze. In-house support for KitKat vanished in a puff of smoke at the beginning of the year and will probablystay puffed.Google has emphasized security to developers in a bid to compete more seriously with Apple’s more secure iOS. Google badly needs a security win with the Marshmallow – Lollipop, its previous version, contained a bug called Stagefright that allowed users to take control of a device by sending a text (Apple’s most recent OS also contained a texting bug, but that one simply crashed the system).The company has saidits incomplete fix for Stagefright won’t be amended until September; that suggests that the fix will roll out either alongside or in Marshmallow.Marshmallow will also police background battery access by apps more closely than previous versions, often by using Doze. “In this state, Android will exponentially back off background activity, trading off a little bit of app freshness for longer battery life,” Dave Burke, VP of engineering for Androidexplained at the company’s developer conference, I/O, earlier this year.Marshmallow!!!pic.twitter.com/3JYkCBWD1R&mdash; Dave Burke (@davey_burke)August 17, 2015Users have been able to play with the developer preview of the operating system, codenamed Android M, for about three months.
Your article about paternoster lifts (Why Germans fought so hard to save their paternoster lifts, 14 August) brought back happy memories of sixth-form voluntary service at school in central London in the late 1960s. To get out of any sport-related activity, my friend Sheila and I wheeled a tea trolley round all the outpatient departments of St Thomas’ hospital on Wednesday afternoons, doing our bit to help those waiting to be seen. Our self-selected reward at the end of the day was a ride on the staff-only paternoster lift, something we’d never come across before or, as far as I’m concerned, since. Like Dejan Tuco, we thought it particularly daring to do the full circuit, going round the hidden top and bottom of the lift, where you could hear the mechanism grinding away. Such innocent pleasures!Jane MarshLondonRelated:The student world turned upside down | Letters from Bernard Ingham and others• The piece brought back memories of the biochemistry department building at Imperial College London in the late 1960s. I worked as a technician in the chemistry department next door and was fascinated by the rotating cubicles. A paternoster had been installed in the biochem building and, if memory serves me correctly, took you from the ground to the top floor, where Professor Ernst Chain, who had worked withAlexander Fleming, had a large flat. Being German, Prof Chain may have been used to this type of lift, but to staff and visitors the lift presented all kinds of terrors. As it consisted of a series of rotating boxes, people thought that the boxes collapsed as they went over the top of the lift, so a sign was attached that stated: “Over travel is not dangerous.”Related:Lovin' their elevator: why Germans are loopy about their revolving liftsOn using the lift for the first time, I knew you had to be quick, and I remember steeling myself for a charge at the thing as it slowly passed my level. I leapt and made it. The feeling of achievement was quite considerable. It’s good to know that health and safety as we know it didn’t exist at Imperial College in the 60s, otherwise we would have been denied the pleasure of riding this unique style of lift.Tony EllisSurbiton, Surrey• The paternoster lift in our university library has been transporting students up and down for 50 years. Flying in the face of health and safety, it reflects the “Essex spirit” and, as it did for me as an undergraduate in the 1970s, still offers the temptation to go over the top!Richard BarnardSenior lecturer, University of Essex
There was a time when the main thing you had to worry about in casual social situations was the decision between a peck-on-the-cheek, a handshake, or a hug upon greeting.Meanwhile, relationships have always been fraught with double meanings and crossed wires. Flowers – a spontaneous, fresh-scented display of thoughtfulness? Or a floral attempt to make amends, reeking of guilt?Technology, though, has added many new levels, and the ensuing potential for confusion, to our social relationships, both with acquaintances and loved ones. Modern relations are a minefield: the mines are tears over internet search history, slanging matches about exes still friended on Facebook, or sniping at an unanswered text message.It was thinking on this last one that had me wondering (pagingCarrie Bradshaw): who the hell leaves read receipts on?For the unfamiliar, a read receipt tells one the recipient of a text message has opened the message and has viewed it. Read receipts come in different forms across platforms and operating systems.Apple’s read receipts for iOS,introduced in 2011, signal when a message is “read”, rather than just “delivered”, along with a timestamp. However, this function can be toggled off, as with theblue ticks on WhatsApp. But sadistic platforms,Facebookand Snapchat, do not allow the feature to be turned off. Snapchat even informs a person whether a screenshot of a snap has been taken.There are workarounds. Facebook’s “seen by” on messages and chat, for instance, can be cheated usingbrowser extensions. And the savvy know that glancing at a message on a lock screen or in a notifications centre is a good means of parsing a message without opening it.Read receipts aren’t a new thing. Since the days of horseback, via the Royal Mail’ssigned for service, anddelivery status notifications(DNS) on email clients, we are all familiar with the concept of acknowledgment of deliverance.The thought of having text message read receipts switched on, however, has me breathing into a paper bag. I can’t think of anything worse. This is because I am awful at returning text messages. Either because I am busy, or more usually, because I am lazy. Or I have nothing to say.But I would like to think I am an OK person. I don’tshoot lions on safari, or believe thatimmigrants are rapists. I wait in line.I listen to friends talk about their exes.I don’t want to ruin all of this by not replying to a text message straight away, because in an ever-connected world, a delay in response is usually viewed as rudeness, a brush-off, or the expression of irritation. I don’t want to make people feel those things. This is a common reason many others switch read receipts off, according to an open call I put out on Twitter.@moniker42@ladyhajawell yeah nothing worse than &#39;read at xx:xx&#39; and no reply for ages&mdash; Jules Mattsson (@julesmattsson)August 17, 2015@horton_official@ladyhajaAlso ignore. Sometimes for days at a time, and then draft replies when I&#39;m on the underground&mdash; Yomi Adegoke (@yomiadegoke)August 17, 2015@julesmattsson@ladyhajayes I turn them off where there is the option as I respond to people late all the time&mdash; Sean Anderson (@moniker42)August 17, 2015It’s not that I don’t think what you said isn’t funny. Or that I don’t want to go for a drink with you. Or that I have no opinion on Judd Apatow’s latest (although at times, all of the above). But it is that I’m half way through a New Yorker long read. Or, I’m crossing the road. Or I’d rather finish what I’m watching on Netflix.I kind of assumed everybody was this aloof, although deep down I know that’s not the case, as otherwise I wouldn’t have been nicknamed “disappearing Hannah” in cities on different continents.But in a world in which we are supposed to be connected all of the time – and Facebook obviously thinks we should be re: the non existence of an “off” option on its read receipts – I just like a bit of breathing space. I’ve made friends furious by tweeting before responding to their texts – but a tweet is a wholly different method of communication. One can send a tweet, and, unlike a text, it’s not opening a conversation with an inferred commitment of a dialogue for the next 5-10 minutes.In fact, Twitter and Facebook and online messaging and networking in general tend to be more relaxed arenas when it comes to non-responses. This would make sense if we still lived in a desktop world, but when tweets hit our pockets along with SMS, it’s odd that there is a disparity.When you’re weighing up whether to respond to a text or not …What I found out when I asked others about their preferences surprised me. A lot of people do keep receipts on. Some didn’t know there was an option to switch them off. Most of the people who keep them on are in long-term relationships. “I want the wife/husband to know I’m at the supermarket”, or “I’m going to be home late”, or have “picked up the kids” etc. “I know to call if the message hasn’t been read”, is a frequent comment. These people find the read receipt genuinely useful.Then there is asuggestionthat truly busy and important people keep read receipts on. These people cannot afford to be concerned about offending people with a lack of response – keeping read receipts on is the best and most efficient means of informing a person he/she is too busy to respond. It’s not that these important people are trapped under a cat, popcorn water-falling onto their sternum, as is the case with me. They aregenuinely busy.Read receipts seem to be turned off most often by single people and those casually dating. And younger people. To these people, their read receipt to themselves is a grunt. People dating speak of the panic when a paramour who does have read receipts switched on doesn’t respond. One woman says she knew a guy she was dating wasn’t going to be worth longterm effort when he didn’t respond to her Facebook messages – despite him having seen them.@ladyhaja@elenacresci- ack! Rr is hell for dating, only care if I&#39;m meeting people/plans change/someone is late.&mdash; Colleen Quill (@grrlgenius)August 17, 2015Some admit to purposely turning read receipts on as an indirect means of “ghosting” someone, ie. disappearing from their life. Allowing someone to see their messages are being viewed but not returned. In the past, this might have been a begging letter from an ex returned to them unopened. So, read receipts become another tool in the arsenal of dating mind games. Because there’s not enough of those already.All I know is that I hate being contactable 24/7. I like to be able to choose not to answer something immediately, whether this is a reflection on the person contacting me or the content of the correspondence or not – and usually it isn’t. Perhaps those of us who prefer read receipts turned off are life’s dreamers, or rather, the free-spirits, or the scatty ones. The commitment-phobic, the independent. Whereas those with read receipts turned on are punctual, reliable and keep their email inboxes sorted.Agree? Disagree? Let us know in the comments, and I’ll get back to you – promise.
Amazon founder and chief executive Jeff Bezos has defended his company after allegations of employee cruelty made by the New York Times.In a rare communication from the 51-year-old, Bezos told staff to carefullyread the “very long” articleand compared it with a “very different take by a current Amazonian” in an internal all-staff email.Bezos said: “The article doesn’t describe the Amazon I know or the caring Amazonians I work with every day. But if you know of any stories like those reported, I want you to escalate to HR.”The company’s founder, who is worth $49.5bn, told staff that they could email him directly and that “even if it’s rare or isolated, our tolerance for any such lack of empathy needs to be zero”.Former White House press secretary Jay Carney defends the work environment of his new employer Amazon in an interview on CBS This MorningPushed to their limitsOver 100 former and current Amazon employees were interviewed for theNew York Times’s 5,400-word expose, describing working conditions devoid of empathy and which push employees to their limits in the name of productivity and efficiency.Bo Olson, a former employee from the company’s book marketing department, described Amazon as a place where “you walk out of a conference room and you’ll see a grown man covering his face” and where “nearly every person I worked with, I saw cry at their desk”.“Amazon is where overachievers go to feel bad about themselves,” said Noelle Barnes who worked in marketing for Amazon for nine years.Related:My week as an Amazon insiderThe article paints a picture where every part of employees’ working and personal lives are tracked and quantified, where their movements, productivity and successes or failures are measured to the nth degree while managers are forced to rate their employees and fire their lowest-scoring workers.Instant replies to emails are expected, even if sent in the middle of the night or the weekends, and employees are apparently actively encouraged to secretly funnel their back-stabbing or praise through Amazon’s “Anytime Feedback Tool”. Some employees felt it necessary to secretly form pacts of negative feedback to edge out others and prevent themselves from being fired, according to the article.The interviews describe Amazon’s atmosphere as one that sees employees actively competing against each other, where the fully committed who are prepared to sacrifice to get ahead thrive and while others are stamped on.“You can work long, hard or smart, but at Amazon.com you can’t choose two out of three,” Bezos said in a letter he wrote to shareholders in 1997.Even the company’s guidelines “conjure an empire of elite workers” according to the article, which describes rules such as “hire and develop the best”, exhibit “ownership” over your patch of the business and conduct everything transparently to see “who is really achieving and who is not”.Related:Why I’m finally going to boycott AmazonUnlike other US technology firms, Amazon’s competitive nature can see high-performing staff see significant bonuses, often in stock, but without the free food and other perks the likes of Google and Facebook offer.Meanwhile the company embraces “frugality”, another one of its guidelines, often forcing workers to pay for their own travel expenses and mobile phones, while exerting extreme pressure that sees employees work day and night.One woman interviewed said she had paid a freelancer in India to enter data out of her own pocket to get more done: “these businesses were my babies, and I did whatever I could to make them successful”, she said.“Hopefully, you’re having fun working with a bunch of brilliant teammates, helping invent the future, and laughing along the way,” wrote Bezos in his memo, who is infamous for his big, loud laugh which has been described as maniacal by some, grating by others.The article illustrated the alleged poor welfare with anecdotes from employees. One female employee with breast cancer was allegedly put on a “performance improvement plan” while another was sent on a business trip the day after suffering a miscarriage. A thyroid cancer sufferer was also allegedly marked with low performance on returning to work and told that Amazon was more productive without her.Bezos said: “[The article] claims that our intentional approach is to create a soulless, dystopian workplace where no fun is had and no laughter heard. I don’t recognise this Amazon and I very much hope you don’t, either.”“I strongly believe that anyone working in a company that really is like the one described in the NYT would be crazy to stay. I know I would leave such a company.”A spokesperson for Amazon said: “While we generally do not comment on individual news stories, we quickly saw current Amazon employees react,” referencinga blogpost by Amazon’s head of infrastructure development, Nick Ciubotariu.•Amazon leases warehouse in prime position to deliver food to London•Amazon proposes drones-only airspace to facilitate high-speed delivery•Amazon stock surge makes CEO Jeff Bezos $7bn richer in 45 minutes
Food replacement startup Soylent has hit back at claims that its product contains unhealthy levels of lead and cadmium, after environmental campaign group As You Sow announced its intention to sue the firm under California’s Proposition 65.The law, also known as the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, imposes strict limits on the levels of toxic elements that can be found in foodstuffs without a warning label. But Soylent argues that its only error is one of labelling, and that the levels of the metals in its product are totally safe.In a release, As You Sow reported that “test results commissioned by As You Sow, conducted by an independent laboratory, show that one serving of Soylent 1.5 can expose a consumer to a concentration of lead that is 12 to 25 times above California’s Safe Harbour level for reproductive health, and a concentration of cadmium that is at least four-times greater than the Safe Harbour level for cadmium.”But while Soylent accepts it breaches the minimum levels set by Proposition 65,it argues that“Soylent does not have unusual or unsafe levels of lead, cadmium, or any metal”.Related:My week on Soylent: 'I was irritable, grumpy and a general pain in the arse'The company continues: “Trace amounts of lead and cadmium are present everywhere, including drinking water, which is why the FDA and EPA set strict exposure limits … Lead in Soylent 1.5 is 0.009982ug/mL, less than 1/50th of the FDA requirements for infant food.“The heavy metal levels specified by California Proposition 65, which were cited in As You Sow’s press release, are much more stringent than those set by the FDA, the EPA, and the WHO. As a result, mostpackaged foodssold in California, as well as restaurants, coffee shops, grocery stores, convenience stores, and theme parks are required to display the warning. We are not required to change the product, but we are required to display the Proposition 65 text where we sell our products, whichwe do.”The limits marked out by Proposition 65 are specifically designed to be as stringent as possible, with the “Maximum Allowable Dose Levels” being set at the level below which it can be proven that no harm occurs. Products which breach those levels are required to bear a label which reads: “WARNING: This product contains chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm.”Soylent recently released “version two” of its meal replacement kit, which resembles a souped-up protein shake. The new version does not require refrigeration, which prompted Soylent founder Rob Rhinehart togive up mains electricityand live entirely off solar power. He describes buying new clothes from China rather than washing the old ones, selling his car and exclusively using public transport and Ubers, and boiling water for coffee and tea with a butane stove.He wrote: “The first space colonies will have no coal power plants. I am ready. For now though, as I am driven through the gleaming city, my hunger peacefully at bay, I have visions of the parking lots and grocery stores replaced by parks and community centers, power plants retrofitted as museums and galleries. Traffic and trash and pollution will evaporate, if only we are willing to adapt some routines.”
Cryptocurrency bitcoin is facing civil war, with two high-profile developers announcing plans to split the code that underpins the network.Known as a “fork”, the new version of bitcoin (dubbed Bitcoin XT) would support more transactions per hour, at the cost of increasing the amount of memory required to hold a full database of all the bitcoin transactions throughout history, known as the blockchain.It is backed by Mike Hearn and Gavin Andresen, two of the most senior developers involved in the bitcoin project. Both are involved in the Bitcoin Foundation, the non-profit group that oversees the currency’s development: Hearn is the former chair of the foundation’s law and policy committee, while Andresen is the chief scientist of the foundation.In a post on the bitcoin developer mailing list,Hearn saidthat he felt a fork was the only option for solving the deadlock within the community: “I feel sad that it’s come to this, but there is no other way. The Bitcoin Core project has drifted so far from the principles myself and many others feel are important, that a fork is the only way to fix things.”The key difference between Bitcoin XT and the other version of bitcoin, known as Bitcoin Core, is size of the blocks into which transactions get grouped every 10 minutes. Core supports a maximum block size of 1mb, which XT increases to 8mb. Hearn, and the other supporters of XT, argue that that increase is necessary if the currency is to continue growing.“As Bitcoin spreads via word of mouth, we will reach the limit of the current system some time next year, or by 2017 at the absolute latest,”Hearn writes. “So it is now time to raise the limit, or remove it entirely.”Those who oppose the change do so for a variety of reasons. Some argue that it’s a simple sticking-plaster solution, and that the actual fix should be far more wide-ranging (one such proposal being the “lightning network” upgrade); they worry that removing the most pressing need for an upgrade will also lessen he chance of that wide-ranging fix.Others simply oppose changing anything from theinitial bitcoin proposalpresented by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2009, and argue that any major change should come in the form of a whole new currency, or “alt coin”, rather than an update to bitcoin itself.One opponent, posting to the bitcoin-dev mailing list,even claimed to be Nakamoto himself.“The developers of this pretender-Bitcoin claim to be following my original vision, but nothing could be further from the truth,” they wrote. “When I designed Bitcoin, I designed it in such a way as to make future modifications to the consensus rules difficult without near unanimous agreement. Bitcoin was designed to be protected from the influence of charismatic leaders, even if their name is Gavin Andresen, Barack Obama, or Satoshi Nakamoto. Nearly everyone has to agree on a change, and they have to do it without being forced or pressured into it. By doing a fork in this way, these developers are violating the ‘original vision’ they claim to honour.”The poster’s claim to be Nakamoto was widely derided, since the message wasn’t cryptographically signed, and so could have come from anyone. Nonetheless, Hearn – who says that the message “could be from anyone” – argues the fake Nakamoto’s input proves a point.“There’s an interesting thing here – what if Satoshi did come back and weigh in? Let’s imagine he turned up and said he’d rethought, and Bitcoin was a bad idea. Should everyone just give up and walk away? Or accept that people’s ideas do change. My article quotes Satoshi a lot, but that’s not to imply he’s some sort of god or absent dictator.Related:The future of Bitcoin – Tech Weekly podcast“I find the current upset over Jeremy Corbyn to be an interesting parallel. Labour is splitting apart because obviously a lot of people feel it abandoned its original left-wing principles. I don’t pass judgment on whether this is good or bad for Labour: it’s just fascinating timing that’s there’s a fork happening in another big quasi-political project simultaneously.”In the short term, Hearn argues that most bitcoin users can safely ignore the debate. Unless they are “mining” – running the software that verifies bitcoin transactions – bitcoin users effectively have no vote in which one of the competing proposals becomes the future of bitcoin, while the software they use to make payments in the currency will likely support the biggest of the two networks.“Almost all users run wallets that will just automatically follow whatever the final decision is. It’s not something they need worry about,” he says.“Except, of course, in a high-level sense: if they bought bitcoins in the hope that it one day takes off and becomes really big, then they should keep an eye on things. If the big-blocks side doesn’t win out then the chances of going mainstream look much worse, and they may wish to rethink their investment.”The worst-case scenario for the currency is that both Bitcoin XT and Bitcoin core continue to exist alongside each other for a long period of time, with neither fully seizing the mantle of the true heir to Nakamoto’s vision. In such a situation, the currency’s uncertain future could prove permanently damaging to its prospects.But even if the change goes through relatively quickly, some inattentive users could find themselves out of pocket. Once the block sizes increase (which won’t happen until January 2016, and then only if 75% of the miners have switched to Bitcoin XT), the two versions of bitcoin will be incompatible. Transactions made on one version of bitcoin would not be reflected on the other, essentially rendering null any attempts to spend bitcoin on the “losing” fork after that date.This post was updated to remove a claim that Satoshi Nakamoto frequently cryptographically signed his emails.
Hundreds of flights across the east coast of the US were delayed or cancelled at the weekend due to a software upgrade, the US Federal Aviation Administration has said.“Technical issues” with a Virginia air traffic control centre caused 492 flight delays and 476 cancellations, the FAA said. Saturday air traffic at the Baltimore-Washington International Airport was reduced by 30%, by 28% at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and 12% at Dulles International Airport.Part of the backlog was the result of a decision to reduce arrival and departure rates in the Washington area between 11am and 4pm on Saturday for safety reasons, affecting flights from New Jersey and New York that flew over the Washington area.By mid-afternoon, 50% of inbound flights and 42% of outbound flights had been canceled at Reagan National and delays were averaging about three hours, according to data from FlightRadar24. In Baltimore, 58% of inbound flights and 36% of outbound flights had been canceled, and delays were averaging more than an hour.The FAA said the upgrade was designed to provide more tools for controllers, but that the new features have been disabled while the systems contractor completes an assessment of the malfunction. The technical issues were resolved at approximately 4pm.The FAA suggested the problem was with the En Route Automation Modernisation computer system, known as Eram, at the Leesburg Center on Saturday. On Sunday, the agency confirmed that the software upgrade causing the issues was performed on the Eram computer system, but that there was “no indication that the problem is related to any inherent problems with the En Route Automation Modernisation system, which has had a greater than 99.99 availability rate since it was completed nationwide earlier this year”.•App fail on iPad grounds ‘a few dozen’ American Airlines flights•Flights disrupted as computer failure causes chaos at UK airports•US aviation authority: Boeing 787 bug could cause ‘loss of control’
Samsung and Apple are fighting over the technology world’s equivalent of the “floating voter”, according to Samsung’s president of UK and Ireland.Andy Griffiths said customer loyalty to the two companies means most people never consider switching between Android and iOS, so the brands are actually competing for only 20% of customers in the UK.“There are groups of people who stick with what they like, whether that’s Samsung or Apple, and then there are there are people in the middle that you can kind of sway, a bit like the floating voter, and that’s who we’re all fighting for,” Griffiths told the Guardian, as Samsung unveiled its new Galaxy S6 Edge+ and Note 5 devices.“We hold about two-thirds of the Android base in the UK and we have a very high level of retention. The fact is that it’s a two-brand market and I think people are choosing to go both ways, so we’re always going to be trading customers between us.”Data from research firmConsumer Intelligence Research Partnerssuggests that a similar situation exists in the US, where in the past two years 20% of iOS users switched to Android, and 16% of Android users switched to iOS.Making these switches has become easier, with cross-syncing services helping people to take their personal information such as calendars, contacts and email accounts from one platform to another. Most popular apps are also now available on both platforms.Smartphone saturation driving ‘kick down’ in salesThe battle for these “floating voters” has intensified as smartphone penetration has reached saturation point in markets like the UK and US, where most people who are likely to buy a smartphone already have one.That has led to a dip in global sales for Samsung, which, like Apple, is facing up to the challenge of persuading people to upgrade to a newer handset.“Overall saturation means a kick down in the market as it settles,” said Griffiths. “Once it reaches its new rhythm people will want a better phone than last time, and that step up is what we’ve seen in the UK.”He added that in the UK, Samsung has helped to grow the premium market – smartphones costing upwards of £400 – by more than 30% since its Galaxy S6 launched in March, and expects that pattern to continue until Christmas.A growing proportion of that premium market is made up of phablets – smartphones with screen sizes larger than 5.5in. Phablets accounted for21% of US smartphone salesin the first quarter up nearly four times year on year, according to data from Kantar Worldpanel.“The phablet category is three times bigger this year than last, and we believe there’s exponential growth in that size of smartphone, with one in 10 of every smartphone sold being 5.5in or above,” said Griffiths.Phablets here to stayPhablets also command some of the highest prices in the smartphone market, providing the biggest margins for smartphone manufacturers, explaining why both Apple and Samsung arepushing the supersized smartphonecategory so hard.Griffiths said: “If you look at the proportion of the business by value in the premium end, phablets are a substantial sector and something we wanted to add to the recovery in our business in 2015.”The odd thing about Samsung’s device lineup this year, however, is where and when it is launching its Note 5 phablet.The Note line pioneered this category back in 2011, but its latest model does not yet have a UK launch date, making its debut instead in the US and Asia. In the UK, Samsung is relying on its 5.7in Galaxy S6 Edge+ for now.One thing is clear, phablets aren’t going anywhere in the near term, with Griffiths admitting that phone screen size is increasing because “almost one of the last things you do on a smartphone is make a call”.•Phablets take bigger share of US smartphone market as trend spreads•What Samsung needs to get right with the Galaxy S6 Edge+ and Note 5
A major insurer has accused the taxi industry of a “campaign of self-interest” after it became the target of a complaint to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission over its coverage of UberX drivers.NRMA, one of the few companies that has publicly stated its willingness to insure UberX drivers, also criticised the taxi industry for ignoring its customers and warned “the sharing economy is here to stay”.Related:Taxi drivers condemn Labor's proposal to regulate Uber in NSWThe insurer rejected the taxi lobby’s claim that the popular ride-sharing service is illegal, which was the basis of a complaint to the ACCC on Monday.The Australian Taxi Industry Association (ATIA) alleged that NRMA was “misleading” its customers by offering coverage that was excluded by its own contract fine print, which prohibited the use of a car “for illegal purposes”.However, a spokeswoman for NRMA, which insures private vehicles used “occasionally” for UberX in NSW, Queensland and the ACT, said the insurer did not consider the commercial ride-sharing service illegal.“Ram raiding an ATM, yes – Uber, no,” she said.The taxi lobby is fighting a vigorous rearguard action as UberX continues to attract customers and drivers across the country, offering more competitive rates with its lower cost model and a service that avoids the traditional, expensive taxi-licensing regimes.It also comes as UberX was set to appear before the federal Senate inquiry into corporate tax avoidance, according to anAustralian Financial Reviewreport.Related:Uber's 'screw you' strategy in Australia relies on regulators too timid to enforce the law  | Alex TurnbullLabor senator Sam Dastyari said the multinational’s company records suggested it did not pay income tax in Australia, which raised the need for new treatment of sharing economy businesses to stop Australian taxpayers potentially losing out on “tens of millions of dollars in the future”.ATIA chief executive Blair Davies said NRMA’s position on UberX “appears completely conflicted” in light of its product disclosure statement.“On the one hand, NRMA Insurance is saying to consumers that ‘she’ll be right mate, we’ve got you covered for UberX services’, but then in the actual insurance contract they supply them with, they have a clause that in effect says cover is excluded, ‘you’re on your own buddy’,” Davies said.“If [drivers] are lucky enough to find an insurer that is prepared to insure UberX services while they remain illegal, our tip would be to make sure they get it in writing. If they have to put in a claim, they may need it.”The NRMA spokeswoman said this was “patently untrue”.“Our first priority is to protect our customers when they need us, so we have made the decision to cover them if they choose to use their car this way,” she said.“We have robust processes and we will keep paying claims, as we do today.”The NRMA spokeswoman went further on the counterattack with the taxi lobby, saying: “What’s missing from the taxi industry’s argument is the customer.”“This is a campaign of self-interest by a taxi industry that has not stayed abreast of changing customer preferences and the adoption of sharing economy services like Uber. The sharing economy is here to stay. We believe as an insurer that we should protect our customers as these changes occur.”The spokeswoman said the taxi industry was “angry at us because we’re covering something they don’t like”.“I empathise with them but their beef is with the regulator, not us,” she said.NRMA would not cover cars used exclusively for UberX, the spokeswoman said.“This is mum and dad who have their own car and sometimes want to use it to pick up people on Uber.”Such drivers were also covered under compulsory third-party insurance if they were involved in an accident that resulted in a multimillion-dollar payout award for a catastrophic injury, she said.
It’s Monday. Today’s screenshot is from Otherland, a forthcoming MMO from Drago Entertainment.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest newiPhoneand iPad apps and games. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection.AppsMicrosoft Translator (Free)If you often find yourself turning to The Power Of Google Translate when abroad and stuck for a phrase, Microsoft is hoping you’ll give its new app a try as an alternative. You can quickly search for a translation and display it on your iPhone or Apple Watch - useful for showing people if you don’t want to balls up the pronunciation.iPhoneInboxVudu (Free)The latest in an increasingly long line of apps promising to help you towards the fabledInbox Zero. In this case, the app aims to prioritise emails requiring action, from scheduling meetings to sending documents; with the promise that it “trains itself” to respond better to your habits over time.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone apps of 2014MSTY (Free)MSTY is one of a flurry of startups exploring the middle ground between WhatsApp and Spotify: music messaging. It’s a quick, slick way to choose a song from the app’s catalogue, add a background image and text message, then send to a friend. Like Music Messenger, Rithm and others, it’s hoping to spread via word-of-mouth among chatty music fans.iPhoneMorpholio Journal (Free + IAP)There are millions of fans of scribbling app Paper, but it now has several competitors. Morpholio Journal is the latest: a “paper sketchbook” without any paper, aimed at creative types wanting to jot down their latest ideas. In-app purchases buy more brushes and tools.iPhone / iPadWildcard (Free)“Wildcard is a news and entertainment experience like no other,” promises the App Store listing for this daily news app. Apart from all the other daily news apps that have used a similar approach of breaking down stories into bitesize chunks for mobile reading, of course. It looks nice, for sure, but as the recent shutdown of Circa News shows, turning this kind of thing into a sustainable business isn’t easy.iPhoneGenee (Free)Another smart mobile assistant, but unlike InboxVudu, this one’s focused on your diary. It’s a service for automating your meetings, figuring out when you and your contacts are free for a given sit-down, and booking it in both of your calendars.iPhoneStory Wars (Free)Heaven knows if this will catch on, but the idea is very fun: a collaborative fiction app that introduces an element of competition into the process of strangers writing stories together. You kick things off with a chapter, then other users submit their drafts for the next one – and a vote decides which one gets the nod, which in turn spurs a new round of drafts.iPhoneRelated:The best iPad apps of 2014Beaker by Thix (£0.79)If you’d been able to mix virtual chemicals on a smartphone when I was doing GCSE Chemistry, I might have passed. And the lab wouldn’t have blown up, etc etc. No, this is really interesting: an app to see what happens when you mix, light and heat 150 chemicals – including a nifty iPhone-to-iPhone “AirMix” feature.iPhone / iPadThe 7 Second Challenge (£1.49)New from Mind Candy, the publisher of Moshi Monsters and World of Warriors, this is a partnership with British YouTube stars Dan Howell and Phil Lester. It’s a collection of seven-second micro-challenges, which you’re supposed to video and then share with friends and the wider ‘7SC’ community.iPhone / iPadFind your VS Shade (Free)Finally: hair! Dyed hair, to be specific. This is a Vidal Sassoon-branded app that gets you to take a selfie, trace the outline of your glossy locks, and then experiment with new shades via digital manipulation. And of course, persuading you to buy branded product is the goal here, but it could still be useful if you’re mulling that switch from strawberry-blond to autumn-plum or turtle-green.iPadMonsters Ate My Metropolis for iPhone and iPad.GamesMonsters Ate My Metropolis (Free + IAP)2011’s Monsters Ate My Condo remains one of my favourite mobile games, but this follow-up is quite different: a card-battler rather than an arcade puzzle game. It sees you dealing destruction to a series of cities using a pack of monster-based cards, with lots of scope for strategy.iPhone / iPadLoot &amp; Legends (Free + IAP)If you grew up playing tabletop roleplaying games, you’ll be delighted with Loot &amp; Legends: a pseudo-cardboard lootfest with a distinct Dungeons &amp; Dragons feel. Some players have been put off by its in-app “pizza” purchases to get better items, but on the whole it’s not too aggressive.iPadMarch of Empires (Free + IAP)Fantasy-themed massively-multiplayer strategy games are, it turns out, a big money-spinner on mobile - even if you don’t hire Kate Upton to ride a horse in your TV ads. Gameloft is hoping to attract lots of players to its new empire-building title, as you build a castle, tool up an army, wage war on foes and trade with friends. It’s hard to judge this kind of game a day after release, but it looks like it has plenty to explore.iPhone / iPadRollercoaster Tycoon 3 (£3.99)When Atari launched Rollercoaster Tycoon 4 Mobile last year, it received buckets of criticism for its freemium mechanics, which made the classic strategy game a bit of a chore. If you were one of the complainers, you’ll prefer this: a paid-only port of the third Rollercoaster Tycoon game. Which, for newcomers, involves creating your own theme park.iPhone / iPadBlood Gate - Age of Alchemy (Free + IAP)More monsters, more heroes, more match-three puzzling and in-app purchases. DeNA knows what it’s doing with this sub-genre of mobile games, and there appear to be plenty of players out there interested too. Blood Gate sees you dispatching beasts with your matching skills, with lots of party and character-customisation to get your teeth into.iPhone / iPadWorld of Warriors: Quest (Free)As a parent of two sons obsessed by World of Warriors at the moment – the trading cards as well as the mobile game – the fact that it’s already got a spin-off is interesting. It’s a turn-based RPG featuring the same historical warriors as the main game, with plenty of potential for younger gamers.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014Rockstars of Ooo - Adventure Time Rhythm Game (£1.49)Adventure Time remains a marvellous TV series, although the quality of its increasing stable of mobile games varies. Rockstars of Ooo is diverting fun: a music rhythm game featuring the cartoon’s key characters, and some brand new songs based on familiar scenes from the show. Well, familiar if you’ve been watching it as much as I have, under the guise of “parenting”.iPhone / iPadMazecraft (Free + IAP)On one level, this is a fun puzzle-strategy game, as you try to get out of a series of mazes without falling victim to pits, spikes and other traps. But it really comes into its own once you start designing and sharing your own mazes, and watching people try to beat them.iPhone / iPadFarms &amp; Castles (Free + IAP)Finally, someone at Square Enix has clearly been playing puzzle game Triple Town: it’s a clear influence on the company’s latest mobile game. You have to match objects on the on-screen grid to create larger and larger items - yes, castles and farms. It’s sent me back to Triple Town, which surely wasn’t the publisher’s goal, but this is fun on its own merits too.iPhone / iPadRainbowtail (Free + IAP)This is certainly throwing in a few genres: “match-three RPG pet puzzle game” is its App Store strapline. It’s a pretty good description too: Candy Crush-style matching, Puzzle &amp; Dragons-ish battling, and more than 150 pets to test out.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by oniOSin the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
The Amazon founder, Jeff Bezos, has admitted it will be “very, very, very expensive” to launch a new motoring show with Jeremy Clarkson and his Top Gear co-stars after signing up the controversial trio in a multimillion-pound deal following their departure from the BBC.The billionaire tech entrepreneur said viewers were enjoying a golden era of television and that the new Clarkson series would be a global success.“We have a lot of things in the pipeline which I think viewers in the UK and around the world are going to love. And I think Clarkson’s new show is going to be one of those,”he told the Sunday Telegraph.Bezos, who is worth an estimated $50bn , told the newspaper he was very excited about Clarkson’s move, but did not confirm if he had met him or his fellow presenters or how much they were being paid.Related:Top Gear's Clarkson, Hammond and May sign Amazon deal“They’re worth a lot, and they know it,” he said. The Financial Times has put the total cost to Amazon at $250m (£160m).The company announced in Julythat it had signed up Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond for a new show to be broadcast via its on-demand TV service.The team, along with Top Gear’s former executive producer Andy Wilman, have signed a three-series deal, with the first broadcast due at some point in 2016.Bezos said it was one of a number of new shows commissioned for viewers of Prime, who pay £79 a year in the UK to access programmes and get next-day delivery on orders.“I think we’re in a golden age of television, so if you go back in time even just five years, you couldn’t get A-list talent to do TV serials, or if you could, it was a rare thing,” Bezos said. “But that’s flipped completely.”Top Gear was a global hit for the BBC, generating an estimated £50m a year, and Amazon will be hoping that its new show will replicate that success.In the same interview, Bezos hinted that UK shoppers could be among the first to receive their Amazon deliveries by drone. One of the research centres working on the Prime Air project is in Cambridge, and he said the UK’s regulatory conditions were promising.Related:Amazon tests delivery drones at secret Canada site after US frustration“In the scheme of things the UK regulatory agencies have been very advanced,” he said. “The FAA [the US aviation regulator] is catching up a little here in the US, but the UK has been, I’d say, a very encouraging example of good regulation. I think we like what we see there.”He refused, however, to be drawn on when the first parcels may be dropped off to consumers, saying “months sounds way too aggressive to me”.The Guardian revealed in March that the company was testing its new delivery service at a secret site in Canada, after failing to persuade US regulators to allow it to launch drones in its home state of Washington. It is also rumoured to be launching a grocery delivery service in the UK as soon as next month, and hasleased a warehouse in Surrey previously used by Tesco.ANew York Times article published on Saturday described Amazon as having a “singular way of working”, saying that employees were “held to standards that the company boasts are ‘unreasonably high’.”A former employee told the newspaper: “Nearly every person I worked with, I saw cry at their desk.”
The female view: Scarlett RussellAccording to Nancy Jo Sales’sprécis of TinderinVanity Fairthis month, the online app prompts easy access to instant hook-ups and has created a generation of sex-obsessed commitment-phobes. “You’re always prowling, you can swipe a couple hundred people a day,” says a “handsome twentysomething man” she interviewed. The controversial article even made it ontoNewsnightlast week, when presenter Evan Davis asked a psychologist whether women were “disadvantaged” because of the hit-it-and-quit-it culture Tinder has allegedly invented. Is Sales’s account brutal, or brutally honest? According to my male mates, yes, most men go on Tinder just to hook up. As Andrew shrugged: “Finding a girlfriend on Tinder is like trying to find one in Ibiza.” But, if we’re being brutally honest, it’s not just men exploiting the app for their sexual gain. I think the idea that women are at any disadvantage is entirely patronising. Though most of my single, female friends use Tinder in the hope of meeting “a nice guy who won’t just send me pictures of lubricant,” I know several who are on it purely for casual dates, and some simply for casual sex. Every bloke I know on Tinder has had at least one proposition from a girl he’s “matched” with on the app before they’ve even swapped phone numbers.You can spot very quickly the men who just want to get laidBut while there’s no doubt Tinder has contributed to today’s throwaway dating culture, it can’t solely be blamed for it. The 50 women Sales interviewed were aged between 19 and 29 – no man over 30 crops up. The fact that twentysomething blokes want to sleep around is hardly Tinder’s fault. And wasn’t it supposed to beSex and The Citythat encouraged modern women to get their stiletto-clad kicks in the bedroom back in 1996? I’d imagine that if Sales talked to 50 people aged 30-plus, her findings would be rather different. I know countless couples who met through Tinder, all in their thirties. It’s not always the case, of course – I’ve dated a 27-year-old bloke who owned his own business, only ever had monogamous relationships and was desperate to settle down; and a 35-year-old man with the emotional maturity of a tadpole – but, generally, I think men in their 30s are slightly more comfortable with the idea of shared bank accounts and Sunday afternoons at the playground rather than the pub. This age group was actively dating pre-Tinder, so the concept of meeting people through friends, at work or – gasp! – in public, isn’t totally obsolete, it’s just slightly harder. My friend Josh, 33, who’s engaged to Sarah, 32, says: “I slept around in my 20s without the help of Tinder. When it came along, it enabled us to meet loads of women that obviously resulted in some fun, but I dated loads of girls I actually liked, too – including Sarah.” Single Stuart, 35, adds: “All my mates are now married or settled. Tinder does make sex readily available, but I’m kinda over that. I want a girlfriend.”I joined Tinder a year ago after a breakup and have had a love/hate relationship with it since. In the vulnerable post-breakup stages it can be a devastating minefield of mixed messages and rejection. I ended up flicking through images searching for a perfect replacement of my ex and, naturally, was bitterly disappointed. A month or so later I hopped back on with no expectations and met several fun, interesting men with whom I had great chat, lovely dates and no pressure of sex whatsoever. You can spot very quickly the men that just want to get laid. They tend to be over-zealous with emojis from early on, before a mis-spelt proposition (“u wanna snuggle!? Lol”) wings its way over. Sometimes they’ll send pictures of their unkempt torso or genitalia. We’ll sigh, maybe laugh and show our mates, then “un-match” them, thus blocking further contact. Last week a profile popped up of my friend’s boyfriend. The next showed nothing but a topless, faceless selfie with a phone number underneath. Despairing, I deleted my account. But, despite that, I still maintain that not all men go on Tinder just to have casual sex. Today’s dating culture, where options are endless and no one has time to wait for pasta to boil, let alone find The One, is ruthless. Tinder certainly has its part to play, but it’s not running the show.Dean Kissick: ‘Everything about Tinder is casual.’Photograph: Suki Dhanda/ObserverThe male view: Dean KissickAfter thatVanity Fairarticleabout dating apps and the “hookup culture” that surrounds them, an unknown Tinder employee tweeted out a storm of protestations, including: “Our data tells us that the vast majority of Tinder users are looking for meaningful connections.” Now as anyone who has ever used the app can tell you, that’s just not true. Tinder is for finding casual sex, and everything about it is casual and its unique selling point is a parade of noncommittal sex partners to be pursued, or disregarded, by such a lackadaisical, non-committal gesture as a swipe. Many men swipe right – approving all before them – until they reach the upper limit of around 100 approvals every 12 hours. One of my mates wakes up and swipes right 100 times every morning, then repeats that in the evening; and occasionally he has a match, and after that a couple of hours of mechanical, loveless sex. Nothing much unusual about that. There’s a lot of fishing for meaningless sex on Tinder; it’s a hobby, like angling – a man sitting on his own in the rain waiting for a rainbow trout.However, none of this means that the app is tailored to men, or somehow exploitative, because women are interested in casual sex, too, aren’t they? Actually, I believe that women hold all the Tinder-power because they have so many matches, and most men don’t. My female friends have hundreds of matches and so many unanswered messages, whereas I rarely receive anything, and neither do my mates. Our phones lie fallow, with neither chirrup nor ping. It’s lonely, like one of those tragic restaurants that are always empty, and every time you walk by you wish – really wish – that there were customers inside, but there never are. It is rather emasculating like that.Phones are passed around groups of young women at the pub and absurd messages are sent to strangersI suppose most inhabitants of the Tinder-verse find what they’re looking for – a meaningless, practical shag – but women have many more options to choose from. Back in 2013 three college students in Orem, Utah, started an account for an imaginary 21-year-old girl called Sammy, portraying her through found photographs of Miss Teen USA. They matched every man in the area and invited them out: “I’m going to yogurt shop called yogurtland tonight at 9 in Orem with some girl friends if you want to meet up).” That night they arrived at the frozen yoghurt sellers to find men, around 70 of them, consumed by lust and confusion, wandering aimlessly, like stags standing around a meadow waiting to fight.Yesterday I spoke to a German banker – attractive, early 20s – at a birthday party and she explained that Tinder is very reassuring when you’ve just left a relationship, because you realise that there are thousands of other people out there, so much choice, so much opportunity to meet strangers outside your social circles. She also told me that it is frivolous, entertaining, and you can tease lascivious men in the messages, if you like. I’ve observed this, it’s not at all uncommon; phones are passed around groups of young women (sometimes men) at the pub, and absurd messages are sent to strangers for a laugh, and it’s cruel and also highly amusing. All of these apps are, essentially, forms of entertainment.Vanity Fair’s article begins inside an upmarket bar in Manhattan’s financial district in which everyone is Tindering; their rapt, aroused faces illuminated by the lights of their phones. Why would anyone do this, on an evening out drinking in New York? That’s just crackers! What is wrong with us?! If we weren’t staring into our phones constantly we might fall for a stranger walking past in the street, suddenly imagining what that other person might be like, what life we might lead together – maybe she’s a cellist in the orchestra! – but all this magical speculation is rather undermined when you read a Tinder biography that says something like (an example from just this afternoon): “Travel, treehouses, festivals, food, sun, skiing, sausage dogs, steel drums, bike rides, canal boats, desert islands.” How tiresome, and underwhelming. Because the whole point of falling in love is that you cannot choose who you fall in love with. Your sweet, sweet fantasy might be utterly impractical, pie-in-the-sky, totally unapproachable, but that’s what’s exciting; and Tinder just sucks all the joy and romance out of this.
Conglomerates have been distinctly unfashionable among investors for decades. But that may be about to change.Just as Warren Buffett put the final touches to a $37.2bn deal to add a nuts-and-bolts maker to his sprawling Berkshire Hathaway empire last week,Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin unveiled a restructuringthat borrowed liberally from the sage of Omaha’s rulebook.Suddenly, the word “conglomerate”, not heard frequently in the UK since the heyday of Hanson Trust in the 1980s, is on everybody’s lips.Google’s founders have always admired Buffett. Google’s IPO letter to shareholders in 2004 disclosed that it was inspired by the octogenarian’s essays in Berkshire’s annual reports. And when asked recently how Google would manage an ambitious expansion without becoming bloated and impossible to run,Page said he would follow the example set by the famed investor.So when the technology group announced a restructuring last week, with various businesses operating under the umbrella of a holding company called Alphabet, it was no surprise that analysts detected the subconscious influence of Buffett. Stifel analyst Scott Devitt labelled Googlethe Berkshire Hathaway of the internet.Warren Buffett: sprawling empire.Photograph: Kevork DjansezianGoogle is proposing a structure in which the profitable search business funnels some profits into its more speculative ventures like driverless cars or Calico, which aims to extend the human lifespan.Page explains: “Alphabet is mostly a collection of companies, the largest of which, of course, is Google. This newer Google is a bit slimmed down, with the companies that are pretty far afield of our main internet products contained in Alphabet instead.”There are those who feel the Buffett analogy is not fair on the investor. Hisbusinesses– from brickmaking to clothing and insurance – might be run under a similar structure to the one being described by Page, but they are expected to be profitable in the medium term. He is not trying to develop new businesses but reinvigorate old ones. And his model relies on well-timed acquisitions. “Google’s Alphabet sounds like a 21st-century Berkshire Hathaway, but with a lot of very large venture bets,” Jeff Weiner, LinkedIn’s chief executive, tweeted last week.Some also fear the greater transparency of Alphabet will be damaging to the experimental businesses, such as driverless cars and kite turbines.“Startups remain private for a reason,” saysScott DeRue, professor of management at the University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business. “The primary reason is that management in startups can take full risks and be free to make errors. The market is going to increase the pressure on the moonshot businesses under this structure.”DeRue thinks the newer businesses under the Alphabet umbrella will not thrive without strong-willed executives driving them on. “If they can withstand the market pressure and maintain a high level of exploration, then it could work,” he believes. But that is a big if.
Last weekend, one of the most glittering alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Kharagpur did not show up to give a school prize as he had promised. Sundar Pichai, then head of product at Google, begged off for reasons that became abundantly clear over the next few days: he had just been promoted to chief executive, and he had work to do.The tech industry has seen its share of strange corporate maneuvers, but Google’s realignment this week has to be among the strangest. The company pulled off a sort of upside-down merger with itself, in effect creating a holding company called Alphabet that runs a mega-profitable company called Google on the one hand and a dozen other money-losers and long-odds bets that Google has called “moonshots” on the other.“This new structure will allow us to keep tremendous focus on the extraordinary opportunities we have inside of Google,” Larry Page wrote ina blogpostthat surprised the entire industry. “A key part of this is Sundar Pichai.”Married with two children, Pichai projects the image of a passionate nerd, but without any of the sociopathic egotism that plagues Silicon Valley executives (and their underlings). It’s a skill set that has made him one of tech’s most eligible executives.“He certainly has close friends but he is not political,” said Christopher Sacca, founder and chairman ofLowercase Capitaland formerly Google’s head of special initiatives.“That’s one of the keys to his success. Everyone knows where they stand with Sundar and they aren’t worried about watching behind their backs.”Sacca describes Pichai as “lighthearted” and “almost always smiling”, but also fascinated by how to make big things work.“He likes scale,” said Sacca. “Huge scale. I was in the room when Sundar convinced Eric Schmidt that it would be possible to unseat Internet Explorer as the world’s most popular browser.”The appointment was a slick move on Google’s part, according to Colin Gillis, technology analyst at BGC Partners in New York. “He’s been a rising leader at Google for some time,” Gillis said. Twitter and a host of other tech companies are looking for top talent, he added. Pichai is “someone in high demand. In one fell swoop they have kept a key manager.”Now, as head of a more slender and restructured Google, the executive and scientist is beingcelebrated by his alma mater. “I had seen this coming,” one of his professors at IIT, Sanat Roy, told the Times of India. “Three years ago when the boy became Google’s vice-president, didn’t I tell you: this is the beginning, he’ll make it straight to the top?”The chess-loving 43-year-old hails from the port city of Chennai, capital of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, which is just across the Palk Strait from Sri Lanka. Engineering is in his blood. His father, Regunatha Pichai, worked as an electrical engineer for Britain’s General Electric Company (not to be confused with the American GE) and during Sundar’s childhoold would talk freely about his work with his son.Sundar has a talent for creating products that are technically excellent yet easy to use – and he loves a big betLarry Page“Even at a young age, he was curious about my work,” Reguntha Pichaitold Bloomberglast year. “I think it really attracted to him to technology.” The family didn’t have a car, opting instead to take the bus or load up – all four of them – on to a blue Lambretta scooter. When Sundar graduated from college in 1993, he decamped to Stanford on a plane ticket that cost more than his father’s annual salary.At Stanford, he earned a master’s degree in materials science and engineering. He is trained to deal with the building blocks of computers – density, molecular mechanics, semiconductors, and, crucially, materials that might make good semiconductors. It’s the kind of knowledge Google would go on to make groundbreaking use of. Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page both have degrees in computer science, which tends toward software; Pichai understands hardware.Pichai has said that he’s attracted to computing because of its ability to do cheaply things that are useful to everyone, irrespective of class or background. “The thing which attracted me to Google and to the internet in general is that it’s a great equalizer,” he said ina video interview last year. “I’ve always been struck by the fact that Google search worked the same, as long as you had access to a computer with connectivity, if you’re a rural kid anywhere or a professor at Stanford or Harvard.”That has led Pichai to push forward some of the unconventional, even silly, projects like one that falls under Alphabet’s Willy Wonka-like subdivision X Labs – which are no longer a part of Google – called Project Loon. It’s semi-philanthropic effort, announced in 2013 after two years in the works, to provide the internet to those rural users by way of weather balloons that stay aloft for six months at a time with LTE network receivers hanging from them. “When you think about it, it sounds a bit crazy,” Pichaiadmitted to the Vergein March.Pichai has said that it’s important “not to just build technology for a certain segment”. Now that he’s in the driver’s seat at Google, he has the authority to put that ambition to the test.There’s the business side of things to be considered, of course. After earning an MBA at Wharton (where, as at IIT and Stanford, he earned top academic honors), Pichai worked at McKinsey and Company and a firm called Applied Materials that provides supplies to semiconductor manufacturers. And when he moved to Google in 2004, Pichai distinguished himself as the architect of one of the most valuable products in Google’s vast repository: its ubiquitous, lightning-fast information sponge of a web browser, Chrome.Sundar Pichai at Google I/O 2013 in San Francisco.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APIt started out as the Google Toolbar, the now-standard little box that let Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox users use the company’s search engine, and then, under Pichai, the concept broadened into a full-blown web browser. Above the surface, Chrome loads up web pages quickly, it manages multiple logins and passwords (and Google products) across several different computers, and it’s so easy to use that it now hasa more than 25% market share. It’s also the basis of the Chromebook, a computer that simply stores all the user’s information in the cloud rather than on a bulky internal hard drive. The computers run cheap and fast, and have become increasingly popular among businesses, which typically buy in bulk. Sales of Chromebooks exceeded the sales of Windows notebooks through business-to-business channels during June and early July,according to the NPD group.Google’s display advertising business – which includes ads served directly into Gmail accounts, as well as its AdSense networks – is worth about $5bn annually, according to estimates by Pivotal Research analyst Brian Wieser. Chrome helps generate some of the data that allows the company to serve those ads effectively; its speed is a function of its memory. If you visit a web page regularly, Google will grab the parts that don’t change and put them where it can find them quickly the next time you go there.That, in turn, is useful information for the company’s ads; it can tell what you like to look at on the internet and suggest other things for you to buy. It follows you around the internet, but it gives you speed in exchange for targeting, and speed is the most important thing in a browser. With Pichai’s aid, Google has insinuated itself into the computer browsing experience very quickly indeed. In 2013, the company put him in charge of the mobile business, too.“Sundar has a talent for creating products that are technically excellent yet easy to use – and he loves a big bet,” Page wrote when he promoted Pichai and moved Andy Rubin, the company’s former head of Android, into the robot-and-drone-filled netherworld that now comprises Alphabet’s non-Google divisions.It wasn’t the smoothest transition. Rubin’s management style had caused tension throughout Google (the running joke was that it was easier to work with Apple than the company’s own operating system) and Pichai’s task was in part to merge the difficult division with the rest of the company – something Rubin had reportedly refused to do. Johanna Wright, the product manager who runs Google Now, told Bloomberg that Pichai “helped me formalize a relationship”, a difficult task the incoming executive had made easier.The year after he was appointed, more than a billion phones were shipped – many to China (where Android hasan 80% market share) and, of course, India (where its market share is falling but still a majority).The thing which attracted me to Google and to the internet in general is that it’s a great equalizerSundar PichaiThe tech industry’s current obsession with the Indian subcontinent and China is one Pichai shares, and to great effect. Pichai has made sure the company’s Project Svelte, a slimmed-down version of Android for cheaper phones, has plenty of resources, making adoption even easier.In India, Pichai said, most people had never had landlines. “It took us probably a seven-year wait to get a landline and then cell phones came. I think only 10 million people in India have ever seen a landline.”“With something like [Indian taxi app]Ola,” he wondered, “can you bypass car ownership?”But he also has a sense for the counterintuitive. In an interviewin June, Pichai mused on how effective ashopping app called Wish, which connects shoppers in the US or Europe direct to Chinese suppliers, apparently was. “They ship the slowest way possible to make it as cheap as possible,” he said. “People can buy it at 1/10 the price direct from China to here just mediated by the phone.”Pichai, with his knack for spotting inefficiencies in economies not just in the US but globally, has shown a talent for carefully marshalling the company’s vast resources into limited bets that pay serious dividends. Those talents paid off this week with Google’s founders giving him the ultimate compliment: control of their profit generator so they can get on with their moonshots.Potted profileBorn12 July 1972Age43CareerThe son of an engineer born in India’s Tamil Nadu state, Pichai graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology in 1993, left Stanford a few years later with a master’s degree – he’d planned to get a PhD but dropped out to work for semiconductor firm Applied Materials – and graduated from the Wharton School of Business in 2002. He arrived at Google on April Fools’ Day 2004 and set to work on what would turn into Google’s web browser, Chrome. In 2013 he was given control of the company’s mobile operating system, Android, over Andy Rubin, the system’s founder, who was shuffled aside.High pointA year after being put in charge of Android – a situation that could have been disastrous both for the division and for Pichai – Google shipped 1bn devices.Low pointNegotiating the intricacies of Android was delicate – Rubin’s management style was a source of conflict and Pichai was promoted into a political minefield.What he says“At a high level, I think of what we’re doing in terms of two core things. I really want to work on big problems that solve big problems in users’ lives. The second is our core mission statement, which is to organize our users’ information.”What they say“I would challenge you to find anyone at Google who doesn’t like Sundar or who thinks Sundar is a jerk,” Caesar Sangupta, a longtime colleague, told Bloomberg.• This article was amended on 20 August 2015 to clarify a reference to sales of Chromebooks.
What is your opinion on the privacy issue concerning Microsoft Windows 10? Currently I use InPrivate Browsing on Windows 7 Professional to protect myself from intrusive tracking.Finally yet importantly, what is your opinion of Windows 10? In all the years of using Microsoft, I have learned it is better to wait a year or so before updating my system to the “newest and greatest”.SusanMy opinion is that the “privacy issue” in Windows 10 has been overblown, partly because of a perfectly understandable ignorance about what’s going on. You will probably want to change several of the defaults, as I did. However, you should view these settings in the context of the direction almost everything is heading. Even Microsoft is now a “mobile first, cloud first” company.Related:Windows 10: Microsoft under attack over privacyFirst, Windows 10 has not introduced a lot of new privacy changes: most of the things being complained about were already in Windows 8 or 8.1. The only really new thing in Windows 10 isCortana, a conversational personal assistant based partly on AI (artificial intelligence) and deep learning, and even she had already appeared on Windows Phone.Cortana requires the same sort of trade off – some privacy risk in exchange for useful functionality – as Apple’sSiriand Google Now, and for the same reasons. For example, Cortana cannot help you with your next meeting if she doesn’t have access to your calendar, contacts, location and so on.But Cortana is not on by default, and can’t be turned on by accident. She comes with a Notebook, so you have some control. If you change your mind, you can simply log on to Bing’s“personalization” pageand clear all Cortana’s data, along with your personal info.Second, Windows 10 is largely a mobile operating system and, like Apple iOS and Google Android, it’s designed to run on smartphones and tablets, not just on laptops and desktops. Indeed, Windows 10 is part of a whole ecosystem of devices (smartphones, tablets, PCs, games consoles, HoloLens etc), email and OneDrive online storage, Office 365 (PCs, Macs, tablets, smartphones) and free Office web apps, the Windows Store, Cortana, Bing, and Azure, plus Microsoft apps on Windows 10, iOS and Android. This is a superset of the similar ecosystems from Apple and Google. Windows 10 needs similar privacy allowances to cover cloud-based cross-device and cross-platform integration.Windows 10: in terms of privacy it’s scarier than Windows 7, but not half as much as smartphones, CCTV or even supermarket reward cards are.Photograph: MicrosoftThird, the days of big-bang Windows releases have gone. Windows 10 is now beingcontinuously updated based on “Big Data”, in much the same way as Gmail, Google apps and Chromebooks, Facebook etc, and for exactly the same reasons: development is based on continuous feedback.Microsoft doesn’t collect as much information as Google and Facebook, but its business isn’t based on selling adverts against your profile. Microsoft says: “We do not use what you say in email, chat, video calls or voice mail, or your documents, photos or other personal files to target ads to you,” and “Windows does not collect personal information without your consent.”Windows 10 may be a much scarier privacy proposition than Windows 7, but it’s not scarier than smartphones. I don’t think it’s nearly as scary as, for example, CCTV cameras, reward cards (eg Tesco’s Clubcard and Nectar), or the US and UK governments.Windows 10 accountsTo get the best out of Windows 10, you should set it up with a Microsoft Account (MSA) such as a Hotmail, Live or Outlook.com email address. This integrates with OneDrive and the online Office web-apps, and – like an Apple or Google ID – enrols you in the ecosystem.Some consider this a privacy risk, but you can always set up a new account, rather than use your “real” email address. You don’t have to give Microsoft any authentic information, though there may be a snag if you want to use two-factor authentication. For example, Microsoft’s server can’t text you a security code unless you’ve given it a mobile phone number.Your MSA enables you to synchronise information – apps, settings, browser favourites, passwords etc – across all your devices, and makes adding new PCs a doddle. You can also download free apps from the Windows Store and access games, music and video services. This only breaks down if you want to pay for something – unless you have an anonymous way to pay.Of course, you can still use a local account to log in to Windows, but you’re giving up a lot of functionality. In Windows 10 Home, this includes BitLocker, which allows secure hard drive encryption to protect your privacy.Privacy settingsEasy to miss … Windows 10’s privacy settingsPhotograph: MicrosoftMost people won’t see Windows 10’s privacy settings because the Express installation skips past them. You must instead click “Customize settings” in the lower left corner. This brings up two pages of on/off options.Many more settings are available later. Select Settings and click Privacy to summon a page with subheadings for the main topics: location, camera, microphone, contacts, calendar and so on. Most of these offer more options to control apps and services.For example, I have eight apps that want access to my webcam. In Windows 10, I denied seven of them and just allowed Skype. I’d love to have that sort of control on my Android phone.There’s a temptation to turn everything off, but this is not sensible. For example, you should keep the SmartScreen filter on. This is a well-established PC-wide service (it used to be in the browser) that checks web addresses and files for known malware. Yes, it does send information to a Microsoft service, but it’s an important part of Windows 10’s security.Of course, if you use Google Chrome or Firefox and some alternative anti-virus programs and services, they do exactly the same thing.Like Android, Windows 10 gives you an anonymous “advertising ID”. You can turn it off (I do), but with the same result: you just see random adverts instead of targeted adverts.One thing you cannot turn off is the telemetry that enables Microsoft to track which apps you use, and what goes wrong, so as to improve Windows 10. The “Feedback &amp; diagnostics” page lets you set a feedback frequency (including Never), but the only options for “Diagnostic and usage data” are Basic, Enhanced and Full.However, bear in mind that whenever you use an online service – including Facebook and every Google service – then you are providing all your diagnostic and usage data all the time. And, by the way, you still have much more privacy if you edit photos withPaint.neton your Windows 10 PC than if you do it using a website or online service instead.Related:Windows 10 review – final version of Windows might be Microsoft's best everWorth the free upgrade?Windows 10 is clearly unfinished and has some rough edges. However, it didn’t need to be perfect, it just needed to be better than Windows 8.1. Which it is. If you’re using Windows 8.1 on a laptop or desktop PC, then I recommend the upgrade.If you enjoy using Windows 8.1 on a tablet or other touch screen device, then you don’t need to upgrade. Windows 10 does have a tablet mode, but you may find it worse. The main reason to upgrade is to get Cortana, if you want Cortana. (I do.)If you are using Windows 7, it’s optional. You can leave the free upgrade until July 2016, or stick with Windows 7 until April 2020. The main reasons to upgrade include Cortana, access to new apps from the Windows Store, and – if you play games – the huge improvements in Direct X12 graphics.Windows Store apps are written to a new system, Windows Runtime, which has many advantages over the old Win32 used for traditional programs. Windows Runtime apps are available from a trusted source, are easy to install, can be updated automatically, and are easy to uninstall. Also, they run sandboxed, so they are much more secure. However, most are smartphone- or tablet-style apps, and don’t have the power and versatility of traditional software. So, at the moment, you’re not missing much.If you use multiple Windows 10 devices – smartphones, tablets, laptops – or if you use Microsoft apps on iOS or Android, then it could be worth upgrading from Windows 7 to benefit from the integrated ecosystem. But if you are a traditional desktop user with one PC, then it probably isn’t. Yet.On the thresholdThe old idea of waiting for Microsoft to release Service Pack 1 after 12-18 months no longer applies, because Windows 10 will be updating all the time. However, Microsoft plans to release two significant updates each year, and the next one, Threshold Wave 2, is expected around the end of October. This should add more polish, some optimization, and better programs for OneDrive and Skype. If this comes to pass, December might be a good time to upgrade.Miss that slot and the two 2016 updates, codenamed Redstone, will be coming into view ...I do understand why geeks freak out about the compulsory upgrade process, but roughly 1.5 billion Windows users are not geeks, and they should be much better off letting Microsoft manage their PCs. I say “should be” because even small mistakes could affect millions of users, and there’s always the chance of a major screw-up. That’s why we all have current back-ups, right?Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
The Polo GTi, a 1.8-litre engine, 190bhp – it’s as poky as a Scotch bonnet, and as ready to go as a man in a pub whose eighth pint you’ve just spilled. It comes as a surprise to your fellow road user, who might mistake you for a regular Polo driver. But a regular Polo can’t pull you out of bed, while this can get you from zero to 62 in 6.7 seconds. It is somewhat ridiculous – the fabric on the seats looks like the kind of tartan a low-level conman might wear after he’d got married and his wife had told him to tone it down a bit – but it is extremely fun.You can choose between manual and automatic. I had the six-speed manual: the efficiency is not as good. It’s in the same band as the automatic, but 10 extra g/km will be significant for some. But it is a droll little drive, more like a delinquent companion than a car. It’s about as small as it could be, and pulls off like a rocket. Motorway driving is a blast: even in 6th, you get lots of torque. “Nobody’s more surprised about this than I am,” said my face as I hurtled up the rear carriages of the other motorists.It has an ESC sport setting borrowed from the Golf, whereby you can turn off the traction control and swoosh all over the place. I prefer it with traction control, frankly – the sports setting is for track driving and maniacs. But people who like this kind of thing will be thrilled that they can do this kind of thing. Then I realised with a start who this car is actually for: it is the perfect sweet spot between the 19-year-old cooking up ways to injure themselves, and the parent buying the car, dreaming up obstacles to those injuries.A huge amount of thought has gone into the sporty effect; the handling is pin-sharp, partly thanks to the XDS Plus system (another Golf steal, it compensates for understeer); every unnecessary kilo has been trimmed; every trim has been super-trimmed. But the safety consideration is surprisingly prominent; VW is proud of its automatic post-collision braking system, which, as the name suggests, brakes as soon as the car is involved in an accident, reducing kinetic energy and consequently the chances of another smash, which is apparently where a lot of injuries come from.Downsides are that there isn’t much space, particularly in the boot. They talk a good game about the Isofix safety feature for kids, but I preferred the drive as a child-free zone. Look, you have to want to drop 20 grand on your own amusement. That is some hurdle. But once you’ve cleared it, the amusement will surely follow.VW Polo GTi: in numbersPrice£19,530Top speed146mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 6.7 secondsCO2emissions139g/kmCombined fuel consumption47.1mpgEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Recently I went on a BBC news programme to give “the privacy side” of a technology story. Employees of a software company in Sweden hadimplanted chips in their wrists that activated the company photocopier. Yes, you read that right. Having minor surgery instead of just remembering a four-digit PIN is a pretty daft idea. You’d have to be a tech utopian to want to do it.But this news story wasn’t just about privacy and new technologies, and how “we’ll all soon be doing it”. This story was about power: who has it, who doesn’t, how it is used. And the internet of things, too, is about power.Theinternet of thingsconnects objects to networks and exploits the data that is generated. Most of this information is machine-to-machine. For example, a Boeing 777may generate 20 terabytes of data per engine per hour. Most of the “things” in the internet of things are focused on supply chains and on machine and system performance, not on consumers. But that is changing.By 2020, it’s claimed thatup to 100 billiondevices will be connected to private networks or to the internet. The data this creates is crunched bysecret algorithmsanalysing how machines and systems work, how economies function and, increasingly, how humans live .On one end of the scale we have sensor networks, proprietary and open-source protocols and standards, and a Hobbesian war of all against all between commercial behemoths like Apple, Google, Cisco, Oracle, SAP, GE and others you have never heard of. On the other end, there’s theT-shirt that can talk to your washing machine, the ubiquitous ads that just know you’re re-thinking your summer wardrobe, the self-driving car, the smart city.A labourer pulls cable in front of office buildings in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City at Gandhinagar. It is thought that India’s new smart cities willsegregate the rich from the poor.Photograph: Amit Dave / Reuters/REUTERSSure, the set of hardware, software, platforms and business models shooting up around the internet of things have the potential to do good. But they do not come innocent into a world of plenty. The internet of things will be be as much determined by its own revenue imperatives andownership structuresas our society is by inequality, consumerism and the politics of fear. The internet of things is a set of heavily invested capabilities in search of long and deep profit. Where it meets individuals, its goal is to hoover up information about us, use that to optimise processes,nudge usto earn more, consume more, depend on each other less.The internet of things is a set of heavily invested capabilities in search of long and deep profit.Unlike those enthusiastic and well-rewarded Scandinavian programmers, you and I don’t generally opt into the internet of things. The “trade-off” of consumers sacrificing privacy for convenience or lower prices is a myth. Faced withpages of legalese and all-or-nothing terms and conditions, US research found thatindividuals accept online and physical trackingby businesses because they believe thatif they refuse it will happen anyway:... people feel they cannot do anything to seriously manage their personal information the way they want. Moreover, they feel they would face significant social and economic penalties if they were to opt out of all the services of a modern economy that rely on an exchange of content for data. So they have slid into resignation.”The unholy alliance of CCTV, face recognition, mobile phones, fitness trackers and other wearable technologies, data brokerage and analytics,private ownership and control of previously public spaceslike city squares, andincreasingly wide-ranging policing powersmean we live in an urban world of ambient surveillance we never voted for. We are no longer citizens enjoying civic space; we are crops to be harvested, we are potential risks to be controlled. The internet of things doesall that for us and more.With its insecure devices with multiple points of data access, user applications that routinely exfiltrate our sensor data, activity logs and personal contacts, and a Sisyphean uphill struggle required to exert any control over who knows what about us, the internet of things does more than createwhole new cyber-security attack surfaces. It is so riddled with metastasising points of vulnerability that you begin to sense that these are not bugs, but features. As we walk around our increasingly “smart cities”, we are haemorrhaging data; but we will not be the ones to primarily benefit from mopping it up.We face a Sisyphean uphill struggle to exert any control over who knows what about us.Think about it.Who benefits from a car that transmits vast amounts of data about its use (and therefore its user) back to the manufacturer and potentially on tothird parties like insurers? Who is the “you” who’ll enjoy a supposedly better-designed successor vehicle, the “you” who might be offered lower premiums? Who is the “you” the energy company (or the online retailer, or the bank) will data-mine and offer a better rate to, and the “you” that will be offered the worst cash-only deals or simply cut off?The entire point of combining sensor and object data with individualised behavioural data sets is to create ever richer profiles that more efficiently segregate the marketplace into winners and losers. Anyone who has spent more than five minutesstudying the US credit-rating agenciesknows they rack up the costs of being poor (and Black), amplify inequality and disappear down a rabbit hole of proprietary methods and non-disclosure agreements the moment you try to figure out why one bad datum means you suddenly can’t get credit, an apartment lease or even a job interview. Systems go wrong. Proprietary and unaccountable systems go horribly wrong and inherently lack the ability to fix themselves.But while individuals are increasingly and with less choice living their lives out in the open, the companies and governments making money and decisions about us are not.Freedom of Information about public policy-makingis beingsystematically rolled back. Companies increasingly obscure their actions behind a fog of NDAs, complex ownership structures and “proprietary information and processes”. Show me the sensor network that tells us anything useful about theprivate companies running our prisonsor large chunks of the welfare system. Show me the big data set being mined to reduce theclass ceiling.The internet of things is a multi-billion pound industry set for10 percent compound growth rates every year until 2020. But it is also what Frank Pasquale calls aone-way mirror. We are visible, not to say naked, in front of it; and behind it lies … who knows?On that BBC programme, I tried to point out that privacy is something you have a lot less of the less powerful you are, especially in an employment relationship. It issupposed to be a right, not a luxury good. But the employees subjected to the tracking, data-gathering and zero-hours coercion the internet of things makes possible and profitable will not be the well-educated geeks who can jump to the next start-up when they tire of the free coffee (and realise they need a new chip implanted for the new photocopier).They will bethe hotel cleaners, the retail warehouse pickers, the security guards and the harried carers.Surveillance capitalismis not the only way. Let’s stop thinking of privacy as something to do with data protection, as a set of information rights that can be banished by the magic spell of “consent”.Privacy is just another name for autonomy, for the ability to use a little intelligence and independence in our work – however “lowly” – for the right to simply be in a public space without needing an excuse or a credit card, for the ability to look through that one-way mirror and see who is looking back at us.
This was the week Google finally admitted the unthinkable – that it can’t do everything. With the launch of its new holding company,Alphabet, Google has reorganised itself into multiple companies, separating its highly profitable search and advertising businesses from its newer moonshot projects.But was this enormous corporate overhaul really such a good thing for the company? If you look at it from the perspective of Google’s management and its relationship with the city, then the short answer is yes.Related:What does Alphabet have to learn from other corporate rebrands?As Google has grown and branched outwards, its original mission statement has been stretched. It made sense to organise the company’s business interests, from driverless car technology to smart robotics, into a coherent structure, creating a family of independent companies. With Alphabet now overseeing all operations, Google can now refocus on its core mission: to “organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful”.At the same time, the creation of the new companies – each with its own CEO – will open up leadership opportunities for Google’s most precious asset – the great minds in the business. Google has pulled off a classic future-proofed brand strategy and architecture which speaks to a mindset of cool logic and sound management.But, while this will no doubt speak well to investors, there are other things to consider in any corporate brand strategy. With any new company or brand, it’s crucial that it has the power to inspire its people, by far Google’s most important asset. So, where is the belief and pioneering attitude we expect? In Larry Page’s statement to the world, he talked about “being cleaner, more accountable” and “more management scale”. He said, “our model is to have a strong CEO who runs each business, with Sergey and me in service to them as needed. We will rigorously handle capital allocation and work to make sure each business is executing well.”At no point did he talk about their vision or how they see their role in the world (not the business). Yes, they conceded at the end of the statement that they want to make the world a better place. But who doesn’t?Compare what we’ve heard this week to the character and spirit Google has become famous for and it leaves a lot to be desired. Google has always had the power to make us believe anything is possible. The company spawned belief statements learned by heart by brand strategists, and copied by businesses across the world.Alphabet’s strategy seems to indicate a commitment to shares, to the city and a commitment to running smart businesses and that’s about it. Spend time searching for what employees are saying about the restructuring and most of the language is focused on share price – that’s not the culture we want to believe Google has or what most employees want to see reflected in their company. People need purpose. So, if Google is now a smaller part of something bigger: Alphabet … then what does Alphabet stand for?And, finally, to the name itself. Alphabet is a brilliant play on bringing a finite order to the massive complexity of Google. The wordalphameans to outperform; spot on for the city.But is it another warning sign that they have chosen constructed order over a Google of infinite possibilities, restlessly innovating and pushing the boundaries? Now that would be shame.To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox,sign up free for Media &amp; Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media &amp; Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by’ – find out morehere.
Google’s Alphabet just lost an “N”, after location-based gaming department Niantic Labs announced that it is going independent.Niantic is the internal group behind Google’s popular game Ingress, which sees players on Android and iOS fight a worldwide battle to seize control of real-world locations by checking in nearby.Ingress recently boasted its 12-millionth download, which, while solid numbers for a niche game, clearly puts it at the low end of the scale at which Google is used to operating. But rather than face the axe like other Google projects with a small but devoted userbase, such as Google Reader, Niantic is being spun off as an independent company, free to develop Ingress and its other app, Field Trip.Perhaps if Niantic had waited a little longer, it may have found the independence it needs inside the mothership, following Google’sforthcoming reorganisation into a holding company called Alphabet. But as it stands, the company will become a fully independent entity.Related:Ingress: The game that reveals Google's secret war to control LondonA Google spokesperson told the Guardian: “Niantic Labs has created some incredibly innovative mobile experiences, like the popular augmented reality game Ingress, while being incubated within Google. They’re now ready to accelerate their growth by becoming an independent company, which will help them align more closely with investors and partners in the entertainment space. We’re excited to continue supporting them as they bring exploration and fun to even more people around the world.”Niantic has given existing users a month to opt-out of having their data transfer to the new standalone company, “to prevent any disruption in your gameplay”, and says that it is “looking forward to taking our unique blend of exploration and fun to even bigger audiences”.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!APPSNinja Jamm (Free + IAP)Ninja Jamm is the work of British dance label Ninja Tune: a music creation app that’s fun and accessible, but has plenty of depth too. The app provides you with samples and loops from a range of the label’s artists - some free, and some paid for in ‘packs’ via in-app purchases - then you create remixes and new tunes.Microsoft Translator (Free)If you often find yourself turning to The Power Of Google Translate when abroad and stuck for a phrase, Microsoft is hoping you’ll give its new app a try as an alternative. You can quickly search for a translation and display it on your smartphone or Android Wear smartwatch - useful for showing people if you don’t want to balls up the pronunciation.Dreamify (Free)Internet users -Guardian colleagues included- have been getting excited about Google’s Deep Dream technology, and the trippy images that it produces. Now there’s an app for that. Dreamify takes your own photos and runs them through its algorithms to create digital masterpieces. Or frightening messes, of course. But let’s focus on the former.Related:The best Android apps of 2014MSTY (Free)MSTY is one of a flurry of startups exploring the middle ground between WhatsApp and Spotify: music messaging. It’s a quick, slick way to choose a song from the app’s catalogue, add a background image and text message, then send to a friend. Like Music Messenger, Rithm and others, it’s hoping to spread via word-of-mouth among chatty music fans.Drupe Contacts &amp; Dialer (Free)Drupe is also part of a wider trend: apps trying to provide a smarter way to organise your contacts and get in touch with friends. In this case, it gathers and sorts your contacts, ties in services like Skype, Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, and promises to make it simple to initiate a conversation with individual friends and groups alike.Robinhood (Free)This one’s for American investors, really: the first Android app for the online service whose USP is that it doesn’t charge you a fee to buy and sell shares. The app helps you quickly control your account on the go, while also browsing market data and keep a ‘watchlist’ of stocks you want to keep tabs on.Show Me the Money (£1.92)Based on publisher DK’s book of the same name, this app does, indeed, show you the money. It’s an educational app about the history of money and financial transactions, from banknotes to credit cards. Aimed more at children, it does a good job of making what can be a dry subject engaging for young savers.Govberg OnTime: Watch Toolbox (Free)This is the narrowest niche audience in this week’s roundup: luxury watch collectors. It’s a way to store (and, let’s be honest, show off) the watches that aren’t on your wrist at any given time, while also reading up on new models. Govberg, which makes the app, will also buy your watches and sell you new ones - the motivation behind releasing the app.Zoombinis (£3.84)Another educational app for children here, and it’s actually a remake of PC software from the 1990s. Children have to guide the Zoombinis characters through a succession of puzzles testing their logic and pattern-recognition skills. Parents of a certain age will feel pangs of nostalgia, but let’s see if their modern-day kids are as enthusiastic.Find your VS Shade (Free)Finally: hair! Dyed hair, to be specific. This is a Vidal Sassoon-branded app that gets you to take a selfie, trace the outline of your glossy locks, and then experiment with new shades via digital manipulation. And of course, persuading you to buy branded product is the goal here, but it could still be useful if you’re mulling that switch from strawberry-blond to autumn-plum or turtle-green.GAMESFallout Shelter (Free + IAP)This started as a mobile spin-off from the Fallout games, to promote the upcoming Fallout 4. It’s taking on a life of its own though, as people build their underground communities in a post-nuclear world. It’s a bit like mobile hit Tiny Tower, and a fine time-tider-over for fans waiting for the next full game.Down The Mountain (Free + IAP)Your first thought on seeing Down The Mountain will probably be ‘Oh! Crossy Road again...’ but there’s more than meets the eye here. Yes, its blocky design is reminiscent of that popular game, but skipping down its mountains unlocking characters and completing missions is very fun indeed.March of Empires (Free + IAP)Fantasy-themed massively-multiplayer strategy games are, it turns out, a big money-spinner on mobile - even if you don’t hire Kate Upton to ride a horse in your TV ads. Gameloft is hoping to attract lots of players to its new empire-building title, as you build a castle, tool up an army, wage war on foes and trade with friends. It’s hard to judge this kind of game a day after release, but it looks like it has plenty to explore.Related:The best Android games of 2014Card Crawl (Free + IAP)More fantasy gameplay here - the app stores are stuffed with monsters and dungeons at the moment - although it’s not your average dungeon-crawler. This is just as much of a card-battler game, as you explore the game’s environments with a virtual deck of cards to fight your way through. It’s well-crafted, and the individual scraps are the perfect length for mobile play.Lego Batman: Beyond Gotham (£3.85 + IAP)Lego has been releasing a steady series of its console games for mobile devices, with Lego Batman the latest character squeezing onto smartphones and tablets. As with previous games, this isn’t just about the hero: there are more than 100 characters to unlock and play as - hence the in-app purchases. It’s colourful, fun and playable for all ages.Oddwings Escape (Free + IAP)Bird-based physics flying adventures? Nobody mention Flappy Bird! Before that, there was iOS hit Tiny Wings, which has more of a role in the DNA of Oddwings Escape. This is a delightful action game with some clever features for playing against friends, and plenty of charm.Little Raiders Robin’s Revenge (Free + IAP)Ubisoft’s latest mobile game takes its inspiration from the legend of Robin Hood, albeit with a few name changes (so long, Sherwood Forest and the Sheriff of Nottingham, hello Snowbourne and Sheriff Blackthorn). It’s part action-adventure and part city (well, village) building strategy, with lots to enjoy.Blood Gate - Age of Alchemy (Free + IAP)More monsters, more heroes, more match-three puzzling and in-app purchases. DeNA knows what it’s doing with this sub-genre of mobile games, and there appear to be plenty of players out there interested too. Blood Gate sees you dispatching beasts with your matching skills, with lots of party and character-customisation to get your teeth into.Rockstars of Ooo - Adventure Time Rhythm Game (£1.54)Adventure Time remains a marvellous TV series, although the quality of its increasing stable of mobile games varies. Rockstars of Ooo is diverting fun: a music rhythm game featuring the cartoon’s key characters, and some brand new songs based on familiar scenes from the show. Well, familiar if you’ve been watching it as much as I have, under the guise of “parenting”.Farms &amp; Castles (Free + IAP)Finally, someone at Square Enix has clearly been playing puzzle game Triple Town: it’s a clear influence on the company’s latest mobile game. You have to match objects on the on-screen grid to create larger and larger items - yes, castles and farms. It’s sent me back to Triple Town, which surely wasn’t the publisher’s goal, but this is fun on its own merits too.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Uber has struck a blow against US taxi firms after a judge dismissed a lawsuit accusing it of engaging in deceptive trade practices and racketeering.The lawsuit was brought against Uber in Connecticut by 15 taxi and limousine firms who were seeking a court ban for Uber doing business within the state. They failed to show that Uber competed unfairly, tried to lure away their drivers, or misrepresented its services, fares and drivers’ insurance coverage to passengers, said the US district judge Alvin Thompson in Hartford.Uber succeeds because it can “prey parasitically on established taxicab and livery services” by cutting corners and ignoring laws meant to protect passengers, the plaintiffs said in the suit.The judge rejected the argument that Uber should follow the same licensing and safety regulations as taxi firms because the Connecticut Department of Transportation had only recently been asked to consider whether Uber should be covered.Lyft Inc, another “ride-sharing” service, was originally also a defendant, but was dismissed from the case in February. The 15 taxi and limousine companies are free to file an amended lawsuit.Uber argued that it was a “technology company” owning no cars and employing no drivers meaning it was unclear how state law applied.A company spokesman said the decision allowed Connecticut drivers and passengers to keep receiving the “economic and transportation benefits” that Uber provides.Lawyers for the taxi and limousine companies did not respond to requests for comment.The dismissed lawsuit is similar to others filed against Uber in the US, where the company faces hostile reactions from incumbent players who see it as unfair competition.•Uber loses bid to stop US drivers’ lawsuit•Uber losing millions of dollars, documents reveal•Uber’s Hong Kong offices raided in probe into illegal operations
Six months afterapologising to users for pre-installing security-busting malware Superfishon its consumer laptops, Chinese PC manufacturer Lenovo has again had to remove another pre-installed component from its laptops over security fears.But this time, the problem software, called the “Lenovo Service Engine (LSE)”, is built into the firmware of the laptops themselves, in a low-level operating system called the BIOS, invisible even to Windows. (The BIOS is what is running the screens of white-on-black text seen on many computers as they start up). It launches when the computer is turned on, before Windows loads, and then replaces Microsoft’s start-up diagnostics program (which ensures that the system was shut down properly, that the disk isn’t corrupted, and that it’s safe to launch Windows) with its own.Lenovo’s version does all the same things as Microsoft’s, but two more: it ensures that Lenovo’s own software update tools are still installed on the computer, and if they aren’t, it re-installs them.Those tools then run to download and install drivers, keeping the computer up to date; but they also install and update the various other programs that come preinstalled on Lenovo computers, the so-called “crapware”.As withSuperfish, the LSE provides scant benefits to the end user. It’s buried so deeply into the system that it’s very hard to remove, meaning that if a user wants to restore their system to a “clean” installation of Windows, with no superfluous programmes, the LSE will still be there, and will reinstall the other Lenovo tools on the next restart.But, again like Superfish, LSE goes beyond annoyance, into pure security vulnerability, after researcher Roel Schouwenberg discovered how to use the tool to perform a “privilege escalation” attack, which would let a hacker gain greater control over a vulnerable computer.As a result, Lenovo quietly released two tools in late July to uninstall the LSE code,one for laptopsandone for desktops.The company says: “In coordination with Mr Schouwenberg and in line with industry responsible disclosure best practice, on 31 July 2015, we issued Lenovo Product Security Advisories, that highlighted the new BIOS firmware – specifically for consumer notebook and desktop. Lenovo always strongly recommends that users update their systems with the latest BIOS firmware. Starting in June, the new BIOS firmware has been installed on all newly manufactured Lenovo consumer notebook and desktop systems.”It also releaseda listof the affected models, which did not include any of the company’s ThinkPad range of business machines.Shortly after the news broke that LSE was insecure, Microsoft updated its guidelines on how software like it should work, effectively banning Lenovo from shipping it. The company says: “As a result of these findings, Microsoft recently released updated security guidelines on how to best implement this Windows BIOS feature. Lenovo’s use of LSE was not consistent with these new guidelines. As a result, LSE is no longer being installed on Lenovo systems. It is strongly recommended that customers update their systems with the new BIOS firmware which disables and or removes this feature.”The news is likely to restart the debate that began when the Superfish vulnerability was revealed, over the extent to which PC manufacturers are forced by ultra-slim margins to include features that go against their customers’ best interests. After Superfish, the company promised to install no more bloatware – but as the LSE problem shows, definitions of what exactly that entails are slippery to pin down.
