I am interested in listening to internet radio. My broadband package is limited to 3GB of downloads per month. How is that calculated when you listen to internet radio? Chu LimThe download is calculated by adding up the data received over the listening time, as though you were downloading a file. Internet radio stations can send anything from 16 kilobits per second (low quality voice) to 128kbps (high quality stereo). If a station broadcasts at 56kbps, that's around 25 megabytes per hour. Listening for four hours a day would use your monthly 3GB allowance.
My wife has a Palm PDA and a mobile. What are the upgrade choices for a service that offers email plus, apart from BlackBerry? BM CotswoldsIf your wife is happy with the Palm software then the Palm Treo 650 is the first device to check. It has much the same software with a much better screen and a tiny but usable keyboard. Also, Versa Mail can now collect mail from Microsoft Exchange servers. If not, the T-Mobile Sidekick II might be worth a look for the keyboard and messaging features, or even the Windows Mobile-based T-Mobile MDA Pro. However, both are monsters compared to standard mobiles. If you are not in a hurry, the Symbian-based Sony Ericsson P990i looks great and the website says it's "coming soon".
Google is the only multi-billion-dollar company in the world that is also a spelling mistake. Back in the palaeolithic era (that's the palaeolithic era in the internet sense, ie autumn 1997), its co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, were graduate computer science students at Stanford. They were working on an insanely cool new search engine, wanted to incorporate it as a company, and needed to find a name. David Vise, in his breezy book The Google Story, tells how they came up with one. A fellow graduate student suggested to Page and Brin that they use the name given to what is sometimes, erroneously or metaphorically, called the largest number, 10100: google. They looked up the name on the internet, found that it wasn't taken, and registered their brand-new brand, google.com. The next morning they found that the reason the name hadn't been taken was because it should be spelled googol - and that googol.com had, of course, already been bagged. Lesser men might have considered that a bad omen, but Page and Brin are not bad-omen kind of guys. A little more than eight years later, Google is the fastest-growing company in the history of the world - with, at the time of writing, a market capitalisation of $129bn. Page and Brin, the Wallace and Gromit of the information age, are worth more than $10bn each.Companies are a bit like people in that they tend to bear the imprint of the milieu in which they were formed. Google, spelling mistake and all, is a product of the intensely academic environment in which both Page and Brin were raised. Page was born in Michigan, Brin in Russia, but apart from that their backgrounds were eerily alike: ethnically but not religiously Jewish, educated in Montessori schools, their fathers both university professors of science, their mothers both also supernumerate. Brin was 16 when he began taking classes at the University of Maryland, and 19 when he graduated. He went to Stanford to begin work on his PhD. Page, who had done his first degree at the University of Michigan, went there a year later to have a look at the computer science PhD programme. On a Stanford orientation day in 1995, looking around San Francisco, Page began arguing with the tour guide, a second-year PhD student whose opinionated obnoxiousness so closely resembled his own. You have seen enough buddy movies to know what happened next.The key idea that underlies Google could occur only to someone thoroughly marinated in academic ways of thinking. John Battelle, an internet-world insider and search-engine specialist, gives a fascinating account of it in his indispensable book The Search. Page was fooling around at Stanford, trying to come up with an idea for his PhD thesis. He had always been interested in Nikola Tesla, a scientist whose list of brilliant inventions was not matched by the success he had in marketing them, or himself. Page had no interest in hiding his light under a bushel. He began to think about his own web page, and whether or not anyone was not just reading it but linking to it - which would definitely be an indication of a more than casual interest. So Page wrote a program that found out who was linking to any given web page. He called the program BackRub.Once BackRub had been written, Page began to wonder if there was a way of using it to determine the utility of any particular site, and this is when he - or he and Brin - had a big idea. It was based on one of the most widely mocked areas in academia, that of bibliometrics: assessing the importance of any given article or piece of information purely by measuring how often other people in the field mention it. This never-mind-the-quality-feel-the-width approach sounds like a ridiculous way of assessing the importance of intellectual work but it is, I am told, a surprisingly powerful tool. In any case, it is what gave Page and Brin the idea for a program that measured the importance of a web page by counting how often other web pages linked to it. Page gave the mathematical algorithm that worked out this problem the name PageRank.Then the boys set out to build a search engine that used PageRank. (The patent for PageRank, incidentally, is owned by Stanford University. Google have exclusive use of it until 2011.) The idea was that a search engine that knew how important a page was would have a powerful advantage in assessing the quality of the information on that page.The 'crawler': how it worksAs for how it works in practice, the first thing to realise is that Google does not search the internet. If it did, the internet would grind to a halt under the strain of all the searching taking place, because Google alone makes upwards of 100 million searches every day. Instead, the program searches a copy of the internet stored on its own computers. It sends out a "crawler" that downloads copies of internet pages. A full circuit of all the web pages in the world takes roughly a month, which is why the information on Google is often a few days old; the most recent snapshot of the page copied back to the Googleplex is available as the "Cached" link on any given Google result.Next, Google makes an index of every word on a web page, where it stands in relation to other words, whether or not a word is listed in a title, whether it is listed in a special typeface, how frequently it is listed on the page and so on. It also gives a lot of importance to the PageRank of the page in question. There are more than 100 of these criteria, and Google gives a numeric weight to every one of them, for every searchable term on every one of eight billion web pages. When a query arrives - which it does at the rate of many times every second - Google searches the index for the relevant terms, measures the relevance using all its various metrics, crunches out a single number for each page, and lists them, with the highest score at the top, usually within half a second or so.Even if you didn't know a thing about computers, you could tell this involved a truly scary amount of computational power. When the program was first conceived, Page thought he would be able to download an entire copy of the internet to his own PC. That turned out not to be the case: Page and Brin ended up having to scrounge, cadge, rustle up and "borrow" every scrap of computational power they could find at Stanford to gather the necessary data. What they learned in the process became one of their great strengths. Google does not run on huge, expensive mainframe computers but on a very large number of bog-standard, over-the-counter PCs. The PCs are tweaked and cabled together in particular ways and run a customised, stripped-down version of Linux. When a PC breaks, they chuck it away and replace it. Nobody knows just how many of these PCs Google has. John Hennessy, the president of Stanford and a Google board member, says that it is "the largest computer system in the world" - Vise puts the figure at more than 100,000 PCs. Its main problem these days is the heat generated by all those silicon chips.The boys took the company public in 2004, leaving it as late as they could, this being one of the many ways in which Google diverged from the Silicon Valley norm during the long-lost boom. The general pattern during the internet gold rush was to launch a company as early as possible and hope that investors bought the shares before the company ran out of cash. That was because most dotcoms had no money; their business model involved truly spectacular revenue projections, set some distance in the future.Small ads, big businessGoogle's route was superficially similar. It concentrated on making its search technology the best. Traffic to the site grew at great speed, all without a cent spent on marketing. The company had as yet no business model; as one of its directors said: "We'll figure out how to monetise that." This was exactly the thinking that cost so many people so much money. The difference was that Google managed to do it, and they did so by building a huge business in the most nickel-and-dime way imaginable: through small ads. Next time you do a search on Google, have a look at the "sponsored links" on the right of the results. These are paid advertisements. The ads have been bid for by people who bid for specific words, or combinations of words: 75c (41p) for "digital camera", to take an example from The Google Story, but $1.08 for "digital cameras" (because people who click on the plural are actually more likely to buy them), or $30 for "mesothelioma" (because the people who place the ads are personal injury lawyers looking for clients who want to sue whoever it was they think gave them this particular cancer). If you click on one of the links, the advertiser pays Google the agreed amount.The success of Ad Words (as it is called) is the reason Google, instead of rushing to the stock market as quickly as possible like everyone else did, took as long as they could to go public. They knew that as soon as their revenue figures were disclosed, everyone would go nuts, and their competitors would begin knocking themselves out to get into this amazing new business of search-plus-ads. Their secret was the opposite secret from every other internet start-up: they were already making a tonne of money. They have continued to do so. Google in the six months to June 30 2005 earned $2.6bn, almost entirely from its ads. It was sitting on more than $3bn and had no borrowings, and it has since raised another $4bn in cash. This sheer financial muscle is the reason Google is now such a power in the world.The financial success of Google since its IPO means that the limits on what Page and Brin can do are set not by what they can afford but by what they can conceive and bring off. The stated mission of Google is "to organise the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful", an immodest project to put it mildly, but one on which Google is at least in a position to make a decent start. But the company's philosophy is to give bright people a free rein to attack the problems that interest them, and 20% of employees' time is devoted to pet projects of their own devising. This means that the company is constantly coming up with new schemes and wheezes, which tend, at the least, to be interesting ideas. It also means that barely a day goes by without a news story touching on Google in some respect or other.Since I began writing this piece Google has been in the headlines several times: for governments' complaints about the spy-friendly -potential of the all-too-detailed satellite maps in Google Earth; for a new feature called Music Search, which does what it says on the tin; for announcing a plan to take a 5% stake in AOL; for being vulnerable to "black hat" tactics from Search Engine Optimisers, who specialise in boosting Google results; for hugely expanding its nascent Google Video service; for a dispute with the US government over data; and for this week's rollout of a restricted Google site to China. The media are obsessed with Google, not least because they are so worried by it. (The general consensus is that Google, having once been seen as a technology company, should instead be regarded as a media company. You may not think it matters, but money people like to see things through the prism of a "business model".) Other recent stories have concerned the company launching Google Talk as a potentially disruptive way of making free phone calls over the internet, pressing on with its ambitions for Google Book Search (formerly Google Print) to "make the full text of all the world's books searchable by anyone", and launching Google Base to take over the world's classified advertising market. In the meantime, the company has launched a Toolbar, including a Desktop Search tool that searches for information on users' own PCs - something Microsoft, the world's biggest software company, has been trying and failing to do for a number of years.What scares people about this is the feeling that Google has a masterplan, and that it is advancing towards world information and financial dominance. It isn't clear that that's right, though. My sense is that Google advances more by letting its engineers invent things and solve problems one at a time, and that as long as the problem being solved broadly fits with the overall mission statement, it will go ahead with it. Some of these stabs seem well thought out, others less so. At the same time the core focus on search stays. People who work in the field say that search is only 5% "solved", and that the huge amount of information located on the internet, but (for a variety of reasons) unavailable to searches, remains an enormously difficult problem to solve. It seems likely that this focus will give the company plenty to chew on for many years.A tool for everythingSo: is Google a good thing? It certainly has made finding information incomparably easier. Google Scholar, which searches academic papers, is very useful, and will become more so. The powerful calculator feature, which will do advanced maths as well as highly practical things such as converting square feet into metres, is useful. Google News, which was invented by an engineer, Krishna Bharat, using his 20% time to come up with a broadly global news service in the wake of 9/11, is useful, and terrifies conventional news organisations. The translation service isn't useful yet, but I bet it will be one day. The command "define" is a useful, quick way of finding what a word means. The blog search is fairly handy and will get better. Google Earth isn't particularly useful, but it is brutally cool: you begin with a satellite view and gradually descend to earth, homing in with a level of detail that can give you a view of your own house (also, it turns out, of secret military installations). Gmail, with its super-swift searching and 2GB of free space, is amazing, if you don't mind the fact that your email is scanned and used to target ads (and stored indefinitely).Google Maps is useful, and, because Google lets people adapt its programs in ways they find personally helpful, will grow more and more useful over time. Froogle, the shopping search service, is sort of useful, and has a feature that chills the blood of conventional retailers: when you're out in the high street and see something you want to buy, you can text it and Froogle will text back the best price it can find online. Also cool is Google Zeitgeist, which tells you which search terms have most increased in frequency in the past year. For 2005 the top five items are Myspace, Ares, Baidu, Wikipedia and Orkut - all of which, I notice in my trendspotting hat, involve some sort of sharing, searching, meeting or collaborating online.Technologically, Google is an amazing thing. As for whether it is a good thing, that depends on what happens next. The company is keen to stress that, because of the voting structure of its shareholdings, it remains in the control of its founders. It is keen to send little signals of its own geekiness: its official IPO filing, for instance, announced that it would sell $2,718,281,828 worth of shares - a number based on "e", the so-called natural logarithm, a number intimately familiar to maths nerds.But this strength of the firm - its rootedness in grad student nerd culture - is also a weakness, in the form of a certain arrogance and unwillingness to pay attention to views emanating from lesser forms of life. The example of this currently preoccupying the publishing business is Google Book Search, the plan to scan all the world's books and have them available for search. This sounds ambitious, to put it mildly, but Google has the resources and the determination to do it. It is digitising millions of books at the universities of Michigan, Stanford and Oxford, and has already begun providing access to the out-of-copyright volumes. Google began to digitise currently copyrighted books in America until it was stopped by a lawsuit from the American Association of Publishers.A fundamental clash of cultures is at work here. To Google, it is obvious that books, which contain so much information, must be searchable online. The plan is not simply to give the books away: although the whole book will be scanned and stored, only specific fragments of text will be displayed. It will be the best shop window ever for obscure texts. But to publishers, there is something outrageously hypocritical about the contrast between Google's ferocious protection of its own intellectual property rights and its contempt for everyone else's. What's to stop Google giving free online access to the books once they are scanned? At the moment Google says it has no intention of providing access to this content; but why should anybody believe it?China: a risky ventureThis is one reason why Google's activities in China have the potential to be such a disaster for the company. The story which broke yesterday - that Google's new Chinese internet servers will cooperate with government censorship - was no surprise to people with an interest in the subject. For one thing, Google has been cooperating with Chinese censorship of its news service since 2004; for another, Google has, since last June, been part-owner of Baidu, China's biggest search engine, which is, famously, lavishly compliant with the censors. But these facts weren't widely known, and Google had still, to a remarkable extent, retained the public aura it claimed by adopting the motto: "Don't be evil." If people start to think that it's real motto is, "Don't be evil except when there's serious money in it," they will see Google differently, and trust it less - and Google badly needs people to trust it.That is partly because the biggest area of concern about Google involves privacy. An op-ed piece in the New York Times in November brought to wider notice the fact that Google logs all the searches made on it and stores this information indefinitely; and Google installs a cookie on the computer of everyone who uses it, which helps log that user's searches. Because every computer has a unique IP address, every visit to every website can be traced back to the computer making it - a fact which is well known in geek circles but remarkably under-publicised outside them. Users of Google's Gmail service, who have their emails scanned to place targeted ads, have already given the company their identity, a full record of all their searches, and copies of all their emails, stored indefinitely.It is over the issue of money-making that the question of privacy will bite. So far, everyone who has invested in Google has made out like the proverbial bandit; but one day the share price will drop, and people who've bought shares will find that they've lost money. It is then that Google's leaders will come under pressure to find some uses for that unprecedented goldmine of personal data.Google is belatedly waking up to the touchiness of all this. That's why the company reacted more firmly than its competitors in August when, it emerged last week, the US Department of Justice subpoenaed the company for a list of every website address available on Google and every search term entered into Google for June and July last year - a request later narrowed to a random list of a million websites, and all the urls available in a given week. The US government was looking to assess the prevalence on the internet of "HTM": this acronym means "Harmful to Minor", meaning pornography that children can accidentally access over the internet. The US government in 1998 passed a law on how this material should be blocked; in 2004 the Supreme Court overturned the law on the basis that a system of filters should be used instead; this subpoena was part of an attempt to show that the filters don't work.It turned out that AOL, Microsoft and Yahoo! had all already complied with similar requests. To many, this seemed the privacy apocalypse campaigners have long feared. It isn't, since the DoJ subpoena specifically omits information that would identify who is doing the searching. But it is an incredibly worrying sign, not least because it shows the way governments might come to use search engines as a form of privatised surveillance. In the post-Google world, the risk is that governments won't need to spy on us themselves: they can let the search engines gather the data and then slap a subpoena on them to suck up all the information they want.The news about the DoJ subpoena caused Google's share price to drop 8.5% in one day, and the company is now worth $20bn less than it was when I wrote the first paragraph of this piece; which is the stock market's way of saying that the more people think about their privacy, the worse news it is for Google. Possibly, just possibly, there is a glimmer of hope in the prospect that Google will realise it has to protect users' privacy in order to protect its own share price. But the contest between governments, search engines and users' privacy has barely begun.Google is cool. But Google also has the potential to destroy the publishing industry, the newspaper business, high street retailing and our privacy. Not that it will necessarily do any of these things, but for the first time, considered soberly, these things are technologically possible. The company is rich and determined and is not going away any time soon. It knows what it is doing technologically; socially, though, it can't possibly know, and I don't think anyone else can either. The best historical analogy for where Google is today probably comes from the time when the railroads were being built. Everyone knew that trains and railways would change the world, but no one predicted the invention of suburbs. Google, and the increased flow of information on which it rides and from which it benefits, is the railway. I don't think we've yet seen the first suburbs&middot;This is an edited version of an article that appears in the current issue of the London Review of Books (lrb.co.uk)
"I've now heard from two sources close to Yahoo which tell me that Yahoo is going to be buying Digg for nearly $30M. I haven't yet heard from anyone working for Yahoo that this is 100% (they obviously had 'no comment') but I'd be surprised if we didn't hear an announcement by early next week," saysKevin Burton's Feed Blog. Jeremy Botter hasthe same story. On Digg.com, Kevin Rose, one of Digg's founders,comments:Rumors... we are focused on features, not selling the company. posted by kevinrose (64) at 10:12 PM 1/24/06 score:3Is that a no? Seems to me we are entering round 2 of the Web Portal Wars between Google, Microsoft and Yahoo, and Yahoo is clearly on the acquisition trail (Flickr, Delicious etc). "Yahoo to buy [insert popular site here]" is always a possibility. But one that will probably be wrong more often than it's right.
Hold the front page, something exciting is happening on PSP! Konami has announced details of two forthcoming titles that can only be described as, ahem, interactive multimedia experiences. No wait, come back, they sound quite interesting.First up is Metal Gear Solid Digital Comic (working title), a PSP version of the already published MGS comic book 'digitally edited' into 3D visuals then tarted up with animations, sound effects and music. The press release goes on:"As viewers progress through the story, they can zoom in and out of the images using the analogue stick and scan specific points of interest. These scanned images are then stored in a library of 100s of similarly noteworthy elements, adding replay value to the story."Then there's......The Silent Hill Experience a similar multimedia mash-up of Silent comics, music and interviews. Or as the release puts it:"Designed to offer a comprehensive guide to all things Silent Hill, The Silent Hill Experience combines a number of media formats to give a compelling overview of the horror series. Using an intuitive 3D interface, users can view all-new Silent Hill digital interactive comics, listen to music from the four games in the series, and watch exclusive video content. The Silent Hill Experience also features an interview with Christophe Gans, the Director of the highly anticipated Silent Hill movie, starring Radha Mitchell and Sean Bean."Release dates and prices have yet to be announced for the two products, but Konami is clearly proud of its endeavours, referring to them as "an entirely new genre". Well, okay it's new to PSP, but both projects sounda littlelike glorified Flash-based websites, or even the first wave of interactive multimedia CD-Roms that swamped the shelves when PCs first started shipping with CD-Rom drives.Price will be the issue here. I've tried to contact Konami's PR people about this, but have yet to speak to them. Surely the company has a budget price point in mind. I'll update if they ring me back.So what do you think? Are you interested enough in the MGS and Silent Hill brands to buy digital comics based around them? Or would you rather cut-down versions of these features were included as extras on a game release?
Web surfers all agree: finding your way to the best websites can be a hit and miss affair. But internet giant Yahoo believes it has the answer for those unable to uncover an Aladdin's cave of websites, by announcing the winners of its annual Finds of the Year competition.The awards, which are now in their fourth year, honour the best websites in a number of categories. Winners this year included aLeicestershire primary school, a website dedicated topictures of clouds, and a diary documenting one man's attempt tomeet 500 celebrities."The awards celebrate the huge diversity on the web, and we've found some of the most informative, unusual, clever or bizarre websites out there," said Andy Williams of Yahoo Search. A judging panel sorted through hundreds of entries to come up with the eight finalists. "We're proud to be able to recognize the hard work that goes into creating a great website and making the web so amazing."Julian Segal, the 34-year-old London legal publishing worker who writes Greetingthe500, says he hopes that such recognition will help him complete his challenge to meet as many celebrities as he can. His mission began as a throwaway bet with a friend, and is intended to gauge whether celebrities who live cosseted lifestyles are prepared to meet ordinary people without any incentive."Unfortunately, these people aren't meant to get anything from it, so the publicity is throwing a bit of a spanner in the works. But I don't, as long as I meet them," he said.So far Mr Segal has met famous faces including Cherie Blair, TV presenter Jonathan Ross and Coldplay singer Chris Martin - who turned up at his house to watch the saga of the Thames whale last weekend."It was quite surreal - like a Hieronymous Bosch experience. I've never done anything for charity before so this is like my London Marathon... but without the smelly shoes."Elsewhere TV's psychological illusionist Derren Brown won the award for best celebrity site, and Transport for London's extensive online offering won best travel website.Russell Davies, whose "Eggs Bacon Chips and Beans" diary - devoted to the dying trade of classic British caf¿s - was a winner last year, says it can be a real boost to scoop one of the awards.Since his recognition, Mr Davies has published a book based on his experiences of fried breakfasts around the country. "I'd been talking to an agent before... then, once all the Yahoo publicity happened, I got about four publishers getting in touch. Has it changed my life? Not really, except I was on BBC Breakfast for about 30 seconds, which made my mum happy."Surfers have until January 31 to visityahoo.co.uk/2005findsand vote for their favourite from all the finalists, with an overall winner to be announced on February 2.
American Blinds and Wallpaper Factory is a home-decorating specialist that has built a $100m-plus business. As the search economy boomed, American Blinds profited from the stream of leads driven to it by Google and other search engines. It recast its website as a one-stop shop for potential redecorators. It even trademarked its website name, americanblindsandwallpapers.com.But in early 2003, American Blinds realised that while it owned the trademark on "American Blinds", it didn't own the market for it on Google's AdWords service. Competitors were snatching up the company's trademarks as AdWord terms, so when customers typed "American blinds" into Google, they would get ads for companies like JustBlinds.com. The company asked Google to ban competitors from buying its trademarked terms and it agreed - except for what it deemed "generic" terms, including "American Blinds".The company sued Google in early 2004. That May, Geico, an insurance conglomerate, sued along similar lines. Both cases are pending. But no matter how they turn out, these cases represent a major cloud across Google's business model, as well as providing an insight into the way that Google does business.Trademark law is clear on what constitutes an infringement: any use of a competitor's brand to mislead a customer. American Blinds claimed Google was both encouraging and profiting from an illegal practice. Google countered that it was just an intermediary, not liable for the actions of others.Of course, Google had been selectively blocking trademarked terms prior to being sued. But in April 2004, the company issued a clarification, stating that it would now sell any trademarked term, no matter what. While the official reason given was "better results", this clarification was clearly a legal gambit. If the company is to pursue a "we're just an intermediary" line in defending the suits, it could not be seen selectively protecting trademarks.This is where observers of Google's corporate culture get to put the company's "Don't Be Evil" motto to the test. "By letting people restrict words, you're not getting the results people expect from Google," VP Sheryl Sandberg told CNET News.com. In other words, limiting the sale of trademarked terms was tantamount to limiting free speech. But an American Blinds attorney pointed to the case of Oceana, an environmental organisation that purchased the keywords "cruise ships" then displayed ads that directed consumers to a website eviscerating the industry for anti-environment practices. Google banned Oceana from purchasing the ads, citing a policy of not allowing "advocacy" advertisements. But what constitutes advocacy is grey at best. Google, like any business, has the right of editorial discretion over its business. But the fact is, Google finds itself held to a higher standard, because it is more than just another company. As far as the internet ecosystem is concerned, Google is the weather.&#183;The Search, by John Battelle, 16.99, published by Nicholas Brealey Books. To order a copy for &pound;15.99 with free UK p&amp;p go toGuardian.co.uk/bookshopor call 0870 836 0875
It had to happen - the Nintendo DS is getting a facelift. The DS Lite will be around two-thirds the size of the original DS and more than 20 percent lighter. It will release in Japan in March though there is no news on Europe or US yet. So, yet another hasty redesign of a Nintendo handheld. Of course, it was the right thing to do - there's no point in producing software that appeals to adults (Brain Training) when they have to play it on an embarrassingly juvenile looking device. But it would be nice in the future if they could get the design right first time.
Gaming blogJoystiqhas posted Artifical's coverage of art games - interactive art installations (downloadable and playable) - inspired by or taking the form of computer games. There's a load in the series, so if your Thursday's proving uneventful and you wish to expand your horizons beyong kicking, shooting and finding coins, here are some pages that should insipre:IntroductionAs a small subcategory of computer games you find Art Games. They are made by artists as pieces of art. Some have ulterior motives, mainly political, others are merely a playful piece of interaction with the user. What makes them art and not just games? For some, the fact that they were made as art, for others the fact that they are exhibited as art - it can all be boiled down to the intention behind them, originating from either the curator or the artist.RecommendationsFromSamorosttoSeptember 12thand much more in-between.How-ToMany artists use various types of processes, events, social patterns etc. as controlling or contributing factors in the creation of artworks. Alison Mealey has chosen to base her art on the computer game Unreal Tournament. More precisely, she lets a number of virtual players play the game for approximately 30 minutes at a time and uses the data from the games to produce complex drawings. These drawings are also based on photographic portraits. Thomas Petersen asked Alison some questions about her art and the processes behind it.From the artist's perspectiveI want to suggest in this essay that:1) artists have not invented computer games 2) that they know better what to do with computer games and 3) that they can tell the future of games
Aleksfliesthe lone flag for gaming in this week'sTechnologysection with a look at politically motivated videogames. Interesting stuff, but the niche titles she mentions are only really of interest to scaremongers/Daily Mail - I think the real story is political elements in mainstream gaming. Aleks mentions Abe, but there are others. Anyone who has played Full Spectrum Warrior, for example, couldn't fail to pick up the underlying political threads, even if the iffy controls occupied most of your time. And further back, what aboutMonty Mole'sminers strike satire. Any others?
It's another packed week; and we've gone beyond and inside the Earth for our stories this week.A waste of spaceBuilt at a cost of $100bn and counting, was the International Space Station worth the money? Hopes for its future lie with the Europeans and Japanese, reportsAlok Jha.Could your lawn keep you warm?An environmentally friendly and low-cost heating system could drastically reduce the nation's reliance on fossil fuels, reportsGiles Turnbull.A dangerous domainThe Chinese government's attitude to internet use shows shocking double standards on hacking and censorship, writesPeter Warren.In this week's Technology Guardian'I want to build something that grows'A first post-takeover interview with Joshua Schachter, creator of Del.icio.us. He has big plans - and no regrets about selling to Yahoo, reportsQuinn Norton.Technobile: Certain retail experiences can leave you in need of therapy - so it's best to avoid computer stores.The Viking streak always wins: it's more efficientMichael Cross:Copenhagen has decided that the best way to persuade people to go online to government is to make it compulsory.I loved my 3G phone, until I saw the billVictor Keegan:Until operators adopt something like the broadband model - more or less unlimited usage for a flat fee - they should be unsurprised at low uptake.Players must remember which side they are onAleks Krotoski:There are games that promote peace, and games that promote war. They all use interactive entertainment to test, advocate, recruit and train.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and telephone number.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Newly asked questions...:Will Google tell George Bush about my web searches?Does legal action against file sharers dissuade others?Can you measure politicians' spin?Short shriftWho is top of the computer sales rankings?Why do iTunes customers like Volkswagens?Are you sure my mobile won't give me a tumour?
On the whole, the Danes are easygoing people. But, once in a while, the old Viking strain shows through. In a bold move that will be watched with envy by Whitehall, Copenhagen has decided that the best way to persuade people to go online to government is to make it compulsory.From last month, for example, all Danish residents have had to nominate a single bank account as their "Easy Account" to receive payments from the state. All public agencies have access to details of these accounts. The idea is to abolish the use of cheques, as well as the need to collect account details every time someone claims a benefit or carries out some other transaction with government.In another, more controversial, move, a year ago the government began requiring all companies selling goods or services to the state to submit their invoices electronically. The rule, imposed with only three months' notice, didn't go down well with small firms. Many found it hard to update their systems in time.Companies weren't the only ones grumbling - the finance ministry used the change to enforce budget cuts in local government. It calculated how much councils should be able to save from e-invoicing over the year and cut their budgets by one third of that sum in advance, forcing them to find savings. "They didn't love us," says Claus Juhl, managing director of the finance ministry's agency for governmental management, which masterminded the policy. "But if you want efficiency in the public sector you have to use rougher tools."The agency has other services in its sights. It is phasing out paper payslips for Denmark's 130,000 central government employees; instead, staff receive an electronic notification in their "eBoks" a secure online repository.Meanwhile, officials at the country's Digital Task Force are drawing up a new e-government strategy, which is likely to set targets for the abolition of more paper transactions, with businesses at least, over the coming years.Denmark has been putting the building blocks of e-government in place for years - decades, if you include the national citizens' register set up in 1969. There's still a long way to go to get critical mass with such things as digital signatures, essential if people are to use the eBoks service. Some aspects of the programme, such as the national web portal, are well behind the UK.However, Denmark's programme has many admirers abroad. The e-invoicing project picked up an EU award for innovation at the recent ministerial e-government project in Manchester, not for anything technically clever but for the resolution with which it was made compulsory. British ministers are impressed by the direct link with efficiency savings - something that has so far eluded most British e-projects.Until now the idea of imposing electronic government has been taboo in Britain. A couple of years ago I had an angry call from the (then) Office of the e-Envoy denying that any such thing was under consideration. The wind now seems to be changing. The latest e-government strategy, published last November, says euphemistically that government "should steer citizens and businesses to the lowest cost channels" and that "at an appropriate time, legacy channels should be closed". A first step will be an ad campaign to persuade people to "lose the queues".Compulsion won't be universally popular. One focus of opposition is likely to be the small post office, already threatened by the ending of cash benefits payments. Another danger is that ordering people to transact electronically will generate resistance. The Adam Smith Institute, in a punchy new report called Rewiring Democracy, describes compulsion as "the worst option available. If citizens already distrust government, forcing them to go online is going to do little to redress this problem."Finally, of course, before e-government services can be made compulsory, they have to be 100% reliable. Judging by the non-arrival of my European health insurance card, ordered online before Christmas, we're not yet there.Despite these worries, if ministers are serious about cutting costs, the lure of mandatory e-government will be hard to resist. Watch out for horned helmets on the hat stands of Whitehall.&#183;Michael Cross visited Denmark as a guest of the Danish government&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Who is top of the computer sales rankings?The PC industry did better than expected last year, with annual shipments growing by 16.4% to 208.6m units, according to IDC, or by 15.3% to 218.5m units, if you believe rival research company Dataquest. That's around 600,000 PCs sold per day, or seven every second.Dell maintained its lead, shipping 36.8m machines to garner a 16.8% market share, on Dataquest's figures. It was followed by HP (14.5%), Lenovo (6.9%), Acer (4.6%) and Fujitsu Siemens (3.8%). Lenovo benefited from taking over IBM's PC business, while Acer's sales grew by 58.1% to more than 10m units. "Others" took 53.3% the market, which includes Apple's 2.2% market share.Dell was even more dominant in the US, where it sold 21.5m PCs for a 33.5% market share, according to IDC. It was trailed by HP (19.4%), Gateway (6.1%), Apple (4%) and Toshiba (3.5%). IDC said the growth in US sales was driven by portable PCs, which took 38% of the market. HP led the way in Europe, shipping 11.5m PCs to take 15.9% of the market.Jack SchofieldWhy do iTunes customers like Volkswagens?Nobody knows. But they do, along with having a taste for cider and reading Wired, according to data from Nielsen//NetRatings. The company found the "average" person who visits Apple's online music store is 2.1 times more likely to own a VW than the average internet user. Teenagers aged 12 to 17 are twice as likely to use the iTMS as the average internet user; 54% are men, 46% women. The iTMS saw 20.7 million unique visitors in December, about 14% of the active internet population of 140m.The data is important for companies considering offering videos for downloads through the iTMS, suggests Jon Gibs, director of media analytics at Nielsen.The iTMS is still a long way behind the top web properties. December's survey said that Yahoo is still top, with 103.8 million unique visitors during the month. Microsoft came second (97.2 million), and MSN third (90.9 million).Charles ArthurAre you sure my mobile won't give me a tumour?Pretty sure. Scientists are confident that using a mobile doesn't raise your chances of developing glioma, the most common form of brain tumour. The results, published online by the British Medical Journal, follow a four-year study comparing people who developed glioma with healthy volunteers. All were interviewed about their mobile use, including how many calls they made and for how long. The study adds to the growing body of research suggesting no link between mobile use and harmful effects. Separately, analysis of a Dutch database of adult brain tumours found clusters at different times in different locations - implying that perhaps, if glioma does have a cause, it could be infection.CA&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Is the Chinese government reading this?I'm interested to read (Smash and grab, the hi-tech way, January 19) that "internet traffic to the UK, and its origin, would all be visible to the Chinese government". I have recently been besieged with spam emails advertising what is clearly pirated software. The website they invite you to visit is always hosted in China. Does the Chinese government just turn a blind eye to the existence of these sites, or is their real purpose more sinister than merely to sell pirated software and the like?Brian MarsdenStockport&middot; Peter Warren's piece made for fascinating reading, but I was puzzled by his final sentence: "At the very least they should give MPs something to think about when they switch on their computers each morning."If MPs are anything like the rest of the office workers in this country, then most of them won't turn off their PCs, which is a shame because that is one time when your PC is completely safe from hacker attacks.Frank JordansLondon&ge;I can't really see the Chinese attacking parliament for political advantage. The best hackers are all involved in industrial espionage and extortion - that's where the money is. Also, the method of this attack was extremely sloppy.These guys were likely just greedy criminals who figured it was worth a shot ... it certainly doesn't read like a military operation.Nixermanwww.metafilter.comWords of wisdomWhat's Charles Arthur's problem (Technobile, January 19)? The author of a Word document chooses the font. He should be complaining to whoever it is that sends him the stuff, not about Word.David BuddManchester&ge;Charles Arthur does raise a good point - should a document open with the formatting the author used so that you see it as they intended or should you be able to force all documents to open in the way you as the reader like to view it?I was amused by the way that next to his post, there is a big advert for the Guardian online with the tagline "View it the way it's printed" - why not view it the way you like to see it?http://blogs.msdn.com/officerockerMacs mean moneyIf Apple wants to go bankrupt it could try selling OS X on generic PCs (Intel link offers Apple Windows of opportunity, January 19). But the fact is that it would not be able to sell as many Macs, and seeing as they make up a lot of the company's profits Apple would lose a lot of money. People forget that Apple is a hardware company and that's where all its money is earned. Plus, selling OS X on generic PCs won't happen as long as Steve Jobs is in charge, as his vision is of one company offering the fully integrated experience.Martin PilkingtonM Cubed SoftwareA fair price to payI think that the secondhand games boom (Publishers rankled..., January 19) is a godsend. I can deal with my version of Football Manager being a season out of date and, occasionally, you find a true gem in between the rubbish movie tie-ins. But the funniest part of the article was EA's Keith Ramsdale, who said that EA's "new product is being made to look almost worthless". Surely if you take away the millions spent on licensing and graphics, that's the value of what's left.Rhys WynneColwyn Bay&ge;I can't imagine Sony denying me the right to resell a television at a garage sale. Or a major book publisher claiming I can't resell my book later to a secondhand book store - or lend it to a friend.Yes, this cuts down on potential sales revenue to the game creators, and as a guy who has made a living selling videogames this concerns me. But you have to draw the line between the rights of the consumer and the rights of the producer, and I'd rather err on the side of the consumer.www.rampantgames.com/blog
In an empty warehouse in Oxfordshire sits a large block of ice, which pumps out enough heat to keep a nearby office warm. Yes, you read that correctly. Heat from a block of ice. This oversized ice cube is an essential part of a clever heating system called a heat pump, widespread in the rest of the world but almost unheard of in the UK. Until recently.Heat pumps work just like fridges, by sucking heat from warm things and moving it elsewhere. Put your hand round the back of the fridge. Touch the black metal bits. Warm, aren't they? That's the heat pump at work, taking heat from the milk, cheese, yoghurt and beer inside, and letting it all escape round the back.That's the thinking behind domestic heat pumps. There's heat everywhere, in every substance over -273C (absolute zero). The block of ice in the warehouse is kept at -10C, warm in comparison. Plenty of heat to be had from that.The same can be said of your garden. Every day it absorbs energy from the sun, storing it up like a gigantic hotplate. Domestic heat pumps can also suck warmth from the ground (or even the air or water),concentrate it using the application of GCSE-level science, then put the heat to work in your radiators and hot water taps.With fossil fuels becoming alarmingly expensive, this environmentally friendly and low-cost alternative to gas central heating is finally coming into its own in the UK. It is incrediblyeffective, capable of achieving 400% efficiency - giving out more energy (typically 3 to 4 kilowatts) than the householder puts in to run it (typically 1KW). By comparison, an average gas boiler works at 90% efficiency at best.According to Professor David Reay, of Heriot-Watt University, an expert on heat pumps, little can be said against them. Variants that extract heat from outside air perform less well in cold weather, just when the heat is needed most.Strong argumentGround source heat pumps overcome this problem. "If we are serious about global warming, we need to put our money where our mouth is," he says. "As energy from fossil fuels generally becomes a more precious commodity, the argument in favour of heat pumps gets ever stronger, and the return on investing in them can only improve."While renovating their rural home a few miles outside Dorchester, Tim and Tessa Ferguson found the oil-fired heating system far too costly to run. Last year, they installed a heat pump and expect it to pay for itself within seven years. The estimated annual running cost will be &pound;250, compared to about &pound;1,000 for the oil system."This system operates all day, every day. We have plenty of hot water and the house is a comfortable temperature all year round," says Tim Ferguson. "It operates continuously, so the fabric of the house itself warms up, turning the building into one giant storage heater."The system cost about &pound;8,500 to install, but the Fergusons received a rebate of &pound;1,500 from the government, which has been running a grant scheme to encourage more people to switch to such renewable energy sources.The heat pump's success is partly due to its simplicity. A 150-metre length of plastic pipe buried a metre under the Ferguson's garden is filled a mixture of water and anti-freeze, circulated by a simple electric pump. As it moves around the circuit, the water warms up just a few degrees, which is enough to make a difference.When the water arrives at the house, its temperature has been raised compared to that on the outgoing side of the circuit by four or five degrees celsius. It goes into the heat pump, a box about the size of a fridge-freezer. Here, the heat from the water is conducted to a sealed circuit containing refrigerant, warming it up. (Imagine putting a loop of hose connected to the hot water tap into your fridge. As the hot water cools, the fridge heats up.) The heated refrigerant in turn is pushed through a compressor (powered by electricity). Compressing the refrigerant creates more heat (up to 50C in a typical home with radiators in every room), and this heat is transferred once more to a third circuit - the one supplying hot water for use round the home.The only cost is the electricity needed to power the compressor and three or four electric pumps that keep each circuit flowing. There's a chance that one of these essential parts might fail, but they are usually good for many years.Constant heatGround-source heat pumps, where a length of pipe is laid horizontally into the ground, or a 15-centimetre borehole drilled about 50m down, can be installed just about anywhere. The heat continues to flow in winter, even if the ground is frozen. "Seasonal differences are very small," says Tony Bowen, president of the Heat Pumps Association, the UK trade body. "If you use a vertical borehole instead of an array of tubes buried in the ground, there's no discernible difference."The Fergusons bought their system from Ice Energy, whose Oxfordshire office is heated by the aforementioned ice cube. Managing director Andrew Sheldon points out that 97% of all new buildings in Sweden are powered by heat pumps. "The energy ministry wants to eventually eliminate fossil fuel burning," he says. In the UK, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister is reviewing options. "Housing developers are likely to be driven to use ground source heat pumps; the argument in their favour is very strong," he adds.So if heat pumps are such a great idea, why haven't they caught on before? "Gas has been cheap, and the British are capital-averse," sighs Tony Bowen. "As a nation, we are bad at investing in low long-term running costs."The Fergusons clearly buck the trend. "We'll save a fortune in fuel bills, and we hope we've added to the value of the property just by installing it."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I was reminded of the darker side of gaming on Sunday when reading Observer Music Monthly. Neil Mackay penned an expose (http://tinyurl.com/bmnh2) of Nazi Hate Rock. Buried among spine-curling quotes was a reference to Ethnic Cleansing, a computer game built by National Alliance that challenges players to gun down anyone who isn't white.Ethnic Cleansing isn't the only title peddling propaganda; it's just particularly attention-grabbing. There are more and more games with persuasive messages, from all flavours of the ideological spectrum. Online, you can find neo-Nazi and anti-Zionist titles, and games from the UN World Food Programme, the US army, GCHQ and political parties. There are games that promote peace, and games that promote war. They all use interactive entertainment to test, advocate, recruit and train.Before anyone becomes overly alarmed, these are niche titles, often accessed only via the internet, reaching consumers who are already sold on the cause. Few, if any, are available over the counter at your local games emporium.However, these overtly political products remind us that there is always an underlying agenda in the development of a computer game. There are good guys who beat bad guys, and the characterisations and circumstances of the games belie the morals of those who create them. Most of it is pretty harmless, and charges the player with destroying commonly accepted enemies, such as cartoon mushrooms or zombies. Others have more realistic targets.One of the biggest series to explicitly promote a cause is Oddworld Inhabitants' Oddysee games. The game first appeared on the PlayStation in 1997. The hero was a revolutionary factory worker oppressed by his bosses. The objective was to liberate his fellow slaves.All official material associated with the games endorses Amnesty International. According to research conducted at the Institute of Education, many of the people who have played the game have become more active in Amnesty's cause than they had been before.The Oddysee games are the only mainstream games to explicitly state their ideological leanings. Only independent critical consumption of other games divines the underlying message of a game from the social context in which it is played. Unfortunately, given the rampant misunderstanding of the content of computer games, it may be some time before games criticism is included in the school curriculum.Visibly ideological games are now driven to online publication, but the views of games makers are included with the code. Interactivity grants us power - but we must be active, not passive, in order to exercise it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mail blocking blacklistsA lot of my email has not been arriving, so I contacted my ISP, Tesco, which replied that it is blocking emails from Wanadoo, Yahoo and Hotmail because they are sources of spam. I agree with the principle, but why didn't they send out a warning message? Friends and I wasted a lot of time trying to resolve a problem that did not actually exist, and presumably others have, too.Bill GillJack Schofield replies:I have had letters about mail blocking from Christopher Clifton, aTesco.netuser, Harry Mitchell (Tiscali.co.uk), Colin Killick, (Freeserve.co.uk), and several who now can't send email to NTL users. Sometimes mail is returned with a message such as "host smtpin.ntlworld.com &#91;81.103.221.10&#93; refused to talk to me" or it just vanishes. (Tesco.net seems to be run by NTL, and Freeserve is run by Wanadoo.)This is not spam blocking or filtering. NTL and other ISPs are using databases provided by Sorbs (Spam and Open-Relay Blocking System) and other services that blacklist mail servers and IP addresses. All mail from those servers is blocked. Once blocked, only the ISP can get its servers removed. When I checked Sorbs on Monday, two of Wanadoo's mail servers were blacklisted (193.252.22.157 and 158) and one (193.252.22.156) was not. Mail can go through any server at random, which explains why some mail goes through while some does not.NTL can apply what blocking list it chooses, and I expect that blocking remote servers in the US and China can block millions of spams while affecting few users. However, I would expect a rational ISP to whitelist some "nearby" servers that are the source of large amounts of legitimate mail, whether on Sorbs or not. NTL says: "It is one our highest priorities to work with block-listed ISPs to help them secure the necessary delisting. We are currently doing this with a major UK ISP."Under the circumstances, I've been sending NTL users invitations to Gmail. However, anyone using an email address supplied by any ISP should think about moving to an independent email service. Ideally, buy your own domain name so your email address is independent of the service you are using. It's painful having to change address - but you will likely have to do it eventually, and it's better sooner rather than later.Update:After this column went to press, NTL emailed me to say it had now tackled the problem. NTL says: "When it became clear that Wanadoo would not be de-listed in short order both NTL and Wanadoo looked for alternative ways to manage the blocked mail. NTL made system adjustments so that it was able to ignore certain block list entries, while retaining controls on the many transient and offensive spam sources that are listed for good cause. This allowed Wanadoo to send mail from all their servers to NTL customer addresses and the backlog was quickly cleared.Rma prolongs active lifeI have a six-year-old PC which I have gradually updated - extra memory, CD writer, Ethernet and USB 2.0 cards, second hard drive, etc. It runs really well. The Pentium III processor is only 500MHz but I do not perceive it as slow. When is it better value to buy a new machine? Have I passed it already?Nick ChiplenJS:If your PC runs well and does what you want then I can't see any reason to replace it. The Pentium III is perfectly OK for web surfing and running everyday applications, if given enough memory. You have 384MB now but Ram chips are so cheap it is worth fitting the maximum your PC will take. However, further upgrades may not be cost effective, given the plunging prices and expanding capabilities of new PCs.Streaming radioI am interested in listening to internet radio. My broadband package is limited to 3GB of downloads per month. How is that calculated when you listen to internet radio?Chu LimJS:The download is calculated by adding up the data received over the listening time, as though you were downloading a file. Internet radio stations can send anything from 16 kilobits per second (low quality voice) to 128kbps (high quality stereo). If a station broadcasts at 56kbps, that's around 25 megabytes per hour. Listening for four hours a day would use your monthly 3GB allowance.Mobile upgradeMy wife has a Palm PDA and a mobile. What are the upgrade choices for a service that offers email plus, apart from BlackBerry?BM CotswoldsJS:If your wife is happy with the Palm software then the Palm Treo 650 is the first device to check. It has much the same software with a much better screen and a tiny but usable keyboard. Also, Versa Mail can now collect mail from Microsoft Exchange servers. The T-Mobile Sidekick II might be worth a look for the keyboard and messaging features, or even the Windows Mobile-based T-Mobile MDA Pro. However, both are monsters compared to standard mobiles. If you are not in a hurry, the Symbian-based Sony Ericsson P990i looks great and the website says it's "coming soon".Backchat&middot; Last week, Robert Prins mentioned Clonespy, a duplicate file finder whose website is "down for maintenance". David Wright has found the real site, with a FAQ and other info, atwww.clonespy.com/cms.jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
The plundering of western technology, business and government databases by Chinese hackers is a sign of Beijing's double standards towards the development of the internet, experts say.According to a spokesman at the Chinese embassy in London, hacking is a crime punishable by death. But Peter Tippett, of CyberTrust, an organisation that collects global information on the activities of hacking groups, says that last year, the 80-strong X-Focus hacking group was able to hold a conference in the Chinese capital. Called X-Con, the conference discussed coordinating attacks on Japanese websites during the row between the two countries over the content of school history books in Japan.As Tippett observes: "In China, the people who hack have to get through the Great Firewall of China and all email must go through government email filters. Yet at the moment we are finding that the vast majority of computer attacks are coming from China."Inside China, the picture is very different. The country may have 120 million people online at the start of the year - second only to the US - but they are not allowed to see sensitive political information about events in their own country.Indeed, misuse of the internet - disseminating information about political unrest, for example - is routinely punished by the authorities. In 2004, an Amnesty International report noted that "there has been a dramatic rise in the number of people detained or sentenced for internet-related offences, an increase of 60% as compared to the previous year's figures".However, there are signs that the authorities are not having it all their own way. For example, Falun Gong, the quasi-religious meditative movement banned by the Chinese authorities, has turned to the internet to show the outside world how it has been repressed.Feng Ma, an expert on China for the Taiwanese intellectual property law firm Osha Liang, says: "A week or two ago, Falun Gong got pictures sent out of meditators being beaten up and arrested and that has happened a lot. Although on the surface people register their internet use with the authorities, there are a lot of people who are now using proxy servers to hide what they are doing from the authorities."According to Ma, most illicit users in China are concerned with more mundane issues such as getting free goods and software and making money. "Intellectual property is seen as fair game, especially because western companies put their factories in China so they can get cheap labour and avoid environmental rules."Yet there are also growing online protests aimed at endemic corruption among state functionaries. Interestingly, the authorities in Beijing are trying to root out corruption among local party bureaucrats and this may be encouraging the online protests."There is a massive online debate on corruption that is ironically being government-led - and people are getting their heads cut off," confirms Ma.Overall, the main concern for the Chinese government is with "stabilisation", the filtering out of keywords that allow its population to search for seditious material or for sites trying to foment organised opposition to the central government. Once again, there are signs that they might not be able to control it as fully as they would like."At a local and national level, they have employed tens of thousands of people to snoop on the internet and to place pro-government sentiments, but they don't seem to be able to stop a lot of the blogging that is going on via the proxies," says Simon Jones, director of Chinese Marketing and Communications, a media agency specialising in China."That does concern the government because it knows it will lose the mandate to rule if it can't be seen to do it fairly."Yet the authorities in Beijing still regard the internet as an important tool in their aim to modernise the country. "The fibre-optic network is brand new and probably better than any other network in the world," says Jones. "The Chinese government sees it as having great potential for educational and economic development so it is not going to get turned off."Indeed, the country's desperate need for technological knowhow as its economy tries to become more sophisticated is behind the hacking of western technological and commercial secrets.Arthur Yuan, a lawyer at US-based Senniger Powers, a leading intellectual property (IP) firm, explains the country's approach to IP. "The &#91;Chinese&#93; population does not consider the IP of companies abroad of value. They think that as long as it is for the glorification of the government, then the taking of information is justified - and they see no reason why they should not take a shortcut if it is possible."Indeed, there are rumours of an exclusive club formed in Guangdong - where much of the hacking is thought to be centred - whose membership is restricted to those business people who have successfully ripped off a western company. Though probably apocryphal, the story does reflect a strand of thought inside China: that stealing a march on foreigners - and especially rich western foreigners - is not necessarily a bad thing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If it does, then only marginally. The Digital Music Report 2006 from the International Federation of Phonographic Industries (IFPI,www.ifpi.org) says that activity on peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing networks remained largely static last year, amid a 26% increase in broadband usage globally.One notable shift: for the first time ever, more internet users in the UK and Germany legally downloaded tracks than shared them (6% v 5%). As Germany has previously been a hotbed of illicit music - either through blank CDs, pirated products or file sharing - the IFPI is keen to suggest that fear of litigation remains the principal reason for file sharers changing their ways.Yet its own report is less clear-cut. "Consumer research in this report shows that every second person who cut back on illegally file sharing has done so out of concern for the legal consequences," it says. That leaves 50% with other reasons. Related data from Jupiter Research suggests that although 35% of file sharers have cut back in the past year, a further 14% have increased their habit.And one third of those who did cut back cited as their reason the combined hassles of spyware, viruses and incorrectly labelled tracks.Meanwhile,Slyck.com, which monitors P2P usage, points out that despite the IFPI claiming to have fought 20,000 cases in 17 countries in the past year, only a handful have been won, with more than 75% of those threatened never reaching the courts nor (so far) any kind of settlement.So will the IFPI let its lawyers rest? "We're not happy with litigation; we do it out of necessity," says Keith Jopling, the IFPI's director of market research. "But we've done a good job educating people as to why we're doing it and much of the old ambiguity has disappeared. People who are file sharing now know very clearly it's illegal even if they don't think it's wrong."Nevertheless, with Jupiter Research's data indicating that only 15% of file sharers are prepared to pay for their music, the IFPI's 2007 report is likely to see the same growth in its use of the words "legal" and "illegal" as last year - up 26% from 70 mentions in the 2005 report to 88 this time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It is the most expensive piece of technology ever built, supposedly a monument to international cooperation and the spirit of adventure and exploration. But 20 years and $100bn later, the International Space Station is an embarrassment. The first pieces were launched in December 1998, but it has yet to produce any science worthy of its colossal price tag. And, in recent months, the US space agency Nasa has all but admitted that the project has been a mistake.Nasa has hobbled any chance for scientists to do research on board the space station this year. In a bid to plug a $5bn hole in the agency's finances, its chief, Mike Griffin, sliced $344m off the station's science budget."We have adopted a 'go-as-you-can-pay' approach toward space exploration, and have set clear priorities and made difficult choices to remain within the budget for exploration," Griffin told the US House of Representatives' science committee in November."It seemed to me it was setting the cart before the horse to be worrying about money for human or other life sciences when we could not assure ourselves the continued capability to be able to place people in orbit in the first place. My priority became assuring that the United States have as close to a continuous capability to put people in space first, and conducting research after that. Utilisation of &#91;the station&#93; for research or technology will have to be minimised in favour of getting it assembled."Work that had been planned, sometimes for decades, into the effects of space radiation on humans, the design of life support systems and advanced environmental controls will all be scrapped.The sorry tale of the space station begins in the 1980s, when there was still the remnants of a space race. Conceived during the Reagan era, the ISS was seen as a way of responding to Russia's Mir space station. By the time the iron curtain fell, the plan was being heralded by the then president Bill Clinton as a way to keep Russian space scientists out of the hands of rogue nations. With Europe, Canada and Japan, it would also bring together nations in a common, peaceful purpose. In the 1990s, the ISS was costed at $18bn and full operation was expected in 2003. It would do invaluable research into the delicate construction of novel materials in microgravity and the search for anti-matter, and give us detailed information on the effects of space life for humans.Costly mistakeToday, the cost of the ISS has risen to $100bn and counting. It sucks almost $2bn from Nasa's budget every year, essentially to stay mothballed in low Earth orbit. No one expects it to be finished before 2017 and, even then, it will be a mere shell of the plans on the drawing board."You're not going to see the space station in the pretty pictures, there will be pieces missing," says Dr Keith Cowing, a former Nasa scientist and editor of the Nasa Watch website. "There won't be as many flights, it won't be resupplied as often. Nasa is either unwilling or incapable of telling anybody with a straight face what the space station will look like."One by one, modules and experiments are being dropped. "Nasa has determined that its exploration research objectives no longer require the centrifuge accommodation module being developed for Nasa by &#91;Japanese space agency&#93; Jaxa," Griffin also told the House science committee.The centrifuge experiment was designed to work out the effect of different levels of gravity on humans in space. "We've had people and animals in space for a long time and we know what happens but we often don't know why," says Cowing. Yet it is research that makes a lot of sense, given Nasa's plans to send humans to Mars in the next few decades.Privately, Griffin has admitted that the ISS is an albatross and that he probably would never have built it, given the choice. Still, he is looking for uses. In light of President Bush's challenge in January 2004 to get to the moon and Mars, Griffin wants to use the space station as a stopover, a place to launch the big missions. Again, it is clearly an afterthought."If your goal was simply to go to the moon, do you need a space station? No," says Cowing. "But it's already there so you have to do something with it - it's almost contrived."Having said that, Nasa's decision to fillet the space station was never meant to happen. "I was in the room when the president made the announcement &#91;on the moon and Mars vision&#93; at Nasa headquarters," says Cowing. "He never said, dear Nasa administrator, you have my approval to take anything that that agency does and sacrifice it to meet this one goal."Thorn in Nasa's sideNasa's international partners are another thorn in Griffin's side. Treaty level agreements with governments mean that Nasa cannot walk away from these commitments. The Columbus and Kibo modules built by Europe and Japan respectively are complete, but Nasa has set no dates for getting them up to the ISS."The easiest way to pacify European and Japanese complaints is to fly their astronauts sooner," says Cowing. "The possibility is that there will be an international space station with no Americans on board. &#91;Having put up all the money&#93; it's problematic from a congressional point of view."Griffin has already said that the limited number of space shuttle flights remaining before the spacecraft is decommissioned in 2010 would be ordered to launch the international modules first.Getting Columbus and Kibo into space would placate the Europeans and Japanese, although it would mean problems in the short term. Both modules need power and a crew, meaning launching lots more equipment and more maintenance runs.Yet the modules also provide a chink of light for the space station's future."The space station could do good science. It could be a platform for astronomy if there was regular access and it was affordable and if the modules Columbus and Kibo were integrated," says George Fraser, head of the space physics department at Leicester University. "It would be useful for surveying the sky and astroparticle physics - looking for exotic antimatter - where you need a big platform moving in the way the ISS moves."But he is not optimistic. "The rumours from the astrophysics community is that they are very fearful that the money will be directed to rectifying the problems with the shuttle," says Fraser.And while the European Space Agency (ESA) waits for Nasa to deal with the Columbus problem, scientists get no return on the multimillion euro investment.Tim Stephenson, chief engineer at the Space Research Centre at Leicester University, worked for ESA until 2000 in the manned space flight and micro-gravity directorate. He said his bosses spent most of their time arguing with Nasa, trying to get assurances they would respect the agreements upon which the ISS was based. "I'm sure the situation has got worse. I know from my former colleagues that they are beginning to come around to the idea that, within a few years, they and the Russians will be running the space station, the Americans will have buggered off."That result is unlikely if only because Nasa dare not pull out of the ISS for credibility reasons. To suggest in its annual budget negotiations with Congress that the $100bn project has been a complete waste of money will not endear any of the agency's plans to politicians.Stephenson says the ISS debacle reflects problems that started in the decades after the staggering success of the Apollo missions to the moon in the 1960s and 1970s. "The risk-taking that was characteristic of the Apollo era is absent nowadays, and therefore Nasa management quickly get bogged down in the amount of money they have to spend to get the risks down to an acceptable level," says Stephenson. "The acceptable level constantly goes down. You look at the history of the space station programme and you will see the plans for moon and Mars going the same way - &#91;with&#93; the grand objective being watered down."Can anything save the space station's reputation? Could private industry take over the running of the experiments, as has been suggested?"If some big company walked up to Nasa with hundreds of millions of dollars and said I'd like to do something on your space station, I'm not sure what the response would be," says Cowing. "After 30 years, industry has not stepped up with their own money. Companies aren't going to line up to do 'what if' science. They're going to do something they can make a profit from."And, as if to rub scientists' noses in the problem, the only thing that has emerged so far that can make money from space is tourism for the ultra-rich. "In the past five years, the only interest I've seen is from companies that either do travel or PR or both," said Cowing.The future for science aboard the ISS seems to rest with the Columbus and Kibo modules. "Americans who want to do research are going to have to partner Europeans and the Japanese," says Cowing. Hardly the grand opportunity American scientists had been promised."It is a dramatic departure from what the ISS was sold as in the first place," says Cowing. "Something we promised our scientists for 20-30 years, we're now just telling them, never mind, we changed our minds. Why would I take Nasa seriously next time they tried to get a bunch of people involved?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have a particular brand of madness - incurable, doctors say - that consists of visiting computer stores and expecting to come away with anything but an overwhelming urge to kill.I could be after anything: a cable, printing paper, a PC card, it doesn't matter. A search online would be faster and cheaper but for reasons unknown, I decide to visit a specialist store instead.Within seconds, it's not so much "where in the world?" as "why in the world?". Roving imbecile staff pick on the weak and ignore everyone else. Salesmen (they're always men, or rather lads) that think "computing" consists solely of downloading ringtones. Poor stock, high prices, incomprehensible layout - and lab-rat lighting.It used to be that computer shops were troublesome because the geeks behind the desk were determined to out-acronym you and so jot up another psychic point against their unhappy childhoods. Now the problem is the fury associated with trying to buy something.There is one vital rule to entering such a store: never, under any circumstances, ask a question. The answer will be 30% repetition, 30% wild conjecture and 40% utter gibberish.Do you have any Wireless-G laptop cards? Yeah, they're over there, says pizza-face, waving vaguely towards the laptops. No, they are here, where you and I are standing. Oh yeah, here you go. No, that is a Wireless-B PC card. The Wireless-G laptop cards are supposed to be here, in this empty space. That is why I asked. Oh right. No, we don't have any. Well, can you check please? They'd be there if we had any. Well, could you check? No point.I have had the exact same experience with: an HP print cartridge No. 56 (told a 27 would work - it won't); a PC strategy game (offered a PlayStation shoot-'em-up); a printer (assured four times there was a USB cable inside - guess what?); an Ethernet cable (directed to phone cables); a Freeview box, a webcam, a universal plug adaptor, a camera tripod...Inevitably it came to a head. Determined not to leave without an external hard disk reader, two hours, three queues and four requests for the next in the chain of command later, the head honcho honoured me with his presence. It was an acronym-charged discussion, which ended in a verbal standoff."You don't know what I'm talking about." "We don't have any in stock." "You don't know what I'm talking about." "We don't sell this item..."Two weeks later, I was back looking for photo printer paper. Help me. Please.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There have been rumours saying Microsoft had stopped manufacturing the Xbox, and GamesIndustry.biz has just published a denial.Its story says:Gamesindustry.bizcontacted Microsoft to clarify its position on the Xbox, and a company spokesperson told us: "We remain very supportive of the Xbox platform and there have been no announcements about plans to cease or alter production. While we do not have other titles to announce at this time, we are committed to providing existing Xbox customers with exciting gaming experiences in 2006. There are 200 Xbox titles expected to ship this year.Comment:: There's a difference between "no announcements about plans" and "no plans", but there ought to be enough Xbox users to keep the system rolling for a good while yet. However, it would be interesting to know how the price delta between the Xbox and Xbox 360 compares to the different manufacturing costs....
Microsoft's "top lawyer said on Wednesday that the US software giant would offer licences for some of its source codes in a bid to comply with antitrust requirements set by the European Commission," reportsReuters."We will also license the Windows source code itself," Microsoft General Counsel Brad Smith told a news conference. He added he did not know what percentage of the company's source codes would be licensed.Smith was responding to EU complaints that "Microsoft had failed to offer enough documentation for rivals to use the protocols and threatened to fine it up to 2 million euros a day". Its response is that, in Smith's words: "The source code is the best documentation."Comment: FromMicrosoft's press release, it looks as though it's only the communications protocols, and it's not free. Under theMicrosoft Work Group Server Protocol Program (WSPP). Microsoft says:This Program makes available, under license, the communications protocols that are implemented in Windows Server Operating Systems and that are used by a Windows Work Group Server to deliver file and print services and group and user administration services (including the Windows Domain Controller Services, Active Directory services, and Group Policy services) to Windows Work Group Networks.
Interview – David Yarnton, General Manager Nintendo UKThe DS came out to a generally sceptical reception. How confident where you that the strategy was right?The market has been declining in Japan and people have been getting bored. There have been too many sequels. Yes, graphics have been getting better but what about the gameplay? So something had to be done to get lapsed gamers and new gamers as well as retain our core audience. We need to grow the market. If you look at the UK, where the market is fairly buoyant, penetration is fairly static at around 30%. We need to expand this market and the DS is key for this. The DS games bring in the human element. We're not forgetting our traditional audience but we want to give people who would not normally play games the chance to get involved. Globally the DS has been a huge success, with people really enjoying the content. It's different and it's unusual.Regarding Wi-Fi, do you regret not getting involved sooner?We wanted to do it properly and now is the right time. We've made it easy and safe which we couldn't do before. Two or three years ago hardly anyone had wi-fi, now it is commonplace.Brain Training? Please explain the thinking behind this.Existing gamers will be surprised by this game. They may think it is not for them but if they pick it up and play it then they will suddenly get it. Also, if they are getting hassle from their parents they can show them the Brain Training game.Any plans for Sudoku? It would make sense on DSYes, that is included in the European version of Brain Training.Has Nintendo now moved away from the traditional 16-24 male market and focussed more on the younger and older audience?No, we have still got games like Metroid and Resident Evil. We are not neglecting our traditional audience. We are trying to expand the market and extend things.How do you educate people about the DS?There are a lot of online users who are enthusiastic about Nintendo. We want them to experience the different games, such as Brain Training, so they can see what else is out there. These games have a human side which helps people relate and get involved.With Microsoft and Sony competing over tech spec, is it fair to say that Nintendo has opted out of this race?Nintendo is all about fun. It doesn't have to be complicated, though some people do want that. We are trying to let people bring their everyday lives into the games. Content is the most important thing as far as we're concerned.Any plans to speed up the release of some of the Japanese DS games?Localisation is always an issue but things have got a lot better. Having said that we have released some games, such as Mario Kart, almost simultaneously in Europe and the US and ahead of Japan. It depends on the volume and potential of the title.Zelda – what is going on?The guys are working on it and it looks really good. It will be worth the wait but I can't say anymore than that.Will your aim to widen the market with the DS be carried over to the Revolution? Will you be aiming for the same people?Yes, we want it to be accessible to everyone. The console is structured to offer different types of gameplay and offers the opportunity for developers to try different things.Did the success of Nintendogs surprise you?It did phenomenally well in Japan and did the same in the UK. We underestimated slightly in the UK and missed out a little bit. But ever since I saw the game last year I knew it was something fantastic. We have 24 year old product managers in the office going "here boy" and whistling. An important fact is how people (in Japan) that have come to DS because of Nintendogs have ended up buying Brain Training and Animal Crossing. There are a number of titles that appeal to these new users. Of course, we still want to appeal to our loyal users as well and we hope these fun new games do just that.
Noticing the current interest inAsian horror flicks, Sony has released some new info on Forbidden Siren 2, sequel to 2004's supernatural shock-'em-up. Due out this summer, the survival horror derivative once again features the interesting 'sight jacking' system which allows players to see through the eyes of incoming enemies. There's a whole new plot this time, though, as the press release explains:"The story starts as a group of characters are washed up on the island's shore after their boat is caught in a violent storm. Unbeknown to them some twenty nine years earlier, all the inhabitants of the island mysteriously disappeared in a black-out."So, obviously, the inhabitants come back as vengeful zombies. It's Lost meets The Fog!But that's not thereally 'new'info...Continuing the series' interest in adding fresh elements to the well-worn survival horror genre, this edition will include a new light sensitivity element to deal with enemies:"To survive on the island players need to use light to their advantage. Both the Yamibito (people of the dark) and Shibito (living dead) are sensitive to light – but in opposing ways. To wipe out the Yamibito players need to turn lights on but, to take out the Shibito players need to eliminate light by turning off lights or smashing street lamps."Of course, the exploitation of light sources is already a staple element of the stealth genre, but this is an interesting re-interpretation for horror (I suppose there's also a light meter in Fatal Frame, which lets you pick out usually invisible ghosts, but there you can't actively use light as a weapon...).It would be great to see a real-life light meter version - a laBoktai- for the PSP...Naturally, there will be other weapons to pick up, plus you can use abandoned vehicles, thus bringing in elements of the FPS genre too...Anyway, talking about Asian cinema and videogames, wouldn't Old Boy make an amazing survival horror romp?UPDATE:Ohlook- Siren is being made into a movie. Shockingly, it appears thatUwe Bollisn'tinvolved...
Photo:APKonami's Dance Dance Revolution (DDR) is being installed in 157 middle schools in West Virginia to encourage physical activity and help fight obesity. The game has already been tested in a pilot project in 20 schools, and will be installed in 753 schools within three years. According to anAP story:The game is not meant to replace physical education and health classes. Rather, it is one more option that may appeal to students who often dislike other sports."If we can get children to change their behavior at a young age they hopefully will grow up to be healthy, active adults, which would have a positive effect on health care costs," said Carl Callison with Mountain State Blue Cross.It seems West Virginia "is consistently among the top three states for obesity, ... leads the nation in high blood pressure and is fourth in diabetes."
"Viruses and worms are no longer the biggest threat to computer users – now it's badware. Badware is a term we use to encompass the broad range of malicious software that is sneaking onto people's computers, including spyware and deceptive adware. It can subvert your computer for the benefit for a third party, frustrate you with unwanted advertising, and even steal your most personal information," says a new Web site,http://stopbadware.org/.The idea is for users to go to the site to check for malware before they download any programs, and for those who get hit by malware to report it.According toUSA Today: "The initiative is being run by Harvard and the Oxford Institute and is backed by high-tech heavyweights including Google and Sun Microsystems. Consumer Reports' WebWatch is serving as a special adviser."
"A 20-year-old Southern California hacker admitted Monday to surreptitiously seizing control of hundreds of thousands of Internet-connected computers, using the zombie network to serve pop-up ads and renting it to people who mounted attacks on Web sites and sent out spam," reportsAP."Under a plea agreement, which still must be approved by a judge, [Jeanson James ] Ancheta faces up to six years in prison and must pay the federal government restitution. He also will forfeit his profits and a 1993 BMW. Sentencing is set for May 1."According to anIDG News report, Ancheta must surrender more than $58,000 in profits and pay the US government restitution of about $20,000.
Scientists have uncovered what they say is the world's smallest vertebrate - a tiny fish species that lives in an Indonesian swamp. The Guardian's Ian Samplereports:The newly discovered species, Paedocypris progenetica, is a member of the carp family and was caught in a fine-mesh net as it sheltered beneath trees bordering a flooded forest area on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. Layers of peat that line the swamp floors make the waters highly acidic, leading scientists to suspect little life could flourish there."This is one of the strangest fish I've seen in my whole career," said Ralf Britz, an expert in fish anatomy at the Natural History Museum in London, who was called in to help study the creature. "It's tiny, it lives in acid and it has these bizarre grasping fins."All we need now are some tiny chips and I'll be happy.
Vivendi announced this morning that gangsta shooter, 50 Cent: Bulletproof, has sold over a million copies in the US since its launch late last year. The game has drawnmediocore reviewsbut seems to have been well received by the rap artist's fans, perhaps drawn in by the four CDs worth of music as well as pop videos and other bonus features.'"The exciting convergence of gaming and music helped make 50 Cent: Bulletproof one of GameStop's top selling titles in the month of December," said Bob McKenzie, Sr. Vice President of Merchandising.'Has Vivendi ushered in a new era of music/videogame crossover, in which traditional gamers are all but by-passed (or at least marginalised) in favour of directly targeting the obsessive fans of pop stars? Certainly, this new audience is less likely to be critical of a poor videogame tie-in - they're just in it for the music and the chance to interact with their hero.Of course, this isn't the first title to be based around successful music artists - we've had plenty of Def Jam games, for instance - but here, the sheer wealth of exclusive audio and video material probably makes Bulletproof a worthwhile purchase for hardcore fans. The game itself is almost incidental.I was going to end this with one of those 'hilarious' tabloid-style pun lists, suggesting possible videogame titles for other pop artists......but I could only think of Arctic Monkey Ball... Oh and P Diddy Kong RacingHelp me out here, will you?
Yahoo is ready to give up the fight with Google and accept that it's not going to dominate internet search, according tothis reportin the Seattle Post Intelligencer."We don't think it's reasonable to assume we're going to gain a lot of share from Google," Chief Financial Officer Susan Decker said in an interview. "It's not our goal to be No. 1 in Internet search. We would be very happy to maintain our market share."Yahoo!'s comments underline the difficulties any Internet company faces in trying to challenge Google's dominance of the Web search industry. Google has at least double the market share of Yahoo! and Microsoft Corp. in Internet search, the largest and most profitable segment of online advertising.But read between the lines here, and Yahoo isn't saying it's pulling out of search, or that it's not a huge priority.While it's interesting to see that Yahoo has decided that the arms race between the two companies is a waste of energy, but we should remember two things. First of all, Yahoo has never been primarily a search firm - it's a portal, and now acontent creator. Secondly, most sane people accept that Google's nailed the current generation of search technology - but Yahoo's long been preparing for the next generation, which I wrote about in depth for Tech in December:Seaching for a fresher taste.
Hurrah! London is to get a two-day visit from the Tour de France in 2007. The entire extraordinary cavalcade of 198 riders and several hundred team cars, press motorcycles, race officials' vehicles and bizarre promotional "floats" will process through the streets of London. And millions of people will turn out to watch the UK portion of one of the biggest sporting spectacles in the world. I say millions advisedly, because that is what happened the last time the Tour came to Britain in 1994. Ditchling Beacon - the hill that everybody who has done the London-to-Brighton ride knows as their nemesis - was transformed into a little Alp, with fans 30-deep on the hillside. It was a triumphal moment.Next year's UK Tour stages will be bigger still. There is something special about the landmark roads of London being closed to traffic for a bicycle race, just as happens every year in Paris for the finale of the Tour on the Champs Elys&eacute;es. The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, deserves much praise for his vision in bringing the Tour back to Britain. His logic is straightforward: get more people on their bikes by making cycling exciting. First, bring the Tour of Britain to central London to test the infrastructure; next, host the Tour de France and expand the scale; finally, put the cycling events of the 2012 Olympics at the heart of London's strategy for making the games a success.And the plan is working. Cycling is no longer a sport of socially challenged weirdos who meet on windswept dual carriageways in the early morning to discuss gear ratios. Actually, we still do, but now cycling is also mainstream and sexy - and, best of all, we're good at it.But omelettes involve breakages. One of the ironies of the success of the 2012 bid is that the siting of the Olympic village on Hackney Marshes involves the razing of London's main cycle racing circuit, Eastway. In time, there will be a new velodrome as a legacy of the games, but from this year the redevelopment will mean the closure of a road circuit that just celebrated its 30th anniversary, and the loss of the only location inside the M25 where off-road racing is permitted (and cross-country mountain-biking is an Olympic event). Eastway has thousands of users: like many others, I race there virtually every week. Olympic gold winner Bradley Wiggins also still makes occasional appearances.In its haste to see the velodrome delivered, the sport's governing body, British Cycling, has connived at this closure without a satisfactory replacement being found or proper consultation. In the crucial five years before the Olympics, London risks losing its main venue for cycle sport.But I'm still sanguine: I bet this is the kind of thing the mayor can fix before breakfast.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt, I am a regular cyclist, but never venture far for fear of a puncture. My husband and son always look after the bike and I never bothered learning how to do it. I am 66 this year but I want to learn how the bike works. Are there any places where you can take a course on bike maintenance?Magdalena Davis, Birmingham, via emailMy best instant advice is that you should carry three things on every trip - a spare inner tube, a set of tyre levers and a pump. Changing an inner tube is much simpler than trying to fix the puncture - this you can do when you're home and dry, rather than shivering at the side of the road. Do get your husband or son to show you how to change a tube at least.But I applaud you in your resolution to get more extensive training. The first port of call would be the Cyclists' Touring Club (www.ctc.org.uk). You should be able to obtain information about the sort of course you want from there. In addition, your local cycling campaign in Birmingham may be able to advise you (www.pushbikes.freeserve.co.uk).
Word in from the blogosphere is that Nintendo's President Satoru Iwata has announced that the next generation Nintendo console will be in US stores by their annual turkey glut at the end of November, concurrent with the anticipated US launch of theSony PS3. As expected, we Euros will have to wait to get our hands on either the Revolution or the PS3.FromGamespot:In an interview featured in today's edition of Japanese newspaper Sankei Shinbun, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata stated, "We can't disclose the Revolution's release period yet, but we have no plans to miss out on the year-end sales battle. As for North America, we need to release it by Thanksgiving, or otherwise we won't receive support from the retail industry. So the Revolution will be released prior to that period."The Guardian's Technology blogalso has word that the machine will come in under the $300 price point, consistent with the hardware manufacturer's previous consoles.Nintendo are proving to be the most innovative console manufacturer in the three-horse race for market dominance. While it's been speculated in the past that this could lead to their downfall, instead it seems that their ability to produce new methods of gameplay is paying off. The touch-screen Nintendo DS handheld system topped 1 million units in the UK last week, and its games are consistently at the top of the charts.Next Generationhas more analysis on the handheld's runaway success from a business perspective - including its appeal to non-gamers.
In marked contrast to its cooperative approach in China, Google currently finds itself in confrontation with the US justice department over the rights of its users.Alone among the major US search engines, Google last week refused to hand over data on past usage to the government as evidence in an investigation into child pornography.Google has cited the privacy of its users, but the justice department insists it is not looking for personal details, only for search patterns that would show the effectiveness of anti-porn filters. The government is trying to prove that minors could stumble on to child porn websites by accident by entering quite innocent search terms. Its lawyers say that for its case to be tested, it needs a sample of actual searches.Yahoo!, Microsoft's MSN and America Online (AOL) have agreed to cooperate, insisting they would not hand over data that identified individual users. However, Google, the market leader, has stood firm."Our company relies on having the trust of our users," one of Google's founders, Larry Page, told ABC News. "That's a very strong motivation for us ... I think instead we should have laws that protect the privacy of data, for example, from government requests and other kinds of requests."Privacy advocates worry that the data the government is asking for could lead to further subpoenas if it pointed to any suspicious behaviour by search engine users.Last week, the justice department asked for a court subpoena to force Google to comply, and nervousness about the case took a toll on the company's share price, bringing it down 14% in the space of last week.
ModelFord Focus STPrice&pound;17,495Top speed150mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.8 secsConsumption30.4mpg (combined)At the wheelNeil ArmstrongCO2 emissions:224g/km (road tax band F)On the stereoFrank SinatraEn route forInfinity and beyondThey'd rather walkBuzz AldrinLast week, Nasa launched a probe bound for Pluto. The estimates are that, if all goes smoothly, it will take nine years to reach its destination. That's not a journey you would particularly want to do with kids ("If you ask 'Are we there yet?' one more time ..."). Naturally, you trust Nasa to know roughly what it's up to, but it did occur to me - as I pulled up outside my house the other day, tremblingly switched off the ignition and waited for my blood pressure to finish performing a drum solo in my ears - that if they were interested in getting the journey time down a bit, they should have gone in the new Ford Focus ST. Allowing for stoppages and assuming a clear run on the Mercury bypass, I reckon they could have got to Pluto in seven and a half years, tops.The ST stands for Sports Technologies, which sounds like a particularly dismal college course, but is, in fact, the latest brand name for Ford's "performance" range. See the ST badge on the boot and you can be confident that your car has been packaged by experienced technicians, working at the rallying/family-user interface and fully committed to exploring the boundaries between driving and controlled explosions."But," you may be protesting, "wasn't there already such a thing as a Focus RS? And wasn't that as rip-snorting as Focuses get and, accordingly, a widely celebrated appliance for leaving scorch marks on your driveway?" To which the answers are yes and, again, yes. But the ST now replaces the RS as the most powerful Focus legally on the road. Extra snort, then, and bigger rip.According to Ford, the ST lapped the N&uuml;rburgring racetrack in Germany 10 seconds faster than the original RS. By extension, we can infer that, in the hands of an averagely competent petrol-head, the ST will also lap the M25 faster than the RS did, unless - as happened to me during my own unofficial tests - it gets stuck in tailbacks around the Dartford Tunnel. At which point, you might just as well be in a Fiesta powered by a hairdryer and a guinea pig on a treadmill.In an unblocked lane, the ST reveals itself to be a sturdy rival for other beserko-hatchbacks, such as the Golf GTi, the Honda Civic Type R and the Vauxhall Astra VXR. Its essence is its special turbo-charged 2.5-litre, five-cylinder engine. This is not rowdy. In fact, it is rather warm and soft-edged on the ears. But it is still very sure of itself and comes happily coupled to some twitchy steering, a stiffened chassis and (as even performance cars need to stop sometimes), a set of upgraded, encouragingly sharpened brakes.The delicious thing about hot hatches is their covert nature. They don't tend to brag noisily about their unusual upper-body strength in public. They sit quietly by the kerb, as mundane and unremarkable as a kettle. They give almost no indication that if you stamped hard enough on their accelerators, they would spew dry ice from their alloys and scream off up the road in a vertical position on their back wheels.True, the ST has a wide, carefully bevelled and entirely cowboy-friendly spoiler running along the roofline at the back. But if you feel it threatens to give the game away, you could always snap it off and use it as a snowboard. Other touches - the increased heft of the front bumper, the brushed aluminium cases for the foglamps - betray the car's difference from the bog-standard, non-performance models.Inside, the giveaways come only slightly thicker and faster. The pedals are in steel. A small triple set of additional clocks, in their own alcove on the dash, keep you informed of mildly diverting performance aspects of your journey, such as how much work your turbo-charger is doing and whether the oil tank is about to blow up. The Recaro seats, too, speak more openly of high-speed adventure than of high-street shopping.Yet, just because the car is principally built for the taking of corners on two wheels, it doesn't mean you can't sometimes drop the rear seats down and load up the back with children or things the dustman refused to take. That's the magic of a hot hatch; it wins races and it goes to the dump, which is versatility of a rare and cherishable order.
"The Walt Disney Co on Tuesday said it would buy Pixar Animation Studios in a $7.4 billion deal that gives Pixar animators creative control over the world's most famous cartoon studio and makes Pixar CEO Steve Jobs one of Disney's largest shareholders," reportsReuters."The deal gives Jobs a stake in Disney worth some $3.7 billion."
"Online search engine leader Google Inc has agreed to censor its results in China, adhering to the country's free-speech restrictions in return for better access in the Internet's fastest growing market. The Mountain View, Calif.-based company planned to roll out a new version of its search engine bearing China's Web suffix .cn, on Wednesday. A Chinese-language version of Google's search engine has previously been available through the company's dot-com address in the United States," reportsAP."China already has more than 100 million Web surfers and the audience is expected to swell substantially -- an alluring prospect for Google as it tries to boost its already rapidly rising profits."Update:This morning's Guardian continues the story with reports fromJonathan Watts in ChinaandJulian Borgerin Washington.
Dan Gillmor, author of We The Media, left a plum job at the San Jose Mercury News to set up Bayosphere, an experiment in citizen journalism. Nowhe looks back at what happened, and what might have happened. As he says:I learned some things last year, about media, about citizens, about myself. Although citizen media, broadly defined, was taking the world by storm, the experiment with Bayosphere didn't turn out the way I had hoped. Many fewer citizens participated, they were less interested in collaborating with one another, and the response to our initiatives was underwhelming. I would do things differently if I was starting over.
I've been at a rather bizarre, but actually pretty brave, Nintendo event this afternoon. It was held at the Science Museum in London (Nintendo UK are splashing a million pounds worth of sponsorship into the place) and was basically a launch of the next wave of DS games, with particular emphasis on the Brain Training games that have gone down a cerebral storm in Japan. The other titles shown included Electoplankton and Pheonix Wright (out in March)The bizarre part was a slightly stilted panel discussion about what entertainment means in these crazy, mixed up times. The panel included a BBC TV producer, who had clearly played few games, and the editor ofPopbitch. The conclusions weren't clear - at least to me, anyway - but it seems that it's all about recreation now, or something, and consumers are now active and not passive. What this had to do with Nintendo wasn't immediately obvious, but it certainly made a pleasant change from watching the usual games launch video - i.e. alt-metal and the intro cut scene shown on a big screen.I also had a chat with the head of Nintendo UK and asked him some of your questionsfrom here. He didn't answer some of them - mainly the Revolution ones - but he did say how Nintendo plans to let the mainstream know about the charms of the DS and also confirmed that Sudoku will be appearing (as part of the Brain Training game). You may mock, but this inclusion will vastly increase the likelihood of Brain Training's success. I'll stick the interview up later too.
Last week, I asked whether Lotus Notes was the worst app ever:Lotus Notes is by far the most horrible application I've ever used for more than five minutes (disclaimer: my experience is based on using an out-of-date version on the "wrong" -- ie Mac -- platform) and there's even a Web site,Lotus Notes Sucks, dedicated to its shortcomings. Since it's a corporate platform, you may not have had the pleasure, but what's the worst application you've ever used? And if you're still using it, why?As expected this attracted this attracted the usual amount of Microsoft bashing, but not too many real klunkers emerged to challenge Notes, apart from Sony's SonicStage and Microsoft Access. Does no one remember Netscape 4 or Star Office 5? Has no one actually tried to use the GIMP for any practical purpose (apart from illustrating what Linux can do). What about old "favourites" such as Real Player, Adobe's Acrobat Reader and KaZaA? Do we really live in a Golden Age of friendly, well-designed usable applications or does no one want to compalin how yellow everything looks....Do we have enough candiates for a vote or is Notes a shoo-in?
Apple is opening a store at the Brent Cross Shopping Centre, in North London. The "grand opening" will be at 9am on Saturday, January 28.
"We're taking Google News out of beta! When we launched the English-language edition in September 2002, we entered untested waters with a grand experiment in news browsing - using computers to organize the world's news in real time and providing a bird's eye view of what's being reported on virtually any topic. By presenting news "clusters" (related articles in a group), we thought it would encourage readers to get a broader perspective by digging deeper into the news -- reading ten articles instead of one, perhaps -- and then gain a better understanding of the issues, which could ultimately benefit society. A bit more than three years later, we offer 22 regional editions in 10 languages, and have a better sense of how people use Google News," saysGoogle blog.Comment: But it still has a fundamental problem. Google clusters news stories from a range of sources, so if something appears with a dozen references and a link such as "all 415 related »" then you know it's a big story. However, at the time when it really was news, there might only have been one or two stories ... and it wouldn't have shown up on the Google News page. Some stories don't get enough traction to appear at all.Google News is great if you want old news, but that's not much of a recommendation.Update:Squash (Phil Sim) makes the same point -- and several more -- inGoogle News fatally flawed.
Over at TimesOnline,David Rowan confesses:SELF-AVOWAL is invariably the toughest of the 12 recovery steps. So here, gratifyingly, let me publicly confess: I Was A Guardian Journalist. Having submitted to a searching personal moral inventory, I admit, to God and myself, to having swallowed the entire liberal schtick, from the presumption of corporate irresponsibility to the grinding paranoia about Big Brother surveillance. It is therefore disconcerting, just as I was finally re-integrating into mainstream society, to find Google's fight with the US Justice Department provoking an almighty storm over web users' fast-eroding privacy rights. At the risk of relapsing, may I now convince you that they really are out to get us?Google, under increased assault lately over its perceived arrogance, finds its halo suddenly burnished by refusing to hand Washington a week's worth of anonymised search data. While not quite David vs Goliath — Google still happens to be history's fastest-growing company — its refusal to bow to a government subpoena has played well against the shameless complaisance of Microsoft, AOL and Yahoo!, and has sent the blogosphere into paroxysms of cheer for honouring its refusal to be "evil". A more credible explanation for the stand-off is the commercial risk that shareholders may identify in submitting to political interference. If you happen to be running a $120 billion business, the share price matters more than the approval of a few libertarian bloggers.And so on....
Internet search giant Google is the world's most influential brand, according to a new survey.The web company, which was started just seven years ago but is now worth almost $120bn, came top of a survey of advertising professionals. Last year's winner, iPod maker Apple, was knocked into second place despite enjoying the most successful 12 months in its 30-year history.Other top names included the internet telephony company Skype, which was bought last year by online auction site eBay, as well as coffee chain Starbucks and Swedish furniture store Ikea.The list was compiled by website Brandchannel.com, which surveyed more than 2,000 advertising professionals to see which products they thought were most influential.
One of the headaches of women in the games industry is the amount of female flesh on display at industry events. "Booth Babes" ("it's not about the games", eh?) have become a fixture at the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo, providing eye candy for the convention-types who circle them like flies, snapping photos from a distance for later nefarious purposes. I've seen these boys. They can't stop shaking if one of these beauties gets too close. It's rather sad.These hired bods represent "games" like I represent men's underwear. What a load of tosh. And people wonder why the games industry is perceived as immature.Well, the good news is that theEntertainment Software Associationhas said that it will enforce its long-standing-but-never-enforced ban onMaterial, including live models, conduct that is sexually explicit and/or sexually provocative, including but not limited to nudity, partial nudity and bathing suit bottoms, [...] on the Show floor, all common areas, and at any access points to the Show.Failing to comply will result in an on-the-spot $5,000 fine. Bring it on.Viagamesindustry.bizand bambino_tostare
Ian Bogost's development companyPersuasive Gameshas always produced some rather thought-provoking titles. The gamesblog covered last year'sAirport Insecurity, and has talked at length about some of their political products,Dean for AmericaandTake Back Illinois.Now, under the shadow ofrecent pressabout the relationship between online games and in-game advertising agencies, Bogost and his team have releasedDisaffected, a title which challenges advergaming by subverting a company's brand.From the press release:While examples of branded games go as far back as the Atari 2600, "advergames" have become very popular in the last ten years, first as web-based games and now as both casual games and product/ad placement in commercial games. Advertising in games is a growing yet little questioned area of gaming. Are games only capable of carrying positive advertising messages? Or can they also enact dissatisfaction and criticism against corporations? Anti-advergames are to detract from or call into question a set of products or services for expressive, cathartic, social, or political purposes.Disaffected puts players in the role of an employee of US photocopy giantKinkos, and challenges him or her to understand why the real-life employees are often so miserable. It presents a very simplistic premise, and one which may offend both Kinkos and the employees themselves. As a casual game, it can't get as deep into the sociohistorical aspects that dog underpaid, under-trained and often under-age employees of US national corporations thatEric Schlosser'sbooksFast Food Nation(Guardian excerpts) orReefer Madnessexpose, but it's an interesting scat on the seemingly pervasive branded advergames that have taken over.If anything, the pretense behind Bogost's work always makes me smile. You can hear more from him inthis gamesblog interview.
Two press releases flopped into my in-tray last night, both dispatches from the troubled 'driving shoot-'em-up' genre (or should that be 'combat driving game'? I'm losing touch with the definitions). One announced a smart newwebsitefor Driver: Parallel lines, the fourth instalment in a rather damaged cop chase series. The other provided some details about Spy Hunter: Nowhere To Run - a subtitle that may well speak ironic volumes about Midway's faith in its old skool series.The driving shooter is very much an endangered species, squeezed out on one side by the free-roaming adventure (GTA and its ilk) and on the other by rule-bending racing titles like Burnout and Need For Speed. Desperate measures are called for. And if there's one thing the videogame industry is good at, it's desperate measures...The Driver Parallel Lines website promises, "a virtual road of high-speed car chases, riveting videos, explosive screenshots, exclusive content, and additional VIP content including music videos and music artist interviews." It's one of those bandwidth-sucking multimedia attacks that blasts your office with unexpected funk music, causing everyone to turn round and tut at you. But my favourite section is the game story, 'written' by lead character, TK:"New York in 1978 was the coolest place on the planet. Everyone was either finding themselves, having a party or getting laid, including me... From New Jersey to Queens, from the Bronx down to Battery this was my patch, my backyard"This strikes me as the sort of gangsta fantasist gumph that could only have been written by someone who, a) has never been to America, and b) who has no recollection of the seventies as they actually existed. Correct me if I'm wrong, but wasn't the New York of the late-seventies a social and cultural cess-pit, a neglected, fallen metropolis, spectacularly revived in the earlyeightiesby a resurgent art scene (Warhol, Haring, Basquiat), post-punk and the very zenith of Hip-Hop culture? I also enjoy the way TK refers to the whole of New York as his backyard - that's an area of 321 square miles. It must be nightmare clearing the leaves in Autumn.Anyway, Atari is cleverly covering all the bases with this latest Driver instalment. It's set in two time zones - the 1970s, to pull in the retro fetishists, and the modern day so they can have cool new cars. The multiple mission and sub-mission-based structure is also a sensible nod to GTA. It's due for release in March.Meanwhile, Spy Hunter: Nowhere to Run has made further concessions to the gangsta adventure, finally allowing secret agent hero Alex Decker to get out of his Interceptor car and start whacking enemies on-foot. But this was not considered a significant enough selling point on it's own. Hence yesterday's press release, announcing that the game would include an advanced 3D scan of The Rock, whose spookily authentic bulk will be filling Decker's shoes. It seems Midway has fallen back on the old familiar tactic, 'if in doubt, include a high resolution, high colour structured 3D scan of an ex-wrestler-turned-actor'.Will these measures be enough to save the Driving Combat Car Shooting Gangsta genre? Will they?!Yes, it's a slow news morning.
The maker of the BlackBerry yesterday suffered a setback in a patent dispute that could shut down the hugely popular wireless email service in the United States.The US supreme court refused to hear an appeal from Research in Motion over a lower court ruling that said it was infringing patents of Virginia-based NTP. The case dates back to 2002, when NTP successfully sued RIM. It won an injunction a year later to halt US sales of the BlackBerry and to shut down the service, although the ruling was stayed pending appeal.Some 70% of RIM's revenue comes from the US and the business closure would be a blow. It would be just as shocking to the millions of users of the hand-held devices.The appeals court scaled back the initial ruling but still said RIM had infringed on NTP patents. The two sides reached a $450m (&pound;251m) settlement in March, but the deal fell apart three months later. RIM has asked the appeals court to enforce the deal. NTP has asked the court to press ahead with a permanent injunction, royalty payments and $126m in damages.RIM, which is based in Waterloo, Ontario, had asked the supreme court to consider whether it was wrong to apply US patent rules when its main computers that handle the emails are based in Canada. NTP said the supreme court decision had "closed the final path for RIM to avoid liability for the infringement" and cleared the way for a lower court to issue the injunction.RIM played down the significance of the failed appeal. Mark Guibert, RIM's vice president of corporate marketing said the supreme court decision had "no bearing on the merits of the outstanding issues" still pending in the Richmond, Virginia courtroom.RIM has been preparing contingency plans. The firm has been working to develop new technologies to support its system that don't infringe the NTP patents.
"Internet search engine Google has retaken first place in the 2005 global poll of the world's most influential brands, while the eBay-owned web phone service Skype makes its debut at No 3," reportsReuters.The annual survey compiled by online branding magazine brandchannel.com is based on the votes of "2,528 branding professionals and students".The top five in the European list are Nokia, Ikea, Skype, Zara and BMW. The top five in Asia-Pacific are Sony, Toyota, Samsung, LG and HSBC. But the most interesting list in the story is for Latin America:Latin America's top two are party beverages Corona and Bacardi, with mobile phone operator Movistar in third. Sandal maker Havaianas takes fourth place and Mexican building materials group Cemex is fifth.
Is this the least surprising gamingnewsever? Yes, Gizmondo Europe going into administration will shock absolutely no one although those (very) few punters who bought into the handheld console/sat-nav/thingummy will be cursing those lunchtime beers that fuelled their wayward purchases. There is probably a very good book to be written about this wholesorry saga, with dubious business practices a prominent feature. Having said that I predict there will be some sort of retro following for the Giz in the future as it did have some, ok one, redeeming feature - the sat-nav. Maybe in 2010 that boxed and sealed Giz that you picked up for cheap - has the London store shut yet? - could be worth more than it is now. The Gizmondo then, a flawed tech-experiment or a piece of woefully designed hardware with all the consumer appeal of an iced tea in Moscow?
