Me? Do without my mobile? For whole week? In the words of the Churchill dog, ohh nonononononononono.I am ashamed to say that I am about as reliant on my walkie talkie for day-to-day living as I am on Kit Kat Chunkies. Which is to say, a lot.Friday 6pmMy time starts ... now. A Friday night without my phone. I may as well have gone out without my trousers on, I feel so uncomfortable. I keep checking my pockets, panicking that I've lost it. Everyone else I'm with has got a phone.Saturday 11amI'm going home to my parents' house for the first time since Easter. I phone my dad from my house phone to tell him what time I'll be at the station. While on the train home, I remember that I forgot to tell Dave, captain of my Sunday League side, that I can't play tomorrow. The trouble is, I don't have the first clue what his number is.The part of my brain that I used to remember dozens of numbers when I was a kid has now shut down. I know only the following: mum and dad, girlfriend, house, office, Four Corners takeaway. I make a mental note, which I will later forget, to phone my housemate and ask him to pass on the message to Dave.Saturday 3pmI arrive at the station. No-one is there.Saturday 3.30pmMy mother turns up. She had sent me a text telling me to go to my sister's around the corner as she would be late. Mum also blurts out the Liverpool result, a game I was intending to watch "as live", assuming I would have had the score texted to me already. That they won is only a small consolation.Saturday 7pmI've called my girlfriend, Alice, twice this evening. I normally text her and it just isn't the same.Saturday 12amTime for bed. But Alice is still out and she can't hear her phone. We never normally go to bed without speaking to each other because we keep our mobiles on our bedside tables. But she can't call me on the house phone so I leave her a message.Sunday 5pmBack in London and I'm meeting Alice. I call her on a public pay phone to discover she's in a random pub called Holborn. I don't have any change so have to break a tenner in WHSmith. I didn't know that 20p was the minimum coinage now. When did that happen? And why do I keep on dialling nine for an outside line?Sunday 5.30pmI've forgotten the directions I was given. And there isn't a payphone in sight.Sunday 12pmAn uninterrupted evening in. We watched an entire video without having to pause it once.Monday 9.41amI'm all at sixes and sevens. Normally I always check that I've got my wallet, keys and phone before I leave the house but because I'm without one of them, I left them all this morning. I have such trouble getting on the train that I end up horrendously late. I need to text my boss.Monday 1pmI'm going to see Coldplay at Wembley arena tonight with Laura, Kate and Meikle. I have organised the outing so it's up to me to sort out a meeting time and place. I email the other three and hear back from two.Monday 5pmKate still hasn't emailed me back about tonight. And of course I don't have her number. So I email Meikle and ask him to call her. She's out of the office today. Several emails later, we agree to meet outside Wembley Park station at 7.30pm. Along with 16,000 other people.Tuesday 7pmI don't really need my mobile at work because I have a phone and email. But nevertheless the novelty has most definitely worn off now, and as well as it being irritating, I'm worried that about being uncontactable. My grandparents are very frail.Wednesday 10amTonight all my housemates, my brother and Dan's girlfriend are going to see a play in the West End. Again, I'm in charge so email everyone with the details. I think trying to organise the housemates might be a step too far.Wednesday 6pmIt is. Without my phone this would have been a logistical nightmare, so I give in. I call everyone and still Dan and Jane arrive too late to sit with us. I leave their tickets at the door and take my seat just before the curtain goes up. Halfway through the first act, my phone goes off. Serves me right.
Iris scanningis being used with Afghans in Pakistan, reports the Philadelphia Inquirer, as well as at airports and other high-tech venues.
A survey shows that "the prevention of mental disorder and sleep disorder requires the restriction of VDT use to less than 5 hours per day," according to a Reuters Health report,here.
The boredom and loneliness of a long spell in hospital are to be banished by new technology which goes live tomorrow in the NHS, giving patients the chance to surf the net or email their friends from the comfort of their bed.For the first time in Britain, patients will be able to log onto websites and even read about their illness, using a bedside terminal which also offers TV and telephone services. If someone has a broken leg but also a busy work schedule, they can send and receive emails to colleagues keeping up to date with developments.Seven hospitals across Britain go live on the net tomorrow, with the service being rolled out to dozens of other NHS trusts over the coming year.However, the terminals cannot be fitted into children's wards because technicians cannot guarantee that websites containing pornography or violence would be completely blocked.Patientline, a private company which already provides bedside TV, radio and telephone services to more than 60 NHS hospitals, has developed the hardware to provide a system which does not interfere with the clinical care provided on a ward.A thin 12-inch screen with a small hand-held keyboard on the side is attached to a long arm, secured to the wall, which can be extended over the bed at any angle to suit the patient.Patients are given a smart card which can be loaded with credit at pay machines across the hospital site, and is then inserted into the bed side terminal. It will cost four pence a minute to use the net.The company, headed by Derek Lewis, former head of the prison service, largely makes its money on phone charges. Although it is cheap to use the terminal, it costs 50 pence a minute to phone a patient at their bedside.The NHS does not have to pay anything for installation of the terminals, but must sign 25-year contracts with the company, giving exclusive rights to provide and charge for the services.The involvement of the private sector at the bedside may be controversial, but it should prove popular with hospital staff. In the same way that TV screens fitted into the back of aeroplane chairs have helped travellers cope with long-distance flights, the NHS sees the new 'entertainment systems' as a way of alleviating the boredom while allowing staff to carry on with nursing duties.The launch of the scheme will take place tomorrow at Kingston Hospital in Surrey, where the trial system has already proved popular with patients.Madeleine Wood, from Ealing, west London, who is in the orthopaedic ward for at least another two weeks after breaking her collarbone and wrist, said: 'It really is a godsend when you're faced with spending hours a day looking through magazines or waiting for the next meal.'Other hospitals going live tomorrow are Horton General Hospital in Banbury, the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Luton and Dunstable Hospital, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, the Alexandra Hospital in Redditch and Wycombe General Hospital in High Wycombe, Bucks.
This looks like one of those friend of a friend of a friend things, which I picked up fromJoho. Anyway, search Google forhttpand check the order they come out....
Hirohisa Ohura, who is responsible forXbox operations in Japan, is joining a corporate planning team in Seattle, so Microsoft will have to find someone else to struggle with slow sales there. Actually, it hasn't sold all that badly for an American electronics product, because in general, the Japanese simply will not buy non-Japanese electronics products, regardless of quality, price or anything else. (Apple Japan is one of the few non-Japanese companies to have any noticeable success, selling 98,000 Macs in Japan in the second quarter of this year. It's still not a lot.) Microsoft should do a deal with the Johnny Walker or J&amp;B distributor and sell a version localised with a built in whisky dispenser.
One of the ideas behind the Tablet PC is to make it possible toread a newspaper or magazine on screenin a format that looks like a newspaper or magazine -- just like an Adobe PDF file, in fact. Microsoft and a few publications are trying it out, including The Financial Times in the UK.
PC Magazine has more info on Dell's forthcomingPocketPCs.
Sendo, a small British handset company, has decided todumpits long-delayed Microsoft PocketPC-based smartphone and produce one using Nokia's Symbian/Psion-based operating system instead. Online was one of the few publications to have a pre-production Sendo phone to play with (here) and it still needed work. But whatever went on between Microsoft and Sendo, behind the scenes, I can't see this as anything but bad news for Microsoft Smartphone 2002. And a coup for Nokia.
Web design guru Jakob Nielsen is in the UK, and is holding a series of seminars next week. Today he was live on the Guardian's Talkboard. The record ishere.
You have to hand it to Microsoft. By its dogged refusal to admit it had done anything wrong and by an unrelenting pursuit of its own interest it has emerged from the long running US anti-trust settlement almost as strong as ever.The world's most successful democracy was no match for one of the world's most successful corporations. One of the most important aspects of the case has not been discussed because it didn't come under the writ of the court - what "ought" to happen to the monopoly profits earned by Microsoft in the past?The higher court had already ruled that Microsoft's monopoly was not illegally acquired but did conclude that it was illegally maintained. So, for years, Microsoft has been operating an illegally maintained monopoly.Could this, just possibly, have anything to do with Microsoft's announcement of a sharp rise in profits in the latest quarter at a time when the rest of the industry has stagnated.This will add to the company's huge cash mountain and enable it to spend yet more on hiring the best people and spending all that it takes to preserve its market position. Why should it be allowed to keep the excess fruits of an illegally maintained monopoly?At the very least it should be shamed into giving a donation of, say, £100m to help the free rival operating system, Linux, provide the glimmer of competition.The higher court had already decided not to break Microsoft up. The lower court, as is customary, merely had the job of drawing up the remedies. The district court judge decided not to force Microsoft to share its browser software code or to make its operating system more compatible with the products of competitors.This at once removed the obviously "just" solution of enabling non-Microsoft products (like browsers and media players) to compete on an equal footing with similar products produced by Microsoft itself, which has the overwhelming advantage of having its Windows operating system installed in over 95% of personal computers.The best compromise solution would have been to hive Windows off into a separate company legally required to give equal access to all software, from spreadsheets and word processors (which Microsoft currently also dominates with a 95% market share) to browsers, accounting packages and future products linked to interactive television.Instead, the district court merely proposed that Microsoft shares some of its "downstream" code with competitors to make it easier for them to compete with rival products. For example, Microsoft must in future disclose and license the communications protocols utilised by its PC operating systems to communicate with Microsoft's servers.But it retains a strong competitive advantage over its rivals since it will be able to ensure its products run more smoothly and in a more integrated way with Windows and reach the market earlier.It is good that the court has made it more difficult for Microsoft to insist that its software products become the default ones in computers manufactured by OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and it is good that it will have to make it easier for customers to disable built-in Microsoft products.But, as the Wall Street Journal observed, users who want to cleanse existing Windows computers of Microsoft programs "may not find the process easy, unless they are technologists".The process (only available for Windows XP and Windows 2000) involves downloading free "service packages" and, once installed, the user has to either disable all the Microsoft defaults in one go (including email and web access) or customise their program preferences one by one.This may be good news for Online's Ask Jack column but it isn't going to result in hundreds of thousands of consumers switching from MS products because that's not the way the world works.One potentially interesting ruling by the judge is that the court "will hold Microsoft's directors, particularly those who testified before this court, responsible for implementing each provision of this remedial decree".The trouble is that the provisions are so weak that Microsoft has a vested interest in compliance. Meanwhile, the show has moved on. The worries about Microsoft's monopoly have moved on to concerns about its net services and other innovations.It is unlikely that competitors will want to waste another five years of litigation when more judges will be Bush appointees. Unless the European commission's parallel investigation comes to stronger conclusions - and doesn't fall foul of the Bush administration belief that US law is the only one that matters - then Microsoft can sail on into the sunset.Microsoft has even beaten Drucker's law. The renowned US management guru, Peter Drucker, said he wasn't worried unduly about Microsoft's market power because no non-governmental monopoly had ever lasted more than 15 years. Not any more.Victor Keegan is the editor of Guardian Online
Bill Gates yesterday announced the pen is mightier than the keyboard as the Microsoft chairman launched the long-awaited Tablet PC.He predicted the sale of "hundreds of thousands" of the new devices, which use the company's software to enable users to write on the screen of a flat notebook-style computer.Microsoft is understood to have pumped upwards of $400m (&#163;256m) into developing the device, which will be manufactured by companies including Hewlett Packard and Toshiba.The launch came as Microsoft found its ambitions to stake a claim to a lucrative slice of the mobile phone market blocked by a Midlands-based company.For two years, Sendo, headquartered in Birmingham, has been working with Microsoft to develop a 'smartphone' which in cludes many features of Microsoft Windows. Yesterday it dumped the US software firm in favour of Nokia.Sendo manufactures mobile phones which contain software customised to the requirements of particular phone operators. It sells to 50 companies worldwide.Chief executive Hugh Brogan said Microsoft refused to give Sendo the technical data - known as source code - needed to alter the handset's look and feel. As a result it pulled the first smartphone despite having started production."We got the Microsoft smartphone approved by customers and were ready to ship, but customers were looking for things that we could not give them" because of Microsoft's intransigence, said Mr Brogan. The first phone using the new Nokia codes is expected next year.
Sega, the creator of Sonic the Hedgehog, expects profits to be squashed this year after the slow release of new titles and poor returns from the Tokyo stock market.The Japanese firm dumped its loss-making Dreamcast console a year ago and instead was going to focus on becoming the world's leading maker of video games.However, there were delays in providing new products for Sony's PlayStation 2 and Nintendo's Gamecube. A slump in demand for games in Japan, Europe and the United States left software sales in the half year to September 1.6 million units short of targets.With strong competition from other software houses and continued contraction of its key markets, Sega revised down its full-year net profit from Y18bn (&#163;94m) to Y5bn."We miscalculated financial targets for this year because of over-confidence stemming   from results last year and a lack of experience as a third-party software publisher," said Sega president Hideki Sato.The poor results were made worse by a Y4.8bn write-off after losses on the Tokyo stock exchange affected the company's equity portfolio. The Nikkei share index has reached 19-year lows.
The unblinking eyes of space satellites - most of which look down at the earth - are not just for scientists and computer specialists any more. Satellites have become detectives for lawyers, who are using the data in court cases.Satellites are also monitoring the growth of illicit crops, detecting changes in African gorilla habitats, helping American community planners design better towns and tracking the movements of refugees.Entire businesses are being constructed around supplying and interpreting the images satellites send back, according to a panel on space imaging and technology held last week at the International Bar Association business law conference in Durban, South Africa.The companies are licensed to sell data from US government-owned satellites, an entrepreneurialism born out of the United States Land and Remote Sensing Act of 1992, in which the government offered rights for the commercial use of satellite imagery."They took a very entrepreneurial perspective, which was unusual at the time, because most people thought of space as something for the military or space agencies," says Jurgen Heilbock, a Frankfurt lawyer who specialises in space law.These space-based tools offer extraordinary detail: the latest Ikonos satellite is able to depict objects on earth as small as a square metre. Many of the newer satellites also use techniques such as infrared imaging and precise computer analysis to generate hidden detail. For example, infrared images make areas of lush vegetation appear bright red.Drug officials in Laos can pick out arid tracts of opium from surrounding crops. In dry parts of the world, where farmers are often taxed for every acre they water, infrared imagery could help governments check actual crop plantings against which farmers claim they are irrigat  ing, said Alex Fortescue, of the council for scientific and industrial research in South Africa, a firm that provides satellite images.Satellites are also stepping into the witness box. His company provided satellite data to government prosecutors after the Merriespruit Slimes Dam near Johannesburg released a noxious mix of gold mining tailings and mud in 1994, killing 17 and causing 45 million rands' worth of damage.A sequence of satellite views revealed that over time, a wall of the dam had not been properly maintained. "We were able to see it was negligence on behalf of the mine," he said. Satellites have humanitarian uses as well, said David Stevens, programme officer with the UN's Vienna-based Office for Outer Space Affairs (Unoosa).The UN can keep an eye on the deforestation of the Amazon, aid farmers with weather mapping, or count the tents erected for refugees after a disaster.  But there are questions about using satellite imagery.Copyright remains fuzzy: in the US, the space imaging operator owns copyright, but in Europe, it would probably belong to the owner of the database that contains the image.  If a person or organisation sues over the way in which a satellite image is used, it's unclear who would be liable - the buyer of the image or the database company or the satellite operator, says Heilbock.Given the detailed information revealed by a satellite, this also raises privacy and commercial concerns. And though even the best Ikonos satellite cannot pick out an individual face, the next generation of satellites will be able to see objects half a metre square in size.The answer? International agreements and domestic legislation that defines how satellite images can be used, say the lawyers. Until then, as Fortescue says, "Where do we draw the line?"
I read about 5,000 text message poems during last year's competition. There were poems from everywhere, about everything. Poems written in traffic jams, on delayed trains and slow moving buses. Poems written in the bath and on the toilet. Poems about the first glow of true love and poems about pawning the wedding ring. Poems about losing mobile phones and poems about stealing them.It was like listening to the country thinking out loud. The most touching group of poems were those written by parents about their newborn babies. I always thought of the writers as women, with a nursing baby in one arm and a mobile in the other hand, just wanting to express how wonderful and astonishing what had happened was, to send it out into the air, like a prayer or a blessing.There was also a strand of poems about contemporary events, particularly last year's foot and mouth crisis. It is difficult to find a personal way of describing current affairs in poetry - look how much trouble poet laureates have with royal birthdays - but the poems won't work without saying something truthful about ourselves as much as the events we're commenting on.It is that inward-looking truth that moves readers. After all, they've already seen the same stuff we have on TV. Of the 5,000 poems, I had two favourites, both of which made it to the long list but not the final seven.The first was EADSTAND:I look at the clear green sky above.Stars, like daisies, glinting all around.It takes care to paint a clear, bold picture - we know exactly what we're looking at, even if it's upside down - then cleverly turns it over: is it a sky like grass, or the grass above our heads that we're seeing?Even the missing H from the title adds something. There's no need in terms of space to miss the H off, the poem is nowhere near 160 characters, so it's a witty nod to text message conventions, but it also seems to give the title a slightly cracked, head-over-heels feel that suits the poem. I can image the writer doing 'eadstands in the middle of a park and not caring how odd they look.The second of my favourites was this:THERES A GIRL IN MY SCHOOL AND SHE IS SHY TOO I ASK FOR HER MOBILE NUMBER I RING HER UP AND SEE IF SHE NEEDS A FRIEND BY STACEY BREWERIf the phone networks wanted an advert for the benefits of mobiles then this is it, and if there had been a prize for niceness Stacey Brewer would have won hands down. Between them these two have all the things that good poems have at least one of: visual description, care and inventiveness with words, contemporary language, fun, honesty and a big heart. All in 160 characters and you can write them on the bus.&#183;Text Messages, Andrew Wilson's collection of 100 SMS poems, will be published by Smith/Doorstop in the spring
Phone giant Nokia took mobile pundits by surprise on  Monday - by entering the games industry. Taking aim  at Nintendo's GameBoy Advance, Nokia unveiled a  mobile phone it hopes will double as a decent games  console, along with six other new mobile devices.At its annual mobile internet conference in Munich,  Nokia showed the N-Gage - its first mobile phone that  also allows consumers to play quality games, which  are stored on memory cards, on a colour screen.The device, to be introduced in February, is a direct  challenge to Japan's Nintendo, which is expected to  sell 12m units of its GameBoy Advance across the  globe this year. Nokia said it would also become a  games publisher."Nintendo is the one owning this market," said Nokia's  executive vice president for mobile phones, Anssi  Vanjoki. "The market is underdeveloped." He said  Nokia's strength in the fiercely competitive games  market would come from its position as a wireless  player. The new device will allow multiple gamers to  play against each other over short-range Bluetooth  connections, or across the mobile phone network.The announcement, the first major push from any  mobile phone maker to cater for the games market,  took analysts by surprise. "They've stolen a march on  Microsoft," said Neil Mawston, at market research  group Strategy Analytics. But he added that Nokia still  needed strong games to succeed. Nokia said Sega will  develop games for the devices.Vanjoki also showed five traditional colour screen and  camera-phones, plus a fold-away model with a  keyboard.Nokia phone launches are closely watched because of  the company's dominant position in the wireless  industry, supplying more than a third of all phones sold  to consumers worldwide.The new phones, which also included a small and  expensive cameraphone and a low-cost entry level  model, further extended Nokia's product portfolio,  already the broadest in the industry. "We're convinced  we're going to gain market share," Vanjoki said. Some  analysts predict the company, because of its  unwillingness to compromise on designs or brand for  mobile network operators, may lose market share to  more flexible rivals.The company unveiled the 6800 model, which comes  with a colour display, supports the Multimedia  Messaging Service (MMS) and Java technology and  has a cover that opens up into a full keyboard. It will go  on sale early next year.The 7250 colour screen fashion phone, which has a  built-in digital camera, will go on sale in the same  period, as will the 5100, the 8910i and the 2100. Nokia  will start shipping the 6100 model, also with a colour  display, by the end of this year.Nokia also unveiled a set of external speakers that can  be attached to a phone to give stereo sound, as well  as a cellphone headset with a tiny digital camera  attached.Vanjoki was upbeat about customer desire for new,  much more powerful mobile phones.He said demand for its first cameraphone on sale, the  7650, was outstripping supply. He added that Nokia  had already delivered more than 1m devices to  telecoms operators and was on course to deliver 3m  by the new year.The company also revealed it expected to ship  50-100m colour screen devices next year and hopes to  extend its leading global handset market share. Chief  executive Jorma Ollila said more than half of the firm's  phones sold next year would use MMS.But analyst Mawston, who applauded the new  products, said Nokia still needed a clamshell product if  it wanted to stop Samsung's march.The South Korean company advanced to a market  share of between 10 and 11% in the third quarter of  this year - aided by the popularity of clamshell designs  in Asia.
Out of OfficeAs a small, self-employed user of business software, with a small budget for operating expenses, I was pleased to read Ben Hammersley's article (Knowledge is Power, Business Solutions, October 31) on OpenOffice.org as a "free" alternative to Microsoft Office.This letter is produced onOpenOffice.organd I find it an excellent alternative.  'm amazed by the tunnel vision that people show when choosing office software suites, especially local government and educational establishments. It appears to be Microsoft, or Microsoft.There are other, lower-cost alternatives available, which can serve the purpose just as well - Ability Office or Lotus Smartsuite, for example.Ability Office is a Microsoft Office look-alike and though it doesn't have all the frills, is more than adequate for most users. Lotus Smartsuite is brilliant, and is my preferred choice, as it behaves in a way more easily understood by the   novice, yet offers all the functionality of Microsoft Office and also integrates ViaVoice, IBM's voice recognition software. I got my copy from a mailorder software supplier sourced from a computer magazine, for less than &#163;20. For those who, like me, can't afford the cost of buying and updating the latest software, many companies, Microsoft excluded, offer their products free on magazine cover CDs, when they are about to issue a newer version. Often, the earlier version is more than adequate for most users' requirements.Philip Swiftphilip.swift4@btopenworld.comLying in waitAs one of those patiently waiting for BT to enable my local exchange for ADSL, I have registered an interest. Looking at the logged interest level, I find that 171 others have done the same, presumably, like me, assuming it will make a difference. However, on checking the required "trigger level", I find that my exchange is not there. Conversation with BT elicits no explanation of why this is, or of what the criteria are for setting a trigger level, merely that it is at BT's discretion, and that it may not be economic to enable some (unspecified) exchanges.If some exchanges are   never going to be enabled, could BT tell us on the website and save us wasting our time? What's more, it's interesting to note that of those exchanges with (varying) trigger levels, none have an interest level of more than 75% of the trigger level and only two of more than 60%. So none are uncomfortably close to requiring BT to change its plans in response to demand.Am I being over-cynical in suggesting that trigger levels might be set on the basis of the level of interest so as to fit the existing development programme? In other words, the whole thing is just a PR exercise, and we can register all we like but it will make no difference?Mike Wakemike.wake@which.netMail nurseWhile it is encouraging to hear of the proposed new plans for project management of government IT systems (Kicking the habit, October 31) there is one major project that defies belief.The NHS needs an email system to replace the thousands of brown envelopes passing through the internal mail. Instead of discussing large volume discounts for standard products such as Microsoft Outlook or Lotus Notes, they have commissioned EDS to create a new web-based system.Perhaps the mandarins might like to explain how captains of industry can manage with standard email tools, yet our doctors and nurses need a made-to-measure product valued at &#163;90m?Mark Kobayashi-Hillarymail@markhillary.comOn holdOnline often reports on the potential of innovative services offered by mobile phone operators, focusing on the technological drawbacks of such services. I believe a more serious impediment to their adoption is the dire level of customer service from mobile phone operators.If I have a problem with my phone, it won't be resolved in a reasonable time, since the mobile operators have cut their customer service departments. That is annoying, but the cost of my phone and calls is quite low.However, the idea of gambling on an expensive handset and tariff, knowing that the smallest problem could result in my being the owner of a high-priced paperweight is out of the question, even for a "gadget head" like me.The mobile phone companies need to start listening to their customers - not just playing them muzak.Jeremy Hendersonjeremy_henderson@ hotmail.comIn the darkOn the evidence of his article (Music is becoming a racket, October 31), Steve Bowbrick is a smug "early adopter" with a perverse idea of how music should be enjoyed. His pick'n'mix MP3 approach has little to do with love of music and plenty to do with repellent technological oneupmanship. He should go back to his sitting room, don a pair of headphones, put a CD in the stereo, crank up the volume and turn out the light.Richard Rees JonesEmail address supplied
The competition generated much media excitement, which I hadn't expected. Being quite a private person, I was embarrassed about the attention, although happy to have won. Having sent the text poem, I didn't think anything would come of it. I am not naturally poetic or literary, so I was surprised my entry was so popular. I didn't think it was that good, so I hadn't even saved a copy.How I was portrayed in some articles was irritating. I was made out to be a bumbling, lazy, dim "stoodent". This did me no favours among my friends, but my ego was only dented temporarily!Shortly after my win, I did a few interviews for the BBC. My poem was read on the World Service by a woman with a wonderful, lilting Caribbean accent, and it was then that I thought it sounded quite cool. That reading gave it an international context, which I liked, because it was nice to think my African grandma might be listening. The poem even made it into Time magazine.I was invited to sit on a panel for the Cheltenham Festival of Literature, appeared in a documentary on modern communication, and was put on a shortlist for Poems on the Underground.For BBC Radio Leeds, I judged a Sunday morning   poetry contest. The trouble with Sunday morning is that it comes after Saturday night and I was suffering a severe hangover and forgot the poem.Because the poem was about my beloved African grandma, I used the money to visit her in Kenya. As I was a peace and development studies undergraduate, I also did some research in the field on HIV/Aids and gender. This trip was a sharp insight into what a devastating impact the pandemic is having on African communities. There were times when I looked at some of the people I met and wondered who would still be alive the next time I visited. The number of orphan-headed families in the region   where I stayed is phenomenally high. And yet people still cope and get on with their lives as best they can.I wrote my undergraduate dissertation based on observations made while staying in Kenya. I gained a first for my degree, then I applied and got funding to do a PhD on the HIV/Aids epidemic and gender in East Africa at the department of peace studies, University of Bradford. So, I will continue with my research on the HIV/Aids crisis for the next couple of years, and hope, I can help in some (small) way.After staying in Kenya, I decided to go to Tanzania to observe the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. There I heard the appalling testimonies of genocide survivors and sat inches away from modern-day Hitlers. The bravery and courage of ordinary Africans in the face of extreme adversity amazed me - especially when several of the staff on the tribunal were engaged in behaviour that could only be described as out of order.One of the major questions I was asked was whether text messaging really is a new force for creative communication. The poetry competition certainly proved there is a very creative element in the medium. People form their own vocabularies and ways of expressing themselves through text. There is an art to composing a good text message, be it romantic, witty, or otherwise. People seem to have become empowered to express themselves as they want to, with as much regard to grammar, semantics and form as suits them.Text messaging as a way of speaking to other people is liberating because it allows the "texter" to speak instinctively. You can say as little or as much as you want, and there is a subtlety to messaging that is different from other forms of communication. The immediacy and anticipation of a message also adds to its particular charm.&#183;Hetty's winning poem is atwww.guardian.co.uk/textpoetry
Are you a closet text poet? You won't know until you try. Last year, when our unique interactive text poetry competition was launched, we wondered how many people out there had 160 characters inside them waiting to come out in the form of a poem.  We were delighted to receive 7,500 entries, mostly from people who had never written a poem.The final judges were the participants, because every poem on the shortlist was texted to all entrants, who awarded each marks out of 10. The first prize of &#163;1,000 was won by Hetty Hughes, a Bradford University peace studies student.Just as text messaging released a new layer of social exchange between people, so text message poetry seems to have opened a hitherto hidden reservoir of creativity.  To expand on the possibilities of this new medium, Online is today launching its second competition in association with Orange, whom we are delighted to welcome as a sponsor. The first prize has been raised to &#163;1,500, with &#163;500 for the second prize, &#163;250 for third, &#163;150 for fourth and &#163;100 for fifth. The winning entry will be displayed on 7,000 London buses thanks to Transport for London and Poems on the Underground.There will be a special prize of &#163;250 - the Orange Award - for the most creative use of  SMS shorthand in a poem (seewww.guardian.co.uk/textpoetryfor last year's winner). The cheque will be presented at the Orange Word West End poetry event on December 9.The competition is open to everyone and especially those who have never thought of writing a poem before. All you have to do is text your entry to07786 207 207.The competition is free to enter and you can send more than one poem but you will have to pay the usual cost charged by your service provider to send a text message. Although Orange is sponsoring it, entries are welcome from everyone, irrespective of their service provider.As last year, a "long" shortlist of 100 poems will be drawn up byCentrifugalforces. This will be winnowed down to a final shortlist of five by our expert panel consisting of poets UA Fanthorpe, Peter Sansom, Justine Jordan (Guardian Unlimited books editor) and Peter Florence, director of Orange Word.  The final five will then be texted - one a day at about 11am for five days - to every entrant before the winner is chosen.Entrants are asked to vote immediately with a mark from 1 to 10 (numbers not letters). You can vote immediately you receive each poem or until midnight on the same day. Only one vote per person.A selection of the poems as they come in will be featured every day onwww.guardian.co.uk/textpoetryalong with the full terms and conditions of the competition.Winners will be notified by phone by December 4, and the winning poems, together with examples of other entries, will be published in Guardian Online on December 5. No employees of the Guardian, Orange , WIN or anyone connected to the competition or its promotion may enter. For technological reasons we reserve the right to cap the entries if demand is exceptionally high. Please see the full terms of conditions.Step by step1: November 7 to 20:text a poem to 07786 207 2072: November 24:"Long" shortlist of 100 agreed3: November 25:Expert panel decides the final five poems and Orange Award4 November 27:Entrants reminded of judging process5: November 28Entrants texted a poem a day for five days. Give each of mark out of 10 (numerals only) and text back. No acknowledgement of the vote will be sent6: December 5:Winners announced in Online7: December 9:Orange cheque presented at West End Poetry Evening.
British schoolchildren could find themselves at the forefront of new technology, following today's worldwide launch of Microsoft's Tablet computers. They will be able to write just the way they used to with pencil and paper or chalk and slate, but the PC will recognise their handwriting and convert it into text.Three British schools have been trying the new-style PCs supplied by RM, the UK market leader in educational computing. Other hardware suppliers joining Microsoft at the London launch event included Acer, from Taiwan, Fujitsu-Siemens, the German-Japanese combination, Toshiba, from Japan, and Compaq, which is now part of Hewlett-Packard. All the systems run a new Tablet PC Edition of Microsoft Windows XP Professional.Neil Laver, Microsoft's Tablet PC product manager, claims this is "the next step forward in the evolution of the computer. It's not just a new gadget, this is technology for everybody." Tablet PCs can be used in situations where desktops and notebooks cannot: when users are standing up and walking around. This is why other trialists have included the Nationwide and the Royal Brompton Hospital in London.The Nationwide's head of business futures, David Followell, says the Tablet PC "allows us to interact with the customer in a much more natural way. Bring on the comfortable chairs and a couple of sofas!"Tablet PCs have been around for at least a decade without sales taking off outside niche markets, such as the healthcare and transportation industries. The optimism about reaching a wider market has been stimulated by dramatic improvements in the handwriting recognition software, and the exploding popularity of Wi-Fi (802.11) wireless networks. Wi-Fi "hotspots" are now being opened in hotels, airports, stations, and coffee bars including the Starbucks and Costa Coffee chains.Microsoft and the hardware manufacturers also hope the new form factor will stimulated sales in a PC market that has seen its first year-on-year decline since the 1980s. Mel Taylor, managing director of Fujitsu-Siemens in the UK, said he expected tablet-style PCs to grow from 10% to 30% of his company's PC sales.However, only a handful of PC manufacturers out of 10,000 participated in Microsoft's launch: IBM, which created the IBM PC, and Dell, the world's biggest PC manufacturer, were among the noticeable absentees. In the long term, the Tablet PC could certainly benefit some users, including schoolchildren, but it is not going to take over the market in a hurry.
Edenfaster, the pioneering community wireless broadband projectfeaturedin Online last month, has been awarded vital grant funding by theNorthWest Development Agency,the NWDA.A total of £150,000 will be given by the agency meaning that, by Christmas, Edenfaster hopes to have around 10,000 people in theDales, between Kirkby Stephen and Appleby, connected to a high-speed wireless broadband network."We are really pleased that the NWDA is supporting this innovative solution to the rural broadband problem." Lindsey Annison, project manager of Edenfaster, told Online today. "The potential impact on our community is huge."Because the network is a local project, run by the community, Annison says there are plans already afoot to provide local services: "People are already very excited about the possible services we could develop. Everything from internet telephony providing free local phone calls to webcams in the fields looking over the sheep - LambCams!" Annison says.Edenfaster plan on selling the access at £15 a month for home users, £35 for businesses - this for a connection where local services can be delivered at 11Mbps, and connections out to the internet at 2Mbps. Over twice as fast as common ADSL, for less than half the price.Much of the cost of the network is dedicated to securing the internet connection. Edenfaster wants to allow parents and teachers the facility to control the internet access of their children, and protect everyone's data.Tourists and vistors to the area will be able to connect to the network via a password bought as a scratch-card from local shops and pubs. With over 18 million tourists a year visiting the Lake District, Edenfaster sees the network as a good source of revenue for the community."In Appleby," says Annison, "we shall be setting up a broadband information centre, which will educate and promote the local community as to the benefits of broadband, new technologies and the use of broadband applications, and we will be employing two local people. This is especially vital in an area so hard hit by Foot and Mouth. Edenfaster will provide the opportunity to upskill the region."Such is the success of the Edenfaster project, that the Department of Trade and Industry have invited the organisers to run a "Broadband Community Showcase" at theBuilding Broadband Britain conferenceon November 20 and 21 in Birimingham.Edenfaster is not the only wireless project to get going recently.Kingsbridge in Devonhas installed a wireless network, as hasAlston.  Cardiff'sArwain projectis building a pilot network, andBristolandLondonhave established communities. There are also fledgling projects inNewport,Manchester,PenzanceandSutton.
Add backupI have an IBM ThinkPad with a CD drive but no floppy. This causes problems when I want      to back things up - I can't! - or transfer files to other machines. What is the most economical way      forward?Christopher DobsonJack Schofield replies:The cheapest way to transfer files to another      machine is via a cable. Use a USB (Universal Serial Bus) cable if possible, as it is faster than a      serial port or parallel port cable. If you plan to use the DCC (Direct Cable Connection) software in      Microsoft Windows, make sure you specify that a cable must work with DCC when you buy it.Alternatively, you can buyLapLinksoftware complete with one or more proprietary cables. A quicker and less intrusive approach would be to buy      a "thumbdrive" or "pen drive". These small devices are packed with memory and have a USB plug on      the end. Stick a thumbdrive into a USB port and Windows treats it as a fast disk drive.However,  you should really take back-ups on some type of removable disk so that you can have multiple      copies, and store some away from your machine. The main contenders are Iomega Zip drives and      CD-R writers, both of which are available with USB connections to plug into your ThinkPad. (There      are also faster Firewire versions for machines with Firewire ports.) Zip drives are cheaper but Zip      disks are expensive, so a CD-R drive is likely to prove more economical in the long run. Since you      can also use cheap CDs for file transfer and to create audio or video CDs, a CD-R burner is also      more versatile. Finally, when you upgrade to a new notebook PC, you will be able to use the same Zip      or CD-R drive.Phone home?Home Phone Networking (HPNA) sounds like a simple networking solution      for us, a small business. It seems all we need to do is buy three adapter cards, put them in our PCs,      connect each one to a phone socket and let Windows XP do the rest! However, I can find no UK      suppliers.John MathewsJS replies:HPNA equipment is not widely available in the UK, and few      products are imported, but you can buy the Linksys Homelink Phoneline 10M Network Starter Kit      from Amazon.co.uk for £69.99. This includes two PCI expansion cards with phone sockets. However,      for similar money you could buy a 10/100Mbps Ethernet hub and have a high-performance, industry      standard Ethernet network. If your PCs are recent models, you won't even need to take the lids off:      they probably have Ethernet built in. Check the backs for something that looks like a phone plug,      only larger. (It's RJ-45 instead of RJ-11.)The disadvantage with Ethernet is that you need to install      Cat5 cable to connect your PCs together. However, at least you will be confident of its quality: this      is not the case with telephone wiring, which was not designed for the task. If the extra wiring is a      problem, you could set up a Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless network, albeit at a significant extra cost.HPNAsounds as though it could be an attractive option for some home and      small business users, but I've never used it. If you have, tell us your thoughts.Junk HotmailI receive up to 100 junk mails a day on my Hotmail account. Because they are counted towards      Hotmail's 2MB account limit, I am denied real messages until I can clear them. How can I arrange for      junk messages to be deleted automatically on receipt?Anne MurrayJS:Log on to Hotmail and click      Options, select Junk Mail Filter, and then click the radio button next to "Delete junk mail      immediately". Your junk mail folder will then be empty when you log on, though there will still be      spam in your Inbox. More popups We have bought a new computer running Windows XP. Now, on a      daily basis, we get pop-up dialogue boxes from Windows Messenger advertising University Diplomas. I      have reported the pop-up dialogues to Microsoft, with no response forthcoming. I have looked on the      web for ways to stop these pop-ups, the only answers being to disable Messenger or edit the system      registry. I wonder how many other readers are suffering from this unsolicited marketing direct to      their desktop, and whether anyone has found a way to stop it.Eddie SmerdonJS:Sorry to say, I do      not know of a way to stop these pop-ups without disabling Windows Messenger (which is different      from Microsoft Messenger). For directions, seehere.AlertI'm fed up getting      all the spam that arrives at my Hotmail address and would like to change. However, what I value      above all else is Windows Messenger alerting me to the arrival of new emails. Stephen Pollard JS:      You could switch to Yahoo's mail service, which offers more storage space (6 megabytes), and has a      cleaner, faster user interface. You will still be able to get email alerts using Yahoo Messenger. See:http:// messenger.yahoo.com/messenger/mail.html. If you want to use a standard POP3 mail      service, you can download an email notification utility. For examples, seewww.5star-shareware.comandwww.filetransit.com/category.Backchat&#183;Last week, Anne Karpf wanted to transcribe      interviews on her computer. Robin O'Connor says he uses a MiniDisc recorder. "The problem is how      to extract the useful bits from a disk containing up to two and a half hours (mono) of material. The      only solution I've come up with is to look at the recorder's readout and make a note of the timing      when anyone says anything interesting, pressing the record button while recording to put in a      marker. Back at base, I record the essential pieces on to my hard disk either as MP3s or wav files      using a simple freeware program,Harddisk Ogg. Another      great freebie,Irfanviewdoes a very good job of replaying audio, giving a      read-out of timings and allowing you to scoot around to find the bits you want."
Reutersreports that BT has signed a deal with Microsoft to enhance its broadband services in the UK. The two companies say they will be developing applications for multi-media home computing, mobile computing, portals and applications for business, over a grand total of 30 projects. Microsoft will become the "software and content partner" for BT's home computing service, reports the wire service.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:The Queen's intervention in the Paul Burrell trial has raised questions about the monarch's legal status. Should it be possible to compel the Queen to give evidence in court? What do you think?Pashmina:if u try to be famous u shoud expect to get kidnapedLadeezMan:part of the job innitHost_Chris2:back to the topic: what about the Queen?*Soregal has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:she should expect to get kidnaped tooSoregal:hi everyone I am 24 and my favourite dog is golden retrievers. Ive never owned a dog but someday if I get my own place I will does anyone want to chat?LadeezMan:but not to get no ransomcapitalistpiglet:why are we discussing this?Host_Chris2:I take it none of you are monarchistsSoregal:and Labs!Pashmina:no way fire is danegerousSoregal:I like all animals I was thinking about getting a kitten if I get my own placecapitalistpiglet:we should discuss the US mid-term elections; they affect our lives more than the queenBronco:oh god I fell asleepPashmina:hi Bronco I didnt know u was in ereHost_Chris2:I suppose we could talk about the US elections if no one objectsBronco:how long have I benn asleepSoregal:but dogs are defenately my 1st love, esp golden retriever puppys - so cute!!!!Bronco:damn i been online for 3 hours!LadeezMan:you should get broadbandBronco:shutup abt broadbandHost_Chris2:we're straying, people. Pashmina, what did you make of the election results?Pashmina:I didnt votecapitalistpiglet:I think the balance in the Senate is the keyHost_Chris2:as a UK citizen I doubt you would have been eligiblePashmina:which is why I didnt voteSoregal:any dog lovers wanting a chat!!!Bronco:Soregal why are you soreLadeezMan:lolSoregal:what I dont understand!!!Bronco:why r u a sore galPashmina:dont be vulgerLadeezMan:lolSoregal:its "so regal" not sore gal! Because golden retrievers are so regalBronco:ohSoregal:&amp; anyway I'm not a "gal" at least not the last time I looked!!!!Host_Chris2:maybe we should stay with the queen as the topicBronco:no ive had enough of him&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Eternal DarknessGameCube 	&#163;44.99 Nintendo 	****The scariest things in a Nintendo game used to be the garish colours or twee soundtracks. Not any more. Eternal Darkness is out and not since  mthe eerily creepy Silent Hill 2 has a game unnerved its players so much.  From the start it's clear this is a lavish product. Widescreen and surround sound options are included, as is a 60Hz setting for those with suitable TVs.From the start, as you explore a deserted mansion, the action grips and rarely lets go. Unlike Resident Evil, from which ED borrows some    elements, the control system works well, with swift and easy character movement.  But it is atmosphere and narrative that are key to the appeal of Eternal Darkness. The sound effects, all whispering voices and creaky floorboards, are impressive, creating a disturbing ambience.The Lovecroftian intergenerational tale, taking in Ancient Rome and Medieval  Europe along the way, is a cut above the videogame norm. The chapter-divided game structure, which concentrates on one character at a time, urges you on to the, usually bloody, outcome. Then there is the insanity meter. Every enemy you meet causes the meter to go down. Let it get too low, by not killing enough beasties, and your character starts hallucinating. This is brilliantly depicted with disappearing walls, exploding heads and numerous other surprises offering a unique videogame experience.  Unfortunately the combat is fiddly, the puzzles are fairly simple and the game ends a bit too quickly. But Eternal Darkness is adult horror gaming at its finest and a reminder that you don't need sunglasses to play everything Nintendo publishes.  (GH)Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the RingGBA £29.99 Pocket Studios/ VU Games ****As the      two biggest commercial events of the year, Christmas and the release of the second Lord of the      Rings film, rapidly approach, so the deluge of tie-in games titles begins. One of the first out for the      GBA isn't based on the action-orientated spin of the first film at all, but takes its inspiration from      Tolkien's first book, in a more RPG-lite version of the classic tale.Initially you get Frodo and Sam to      explore with, but gradually the whole nine members of the fellowship join your party, although to      avoid confusion you only control one member of the party at a time, with the whole group emerging      during combat.Of course in the same way the film was, it's a much more simplified version of the      book, as endless hours trudging and singing ditties wouldn't make a fun game. Instead there are set      pieces in recognisable areas like Bree, Rivendell, and Moria. The amount of puzzle solving involved, is      for most part pretty simple, but some like Tom Bombadil's forest, which keeps rearranging itself      every time you change screens, really work well in making the game come alive.The role-playing      elements are fairly basic such as levelling up skill or health points, while combat is handled in a      turned based way but without the depth of Golden Sun. It's a nice looking game with a decent amount      of gameplay time and some nice little touches, which are likely to appeal to those with a casual      interest in the book, rather that die-hard fans who will always find things to complain about. (RP)The Lord Of The Rings: The Two TowersPlayStation 2 £39.99 Electronic Arts **This officially      licensed product reeks of money from the moment you encounter it. It is initially impressive: video      sequences from the first two films morph into in-game video sequences that seamlessly turn into      the beginnings of missions.The Two Towers is one of the best-looking PlayStation games.      Unfortunately, it is considerably less impressive in gameplay terms.Perversely, since Tolkien's      books spawned the popular role-playing game genre, Electronic Arts has opted to create a      hack'n'slash game. It makes the odd nod towards RPGs (you can purchase new attacks as your      character gains experience), but most thought hack'n'slashes had disappeared for good when games      turned 3D.You can play as Legolas, Gimli or Aragorn, which will please Tolkien obsessives, and the      backgrounds and missions are sufficiently well realised to bring an air of familiarity. But despite the      need to swap between types of weapons and adopt marginally more strategic approaches when you      encounter boss-monsters, the gameplay is repetitive.It is just as well the game contains lovingly      crafted backgrounds, as your attention wanders when you find yourself wearily dispatching yet      another horde of identikit orcs. Before you buy it, ask yourself whether you are a gamer or a      Tolkien fan. (SB)
If you want to get into file sharing, you really need a time machine. Wind the clock back a year, download Napster and Audiogalaxy, and have fun while it lasts. And they were not the only options. Morpheus, Aimster and KaZaA also let users shovel files into a shared folder and download one another's favourite tunes to their heart's content.Things are different today, and the Recording Industry Association of America must take some credit. Its high-profile lawsuits against Napster, Aimster and MP3.com have made it harder to get music files. The puncturing of the dotcom bubble helped, by forcing the software and service providers to find new ways to make a buck.Download, say, the KaZaA program now and it comes with Cydoor, an obligatory advertising program.  Internet service providers are doing their bit, too. ISPs regard file sharers as public enemies: the "resource hogs" who confused "anytime" services with "all the time". This is their excuse for capping time online, limiting the amount of data transferred, or banning file-sharing services. They use too much bandwidth.If that isn't enough, kiddies are busy pissing in the pool. File-sharing services are a great way to share viruses, worms and backdoor Trojans without them being blocked by firewalls. None of this makes file-sharing impossible, but it does suggest caution.Start atSygateorZone Labs, and install a free personal firewall. You should also download Lavasoft'sAd-aware, which removes unwanted advertising programs.Next, try the ad-freeKazaaLiteinstead ofKaZaA.This involves a slightly convoluted two-stage installation, and includes a fake file to tell the software you are running Cydoor. For details, read the FAQ (file of frequently asked questions) atwww.geocities.com/poiuyt_1940/KLfaq.html.KaZaA and Grokster are the leading programs using the Fast Track file-sharing network. The main rival is Gnutella, an open peer-to-peer system. Gnutella users have a choice of more than a dozen client programs including Morpheus, which used to run on Fast Track, LimeWire, and BearShare.LimeWireis probably the leading  Gnutella client, though it is ad-supported unless you pay $9.50 to register.Being written in Java, LimeWire runs on Windows, Mac OS 9 and OS X, GNU/Linux and Sun's Solaris. But Windows users have better alternatives, such asGnucleusandShareaza.Pioneers may also be interested in tryingSwapper.net: the first Gnutella client written using the Microsoft.net platform. Although it is small (521K), you have to download the Microsoft.net framework to run it (21MB).Gnutella has all the right buzzwords on the open source, peer-to-peer front. The problem is it may not work very well. While writing this, I only managed to download one MP3 file with a Gnutella client, and even then it didn't play.However, if Napster has an heir, it's surelyWinMX. It is easy to use, does not have any advertising or spyware companions, and finds loads of files. Alas, it can still be difficult to get them. There are always long queues for whatever you want, and the person sharing it is offline visiting Mars. WinMX also seems to be forcing users to  upgrade, but at least the latest software tries to keep your place in the queue.Fire it up last thing at night, queue a bunch of songs and, with luck, your PC will have retrieved a few by morning. But all these file-sharing programs seem to work at depressingly slow speeds, typically less than 2K per second. Even when downloading a file from multiple sources, they struggle to reach 10K/sec.It is much quicker to download from people who share music via the web, upload files to Yahoo groups orStreamload, or post them to alt.binaries.sounds. mp3 newsgroups. It may now be better to think of file-sharing systems, and their chat rooms, as a way of finding friendly people with similar tastes, rather than as a source of files.Add each other to your buddy lists on an instant messaging service such as AIM (AOL Instant Messenger), which lets you share files at higher speeds. I usually get at least 10K/sec and have managed 45K/sec downloads with ADSL.Following the publicity surrounding the death of Napster, file-sharing services are booming. According to statistics from research firm comScore Media Metric published at Internet.com, KaZaA's average monthly US home user base grew from less than one million in the second quarter of 2001 to 9.4m by the end of last month. Often there are more than 3m people online sharing more than 600m files. It makes KaZaA a good place to start - as long as you remember it's just a start.
Anthrax?The riddle of who posted the seven letters laced with anthrax to US government and media offices last year remains unsolved. Ed Lake, a 65-year-old retired computer specialist, believes there is so much confusion about the case that he has begun his own unofficial investigation and posted the results online. Lake has worked on the case for eight hours a day, compiling information from other sites.The result is a site of obsessive details, much of it well referenced scientific data, coupled with some sound thinking. Far from dismissing him as a crank, the FBI has thanked him for his efforts. Among Lake's conclusions are that the anthrax attack could not be the work of al-Quaeda - more likely the letters came from the US right. He also thinks that the handwriting on the notes is that of a child.www.anthraxinvestigation.comwww.computerbytesman.com/anthraxMars ahoyYou have just eight days to make your mark on Mars. November 15 is the last chance to add your name to a list that will be recorded on a DVD and carried on board the Mars Exploration Rover, which blasts off into space next June. All the names collected - and there are already 3m - get a printout of their own certificate, and it is free. Nasa's Space Kids site has the details and news of a mission to send two mobile rovers to the red planet. Nasa has provided a site for grown ups, too.http://spacekids.hq.nasa.gov/2003http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/missions/future/2003.htmlPalin's wayTravels of a more earthly nature are celebrated in the launch of Michael Palin's website. The former Python has a new television series and book to promote, but rather than the standard online plug, Palin offers an incredibly rich site in terms of content. Not only are the whole texts of his first three books online,    there's also a massive picture library and some impressive interactive maps. As Palin puts it: "You can wallow, crawl, body-surf or gently breast-stroke through an enormous amount of information on what there is to see in the wonderful world out there." The site links to the BBC shop where you can buy his books and videos, but unlike similar celebrity sites, Palin's Travels carries no ads "no&#91;r&#93; spam on toast, just the Palin product, taken apart and put together again, for you to use however you want".www.palinstravels.co.ukwww.pythonline.comwww.bbcshop.com3D musicEnglish composer Sam Hayden has just written 3D Music, a new piece for the London Sinfonietta, which can only be experienced online. Visitors to the site are invited to explore a virtual world that allows interaction with a musical landscape through their browser. It is an attractive and addictive piece of contemporary music that features four different rooms. The only trouble is that for it to flow like a symphony, you will need a fast computer with a broadband connection.www.ntlworld.com/3dmusicwww.londonsinfonietta.org.ukTwin peakAt first glance, the Two Towers Protest reads like a satire. A website calling for the makers of the second Lord of the Rings film, which is being released this Christmas, to change its name as a mark of respect to the victims of 9/11. Really? But the site's organisers appear guilty of a little more than bathos as much of the site reads like self-parody. The site describes the actions of the film's director, Peter Jackson, as "hate speech" and intentionally naming the film "in order to capitalize on the tragedy of September 11". Of course, JRR Tolkien originally published The Two Towers in 1954. The offending buildings belong to two very evil wizards. It would be sad if it weren't so silly.www.twotowersprotest.orgVirtual natureBritish artist Andy Goldsworthy is famous for using everything from icicles to irises to build the sculptures he photographs before the seasons take their toll. Since the end of October, Goldsworthy has been photographing his latestcreations near his home in Scotland, and emailing the images to the Haines Gallery in San Francisco,  where they are being printed and displayed on the wall. The project will run until November 30, and new works - like the beautifully named Red river rocks, ground to a powder, slowly released - are being displayed on the  gallery's website. Goldsworthy is no stranger to the net - a number of his earlier works can only be visited online.www.hainesgallery.com/AG.work.htmlwww.eyestorm.com/events/goldsworthywww.smithsonianmag.si.edu/smithsonian/issues97/feb97/golds.htmlNew &amp; noted&#183;Left and right unite against the war on Iraq:http://nowarblog.org&#183;Download bootleg remixes:http://4trak.net/dsico&#183;Build a face from mug shots:www.ericmyer.com/stereotypes.htm&#183;The last word on racial politics:www.blackpeopleloveus.com&#183;Atari Adventure as Flash game:www.scottpehnke.com/programming/flash.htm#Six of the bestLibrariesThe British Librarywww.bl.ukAsk a librarianwww.libraryspot.comLibrary linkswww.libraries-online.comThe Wellcome Trusthttp://library.wellcome.ac.ukPicture librarywww.mepl.co.ukFor art's sakewww.nal.vam.ac.uk
Is the net catching up with traditional news media?It has definitely changed the way a lot of us get news. I think it supplements the other ways of getting news, rather than becoming people's primary way of getting it. Most of the news networks, including us, have their own news websites but if there's a big breaking story, people will still turn on their TVs. It's similar to when television first came along. I'm sure some thought it would spell the end for newspapers, but they all perform a different function and end up complementing each other. The more ways of delivering news, the better really!What technology does the intrepid foreign correspondent take abroad?The thing that came into its own in Afghanistan was the videophone. They had been used before but their early flickering images are now getting a lot better. We were in Mazar-e Sharif with only a videophone to get pictures back. Because there were no satellites in the field, videophones were used all over and they made a real difference. I can carry a small videophone with me, set it up and get a picture back to London from Guantanamo Bay! We also hadThurayasatellite phones as standard issue, which are nice and portable.Technical hitches?With high-tech equipment, you can be stymied by the basics, as you still need a power source. I've been in situations where the videophone and edit-pack were really small, yet half the tent was taken up by the generator and several five-gallon containers of petrol! Dust and heat were our biggest problem in Afghanistan. We ended up editing atBagram Airbasein a van we'd been travelling around in, but it became the only dust-free zone for the equipment.Was the net to be found in Afghanistan?When we first went over there was none, but a lot of the kids were asking us about it. Some of the Red Cross staff had satellite access to the net. People were fascinated by it and wanted to know how they could get access. After the Taliban fell, our translator wanted to use some of the money he'd been making to set up an internet cafe in Mazar-e Sharif. Things change quickly: there's even an internet cafe in Georgetown, Sierra Leone!Broadband?There's a Local Area network at work and we've just gotBT Openworldat home. It took ages to set it up and we were beset with technical problems but it's finally up and running. It speeds everything up nicely. The net is a great resource tool. I'm off to Washington next week so I can log on to theWashington Post siteand get all the first-hand information. My pet hate, however, is pop-up adverts!Favourite sites?www.timeout.com/londonandwww.net-a-porter.comVisit:www.itn.co.uk
This is a story of a modern love affair. It's a classic Friends Reunited romance. Teenage sweethearts meet up on the internet 26 years later, fall in love all over again and embark on an old-new, new-old relationship.But this story has a sting in the tale. They probably all do. The fall-out from internet reunions is beginning to hit the headlines. Marriages ditched, families split up, lives thrown into chaos. It's already the subject of a new West End play starring Gillian Anderson. But in this real-life story someone dies, and everyone else is left asking, was it really worth it?This is the story of Joanne, 43, and Tim, 45, and their love affair. As with many internet romances, the timetable of their relationship is bewildering in its brevity. Married for 22 years with a 12-year-old son, Joanne registers with Friends Reunited in January; her former fiance Tim responds in March; they meet up again for the first time in April, have sex once, and in June move in together, having seen each other only about a dozen times.The whole extraordinary process of getting to know a person - even if it is for the second time - flirting with them, falling for them and wanting them forever is concertinaed into just a few dizzying weeks - thanks to emails and mobile phones. In one four-week period they exchanged over 30,000 words in emails.Of course, they have a long history to look back on, because they were teenagers when they first met at a local disco in the basement of a hotel in the town where they both lived. It was the summer of 1975. Tim was tall and good-looking. Joanne was 16 and head over heels in love.It was her first serious relationship and by October they were engaged. Joanne defied her parents who wanted her to carry on her education, and left school to get a job in order to save for the wedding. But they never made it that far. Joanne joined the navy, Tim joined the army, and by the following summer that was the end of that. Or so it seemed.She met her husband, Ron, in the summer of 1978. She was in the navy working for the cash and pay department. He was a young sonar operator. "He was lovely," Joanne remembers. "He was bright and bubbly and very easy to be with. We just slipped into a relationship."They got married in 1980 with just eight guests present, and within a couple of years Joanne realised she had made a terrible mistake. "We had a very bad patch at the beginning of 1986 when I almost left him. I had everything sorted - I even had a flat lined up - but when it came to it he threatened to kill himself."She stayed. Then in 1990 they had a son called Michael. Loved as he was, it was not a happy time. Joanne suffered post-natal depression; her father was dying of cancer; and for her the marriage was effectively over. "We were two people living in the same house but we were not really a couple. The whole thing was in bits and neither of us was able to face up to it."It was curiosity, she says, that led her to register with Friends Reunited. More than seven million people have registered with the site since it was launched two years ago, with 15,000 more joining every day.Her husband, by now a milkman, used to hate her working on the computer - he felt jealous and threatened - so she did it secretly when he was out. A month after she logged her details on the site, Tim's reply popped up on her screen. It was straightforward and non-committal. Hello, remember me? What have you been doing for the past 26 years?She replied immediately and within a short time they had a fully-fledged email relationship, exchanging messages several times a day, describing their lives, teasing, flirting, exchanging mobile phone numbers and building up to a face-to-face meeting. "It just felt very easy. It was almost as though we slipped back into our old relationship, but it was much more adult, on a much more even keel."When they met for the first time they talked for four and a half hours. "It was just wonderful. It was a sense of coming home. Before the meeting we didn't know where the boundaries were, after the meeting we knew there weren't any."The first time they met, there was a quick peck on the cheek by way of greeting. On their second meeting, they went for a walk on a beach and couldn't stop kissing. They had sex together just once before they moved in with each other. It was much better than their teenage fumblings.Fifteen weeks after the first email, she left her husband and moved in with her former fiancee, now a lab manager. She told her son a week before they moved; he had to keep it a secret from his father; then Michael met Tim for the first time the night before they moved in with him. It was like secretly putting a bomb under a family then pressing the detonator.She told her husband the day she moved out. "He just went to bits. He couldn't take it in. He wouldn't believe me. All he kept saying was he couldn't live without me." It took her an hour and a quarter to get out of the house. "It was just really, really unpleasant," she says. "I would have given anything not to have done that to him. I wish I had not caused that much pain to someone."Ron, 47, was on antidepressants. He had to give up work. His life had fallen apart. He took a couple of small overdoses - not enough to kill him, but enough to scare friends and family. Then five weeks ago he was found dead in the family home after taking a massive overdose.On the wall of his son's bedroom he had written: "I love you Michael, Dad." In a note to Joanne, he told her he had let her down. He was sorry, but it hurt too much to carry on. "That last line, it was a real tug," says Joanne. "I did not cause his death, but I was instrumental in the pain involved, and that's horrible."In many ways the internet has revolutionised modern romance. Relate, Britain's largest relationship counselling service, estimates that one in 10 couples seeking its services blame the internet for problems within their relationship, whether it be use of chatrooms, porn sites or reunion websites such as Friends Reunited.In America, there have been reported cases of women forced to move into domestic violence shelters after their husbands caught them emailing former lovers, and in August 2000, Eugene Lucherini, from Palm Beach, Florida, was charged with the murder of a former lover his wife had found on a website.But Denise Knowles, Relate counsellor and psychosexual therapist, says websites such as Friends Reunited cannot be blamed for breaking up marriages. "All Friends Reunited is doing is offering an opportunity for people to get in touch.   It's acting as an introduction agency. What they do thereafter has to be their own responsibility."What Friends Reunited has done, says Knowles, is to open up a new, instantly accessible social life to people who, after years of marriage and children, may have lost contact with friends and become isolated. On one level, that's a fantastic opportunity.The flipside of that, however, is that if couples are having problems within their existing relationship, it's so easy - and so exciting - to revisit old affairs, and rekindle previous passions which may, as in the case of Joanne, date back to your teens."Everything is so much more intense as a teenager. Everything is so much more exciting, your emotions are so intense - and that's the allure of it," says Knowles. "When you've been married for a while and things have dampened down a wee bit, to be thrown back to the possibility of having all those adolescent feelings all over again is quite inviting."But how successful and enduring these relationships will be remains to be seen. Some of them have resulted in marriages, there are already a number of reunion babies. Inevitably there will be reunion divorces and no doubt, more deaths.For Joanne, it was a catastrophic end to a 22-year marriage and a frightening way to start a new relationship. "It's been very traumatic. When a partner or spouse does that, it raises all sorts of issues, like, did I do the right thing leaving him?"His death is very sad and tragic. I regret what's happened with my husband but I don't regret what I've done. The life I'm living now, I didn't know it could be like this. I'm actually happy. I didn't know I could be happy sharing my life with somebody.She can't imagine having left her husband and found her new partner without the internet. "The practicalities would have been too difficult for me. This way all it takes is a computer and an email address that nobody else knows about."The email is such an instant form of communication. For us to gather that amount of information about each other by meeting would take months. It accelerates the process enormously."Joanne is under no illusions about her new relationship. She knows that it could all fizzle out at any time. She doesn't think it will, but even if it did, she has no regrets. "I still sometimes sit back and think. 'Bloody hell, what have I done?'""I've effectively found a soulmate through an innocuous website. But looking at it from the outside, I would not recommend it to anybody. It's been like being on a roller coaster. Neither of us have had time to draw breath and consider the impact on other people."For the moment, Joanne's son Michael and Tim's 15-year-old daughter seem to be coping. "If my son blames me for his father's death, he hasn't said so. Maybe he will in later years. I hope he won't, but that's something I've got to prepare myself for."Joanne stops, takes a breath and says: "A few short lines in an email and things take on a life of their own."&#183;All names have been changed. What the Night is For by Michael Weller previews at the Comedy Theatre, London, from tonight.
Brits may be good at queues, but with mobile technology, you can often avoid them. Woolworths is planning to use mobile technology to reduce queues in the run-up to Christmas. It will introduce mobile point-of-sale terminals, linked to belt-mounted portable printers from US-based Extech Data Systems.These can be used to add up the purchases of people waiting for a till and print out receipts. The system will be tested in 25 Woolworths stores, with the mobile "tills" communicating via narrowband radio. Eventually, Bluetooth short-range radio (and Wi-Fi) could be used, as the portable printers are already Bluetooth-enabled.Steve Berry, a director at Axiohm Europe, UK distributor for Extech, says: "Mobile technology is coming into its own for queue busting; in the US, fast-food chains use it."Back in the UK, Argos, the catalogue retailer, has launched a Text &amp; Take Home service, to reduce queuing in its 500 stores. Customers can   check the latest prices and stock availability by sending a text message (SMS), and then reserve the goods with another SMS.Argos also has a web-based Click &amp; Collect service accessed through thewww.argos.co.ukwebsite, and a Ring &amp; Reserve telephone service. In all three, customers get a reservation number they take to the store to buy the reserved goods. Its text message service has been developed and is hosted by wireless application provider Scan Mobile and mobile network operator Vodafone, though it can be SMSed from any UK mobile .To use it, customers look at the Argos catalogue (or website), decide what goods they want and which store they want to collect them from. For example, to buy an Alba CD-Radio from Argos in Crewe, a mobile user would text its product number 5123580 followed by a space, followed by the store number 209 to 07786 201201.The retailer's computer system checks to see if the product is in store and texts   back a message saying something like: "Your goods are in store at &#163;24.99, type RESERVE if you want to reserve."The system cuts out queuing to find out if a potential purchase is available only to have to go back to the catalogue and choose another if it is not. Kate Swann, managing director of Argos, said this way of ordering goods "follows the installation in a lot of our stores of quick-pay kiosks   in which customers can fast track the ordering and paying system by using a credit card in a kiosk".Any Vodafone Pay As You Talk mobile sold through Argos will now have the Text &amp; Take Home service number included in the handset's menu. Orange customers have a text message service they can use to bypass stores altogether. They simply text 7467 and give details of what they want. For example:   "Fever, Kylie Minogue CD." The network operator then texts them back with price and availability, though the response I got was: "We found the CD Confide in Me by MINOGUE, Kylie for &#163;6.49 free delivery (2-4 days)."There is no obligation to accept, but if you text back "Buy", Orange telephones to take card details and delivery address. This only has to be provided once and, thereafter, only a four-digit PIN number   has to be SMSed to authorise a purchase. Nightclub or concert tickets can be purchased in a similar way. When you get to a club, present the TexTicket shown on your mobile, your card and give your name and the last six digits of your phone number for priority entry.Taxi queues may also get shorter. On most networks, you can now text TAXI, followed by the town, to get a list of local taxi numbers, according to Hugh Griffiths, director of portals and content at 02. On 02, the number to text is 80202.You can also queue jump by using touchtone services on a mobile. If you are in a queue for a UCI cinema, you can phone the reservations number, book a ticket, and print it out at a credit-card booking machine - in the time it takes to get to the front of the queue.But one of the few areas where a mobile phone will not help is when you call the customer service department of a mobile operator. If you phone to find out what to do about a lost or stolen phone, you may find yourself hanging on and on and on.
The rookie has nothing, but he's relying on a bluff and a big pile of chips to keep him in the game. The cards flop, revealing the eight, nine and 10, and the pro with a jack and a queen in the hole is sitting on a solid straight. He bets big, smiling inwardly as the turn leaves his opponent holding three of a kind and ripe for the picking, and raises the limit. The fish follows, the dealer flicks and in a 22-1 shot, the agonised predator finds himself staring down the barrel of a full house, &#163;5,000 poorer.The game is Texas Hold 'em, the stakes are high, but it has very little to do with luck. Fortunes may rest on the twist of a card, lives may crumble at the dealer's whim, but this not a mere game of chance - this is big business.Poker - in its online, digital form - is on the up. Once on its uppers, a shadowy former favourite of faintly seedy reputation, the game is roaring back like a no-limits gambler on a lucky streak. It is setting the financial world alight, neatly characterising an online gambling industry that Plunkett Research values at $7bn a year - and rising, fast."Online poker's popularity has exploded over the past five years and it's only going to get bigger," says David Rai, a 15-year veteran of the gambling industry, and newly appointed head of casino software company TesCom's gaming division."The game has everything from big personalities to big money prizes, and with increased marketing clout behind it, nobody's joking when we say that it's going to be  bigger than Premiership football." Such claims might seem rash, but when Sky Sports televised the seven-figure Poker Million tournament in 2000, they attracted an audience equal to that they would expect for Arsenal versus Manchester United.Online, the interest is even more frenzied, with several analysts concurring upon an estimated annual take - purely for online poker games - in excess of &#163;100m a year. It is an enterprise that lurks in the shadows, forced offshore by prohibitive domestic legislation, but one that is getting too big to hide. Flying into Ladbrokes' global casino control centre in Gibraltar is like landing in some sepia-tinged espionage thriller.A combination of torrential rain and perpetual cold war with Spain nearly sees us diverted to Tangiers, only solidifying that impression. But it's the hotel's atmospheric blend of fading empire and liver spots that's the kicker. An international anomaly that survives due to its deliberately laissez-faire approach to financial regulation, The Rock is where the UK's major players come to run their online operations.A bank of screens displays the multitude of poker games under way as 1,300 players from 50 countries go head-to-head over the virtual baize, amid a clamour of jargon-rich text chat. Within 15 minutes of arriving, I have seen one accomplished punter rake in $25,000.Many players stick to tables with a low stake limit, but by the end of an average day, the total pot still amounts to more than $1m, and is growing at a rate of 15% per month. This is not chickenfeed, but then neither is the action at the digital casino's other tables.Every day, thousands of punters hit this virtual Vegas to play craps, baccarat, roulette, blackjack and an array of cyber slot machines, each spurred on by the prospect of a little light relief coupled with the dazzling hope of scooping a major cash prize."We launched in May and had dealt our millionth hand by July. We knew that this was going to be big and were confident that our brand would give the service the credibility it needed to attract players, but the growth has been amazing," says Albert Tapper, Ladbrokes' head of casinos."The game is the reason for that. The first of our big winners was a grandmother from Ipswich who picked up &#163;140,000, and for many people, the chance of being in that kind of story is just too good to miss."Online gambling works in exactly the same way as the real game, except that players are individually connected to  each table via a software application and servers dotted around the world. They buy chips in dollars with credit cards and have their winnings refunded in native currency back to the plastic. The dealer, a mathematical algorithm, is completely impartial, while the house makes its money by taking a small rake from winning pots.There are technical issues. When a Ladbrokes poker player decides to raise the pot, for example, that move travels through as many as 10 different networks to reach the casino's central servers in Khanawake, Canada. This transatlantic hop takes 0.6 seconds, but can slow down around midnight as the pipes clog with data being passed between the US and Europe as part of the daily financial reconciliation process, and this is a problem being feverishly worked upon by bookies, who realise that a good game is a fast game.Nor has the virtual game been without its security problems, like the hacker who exploited a flaw in one site's algorithm to predict the fall of the cards and reap rich dividends.Credibility is a major issue when asking customers to hand over money online, and tales of sites run from the globe's more questionable business locations, where some operators reputedly employ house players and software robots to fleece unsuspecting mugs, have become a firm part of digital legend. Tales of bona fide Cosa Nostra members who remember the old days in Vegas are legion, as are stories of big winners who never received their pot.It is a murky world rendered even more shadowy by the fact that in countries such as the US, even playing at an online casino is illegal. But as corporate interests take hold, the business is beginning to gain an unstoppable momentum."When online poker centred around dodgy companies operating out of Costa Rica and Antigua, consumer confidence was low," says Rai. "But the game still attracted millions. Now that big boys like Ladbrokes have moved in, we're moving on to a whole different level."Online gaming has been universally identified as the hot stock area in e-commerce over the next five years, with expansion into gambling applications for interactive television singled-out as a potentially huge growth area. Channel 4's Late Night Poker show, which attracts more than a million viewers despite a graveyard slot, is working on a range of digital services to complement that coverage.BSkyB preparing to respond with a massive marketing push to boost its coverage of the upcoming Poker Million tournament, a move that will be accompanied by a raft of services following the company's winning of an interactive gaming licence last month.Similarly enthusiastic are bookmakers Littlewoods, also reported to be preparing a big effort to plug their nascent iTV strategy. Oscar Nieboer, vice president at US giants MGM Mirage Online, says year on year growth, increasingly powerful technology and growing digital penetration means "e-gaming clearly has the potential to become a huge market globally"."The next few years will see great change, with more growth, more competition, more price loyalty rather than brand loyalty, and the emergence of broadband and multi-channel propositions," he adds. The mobile phone industry is also keen: gaming is increasingly being seen as critical component of the entertainment-led "killer-app" that will finally kick start the market for 3G services.According to one recent report from Alatto Technologies, gambling on mobile devices is set to become a significant earner; with sector revenues expected to reach &euro;700m by 2006."Faced with eroding voice revenues, mobile operators need to boost their revenues by introducing applications that are relevant to defined user segments," says John Whelan, Alatto's head of research."M-gambling represents a very lucrative niche for mobile operators. It is far easier to generate guaranteed revenue from gambling than from many other data services, including email." Such prophesies are unlikely to start another internet gold rush, however.WhenBetOnSports.comlaunched earlier this year, it spent &#163;25m on marketing in just three months, and the analyst buzz from around the green baize is that if you don't have a minimum seven-figure promotional budget to blow, don't even bother getting into the online gambling business. Justifying that kind of investment is a cultural craze.In Hollywood, the enthusiasm of stars such as Brad Pitt has made the poker coach an essential part of any A-list star's retinue, while the temptation of proving themselves masters of numbers, probability, tactics and bluff has inspired a litany of UK celebrities from Stephen Fry to Clive Sinclair to pick up their hands and play."Games like poker aren't about luck. They're about strategy, card sense, discipline and savvy," says Tony "The Lizard" Bloom, finalist at the last Poker Million and boss of online bookmakers Premierbet."Good fortune will win you the odd big hand, but in the long run it will get you nowhere. Everyone likes to think that they've got something special - the big attraction of poker is that you get the chance to put your money where your mouth is."The prospect of getting the public easy access to games of chance has awoken concern among organisations such as Gamblers Anonymous, who are opposed to any liberalisation of the industry.Chance can be a seductive mistress, and many experts fear that the move could lead to an explosion in the number of addicts. It is a cautionary note worth heeding. Tales of derring do and life on the edge might make attractive reading when they come from the lips of professional gamblers, but for every character like the Lizard, "Barmy" Barney Boatman and Dave the Devilfish, there are a hundred mug punters whose experience of the big game is likely to be one of financial loss."There are a lot of bad players to be fleeced on the internet, and anyone considering giving it a go should be aware of what losing can do to you," says Roy "the Boy" Brindley, runner up in June's World Heads-up poker Championship in Vienna."I once took &#163;200 into a Paris casino and turned it into &#163;2,000, then moved to a bigger table and made that &#163;20,000.  "I decided to quit, but got involved in a monster hand that I couldn't resist. I was almost unbeatable, and then the guy across the table pulled off a 41-1 shot and I was left without a penny."Walking up the Champs Elysee in the rain that night I'd never felt so sick and low, and if you can't handle that kind of heat - you'd better stay out of the kitchen."&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Your housing benefit hasn't arrived three weeks running. Your landlord wants you out and your kids
    want attention. Do you calmly log on to the council's website to find out what's happened to your
    money?Do you hell. Even if you have an internet account (which is unlikely, if you're on benefits), you want
    to bang your fist on somebody's desk until they've sorted out your problem. In e-government jargon,
    you want a face-to-face channel transaction.Although most newcomers to the subject assume that e- government is about putting public
    services on the web, councils and other government organisations are finding that other channels
    are much more important. These include telephone call centres and "one-stop shops".Several
    councils are testing electronic kiosks in high streets. Meanwhile, the office of the e-envoy, which is
    driving the national e-government programme, has a vision of the future in which digital TVs and
    mobile phones become the main channels for communication with officialdom.A report published last week by the Department for Work and Pensions, the gov ernment agency
    that probably matters most to most people, shows the importance of keeping multiple channels
    open. The department's researchers found that only 8% of the working population said they would
    prefer to contact the government about benefits through the internet or email, rather than
    traditional channels.The most popular channel is face-to-face contact at the local office, closely followed by a telephone
    call. This represents a huge number of people: about one person in three has contacted the
    government about benefits over the past year. 
    Predictably, the survey, carried out late last year, showed that people on lower incomes, the
    unemployed and those with "disrupted careers" are most likely to make face-to-face contact. People
    in higher income groups make more use of the phone, with the self-employed the most likely to go
    online.Older people tend to prefer the phone, followed by a face-to-face visit, and are also more likely to
    prefer writing a letter. Conversely, they are much less inclined to use IT and are less likely to have
    to contact the government. 
    E-government enthusiasts will point to one piece of good news. When prompted about the possibility
    of dealing with the government online, a narrow majority said they would be "very, or fairly, likely"
    to use the internet.That's if they can get online. The survey backs up previous findings on the digital divide: while about
    half the population claim to have used the internet in the past year, 30% had never used a
    computer. Only 14% of retired people had used the internet. 
    At the Office of the e-envoy, the solution is digital TV (DTV). In a policy paper published for
    consultation last week it said: "Government at all levels ... should evaluate DTV as a key channel for
    e-government using the strengths of this medium to deliver richer services and inclusivity."Especially inclusivity. Despite the ITV Digital fiasco, the e-envoy expects up to three-quarters of UK
    homes to have digital TV by the e-government deadline date, 2005. The technology is also a class
    leveller: in C2 and DE social groups, more peo ple have digital TV than have internet access. 
    The e-envoy caused a few waves earlier this year by launching a version of its UK Online portal
    under the name UK Online Interactive on BSkyB digital.Nearly 100,000 households have used the
    service, it reported in September, claiming to be overwhelmed by the positive response. Of 17,000
    users to have responded to a questionnaire, nine out of 10 would use the service again. 
    Yet even this sample of self-selecting enthusiasts wouldn't abandon other channels. While 67% would
    be very or quite likely to apply for a passport on interactive TV, only 49% would be very or quite
    likely to book a driving test through the medium.However you spin such figures, they consistently show that the biggest groups of people using
    government services are the least likely to use them online. If e-government were a business, this
    would not be a good starting point.
As you'll see, things look a little different round here... Onlineblog has had its design tweaked to fit in with thenew Online pageson Guardian Unlimited, which are going "live" as I type, and over the next few hours. By first thing Thursday, Online's dynamic new web channel should be available for all to see. We'll be doing more every day on the website, putting up web-only news, commentary and analysis as the stories break. We're also making it a lot easier - we hope - to access the print features like the Ask Jack archive and our games reviews.Some of the links above might not be going yet - the process of putting the site live takes a few hours for various reasons - but your comments are most welcome. Post here, or drop me an email at neil dot mcintosh at guardian dot co dot uk.
There's a new object of lust tonight for all us Mac heads - a DVD-burning top-end PowerBooklaunched todayby Apple. The new 1 GHz PowerBook G4 will cost a cool £2449 (including VAT), but have the industry's first slot-loading CD/DVD burner, Apple claims. It will also have suitably souped-up graphics memory and a 60GB hard drive.There are other new machines out tonight: a £1899 (including VAT) PowerBook with a 867MHz PowerPC G4 processor, and a more standard DVD-ROM/CD-RW drive and 40GB hard disk.And theiBook linehas been enhanced as well: £849 will buy you the 700MHz, 12-inch screen model, while £1,099 will up the speed to 800MHz and get a 30MB hard drive and DVD-ROM. For £1,349 you can buy the 14.1-inch version, with an 800MHz processor, but remember: the screen resolution on the 14-inch model is the same as the 12-inch one, which means the main difference is simply that everything is a little bit bigger.
Teaching leaders and the government have condemned a new website that offers to list schools' workers who have been cleared by the criminal records bureau (CRB).Peaceofminduk.net, which launches later this month, will charge teachers £12 to be listed on the website, after their CRB record has been authenticated. Organisers say the site will offer parents the chance to see if their child's teacher has been properly vetted.By law, all teachers are required to be vetted by the CRB before being allowed to teach.The National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers declined to endorse the website when it was approached by organisers, and has warned it may do more harm than good.NASUWT general secretary Eamonn O'Kane said the site could "prey on the fears of parents" and cause resentment among teachers."It is also potentially divisive. Teachers may feel under pressure to pay the £12 fee to sign up if their colleagues have done so. They could also feel vulnerable to allegations from parents if they do not."He believes the developers are hoping to make money out of "fear and insecurity".  The NASUWT is urging members not to register and has warned the education secretary, Charles Clarke, of the site's existence.John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, added: "We would not encourage people to use this service. It purports to give a reassurance to parents, which schools are already giving implicitly when they employ people who have been checked. Parents' confidence is more likely to be undermined by the absence of a teacher, who has not paid their fee to this company than by any reassurance about teachers who have paid it."A spokesman for the Department for Education and Skills advised teachers not to get involved with the site, saying it was not a registered body, and what it proposes to do "does not appear to comply with the CRB's arrangements for information sharing".But Marie Gildea, the principal developer of the website, said she was "very surprised and very disappointed" with the NASUWT's reaction.She accused the union of "bullying us with a boycott" and criticised headteachers for letting teachers into schools without the necessary checks."My daughter went to junior school and to secondary school and I have no idea who is teaching her on a daily basis. We can trust the schools to a certain extent, but people still slip through the loophole. All we're doing is re-stressing what's already done. Why would a teacher not want to be on here if they have had their CRB check," she said.She said it was her aim to get every teacher in the country signed up. Until then the site will not make any profit.Organisers say they plan to donate 10% of all sign up fees to the charity Childline, although the charity has yet to confirm it will accept the money.The site is due to launch on November 21.
Buckfastleigh is a pretty village on the edge of Dartmoor, famous for nearby Buckfast Abbey. Visitors to the abbey and town can use the A38. But this modern road carries other, unseen traffic - and there is no Buckfastleigh turning.Some of Britain's main communications cables follow the route of the A38, connecting with undersea cables for the US and Europe on the Devon and Cornwall coasts, as well as BT's Goonhilly Downs satellite station on Cornwall's Lizard peninsula. These high-speed links help keep Britain connected to the rest of the world, both through voice calls and, increasingly, through internet traffic.However, none of the cable operators think it worth providing a service to Buckfastleigh, giving it access to high-speed internet services known generically as "broadband". Neither does BT have plans to provide the village of 3,000 people with a broadband service delivered through standard telephone lines, but requiring special equipment at its exchanges.All homes in Britain have basic access to the internet. Anyone with a suitably equipped computer and a phone line can pay either local-rate call charges, or a fixed monthly fee, for access. These cost the same everywhere in the country, as does a BT phone line - which the company is obliged to provide anywhere by its universal service obligation.But this kind of access is heading gently towards obsolescence. And access to broadband services - which work up to 40 times faster than a standard phone line, fast enough to deal with video, audio and large software downloads - is not affordably available to a third of British homes, mainly in rural and semi-rural areas.The government has no intention of extending BT's universal service obligation to broadband. For its part, BT says that neither its shareholders (on grounds of cost) nor its regulator (on grounds of monopolistic behaviour) would allow it to install broadband equipment in all its telephone exchanges. The company is installing broadband equipment at exchanges where enough potential customers sign up to meet half of the costs. Ten exchanges have reached this point and are due to be upgraded before Christmas.Many communities will never achieve such a level of interest and, anyway, the phone-line broadband service only works properly within three miles of an enabled exchange. So left-out communities are exploring new ways to get access to broadband, believing it to be vital to their economic and social future.Buckfastleigh resident Gordon Adgey and his partner, Kathryn Hughes, won a slice of the &#163;30m provided by the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) to fund experiments in rural broadband access. With &#163;500,000 over two years, they started Buckfastleigh Broadband, a not-for-profit company, in March. In September, they opened a centre on the village's high street, utilising the fast connection provided by the South-West Grid for Learning, a broadband service for schools. The next step is to provide broadband services to homes and businesses, through a "transceiver" - a radio base station, transmitting and receiving signals - sited above the village.The project intends to show how broadband can successfully extend the reach of services such as further and higher education, through remote learning, and of the NHS, through telemedicine. "If the government wants to hit its 2005 targets," Adgey says, referring to all public services being available electronically by then, "you have got to provide a point for citizens to access those services".It also gives people a reason to work, as well as live, in places like Buckfastleigh, cutting commuter traffic and boosting the local economy. Adgey says the promise of broadband has already meant a small telecoms consultancy moving to the area from the outskirts of Plymouth. "Broadband really can make a significant contribution to rural regeneration," he says. "It can bring, and keep, jobs in the countryside."The September opening of the shop, timed to coincide with the local arts festival, attracted 150 people to register. Now, Adgey says 30 to 40 people use the centre each day. The first half-hour on one of the eight computers is free, with each subsequent hour costing &#163;1.50. "At the moment, it's the basics such as accessing the web and email," he says. "But we've a corner set aside for video and sound editing and production. People want to shoot their own videos and edit them, put them on a website, send them with emails."The transceiver, which is already being tested, should from next year offer a high-speed connection to about 85% of the homes and businesses within three miles. Adgey says Buckfastleigh Broadband will need about 300 paying customers to becomefinancially self-supporting, when the DTI money runs out in spring 2004.Buckfastleigh did have junction points to broadband services - they were just being used exclusively by services such as education. But some areas do not have this option. Much of Orkney and Shetland lacks decent access even to standard internet services, according to the local Liberal Democrat MP, Alistair Carmichael. "On Westray, your connection speed in the winter is at best 18k per second," he says, referring to a large Orkney island with a population of 580. "In summer, you can't get access at all."The winter speed is less than half the British norm because the telephone network uses old-fashioned microwave transmitters. In summer, these are badly affected by electric fences, so internet connections fail completely. Orkney Islands council is making increasing use of broadband technology, regardless of problems with electric fences and thick fog, which can play havoc with some radio frequencies. It already uses its high-speed links to schools as a way of delivering lessons, but these links are only within the islands: what Orkney and Shetland lack is reasonably priced fast links to the rest of the world.To tackle this problem, Shetland Islands council has been leading the campaign for a high-capacity communications cable to connect to the Scottish mainland via Orkney. This would be used to allow telecoms companies to provide economic broadband internet services to the islands.Shetland is one of the richest local authorities in the country and it had hoped to persuade Siminn, Iceland's mainly state-owned telecoms provider, to extend the cable to Iceland as a connection to Europe. But the Icelanders recently decided against this. "That causes the whole basis for the current project to be re-examined," says John Smith, the ICT services manager for the council. The Scottish executive is preparing a procurement process which may eventually lead to a cable from Scotland to Orkney and Shetland, and EC money is being sought. But this is likely to take longer."In Shetland, we clawed our way into the 20th century in about 1970," says Smith. "The market is left to solve the problem, and it fails."At the recent Labour party conference, the e-commerce minister, Stephen Timms, defended the government's non-intervention stance. He pointed out that free-market competition had produced 99% coverage of the country for mobile phone networks. "Public subsidy would not just have been superfluous - it may even have been damaging," he said. Carmichael retorts that Orkney and   Shetland are still covered only patchily. "It's a pretty good example of the lack of understanding from people like Timms," he says. "He's probably not aware of the situation in the northern isles."Carmichael adds that broadband internet access - currently available to his constituents only through BT's expensive satellite services - is more important than mobile phones. Local businesses have told him that they have had to turn down work because of its absence. "It's about opportunities for young graduates, who want to come back to somewhere like Shetland, but if they haven't got access to proper technology, they are stymied," Carmichael says.In April, Cornwall announced it was using regional development and EC money to pay BT to upgrade several of the county's exchanges to broadband. Similar partnerships are in the pipeline in Devon, Wiltshire, West Sussex, Cardiff and Scotland. And in July, the Welsh assembly announced &#163;100m spending on broadband.For much of Britain, however, the market will be left to decide if an area can get high-speed internet access for a reasonable price. And it is not clear that the current round of DTI-funded projects will find ways to fill the gaps.SOS responseTelevision presenter Bob Grose has become one of the first users of Buckfastleigh Broadband. He lives in Holne, a Dartmoor village about three miles from Buckfastleigh, at the edge of the transceiver's range.Grose, of the BBC1 DIY series SOS, found it frustrating using a normal phone-line connection for his work. He says: "We have researchers who go around the country and send me three megabyte video-clips. These take 45 minutes to download.""For text, a BT line is fine; but for video-clips it's not quick enough and you can't guarantee you will stay connected." Annoyingly, he says, the connection was prone to cut off during the file transfer.The broadband connection could save Grose not only download time, but also some journeys to the office. And he may well be the first of several customers in Holne. "There's been interest from other people in the village already," he says, "and &#91;the equipment&#93; has only been up for a few days."
Got an email today aboutFmagazine, an online publication aimed at a young, sophisticated, broadband-enabled audience. It's been around a while - they claim three years, starting as a CD-ROM - and the latest Flash MX version made for quite a browse this evening. They claim 20,000 to 24,000 unique users a month, mostly in London, and are clearly aiming for a rich, lively demographic that can afford the technology needed to display it. It's OK, but I wouldn't necessarily rush back for the content. What really interests me is the user interface.It's built round the metaphor of the print magazine: you flip through, paper sound effects and all, go past double "page" advertising spreads to find the contents, click on the spine to go back to the index. Of course, it benefits from all the medium can offer, especially with the audio, which I've still got burbling away in the background as I type. But essentially this is a supposedly cutting-edge publication using an age-old metaphor for navigation, rather than seeking out something new, or developing interfaces we already know from the web.Part of me says I really like the look, that I feel very much at home with it. It's easy enough to learn, after all. But another part of me says it's all a bit anachronistic, a bit self-conscious. It's certainly an effective way to get you looking at the ads; half an hour after logging off, I can still tell you who the advertisers are, which I couldn't say for any banner ad, ever. And I see they're trying to patent the design concept, so they must feel they are on to something. But whaddya all think? Do leave your comments below...
Today'sWashington Postreports that AOL is going to start offering companies a way to snoop on their employees' use of instant messaging. For $35 per person per year (!) AOL's "Enterprise Gateway" will allow employers to log, audit and manage IM usage.
A web design firm today called on the government to halt its e-government push after concluding that 75% of the government's flagship websites did not work and alienated users.A study commissioned by London-based Interactive Bureau savaged the prime minister's own site - number-10.gov.uk - as "a mess", citing "inept" navigation, poor maintenance, and the lack of a facility for members of the public to contact Downing Street. Researchers also felt the site mixed government propaganda with independent information from civil servants.Researchers studied 20 government sites to assess the quality of online information, the responsiveness of departments and agencies to requests for information, ease of navigation, and technical performance.The study rated the department for education and skills, the equal opportunities commission, and the passport agency as the best sites in government, and the driver and vehicle licensing agency and No 10 as the worst.Adrian Porter, whose company Porter Research led the study, said the government's failure to make information clear and useful was the most widespread problem."All too often masses of material, full of unexplained jargon and convoluted incomprehensible English has simply been dumped into official websites with no thought of preparing it for the public, or helping them understand it," he said.Common problems included a lack of basic services and information, long waits for pages to load, poor coding that led to technical problems, and poor design, according to the report.The study concluded that the prime minister's target of putting all government services online by 2005 was "not realistically achievable", and urged the government to put its plans on hold while it improves the websites already on offer.The government dismissed the suggestion, issuing a statement that called the 2005 target "a valuable incentive to galvanise government departments to get online".The cabinet office statement read: "A recent &#91;April 2002&#93; comprehensive study of government websites by the national audit office, which is truly independent, found a major positive shift over the last three years in the performance of government websites," the statement read."Since 1999 government has given a strong lead in promoting both information-based and transactional services online," it added.The cabinet office confirmed it had not paid the £425 plus VAT required to obtain the full report from Interactive Bureau.
Or so says Marty Cooper, who, it seems, is credited withinventing the mobile phone. "The hype said that UMTS would give users 2Mbps channels, but the truth is that it has 1.1Mbps channels, which must be shared by people to be economic," he said. "It also needs a reasonable number of base stations. In practice users will get about 80kbps, at a much greater cost than GPRS, which currently gives 50 to 60kbps. My reaction is not much more than a yawn," reportsSilicon.com. Last year, Cooper was interviewed inWired.
With all the fervour of an evangelist preacher, Ashley Highfield, the BBC director of new media, proclaimed last year that all future BBC commissions would need to have an interactive element to be considered for broadcast. "The days of commissioning a programme are over," he thundered. "We are going to commission projects." Eighteen months on, however, there have been few genuinely cross-platform interactive projects of note - outside the realm of dinosaurs and some reality TV shows. Next year, though, that looks set to change as BBC3 (as it will be), BBC2 and BBCi join forces to broadcast Fightbox, one of the most ambitious and expensive cross-platform interactive commissions to date.In gestation for nearly three years - four by the time of next September's proposed air date - the estimated &#163;3-4m project is the brainchild of Fightbox Ltd joint venture partners Finbar Hawkins, founder of interactive entertainment company Bomb Productions, and Nick Southgate, joint managing director of independent Ricochet Digital. In essence it is an attempt to fuse the individual strengths of computer gaming, television and online to create a new entertainment experience. Take the gigantic characters from BT's latest broadband ads, mix in a little Robot Wars and Gladiator, add the flavour of fight games such as Tekken and season the whole mix with live sport and you've almost got it. "It invents a new 21st century sport that enables a computer character to come alive in the studio and compete in real time," says Southgate.In an inversion of the approach of much current television interactivity, Fightbox starts out online. If all goes to plan - and it's a huge undertaking - next March a wide-reaching marketing campaign will be directing Fightbox fans to BBCi where they can download kits and start building their own fighting characters. Using simple drag and drop menus, players will be able to choose from a variety of different components - torsos, legs, weight category, hair and body colour, and choice of hand-held weaponry such as mallets (but no guns), energy devices and even tattoos. "We're trying to get enough variety so that we can virtually guarantee every creature is unique," says Hawkins.Once the characters are assembled, players get to test out their creations on their own PCs. After mastering the basics of running and jumping, they then download three qualification rounds where they fight drones to score points which are then posted onto a leader board. During those rounds the more points players score, the better their creations become."That score translates into a virtual currency that enables players to buy   or trade components," says Hawkins. To avoid cheating, players have to log on with individual IDs, time limits will be imposed and high scores can only be posted while online.Southgate says early incarnations of Fightbox envisaged players fighting each other via broadband in the early elimination stages. "Our first thoughts were that we wanted people to be battling it out online to get a genuine score. But you just can't do it yet and with so much going on we'd be stupid to push the technology." Online play will come eventually, he adds, but until then Fightbox comes as a calibrated series of downloads that will be quicker over broadband, but not interminable with a 56K modem.After the elimination stages, during which the most successful fighters get better and better, 60 contestants will be selected for the TV finals. Each 30-minute show - expected to be stripped five nights a week on BBC Choice - involves four contestants. Players first take on six super-heroes or guardians to decide who gets through to a one-on-one battle at the end. "By the time you get through to the semis, you build up a rating that we can build into the structure, and when we get to the final we'll have two super-beasts. It will be like having Mike Tyson and Frank Bruno slogging it out in front of you, but they're 12ft tall and monsters," says Southgate.Rather than scores being displayed, each character will have a heart that changes colour depending on how well or badly it is fighting. By show 20, the final pair fight it out for the title of UK Fightbox champion and the chance to have their character turned into a guardian and a starring role in the - hoped for - series 2.To get that far, as both Hawkins and Southgate realise, the TV experience will be vital. Though creating the game will be a long and expensive process - games developers Runecraft won the tender to build it - the whole project will fall flat on its face if the played as-live but recorded shows lack credibility.Fightbox will be shot very much as a live event. "We want to keep as much real as possible," says Hawkins. "You're not stepping into a games environment, we're using game features and real features and combining them. If it just looked like a computer game it would ruin it."Expected to be shot in front of a studio audience of up to 300 people at the BBC's TC4 studio next July, the series uses the BBC's innovative FreeD virtual camera system, which, unlike many virtual studio systems, allows for the use of handheld cameras. "Using FreeD, the cameraman will see it all as if it were a live event, so if one of the characters falls over he can zoom in and follow the action," says Southgate. In addition to FreeD, Fightbox is developing a   new technology called depth keying, which enables presenters to walk right around the virtual characters.Up to eight cameras will be used to film the arena, which has been designed to look like "something you'd find under London's Westway flyover", rather than a futuristic far-off environment. "We're not going for hi-tech so it's dirty, it's concrete and there's graffiti," says Southgate. "Part of our thoughts are that here is a sport that has existed for years and years and the BBC has just bought the rights to it and it's going on telly for the first time so we don't want to change its character."Though the sets are real, special effects will also be used. "When a virtual character hits a bit of the real set it might shudder or move, or sparks might fly off it, and the whole lighting system in the studio is going to interface with the game, the virtual cameras and the special effects. The whole point is to suspend disbelief so you just believe they're there. You forget they are virtual characters and they become real personalities," says Southgate.So ambitious is the project that it's easy to understand how difficult it must have been to pitch and commission. Understood to have been rejected by Channel 4 18 months ago, it was driven through by BBC   Choice commissioning editor Celia Taylor who persuaded BBC Choice controller Stuart Murphy, BBC2 controller Jane Root and entertainment chief Jane Lush to green-light the pilot and then a series."They came to me a while ago and then we developed and then we've been eight months trying to raise the money and get a deal together. I'm quite proud of it because it's something that we actually managed to make as a genuinely 'one BBC' product. What's unique about Fightbox is that it's a genuinely integrated concept. It has massive online and TV elements, but one cannot exist without the other," says Taylor.Reluctant to predict ratings, Taylor still believes it will be a hit. Targeted at a family audience - "Not dads with beards in sheds," says Southgate - if it is done well, Figthbox should appeal to a wide demographic. Though the audience is bound to be skewed towards young men, the success of formats such as TV Corps' Robot Wars, shows that pre-watershed beat 'em up series can also pull in the girls and grannies. The big question is, however, can they all pull it off in time. "It was a major thing to get off the ground because it's so ambitious," says Taylor. "When we first started it, we didn't know if it was going to work or not. With anything that's as innovative as this we're bound to get ups and downs, but I'm confident we can make it work."
Paul Graham describes the statistical basis of aspam-filtering systemthat works. Programmer Matt Jones has used the idea to develop afree spam filterfor Paul Smith'sVPOP3. (Thanks toWill Wattsfor the links.)
US District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly has endorsed the antitrust settlement worked out between the US Justice Department. most US states and Microsoft, in what is bound to be seen as avictory for Microsoft. (Microsoft lost money, it lost power, it lost a lot of respect, and now has to face a long string of attempts to cash in on its loss of the anti-trust case... but it could have been worse.) Kollar-Kotelly correctly threw out the arguments of the nine dissenting states, saying they "present little, if any, legitimate justification for these remedies and in most instances these proposals are not supported by any economic analysis." They were, of course, supported by Microsoft's enemies, most of whom are based in Silicon Valley, California. In the end, they may have been sunk by their own demonization of "the enemy", because a less hysterical and more rational case might well have gone down better with the noticeably hard-headed KK.
Microsoft was waiting to learn its fate last night in the long running anti-trust case brought against the software group by American federal and state prosecutors.US district judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly was due to hand down her ruling on the case after Wall Street's close last night. The verdict could have profound effects on the world's largest company.The judge has been reviewing a settlement reached by Microsoft, the federal government and nine states. But matters have been complicated by another nine states holding out for tougher penalties. She could endorse the settlement, or impose harsher sanctions - or a mix of the two.The judgment is unlikely to be the end of the four-year case, as appeals are almost certain to be filed. "It might not be resolved for another two years," said University of Baltimore law professor Robert Lande. "No one should count their winnings yet."Microsoft was found to have violated anti-trust laws, illegally maintaining its monopoly in operating systems by using its muscle against rivals and PC makers. Its Windows operating   system and software runs on 90% of the world's home and business computers.An appeals court last June upheld the verdict but rejected an earlier determination to divide the company. The case was then transferred to Judge Kollar-Kotelly to resolve the issue of what the appropriate remedies should be. Microsoft reached the settlement with the justice department 12 months ago after the judge had urged the various parties to broker a deal.The settlement gives computer-makers greater freedom to load rival software on their PCs by allowing them to hide some Microsoft icons on the Windows desktop.The firm would be prevented from retaliating against companies choosing non-Microsoft products and not be allowed to enter into deals requiring exclusive support of Microsoft software. The business would be forced to offer uniform terms to manufacturers and release some technical data so software designers would be able to write better programmes for Windows.But rivals including Sun Microsystems and AOL Time Warner have complained the remedies do not go far enough.The states refusing to settle are seeking greater disclosure of the Microsoft code to allow rival software firms to develop better Windows-compatible products. They also want a version of Windows with removable features to create a better environment for competing versions of accessories.Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, warned of dire consequences if the tougher penalties are agreed - including thousands of job losses and the end to innovation at the software company.During the hearings Mr Gates said they would lead the company into a "10-year period of hibernation".
When Sun Microsystems was promoting Java (J2EE) for corporate use it produced Pet Store, a sample application to show how it really should be done. Microsoft then produced an implementation using .Net to show how much better it was. "Foul" cried the Java-backing multitude: Pet Store wasn't optimised for performance. The Middleware Company, an independent company of J2EE experts, decided to do the job. It created an extended Pet Store 2 running 17 times faster. The problem is that the Microsoft.net Pet Store 2 still trounces the Java version. In fact, the Microsoft.net server with two processors is rather faster than the 8-processor J2EE server B version, and amazingly cheaper ($4,722 v $316/tps). Worse, the Java B server tested "was unable to sustain peak throughput beyond four hours, destabilizing over this period of time to the point of failure" says TMC's report. Another aside from this fun-packed epistle: the Java version of Pet Store 2 required 14,004 lines of code whereas the C#/.net version was done in 2,096. You can download a copy of the reporthere. The Java side is discussing the implications onThe ServerSide.com. Text-wrapping appears to be beyond the capabilities of the page designer, so take a wide screen.
Digital Cinema Solutionsin the US will use Microsoft's high-quality Windows Media 9 format (codenamed Corona) to show eight movies in 25 cities. Microsoft wants WM9 to be adopted by the movie industry, and by consumers, but as this LA Times article brings out, they haveconflicting viewsof copy protection.
Fifa 2003PC £29.99 Gamecube, Xbox, PS2 £39.99 EA ***Last year was a turning point for the long-running and successful Fifa series. For the first time, the PS2 version was outsold      by a competitor, in this case the marvellous Pro Evolution Soccer. So, it was back to the drawing board for Fifa 2003, with      the first proper update in years.It seems the Fifa designers have been spying on the competition, creating a passing and movement system uncannily similar to Pro Evo's.       This is all good news, of course, as players can now thread lovely through-balls and do simple lay-offs.The pace of the game      has been slowed down so the emphasis is on patient build-ups rather than the mazy dribbling of yore. Goals are now rarer, and      hence more enjoyable, and the free-kick aiming system is the best around.Where Fifa triumphed over its rivals was presentation, and 2003 is little different. Whether it's the accurate crowd chanting      or the proper teams and players, Fifa 2003 is a polished product.       But, there are problems. Crossing and shooting are erratic, with little real control. Defenders go AWOL, leading to an      unrealistic surfeit of one-on-ones with the keeper.The camera never seems quite right and there is still some slowdown in the      menu screens and on the pitch, as the PS2 struggles to cope.       Fifa 2003 is a big improvement, and with its accurate team data and free kick system, betters Pro Evolution 2. On the pitch,      however, Pro Evo still reigns. (GH)BlinxXbox	&#163;44.99 Artoon/Microsoft 	****Microsoft's Xbox has received praise from all quarters thanks to its under-bonnet technology, but it has attracted an equal amount of disdain for   its lack of killer software. Blinx is one of the company's biggest guns for Christmas, billed as the first "4D platform game" - the fourth dimension being time.Thanks to the Xbox's status as the only console with a hard disk, Japanese developer Artoon has been able to    expand the platform game blueprint by adding the time controls found on a VCR. You can pause the game, rewind to rebuild recently demolished bridges for example, fast-forward while enjoying invulnerability, and so on. It sounds weird and, indeed, it is during the initial stages of   the game, which seem confusingly busy. But if you persist, everything begins to make sense, and your mastery over time becomes a pleasure and a strategic asset.Because you have to collect crystals to acquire time controls, you need to learn how to use them only when necessary. Blinx's strength is that it feels like a new type of game, even though much of the gameplay involves typical platform-style action, plus shooting monsters with objects you have sucked into a vacuum-gun. Its cute graphics, Mario-like surrealness and sensible learning curve also work in its favour.But on the downside, it shepherds you along a single path, and lacks the variety and slickness of Ratchet &amp; Clank. None the less, it is one of the best platform games.  (SB)Cossacks: Back to WarPC £19.99 GSC/CDV ***Cossacks was a stunning achievement, allowing you to amass armies of      8,000-plus troops and upgrade them in umpteen ways. Sadly, just as the Cossacks saw their military prowess blunted by      superior technology, this semi-sequel treads a dangerous path to obsolescence.Like the recent Stronghold: Crusader, Back to War abandons the single-player campaign in favour of more than 100 stand-alone skirmish missions. The idea is to      approximate online play by providing several opponents on each map who attack ruthlessly.Unfortunately, this compounds the      biggest problem with the original game, namely rudimentary AI and a tendency to throw too many options at you. There are      two extra races plus a new era of 18th-century upgrades. However, after improving every unit 10 or more times, you realise      the pointlessness of it.Add the sheer size of the terrain and the massive armies you can assemble, and you have a game that      emulates the worst Napoleonic ideal of treating soldiers as cannon fodder. The music and sound effects are excellent and the      sense of scale truly impressive, but the Cossacks engine looks old and tired. (MA)
Although Apple routinely rubbishes PCs, attacks Windows, and hates Dell for overtaking it in the US education market, it is apparently happy to make a few bucks supplying Windows versions of its iPod MP3 player for Dell to sell. The story ishere
Mercury Research reckons thatAMD's market shareof PC processors has fallen to a four-year low of 11.6%.
We will ruleTo say that the ability of a computer to beat a human at chess (Do not pass Go, October 24) proves we are getting closer to AI is as ridiculous as saying we are closer to creating the perfect human clone robot because a car can go faster than a man can run! A computer is a machine: a human is not. A computer can count faster than a human. Computers can store large amounts of information and retrieve them quicker than a human. So what? New chess programs do not tell us anything we don't already know about computers. And that goes for neural networks. Humans can think, make the tea and are mechanically superior to a bicycle. That much is obvious to a moron. When a computer can write a book that tells us something about the world and the human condition and then explain why it came to that conclusion, I will be impressed.I have worked with computers for more than 20 years and the thought that they will one day take over the world is laughable. They can't even calculate my tax return properly. Good article though.Martin Alexandermale0211@yahoo.co.ukHuman frailtyThe top chess players make errors under pressure; computers do not suffer from fatigue or other human failings. Computers cannot handle the top grandmasters if they play to their potential. Garry Kasparov and Vladimir Kramnik lost: the computers did not win. Computers cannot learn chess from scratch: until they do, they are number crunchers preying on human frailty.Neil Maclavertyneil.maclaverty@finnbrit.fiRight imageThere are two new papers about to come out that involve using fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) to investigate what happens in the brain of chess and Go players. Compared to chess, Go appears to use an area associated with language (possibly because Go players verbalise the names of strategic positions more than chess players) and there is also some right lateralisation of activity in areas of the parietal lobe associated with spatial working memory and analysis of global spatial positions. The researchers suggest that these right hemisphere functions (known to be more holistic than left hemisphere functions) are not easy to incorporate into computer programs since it is hard to    develop such algorithms with computer programming methods. Seehttp://news.bmn.com.Louise Barrettl.barrett@liverpool.ac.ukFuture proofI'm surprised at Ashley Norris's assertion in Record breakers (October 24) that "consumers don't appear to be phased (sic) by incompatible DVD-recording formats". I know I am, and I don't think I'm alone. Many of us still haven't got our heads around the differences between DVD-RW, DVD+RW &amp; DVD-RAM, let alone their compatibilities with DVD players. How "future-proof" are they likely to be? I'd love to dump our VCR for a DVD, just as I dumped the tape deck for MiniDisc a couple of years ago, but can I be sure I won't be building up an archive recorded on the DVD equivalent of Betamax? How about a primer on the subject from Norris and/or Jack Schofield?Ralph Windsorcorrador@dircon.co.ukFaint praiseGiven that Rebecca Webster, head of Broadband Marketing BT Wholesale, didn't allow her email address to be published, could I ask her three questions?First, what, exactly, is "innovative" about BT's registration scheme? It is perhaps clever because it is in some ways placating those people who cannot receive broad band, as it makes it look as though BT are doing something that will eventually mean their exchanges will be upgraded, even though it will probably be in a few years' time, given the high and unrealistic thresholds that have been set in a number of areas. I don't think a process that would probably be unnecessary if proper marketing and research were to be performed can be described as innovative.Second, how can she say the scheme has been a great success when not a single exchange has been physically upgraded, although I accept that a fortunate, token handful are about to be? It is far too early to start singing the praises of this campaign. By my calculations, if my local exchange is to be given a trigger level of say 500 (no limit has been set thus far), at the current rate of registrations, this will be achieved around August 2004!And, third, Sir Christopher Bland's office has failed to explain the reasons why the trigger levels that have been set vary so widely, from 200 to 750-plus. Perhaps she would like to explain how these figures are calculated? Have some exchanges been given low targets - ie 200, which are obviously more easily achievable, so that a very small minority of areas are then fortunate enough to have their exchanges upgraded, and BT can then try and demonstrate that progress is being made?Chris Meirickcm@hellomate.infoScrewed upDoes any reader know of a single website to which one can post comments about atrocious customer service? In one week Dabs.com, BT, Tiscali SmartTalk and ParcelForce have all screwed up and it may help me get closer to rapture by letting everybody know.Max Glaskin(email address supplied)
