Google's Android mobile operating system tightened its grip on the smartphone market in the second quarter of 2012, making up 68.1% of the 154m shipments worldwide,according to the research company IDC.Overall, the smartphone market grew at 42.2%, meaning that Android and Microsoft's Windows Phone were the only platforms which grew faster than the overall market. Shipments of Apple's iPhone grew by 27.5% to 26m, not enough to maintain its share from last year of 18.8%; its share fell to 16.9%.But overall the market remains a two-horse race, with the two principal platforms - Android and iOS - making up 85% of the market, with the remaining 15% shared between four main platforms.And the concentration of control is also emphasised by the fact that two companies, Apple and Samsung, controlled 49.5% of the world smartphone market.Nokia, Taiwan's HTC, China's ZTE and RIM together shipped 34.4m, or 22.3% of the market - leaving a huge number of other vendors fighting for the remaining share. Most of those are sold into China via MediaTek, and run Android. China is now the world's largest smartphone market, with low-cost Android phones dominating even more than in the worldwide market. In the US, the second-biggest market. Apple's iPhone has around 50% share, aided by subsidies from carriers that make it no more expensive than many mid-range Android handsets.ZTE's rise, with 8m handsets shipped, came principally through low-cost devices in China but is also working on sales in the US - though IDC observed that its lack of strong brand recognition could be a problem if it wants to see high sales growth outside China.However the growth in the smartphone market segment - which accounted for 37.9% of the overall mobile market of 406m in the second quarter, according toseparate IDC analysis- was the slowest since the fourth quarter of 2009, when the world was still recovering from the global crash precipitated by Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy in mid-2008.That has analysts wondering whether economic problems particularly in Europe will seriously crimp worldwide growth both in feature phones and smartphones. Ramon Llamas, senior research analyst with IDC's mobile phone team, said: "Despite recent maneouvres to shore up several countries within the eurozone, the effectiveness of these efforts remains to be seen. Meanwhile, emerging markets will continue to be strong contributors due to their sheer size and growth trajectory, but how much they can offset potential declines in other countries is unclear."RIM saw shipments fall from 12.5m a year ago to 7.4m - a 4.8% share, its lowest in more than five years years, while the eclipse of Nokia's Symbian, which once dominated the smartphone market, was demonstrated as shipments fell to 6.8m - just 4.4% of the market, 15 months after it was earmarked for phasing out by Stephen Elop, Nokia's chief executive.But Windows Phone, Nokia's new platform, remains low, shipping roughly 5.4m handsets - almost all due to Nokia - to more than double the number shipped, but only grew its share from 3.0% to 3.5%."Android continues to fire on all cylinders," said Llamas. "The market was entreated to several flagship models from Android's handset partners, prices were well within reach to meet multiple budgetary needs, and the user experience from both Google and its handset partners boosted Android smartphones' utility far beyond simple telephony.""The mobile OS market is now unquestionably a two-horse race due to the dominance of Android and iOS," said Kevin Restivo, IDC senior research analyst for mobile phones. "With much of the world's mobile phone user base still operating feature phones, the smartphone OS market share battle is far from over. There is still room for some mobile OS competitors to gain share, although such efforts will become increasingly difficult as smartphone penetration increases."
Another day, another doodling Olympics challenge. And after hurdles, basketball and canoeing/kayaking, here comes ... goalkeeping.This one is pretty simple. Just go to theGoogle homepage, click on the play icon, then use the left and right cursors to move your keeper from side to side, and the space bar to leap into the air.Fortunately, the player taking the shots is more Garath Southgate than Andrea Pirlo, so the game quickly becomes a sort of endurance test – how long can you justify pressing the space bar and cursor keys on a browser-based goalkeeping simulation?True, Southgate does start speeding up the kicks as the challenge progresses, but unless you're simultaneously taking a call from accounts or re-arranging your pen holder, this should present no real difficulty. I clocked up 38 while reading a Simpsons comic to my son this morning.Perhaps Google is going easy on us because it's Friday? Maybe they have something super fiendish ready for tomorrow?I don't know, because when I emailed their UK office for some information on the games, the response was: "Google does not comment on Google doodles."So we're on our own today, facing a relentless yet mediocre penalty taker, forever (or going by the scoreboard until you pass 999 saves ...)
Maybe we're wrong about the future of games. While those of us in the traditional industry wonder whether it's all going to be about next-gen consoles or smartphones or tablets, maybe it's going to be none of them – or more accurately, perhaps it will be all of them together.'Transmedia' is not a new phrase. The idea of combining linear content such as TV or web movies, with interactive elements delivered on phones and across the internet has been around for over a decade. In 2001, EA released its agenda-setting alternate reality game (ARG) Majestic, which used emails and even phone calls to draw players into a multiplatform conspiracy game. At the same time, TV and movie producers started to see the possibilities of using ARGs to market and build communities around key franchises – hence The Beast, a web game based around the film AI and The Lost Experience, which added depth and (evenmore) ambiguity to JJ Abrams' Lost series.Things have been relatively quiet recently, with many media giants preferring more conventional communication streams like Twitter and Facebook. However, launching this autumn could be one of the most ambitious transmedia concepts since Heroes creator Tim Kring launched hisConspiracy for Goodtwo years ago.Developed by French studio,Lexis Numérique, Alt-Minds is a conspiracy thriller about the abduction of several young scientists. When the government shows little interest in their retrieval, their agency decides to investigate itself. The main narrative will be told via ten weekly 'webisodes', but players will also be able to subscribe to a newsfeed on their PC or tablet, providing background information and updates."But you can go much further," says spokesperson, Djamil Kemal. "The Agency needs your help. To make it smooth, they distribute an app, available both on you PC and your tablet, that lets you take part in the investigation. You can receive the video logs and documents of the field investigators and help them progress. For instance, you can use the Agency's tools to analyse a picture, enhance a video and zoom in it to find a clue and much more."From here, wannabe detectives will be able to scour the web for clues, using Facebook, Google Earth and the websites of fictitious organisations as research tools – all the while earning XP. "You can even receive emails from some of the characters," says Kemal. "And if you agree, you can even be contacted by SMS. You find a character's phone number? Try to call him and see if he answers. Those who are really hooked will even be able to look for clues in the real world via smartphone-based geolocalized missions."Lexis Numérique has worked on similar projects before. In 2003, the studio's co-founder, Eric Viennot, oversawIn Memorianone of the first commercially released titles to use ARG elements. Published by Ubisoft, it used all the familiar elements, SMS messages and clues buried in web pages, but married these to a conventional adventure game, reviewing very well at the time.For Alt-Minds, the complexity has been ramped up, with more advanced telecommunications elements and accessibility via multiple platforms. The developer has also teamed up with Orange as a tech partner. And it does sound like a major creative and technological nightmare. "Coping with the creative challenges involves a very complex organisation," says Kemal. "Much more than a script writer or a game designer, Eric Viennot is a narrative architect. He worked with a team of game designers, level designers, community managers, social game designers, script writers, 2D artists, web designers, programmers, video artists, photographs and much more…"On a technical standpoint, the whole project is a huge challenge. You have to manage tons of data and synchronise it; deal with more than 15 hours of videos, develop apps that can be played on many devices, not only the latest ones; integrate the newest Facebook functionalities – thanks to Facebook's direct support. All that in a limited amount of time."Until now, ARGs have been rather a minority interest, fascinating to web natives and interactive fiction fans, but hardly mainstream. Kemal, however, sees things changing as attitudes to screened entertainment evolve. "TV is not the dominant screen any more," he says. "You now watch a series or play games on many screens. Multitasking is becoming a norm – who hasn't surfed on the internet or played a game while watching a TV series? Also, gamification is everywhere now. Games are part of our lives. 55% of Facebook users play games. The way we use media has changed drastically and the content – TV, movies, games – has to evolve and take in this new situation".Alt-Minds is referred to on its website as the first "total fiction", and many do think this is the way entertainment is heading – a converged, pervasive experience taking in linear narratives, games, and even real-life interactive elements. We're already seeing the explosion of urban games and location-based adventures like the fascinating Zombie chase game2.8 Hours Later. Is it possible that the future will contain games that can be subsumed into everyday life? The big question is how far mainstream audiences are prepared to immerse themselves."To what extent are you ready to accept pervasiveness?" asks Kemal. "This is closely linked to the respect for privacy. You may not be ready to receive emails or text messages at your office, or to be followed by a weird guy in a dark street, wondering if it's part of the plot or not."Please note, this WON'T happen in Alt-Minds. If a weird guy follows you in a dark street, run!"Alt-Minds is launching this autumn. For more information, seethe official web page.
We're making some changes to our regular Apps Rush post, which is now being split by platforms, and run on a weekly or monthly basis.Here's the first weekly Top 10 for Android, based on the last week's releases. An iOS version will be posted later in the day, while BlackBerry and Windows Phone will both get monthly posts (although as soon as the flow of great apps makes it possible to run weekly posts for them, we'll do that too).Why no big games? There's a separate weekly post for the best new smartphone and tablet games, whichyou can find here. Some – like Noddy in Toyland below – will fall into a grey area between games and kid-apps though.On with this weeks Android apps:RumpusThe vast majority of whizzy tablet music-discovery apps launch first for iPad, so Rumpus is bucking the trend – good news for music fans who've just bought a Nexus 7 tablet, for example. It offers biographies of thousands of artists, discographies, music videos, and links to similar acts, as well as a built-in downloads store.TwitpicThe "first ever photo sharing site for Twitter" has touched down on Android, claiming to be an easier and better way to share photos and videos with friends. Quite a claim, given Instagram's presence on Android, not to mention Facebook and Twitter's own apps.Noddy in ToylandAvanquest reckons its new app is "the first Noddy game for Android smartphones", bringing all the stars from his modern TV show (Tessie, Mr Plod, Bumpy, Mr Jumbo and The Skittles, etc). The app includes puzzles, pairs, car racing and a spot-the-difference game.Dr Seuss' Sleep BookMore fun for the children of Android-owning parents here, with the latest book-app from Oceanhouse Media. It includes the familiar Seuss characters and illustrations, following "one small yawn that spreads from bedroom to bedroom across the country until finally ninety-nine zillion, nine trillion and three Seussian creatures are sound asleep".TrelloTrello has a snappy slogan: "The easiest way to organise anything". That means birthday parties, sales leads, or simple To-Do lists. It's the latest personal management app to launch on Android, and is getting some rave reviews from early users.KiipCurrently a US app, although with Kiip having just launched in the UK too, it may well cross the Atlantic sooner rather than later. This is the official app of the mobile rewards network, which specialises in offering real-world vouchers when you reach achievements in certain mobile games. Its app updates users about new rewards and Kiip-enabled games.Logie T.Rex Augmented RealityA bit of fun here, if you're not an augmented reality sceptic. Launched by developer Logie, it's a showcase for how AR could be used in education and museums: an animated T-Rex that leaps out from a printable marker when your smartphone is pointed at it.Android HIFIThe latest sign of some of the creative development that's going on among Android developers: this turns your smartphone into a receiver for Apple's AirPlay technology – streaming music from AirPlay clients including iTunes. It's early days, and heaven knows what Apple will make of it, but one to watch.BuildApp ProPopular home-design app BuildApp has been available as a free download on Android for a while now, but now it has a separate paid version. The idea: model your house in the app, complete with photos used for textures, and get automatic calculations of distances and surfaces.Trainz DriverYou might describe this as a game, but I see it more as a fun electronic train-set, which qualifies it for more general app status! It's a spin-off from tablet app Trainz Simulator, providing a way to ride around tracks created by users of that on a variety of locomotives.That's this week's selection, but what's been hogging a homescreen slot on your Android device? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
Samsung has sold a total of 21m smartphones to carriers in the US since April 2010 and retailers have taken just 1.4m of the three tablets that Apple claims infringe its intellectual property, according to documents filed on Thursday in the bitter court battle between the two technology giants.Its highest-profile handset, the Galaxy S2, has shipped a total of 4.1m across four models since its launch in the third quarter of 2011, while the Galaxy Nexus, the showcase phone for Google's Android 4.0 "Ice Cream Sandwich" software, saw 512,000 shipments from its launch in October 2011.Samsung US phone shipments since Q2 2011. Only allegedly infringing phone shipments are shownThe figures will be embarrassing for Samsung, which has repeatedly declined to put figures on its shipments or sales of smartphones or tablets since early 2011, preferring instead only to give revenue figures.The court-ordered disclosures by Samsung's lawyers show its breakdown for shipments to carriers and retailers – though not end-user sales or levels of returns – for devices that Apple claims infringe a number of its US patents or bear so much cosmetic, rather than functional, resemblance that they infringe its "trade dress".Samsung US tablet shipments since mid-2011. Only allegedly infringing tablets are shownBy contrast, Apple's documents show that it shipped a total of 85.9m iPhones, 46.5m iPod Touches and 34m iPads since 2007 in the US. For the comparative period with Samsung's, it shipped a total of 34m iPads, 62.8m iPhones and 25.3m iPod Touches.Apple US shipments since 2007 of iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads. Source: court documentsThe figures do not appear to show how many Samsung devices were returned from carriers or retailers because they did not sell. But it is known that a number of the Galaxy Tab tablets were returned by customers, following astudy by Samsung which was entered into evidenceearlier this week which studied why customers at Best Buy had returned their purchases.Apple, by contrast, has struggled to fulfill customer demand, suggesting that sell-through of shipments to end users is essentially 100%.The spreadsheets show, in great detail, how Samsung's business has fared in the US, and the slim margins that retailers and carriers take on the tablets and phones.Because the figures show the revenues that Samsung collects from the purchases by carriers and retailers, they indicate the gap between the wholesale and retail prices.For the Galaxy Tab, the average wholesale price (AWP) was $448 (£287), on a device which retailed for $499 upwards. On the Galaxy Tab 10.1, the AWP was $405 for a device which retailed at $499 upwards.The 4G/LTE version of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 saw lower shipments, though a much higher AWP of $637.The Galaxy Note "phablet", which has a 5in screen and is classed as a tablet by some analysts, does not appear in either set of data because it is not the subject of any complaint by Apple in this case.The dramatic difference between the Samsung tablet shipments, and those for Apple's iPad, bear out the suggestion that the US company has dominated the tablet market since introducing the iPad in April 2010 – but also raise the question of why it is so desperate to crush a company whose products sell so poorly in comparison.On the phone side, although the flagship Galaxy S2 has been the focus of much of Samsung's advertising and of media coverage, and the Galaxy Nexus drew attention because it was the showcase for Android 4.0, the figures show that it is Samsung's Epic 4G phone, released in the third quarter of 2010 and still on sale, which has seen the most shipments – 1.9m.According to AllThingsD, which first publicised the documents – released under the US Pacer court system – a number of other companies have petitioned the court to keep parts of the relevant information under wraps, including Ericsson, BlackBerry-maker RIM, Nokia and Microsoft.The Reuters news agency is disputing that, saying that information used in the court should be made available to the wider public.The trial resumes on Friday in San Jose.
Yey, Friday arrives at last and not a moment too soon! So what are your gaming plans for the weekend?
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple, Samsung competition has HTC in Hell &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:This may seem like a distant memory, but in the spring of 2010, Samsung and LG were neck and neck in the US handset market. Each possessed 22% of the market. Over the following two years, LG tried to copy every move Samsung made, without trying to create any distinction between the brands. Samsung's superior display technology and slightly better hardware build demolished its South Korean rival.HTC learned nothing of this episode -- on the contrary, it has rushed to repeat LG's mistakes with an eerie precision.HTC is guilty of a great folly by refusing to learn from LG's downfall.Kuittinen is an astute observer of this sector. Is it a Finnish trait?The rise and fall of the company that was going to have us all using biofuels &gt;&gt; Co.ExistAmyris's breakthroughs in bioengineering--and its plans to make biofuels from Brazilian sugarcane--promised to transform how the world's businesses produce energy, cosmetics, and medicine. Then reality (and Wall Street) got in the way.Long; fascinating.Difference Engine: Copying the copier &gt;&gt; The EconomistWith the Apple-Samsung fight as a background:The only reason why governments grant patents (and the monopoly rights they entail) is to promote innovation--in the hope of generating jobs and additional sources of revenue. Patents seek to do this by requiring the inventor to make prompt and full disclosure of the idea, so others may seek a licence to use it, or find ways to work around it. In exchange, the inventor is granted the right to exclude competitors for 20 years or so.The cost to society of allowing a monopoly to flourish has long been assumed to be outweighed by the benefits that accrue from encouraging individuals to spend their own resources inventing useful things that did not exist before. In short, patents have been seen as a necessary evil for fostering innovation.That assumption is now being challenged.SCO Files for Chapter 7: "There is no reasonable chance of 'rehabilitation'" &gt;&gt; GroklawSCO Group has nowfiled[PDF] for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection. They are in Chapter 11 now. What is the difference? Chapter 11 means you are trying to reorganize and survive as a corporate entity. Chapter 7 means you've given up the ghost and are shutting down. But not SCO. They want the litigation with IBM to continue. But there's almost no money left:The debtors (SCO) "are administratively insolvent": $3.7m in debt, with only $145,000 of cash. It's dead, Jim.Google hit with record fine &gt;&gt; Big Brother WatchAs we have often warned, where businesses rely on personal information to offer better targeted advertisements there will be inherent tension between respecting consumer privacy and pursuing profit. Staff will inevitably come under commercial pressures, as in any other business. Big Brother Watch believes that innovation and technology will address this in the future, but that regulation is essential where companies seek to over-ride consumer choices about sharing their data.Also has a good rundown of how Google's story about what happened kept changing.How Google overrode Safari's cooke controls &gt;&gt;FTC Tech blogEd Felten (yes, him) explains on behalf of the FTC what Google did that led to it getting walloped with a $22.5m fine for usurping Safari's cookie blocking.Internet Archive starts seeding 1,398,875 torrents &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakThe Internet Archive has just enriched the BitTorrent ecosystem with well over a million torrent files, and that's just the start of "universal access to all knowledge." The torrents link to almost a petabyte of data and all files are being seeded by the Archive's servers. Founder Brewster Kahle told TorrentFreak that turning BitTorrent into a distributed preservation system for the Internet is the next step.The Internet Archive is a wondrous thing.
Google is to pay a record $22.5m (£14.4m) fine to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in the US after it tracked users of Apple's iPhone, iPad and Mac computers by circumventing privacy protections on the Safari web browser for several months at the end of 2011 and into 2012.The fine is the largest paid by one company to the FTC, which imposed a 20-year privacy order on Google in March 2010 after concerns about the launch of its ill-fated Buzz social network.In the latest case, commissioners ruled 4-1 that Google had breached that order not to mislead consumers about its privacy practices. There was no admission of wrongdoing on the part of Google.Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the FTC, said in astatement: "The record setting penalty in this matter sends a clear message to all companies under an FTC privacy order. No matter how big or small, all companies must abide by FTC orders against them and keep their privacy promises to consumers, or they will end up paying many times what it would have cost to comply in the first place."The intrusion would have affected millions of users of Apple devices, which web statistics suggest are used for substantial amounts of mobile browsing in western countries particularly.The FTC began investigating the case six months ago after Jonathan Mayer, a researcher at Stanford University – once attended by Google's founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin – discovered that Google's DoubleClick advertising network was overriding safeguards built into Safari to stop cookies being used to track peoples' movements around the web.Cookies can be used as unique identifiers of a user, so that if someone goes from one site to an unrelated one that also uses DoubleClick, the cookie will work as an identifier and mean that adverts on that site, and their activity there, will be logged and tailored to them.Google's circumvention of the protection – a system it said was used by other companies – apparently contradicted its online help, which told Safari users they need not do anything to prevent Google monitoring their actions, because the browser's default settings would block Google's cookies.The previous largest FTC fine, of almost $19m, was imposed on a US telemarketer accused of duping people into thinking they were giving to charity.While it has not admitted wrongdoing, the fine is another in a growing list for Google, whichfell foul of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) earlier this yearover its collection of Wi-Fi data from home and business networks via its Street View cars in 2008. The FCC fined it $50,000 for failing to cooperate with its investigation.The largest payment remains the $500m that it paid to settle a federal case in August 2011after advertising Canadian-sourced pharmaceuticals to US users. The adverts appeared after being bought by vendors trying to sell pills to US users, who bought AdWords adverts alongside search results. The company escaped prosecution after settling.In a statement, Google said: "We set the highest standards of privacy and security for our users. The FTC is focused on a 2009 help center page published more than two years before our consent decree, and a year before Apple changed its cookie-handling policy. We have now changed that page and taken steps to remove the ad cookies, which collected no personal information, from Apple's browsers."The company is also under investigation in Europe and the US over whether it has used its dominant position in search to push other products, such as its shopping, video and maps products, ahead of rivals' which would have an equal claim to high ranking in search results.The pressure group Big Brother Watch said: "It is a very dangerous precedent for companies to deliberately circumvent privacy protection and so we welcome this ruling as an important milestone in returning to consumers true control over their personal information."As we have often warned, where businesses rely on personal information to offer better targeted advertisements there will be inherent tension between respecting consumer privacy and pursuing profit."
Where you find a company's name can be telling. Samsung was once ubiquitous on rather battered airport trolleys. Now it is found on Chelsea shirts and plastered all over the Olympics.The English translation of Samsung – three stars – once inadvertently summed up the Korean company's microwaves and televisions, which were viewed as a cheap alternative to Sony. These days, Samsung is the world's biggest technology company by sales, selling more flatscreen TVs than anyone else and trouncing Apple in smartphones. And it is not just a question of quantity; increasingly gadget fiends are tossing away their iPhone 4S to drool over the new Samsung Galaxy S3.The rapid rise of South Korea's largest company has placed this secretive behemoth at a crossroads. When its phones are promoted in the Olympic opening ceremony there is bound to be growing scrutiny of the way it organises itself, and where it goes next.Samsung is famed in business circles as a "fast follower" – letting others innovate before flooding the market with excellently-made, rather imitative products. Now it is the market leader, there is no one left to follow. And fast following can cause trouble: Samsung is locked in a vicious patents dispute with Apple in courtrooms around the world.Samsung is South Korea's biggestchaebol, a traditional, family-run conglomerate with a dizzying array of almost 100 subsidiaries. Samsung Electronics is its flagship but Samsung also makes ships, weapons, sells insurance and even runs Everland, a Korean amusement park.The company's rise has mirrored that of South Korea, which was poorer than Ghana 50 years ago. Samsung began making noodles and selling dried seafood in 1938 before founder, Lee Byung-chull, moved into sugar, textiles and, in 1969, electronics. Lee Kun-hee, the 70-year-old son of Samsung's founder, has been its visionary, controversial "emperor", as Professor Sea Jin Chang, author of Sony vs Samsung, puts it, for 25 years. In the early 90s, Lee, an amateur wrestler, famously pronounced that Samsung was second-rate and employees should "change everything except your wife and children". He once made a bonfire of 150,000 of his own company's mobile phones and, two years ago, tweeted: "It's a real crisis now ... Most of Samsung's flagship businesses and products will become obsolete within 10 years. We must begin anew."Driven by such crisis-laden rhetoric, "the real strength of Samsung is its speed," says Chang. "Korean people eat fast, talk fast and walk like crazy. It's the spirit of the Korean people and Samsung is the best example of their competitive nature." Samsung has always moved fast. Two months after it built its first black-and-white TV in 1970, it was exporting them to Panama. "For Koreans, being number one, getting the gold medal is the thing," says Tony Michell, author of Samsung Electronics and the Struggle for Leadership of the Electronics Industry."Samsung is an also-ran in the global smartphone market," observed the Economist 18 months ago. Now, Samsung is the market leader, selling around 50m smartphones in the second quarter of 2012 to Apple's 26m. While there is one basic iPhone, Samsung offers smartphones at every conceivable price."They've got the entire market covered," says Jason Jenkins, editor of CNET UK. Samsung's latest high-end phone, the Galaxy S3, "is the hottest phone on CNET by a long way" judges Jenkins. "What Samsung has proven over the last five years is that they are very conscious about what consumers want and very quick to manoeuvre to serve those consumers," says Stuart Miles, founder of gadget reviewers Pocket Lint.To describe Samsung as speedy, militaristic and secretive might appear a stereotypically western judgment but it is the view of Chang, a South Korean. He says Samsung's ability to get good products to market quickly is because it is a "militaristic organisation, very disciplined, [with] top-down management", shaped by the fact that Koreans undertake military service. Staff are loyal, highly disciplined and work long hours: it is unusual for staff in research and development, for instance, to take more than one Sunday off each month.South Korea has a "love hate" relationship with Samsung, according to Chang. "We are proud of Samsung because they are very successful and we're grateful for that but at the same time there are internal problems." Even the country's right-wing party has taken up chaebol-bashing in the run-up to elections in South Korea. Some critics argue chaebols stifle innovation and strangle small suppliers. Others question issues of tax, accountability and succession. In 2008 a Seoul court found Lee guilty of financial irregularities including tax evasion. He was fined $109m (£69.8m) and given a three-year suspended sentence. Resigning as chairman of Samsung, Lee returned in 2010 after he was pardoned by the South Korean government.The Lee family only own about 1% of the entire group's shares and yet control Samsung through a bewildering array of holding companies. Lee's family are squabbling in court over the succession question with Jay Y. Lee, the Harvard Business School-educated son of Lee Kun-hee, now the clear – albeit unproven – successor. "There's a legitimacy question," says Chang. "The same legitimacy question that you may have for Kim Jong-un in North Korea." Chang also points to the tax arrangements which appear to have allowed "JY" to acquire huge wealth while partly avoiding the country's stiff inheritance tax.Samsung is facing increased scrutiny over workers' rights and working conditions. Traditionally, no Samsung employees were members of South Korea's fairly assertive unions although by law Samsung has an employee-management council, and there is now a Samsung union. Meanwhile, China Labour Watch this week claimed it discovered evidence of child labour at HEG Electronics, a Chinese supplier to Samsung and other companies including LG. Samsung said it was dispatching inspectors again to investigate the allegations.Samsung is more innovative than popular perceptions hold. Around a quarter of its 220,000 employees work in research and development and It holds a huge number of patents, not so much for products such as phones but for processes – clever production techniques. Apple's lawyers, however, think Samsung's smartphone success has come by "slavishly" copying its iPhone and iPad.Horace Dediu, founder of analysts Asymco, worked as a competition analyst for Nokia during its heyday in the early 2000s. "Samsung was always on our radar. They made no secret of their intention to become more powerful than Nokia," he says. According to Dediu, Samsung went from "fast following" Nokia to "fast following" Apple.This analysis is reinforced by a Samsung memo produced by Apple in a Californian courtroom this week. "Influential figures outside the company come across the iPhone and they point out that 'Samsung is dozing off,'" wrote JK Shin, head of Samsung's mobile communications shortly after the 2007 launch of the iPhone. "When our UX is compared to the unexpected competitor Apple's iPhone, the difference is truly that of heaven and Earth. It's a crisis of design."Consumers may not care about such skirmishes but the case could actually damage Apple, thinks Michell, because many people "were never really aware that Samsung was even in the same league. All the court cases are actually saying, 'well, they are very similar'". They certainly look it these days but so do cars and televisions. As Jenkins puts it: "Personally I don't feel that companies can copyright a touch-screen rectangle."What is more intriguing is the interdependence of these patent pugilists. Samsung also makes components — semiconductor devices such as LEDs, microchips, computer memory and flash memory for phones and tablets. In fact, Samsung is the sole manufacturer of crucial chips used in iPhones and iPads. Apple is Samsung's biggest customer and accounts for 8.8% of Samsung's revenue, according to analysis by Bloomberg. If Apple stopped buying Samsung parts, Samsung's profits would dive. Then again, Apple would struggle to find a supplier as reliable as Samsung.Another damning court revelation was when British judge Colin Birss ruled that Samsung could not have copied Apple because it was "not as cool".Samsung has attracted many  fans among Apple-haters (some geeks are fascinatingly tribal about brands) but the consensus is still that Samsung is not as cool as Apple. "It can't be because they make so many things," says Jenkins. He is mystified by Samsung's desire to dominate every unfashionable electronics sector. "Why are Samsung killing themselves to flog hard drives or MP3 players? Why not just admit Apple won that battle years ago?"Samsung has strived to become cooler by spending heavily to be a "top" Olympic sponsor alongside legendary brands such as Coca-Cola and McDonalds."Most of us had never heard of Samsung before their Olympics sponsorship, but now we can't imagine a world without them," says John Davis, author of The Olympic Games Effect. Samsung became a top sponsor in 1997 and its brand value increased from US$3.1bn two years later to $23.4bn in 2011, according to Interbrand. Its presence at London 2012 – also opening a flagship, Apple-style store in Westfield Stratford – shows its desire not merely to be known, but to be desired. Davis judges Samsung will emerge a clear winner from the Games "if you define winner as having visible and memorable advertising and products that generate 'buzz'".Samsung dominates smartphones but for how long? The marketplace is littered struggling former giants such as Nokia and BlackBerry's RIM. "It won't be Apple or the litigation that brings Samsung down," says Dediu. "It will be some unknown Chinese OEM [original equipment manufacturer]. That's going to be the story of the next few years."Samsung's basic phones will be trumped by cheap Chinese brands; at the top end, Samsung depends on Google for the Android operating system so beloved of phone geeks. "If Google doesn't match Apple, Samsung will get caught in a trap," says Dediu. Samsung might also flounder if Google makes a superior version of Android for its own handset company, Motorola.Dediu predicts a near future where all hardware is "good enough" and big profits will only be made from software and services — music services, cloud hosting, voice recognition, apps. Jenkins agrees. "Whoever controls the gateway to these services will own the next decade," he says.Samsung may excel at making phones but Dediu is not impressed by its approach to software. "There is no buzz, not even rumour of Samsung having a presence in any software services area. Normally you'd see some acquisitions or an office built in the Valley," he says. Stuart Miles of Pocket Lint sees the S3 as evidence Samsung are trying to understand how software works but Jenkins is not hugely impressed. Samsung's services "have stupid names and don't work very well," he says.Samsung is looking beyond the world of phones, however. Traditionally, Korean chaebols have been reluctant to move into new areas by purchasing smaller companies "but somewhere in the DNA of Samsung there is a more acquisitive mentality," says Michell. Samsung is investing $21bn up to 2020 in five areas – solar panels, LEDs for lighting, electric car batteries, medical equipment and biotech drugs – in what appears an astute repositioning in an era of ageing populations and renewable energy challenges. Its initial success is mixed, according to Michell, with only medical technology an unqualified success. Like others in Seoul, however, he believes the threat from China is overstated. "The Chinese have a long learning curve in product quality and the ability to produce a million items without defects," he says.Samsung may be emblazoned over our products and sports for some years yet.
Gaming start-up Ouya hopes to stage a revolution in open-source game development for play on TV. It just scored an impressive coup in open-source fundraising.When its monthlong campaign on Kickstarter wrapped up at midnight last night, Ouya had raised a smart $8,596,475 from more than 63,000 backers. The sum was nine times the company's original fundraising goal of $950,000. Investors who pledged $95 or more get a free console, projected to ship in March."We are truly excited and blown away by the support: it's amazing how well an open, affordable, accessible games console has resonated with gamers and developers," Ouya chief executive Julie Uhrmantold the Guardian's Stuart Dredgeearlier this week. "People are really excited about somebody wanting to buck the trend."Ouya is building a gaming console on the Android platform that will retail for $99 – half as much as the least expensive Xbox. It would be the first TV console built to run games created by an indefinitely large pool of developers, potentially cracking open a market in which retailers currently get $59.99 for the new Call of Duty.Games in Ouya's online store would be free to download. Developers would make money through paid upgrades, in-app purchases for virtual items and subscriptions.Because the Ouya is designed for ease of software swapping, piracy is a concern. One of Ouya's biggest challenges is to build a device that is as easy to use as gamers expect without turning off developers as too risky."Piracy is one of the reasons we chose the free-to-play model," Uhrman said. "You don't see piracy on Facebook games, or on free-to-play games [on mobile]."Ouya's potential area of conquest isn't limited to gaming. The company has been careful to position itself as a games console rather than a more general entertainment set-top box, yet its use of Android opens the way for a variety of non-games services to be made available through the device.In its short life Ouya has developed partnerships with entertainment platforms such as Vevo, iHeartRadio, TuneIn and XBMC. Meanwhile, both Sony and Microsoft have struck a series of deals to make TV shows, films, music and other kinds of apps available on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360.Ouya has proven its audience will pay. Now it has only to deliver.
The international community has been urged to act quickly to curb cyber espionage after security researchers discovered the latest state-sponsored attack targeting financial systems in Lebanon.Thousands of people in the Middle East were targeted by the latest cyber snooping assault, named Gauss, according to the security experts Kaspersky Lab.Researchers said they believed Gauss was state sponsored and developed by the same group behind the sophisticated Flame and Stuxnet attacks, which targeted Iran's nuclear facilities. No government has ever admitted to being behind Stuxnet or Flame, described as the most complex cyber attacks ever known, althoughthe US and Israel have been widely reported as principal players in their development.Vitaly Kalmuk, the chief malware officer at Kaspersy Lab, urged the United Nations to wake up to the threats "because disaster may happen any day".He told the Guardian: "We still think there is a lack of attention and lack of response in the area of nation-state supported development of malware."We think it should become a global problem and it should be discussed on an international level, probably in the United Nations, and there should be treaties. But that is not happening now. There is not enough changes."The latest cyber threat was designed to steal passwords and sensitive data from several Lebanese banks, according to the researchers.The discovery is the latest in a string of cyber espionage assaults targeting victims in the Middle East since early 2009.Gauss began in September 2011 and was shut down shortly after being discovered in June this year. It is believed to have infected more than 2,500 machines since May 2012, with tens of thousands of estimated victims.Researchers said the one-year-old virus mainly targeted banks including Bank of Beirut, EBLF, BlomBank, ByblosBank, FransaBank and Credit Libanais.It is not believed that the hackers stole money from the bank accounts, but were primarily interested in tracking and monitoring payments.Kamluk said the hackers' servers were initially based in the US, before moving to Portugal and then to India. It was apparently named by hackers after the famous mathematician, Johann Carl Friedrich Gauss.Kaspersky Lab said it was not yet clear exactly how Gauss managed to infect and steal data from computers.Alexander Gostev, chief security expert at Kaspersky Lab, said: "Gauss bears a striking resemblance to Flame, with its design and code base, which enabled us to discover the malicious program."Similar to Flame and Duqu, Gauss is a complex cyber-espionage toolkit, with its design emphasising stealth and secrecy; however, its purpose was different than Flame or Duqu. Gauss targets multiple users in select countries to steal large amounts of data, with a specific focus on banking and financial information."
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) has hit out at the US patent system after a judgeoverturned a lower court jury's award of $147.2m against itin a patent fight against Mformation.In astatementafter the judge's decision, Steve Zipperstein, RIM's chief legal officer, said: "The purpose of the patent system is to encourage innovation, but the system is still too often exploited in pursuit of other goals. Many policy makers have already recognised the need to address this problem and we call on others to join them as this case clearly highlights the significant need for continuing policy reform to help reduce the amount of resources wasted on unwarranted patent litigation."The companies' patent battle had centred on remote management of wireless devices such as phones over a wireless network. Mformation, which has a number of patents in the field, sued RIM in October 2008 and won a jury verdict this July where it was awarded $8 (£5) for each user of the BlackBerry Enterprise Server version 4 since then, covering 18.4m users.The judge's decision is a rare bit of good news for RIM, which is fighting the defection of corporate and consumer clients from its BlackBerry smartphones. Its shares have fallen 95% from their peak, and 70% in the past year.The smartphone market has turned into a vicious battle not just between device makers, but also between patent holders: Apple, Samsung, HTC, Motorola, Microsoft and Nokia are among the many companies which are fighting legal battles over disputed patents and licensing. Other third-party companies which own patents – such as Mformation – have also pitched in to profit from what they see as unlicensed use of their intellectual property.The situation is most intense in the US, where the combination of the US Patent Office's struggles with low staffing, and its different standards for allowing "software" to be patented, have created a climate that has led to a profusion of asserted patents. Yet often when cases involving such patents come to court, they are overturned or proven to have been awarded incorrectly because there was "prior art" – existing examples of the use of the idea embodied in the patent.RIM had argued that Mformation's patent claims were invalid because of such "prior art" issues – that the processes were already being used when Mformation filed its patent application.Judge James Ware said Mformation failed to establish that RIM had infringed on the company's patent and overturned the jury award, according to court papers."We appreciate the judge's careful consideration of this case. RIM did not infringe on Mformation's patent and we are pleased with this victory," Zipperstein said.If Mformation successfully appeals the judge's ruling, the jury verdict will not be reinstated; instead a new trial will be conducted.
It is concise and pointed enough to be a tweet: "We don't wantnouveau richesMcMansions sprouting up all over our ridges."Unfortunately for Evan Williams, co-founder of Twitter, it is not a post in the micro-blogging ether but a line from hundreds of letters to San Francisco planning officials opposing his intention to build a new luxury home.Neighbours around Edgewood Avenue in Parnassus Heights, one of the city's most desirable districts, have mobilised an angry campaign against his proposal to replace his existing house with a bigger, greener mansion.The revolt – more than 300 letters from neighbours and self-styled "Friends of Edgewood Avenue" around San Francisco – could turn the tech tycoon's architectural dreams into a war of attrition.Williams bought the $2.9m property – hardwood floors, an open plan salon and four bedrooms with breathtaking views over three storeys – last year. It was built in 1915 by the architect Louis Christian Mullgardt and was listed in city records as a "potential historic resource".Earlier this year Williams, 40, and his wife Sara revealed plans to demolish the house and, with the help of architectural firm Lundberg Design, build a 7,700 sq ft successor into a slope. It would be 20ft lower than its predecessor and be a "zero net energy" home using solar panels, a green roof and sun-friendly windows.Even before the application was submitted to city planners, neighbours and critics from as far afield as Canada had filed form letters of protest, a backlash which in another medium might have been called trending. "This is such a unique property and it adds diversity of architectural interest to the neighborhood," wrote one neighbour, Elizabeth Wang. "It would be criminal to demolish it."Some accused Williams of plotting to erect a McMansion. "A complete teardown of such a home would … set the stage for numerous future demolitions that will alter the character of our beloved SF Neighborhoods," one group, Friends of Parnassus Heights, wrote to thereal estate blog SocketSite."Edgewood Avenue is a brick-lined street that features a large number of Arts and Craft homes from the early 1900s." The former Twitter CEO's existing house, it added, "clearly contributes in a significant way to the beauty of this unique street and its history".Not all agree. Williams's defenders, such asproperty site Sfcurbed.com,said Mullgardt was an "architectural footnote" and that in any case his original design was ruined by a 1970s remodelling. "It may have once been charming, but … has been stripped of its dignity and details over the decades, subdivided into apartments and then rebuilt by architect Thomas Eden in what's best described as faux-Frank Lloyd Wright with trapezoidal windows."It said most objectors bemoaned the loss of a supposedly historic house they had never seen. "Many cited Evan Williams' vast wealth as a founder of Twitter as the real problem, like the ones who suggested he'd be happier in Presidio Heights." It called the campaign Nimby hate-mail.City planners are due to evaluate the demolition and building application later this month.A neighbour named Anthonytold the SF Examinerthat while he opposed the demolition he resented attempts to "bully" the Williams family. "The neighbors against this have made it clear when passing out these petitions that they plan to be inhospitable and threatening."
And so the Google doodle games continue, with perhaps the week's toughest event so far: the canoe slalom.Since Tuesday, the search engine has been providing cute little Olympic sports sims in its doodle window, with hurdles and basketball already completed. But they were mere warm-ups for this one. Simply head to the Google homepage, then click on the "Play" icon on the image.Now, it's all about tapping the left and right cursor buttons to steer your canoe along the snaking river course. You'll need to get through all the gates to avoid penalties – and watch out for obstacles such as rocks and, um, frogs.The main skill here is in steering, which is achieved by only hitting one of the two buttons until you go in the direction you need. You'll need a steady beat to avoid losing speed, and timing is paramount.In terms of influences, this game, with its combination of speed and skill, moves away from the simple button bashing classics likeHypersportsand toward the more complex multi-sports sims of the later eighties, such as Epyx'sSummer Games IIon the Commodore 64. We're also heading into the territory of Sega's pretty decent Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games.So far, I've managed it in a lousy 25 seconds – you can beat that, I'm sure. As usual, post your scores below and let's see who becomes this week's ultimate doodle Olympian.
I read about Mat Honan, the journalist who had his email hacked and his devices wiped. What should we all be doing to avoid this kind of thing?Sarah TaylorFor those who missed the story, Wired journalist Mat Honan had his Gmail and Twitter accounts hacked, which is not all that unusual. What made the story "epic" was that the hacker(s) used his Apple iCloud account to perform a "remote wipe" on his iPhone, iPad and MacBook, deleting all his data. Worse still, he didn't have backups.It was evident that something had gone wrong from the tweets the hacker sent from Honan's Twitter account and Gizmodo's account, to which it was linked. (He used to work there.) Honan went public on 3 August 2012 in a blogpost:Yes, I was hacked. Hard.At the time, he blamed his old seven-digit alphanumeric password.Honan followed up on Monday 6 August with a full account in Wired:How Apple and Amazon Security Flaws Led to My Epic Hacking. It turned out that it was not a password crack but "social engineering". The hacker had phoned AppleCare technical support and been given a temporary password to Honan's .Me account. Honan says: "It did this despite the caller's inability to answer security questions I had set up. And it did this after the hacker supplied only two pieces of information that anyone with an internet connection and a phone can discover … a billing address and the last four digits of my credit card."The billing address came from the Whois data that Honan had used to register his domain name, and the credit card numbers from Amazon. (SeeApple and Amazon patch security flaws exposed by hack heard round the worldfor more details.)Once the hacker had control of Honan's email, he could get the passwords reset on other accounts, such as Twitter.There are several things that will help prevent this from happening to you. These include: (1) use two-factor authentication; (2) don't put all your eggs in one basket; and most of all (3) backup, backup, backup.Two-factor authenticationWith two-factor authentication, security depends on two different things. Often these are something you have, such as a credit card, and something you know, such as a four-digit pin (personal identification number). The "something you have" could also be a dongle or, with biometrics, your face, fingerprints, or iris patterns. With online services, it's usually a mobile phone. Set up two-factor authentication with Gmail, for example, and when you ask for your forgotten password to be reset, Google will send a verification code to your mobile.Google's Matt Cutts has posted a video on how to do this:Please turn on two-factor authentication.Facebook introduced a similar system in May 2011. For instructions, seeIntroducing Login Approvals: "[It] requires you to enter a code we send to your mobile phone via text message whenever you log into Facebook from a new or unrecognized computer. Once you have entered this security code, you'll have the option to save the device to your account so that you don't see this challenge on future logins."But two-factor authentication can be somewhat tedious, and also there's the risk of losing your mobile. Perhaps it might be worth using an old smartphone with a prepaid (PAYG or "pay as you go") account for this single purpose.Eggs in multiple baskets…I've given this advice numerous times, but it's risky to put all your eggs in one basket. Honan was an extreme case in his dependence on Apple's iCloud, but many people are dependent on Google or Microsoft or even Yahoo. The question is, if you lost access to your account, would you also lose access to your calendar, contacts, online photos, documents, and other data?Apple, for example, wants you to use a single ID (identity) for iCloud, its App Store, buying things from iTunes etc. This is a bad idea. As far as possible, you should use different IDs, passwords, and even different credit cards for different purposes. Google, Microsoft and Yahoo have also been pushing people towards using the same account for multiple services on multiple devices, and this will get worse when a Microsoft ID is used to log on to Windows 8.Your stuff will be more secure if you spread it around.If you must use a single supplier, make sure you have backups elsewhere. For example, most email services provide "mail forwarding". Set this up so that every email that reaches (say) your Gmail inbox is automatically sent to a Yahoo, Hotmail or other inbox as well.Microsoft has just launched an improved email service at Outlook.com to replace Hotmail. Register and you can get your new Outlook inbox to fetch all the emails from your Gmail or other account, providing a backup. You've missed the opening "land grab" but plenty of good outlook.com names should still be available.… and multiple email accountsI hadn't considered this before, but Honan's case also shows that there is a risk in using the same email address for all your online accounts, which is exactly what I do. I must have a couple of dozen accounts for Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Quora, Bitly and so on, but all the password reset tokens would end up in the same email inbox.It would be more secure, but not as handy, to use a different email address for each service. This isn't impractical if you use a desktop email program such as Thunderbird, Windows Live Mail, or Microsoft Outlook, because a single "send/receive all mail" will collect email from multiple email accounts. If these addresses are only used for passwords and similar purposes, there should not be much email to collect. I'm now thinking about setting up WLM for this purpose.Creating programmatic email addresses (xyz4twitter@outlook.com, xyz4quora@outlook.com etc) would make things simpler, but if you take this approach, think of a format that's less easy to guess.Backup, backup, backupSchofield's Second Law of Computingsays data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. Preferably more. And the only person who can be held responsible for that is you.A simple solution is to have a desktop or laptop PC backed up to an external hard drive and synchronised using a program such asFreeFileSync, which is what I happen to use. There are lots of alternatives. Ideally, you should also store copies of important things online, using a service such as Dropbox, Carbonite or Mozy.Since your online storage can be hacked and deleted, it is vital to have physical backups on one or more external hard drives, thumb drives, SD cards, CD-Roms or DVDs. For more on this topic, see an earlier answer:CD, DVD or SD: what's best for backups?.One extra advantage of having 16GB of data on an SD card or USB memory stick is that you can keep it "off site" in a trusted friend or relative's house. This provides some protection from physical threats such as earthquakes, flooding, fire and theft.If you use a service that allows devices to be wiped remotely, this increases the need to have separate backups. Honan fell victim to Apple's optional Find My Mac feature, which allows users to locate and wipe a stolen device. There are similar services such asPrey, which also works on Windows, Linux and Android. Use with care.A cloudy futureThere's clearly a trend towards keeping data online ("in the cloud" is the new jargon) and accessing it from numerous devices including PCs, tablets and smartphones. While this can be convenient, it also brings risks. AsSchofield's Third Law of Computingstates: "The easier it is for you to access your data, the easier it is for someone else to access your data."Strong passwordsdon't protect you if someone using the same public Wi-Fi can easily hijack your session cookies withFiresheepand get instant access to your email and Facebook accounts. (See my previous answer,Using a VPN to protect your web use.)Also, it's now scarily easy to add a cheap, inconspicuouskeyloggerto any publicly accessible computer, as I was recently reminded byDJ Walker-Morgan.Honan wrote: "My experience leads me to believe that cloud-based systems need fundamentally different security measures. Password-based security mechanisms – which can be cracked, reset, and socially engineered – no longer suffice in the era of cloud computing."Until we come up with something better,always use secure https connectionsrather than http, when available. We now need all websites to support https all the time.
This new, weekly post will be a roundup of the best mobile and tablet games from the past seven days. Starting with this week's selection (in no particular order):Pitfall!Activision has revived its classic Pitfall! brand in a game that, as the blogosphere has been quick to note, bears a distinct resemblance to Temple Run. Less considered platforming, then, and more adrenalin-fuelled endless-running (and leaping, sliding...)iPhone / iPadMichael Jackson: The ExperienceUbisoft has ported its Michael Jackson music game from console to iOS, getting players to draw shapes on-screen to match dance moves. Four songs are included, with others available as in-app purchases. The link above is for iPhone, but there's aseparate version for iPad.iPhone / iPadHappy StreetHappy Street dangles the prospect of "a lively world where everybody was happy" (ie a bit like London during the Olympic Games). In this case, that world is populated by animals making friends, catching fish, collecting resources, and generally feeling like an inventive mobile take on Animal Crossing.Android / iPhone / iPadKingdoms &amp; LordsMobile publisher Gameloft has been shifting its focus towards freemium games, with Kingdoms &amp; Lords the latest example. It straddles two genres: FarmVille-style resource management to build your village, and strategic combat when you send your army into battle.iPhone / iPadFreekick BattleIt's been on iOS a while, but Gamevil's casual football game – slogan: "Do you suffer from an uncontrollable desire to kick balls?" – has been released for Android. It's a freemium free-kicks game with lots of customisation and upgrading, as well as online multiplayer matches.AndroidTownsmenHandyGames' Townsmen is actually one of the longest-established mobile game franchises, stretching back to pre-smartphone days. Its new version for Android is the biggest yet: a city-building strategy game featuring as much farming, mining and resource management as you can handle.AndroidSally's SpaThe latest Xbox Live-enabled game to be released for Microsoft's Windows Phone OS, Sally's Spa is a long-established spa-management game from the Diner Dash genre, where you have to keep customers happy while building up your virtual spa.Windows PhoneGasketball"The only game better than basketball" according to its blurb, this is a quirky sports-puzzler from developer Mikengreg that takes basketball mini-game H.O.R.S.E. as its starting point, then gets you to create shots to challenge friends with – either online or on the same iPad.iPadBen &amp; Holly's Little Kingdom – Big Star FunLess for adults, this is a game for children who are fans of the Ben &amp; Holly's Little Kingdom TV show – their first official iOS game from publisher P2 Games. It includes four mini-games, and multiple difficulty levels to suit different ages and abilities.iPhone / iPadEinstein Brain Trainer HDAlready available for iPhone and Android smartphones, this brain-training title from BBG Entertainment has now been upsized for Android tablets – good timing given the recent release of Google's Nexus 7. Daily tests aim to improve and measure your brain fitness, with 30 different exercises.AndroidWhat have you been playing on a smartphone or tablet this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
Fancy a million dollars? Have an idea to change the world? Then step this way. TheObserverhas been asked to put someone forward for this year's $1million TED prize and we need your nominations.Past winners of the prize include Bono and Jamie Oliver. They were nominated by the TED community and then asked to "make a wish". Oliver, for example, made it his wish to"teach every child about food"and was given $100,000 seed money to make his wish come true.This year, however, the format has changed, the prize money has been increased from $100,000 to $1&nbsp;million and the net is being cast wider and further. Anybody, from anywhere, is free to apply. The only proviso is that you need a big enough idea, worthy of a $1m investment. You can nominate yourself, somebody else, or an organisation; you – or they – just need to have a vision that Chris Anderson, the curator of TED, says, will "inspire and engage people around the globe".As organisers of TEDxObserver, one of the largest TEDx events, we've been asked to put forward our top choice and that's where we'd like to hear from you. Are you a "brilliant visionary"? Or do you happen to know one? Do you have a "world-changing but achievable wish"? Do you know of any "imaginative ideas for large-scale collaboration"? The proposals have to be submitted to TED by 31 August so we need your ideas by 21 August. We'll back the best idea and commit to helping make it happen.The most successful TED prizes have been those that have involved the most people, so think big. Bono's idea involveda global campaign to fight poverty. French artistJR, who won in 2011, successfully executed a global street art project that involved people from all over the world.As didJill Tarter's 2009 prize. The head of the SETI institute, which spearheads the search for extraterrestrial life, she used the TED prize, and the TED community, in a pioneering citizen science experiment. This brought together people from the worlds of gaming and social networks with thousands of volunteers around the world to find new ways to facilitate mass collaboration over the internet.The successful applicant, chosen by a jury this autumn will be revealed at the TED conference in Long Beach, California, next spring.How to enterFor more details on the TED prize and how to submit see www.tedprize.org and email us your ideas/suggestions/nominations attedx.observer@guardian.co.uk
Google users will be able to look for information from their personal email accounts on its search engine in a new feature being trialled by the internet giant.The opt-in trial lets Gmail users see information from their emails – such as flight details and booking confirmations – when they search Google.com.A Google.com search for "biking in London" would highlight relevant Gmail messages that mention biking in the English capital.Thetrial feature is available from Thursdayfor English-language users with @gmail.com addresses.Google search boss Amit Singhalsaid the move was part of plans to build the search engine of the future."Sometimes the best answer to your question isn't available on the public web – it may be contained somewhere else, such as in your email," he wroteon Google's official blog."We think you shouldn't have to be your own mini-search engine to find the most useful information – it should just work. A search is a search, and we want our results to be truly universal."So we're developing a way to find this information for you that's useful and unobtrusive, and we'd love your feedback. Starting today, we're opening up a limited trial where you can sign up to get information from your Gmail right from the search box."Google has faced close scrutiny from privacy campaigners about several of its products, including Gmail and its now-defunct social network Google Buzz.The company will have to tread carefully with the introduction of this feature, which users must explicitly opt in to receive.Singhal said: "These are baby steps, but important ones on our way to building the search engine of the future – one that is much more intelligent and useful than it was just a few years ago. It's a very exciting time to be working in this field."Google announced the move as part of a wider upgrade of its search engine at a press conference in San Francisco on Wednesday evening.The company expanded its Knowledge Graph feature outside the US, meaning users will be able to see personalised results gathered from the queries of 500 million internet users alongside regular search results.If an Australian user searched for "chiefs" then Google would show results for the New Zealand Chiefs rugby union team, but elsewhere this result would not be as relevant. Google also upgraded its voice search function.
Struggling mobile phone maker Nokia has agreed to sell its Qt software business to Finnish IT services company Digia Oyj as part of its strategy to sell off non-core assets.The companies did not disclose the value of the deal, which analysts said was a fraction of the $150m (£96m) Nokia paid for Norway's Trolltech in 2008.Nokia bought the Qt software through its acquisition of Trolltech and it was a central part of its strategy until 2011, when it decided to swap its own smartphone software for Microsoft's Windows Phone.The software is used by about 450,000 developers for making applications for some 70 industries.Up to 125 employees working on developing and licensing the software will move from Nokia to Digia, the companies said on Thursday.Digia said it planned to make Qt available for developing applications for Apple's iOS platform, Google's Android and Microsoft Windows 8.Tommi Laitinen, the senior vice president of international products at Digia, said: "We are looking forward to welcoming the Qt team to Digia. By adding this world-class organisation to our existing team we plan to build the next generation leading cross-platform development environment."Now is a good time for everyone to revisit their perception of Qt. Digia's targeted R&amp;D investments will bring back focus on Qt's desktop and embedded platform support, while widening the support for mobile operating systems."Sebastian Nyström, head of strategy at Nokia, said the company was proud of the contributions it has made to Qt since its acquisition of Trolltech."Digia's plans to acquire Qt mean that it can continue as a successful open source project and also offer continuing employment for many people in the community," he said.Nokia recorded a loss of €826m in the second quarter of 2012, compared to a loss of €487m in the same period in 2011. The company's mobile phone division recorded an operating loss of €474m, its second successive quarter of losses, on revenues down 26% year-on-year to €4.02bn.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Adds Personal Gmail Results Into Search &gt;&gt; AllThingsDUm. Good luck.So when participating users search for "Amazon," information from their own recent purchase confirmation emails will appear on the right rail. Or, a user could type "my flights" as a search query, and see -- directly at the top of their search results -- itineraries drawn from their flight confirmation emails."Name your shills," judge orders Oracle, Google | Ars TechnicaWith the epic legal battle between Google and Oracle winding down, Judge William Alsup today made an unusual demand: the parties need to tell the court who its paid advocates are.Alsup is worried that Google and Oracle may have "retained or paid print or internet authors, journalists, commentators, or bloggers who have and/or may publish comments on the issues in this case." The information could "be of use on appeal or on any remand to make clear whether any treatise, article, commentary, or analysis on the issues posed by this case are possibly influenced by financial relationships to the parties or counsel."Due by Friday 17 August.Google: 100 billion searches per month, search to integrate Gmail, launching enhanced search app for iOS &gt;&gt; SearchEngineLandGoogle has announced that a new "field trial"of Gmail results within Google Search results is available, a Google Now-like Google Voice Search app for the iPhone and the iPad is coming in a few days and the Knowledge Graph is going worldwide for English searchers. Oh, and a stat we haven't heard from Google for a long time. How many searches it handles: 100 billion per month.Lenovo to release ThinkPad X1 Carbon business ultrabook in August &gt;&gt; FierceMobileITThe new ultrabook is designed specifically to appeal to business users and includes a number of Lenovo's security apps and Intel's vPro technology. The new ultrabook is .71-inches thick and weighs in at 3 pounds. This is about twice as thick and twice as heavy as a third-generation iPad, but thinner and lighter than most ultrabooks.Prices starting at $1,399 up to $1,849.The measure of any tech product is how it handles... &gt;&gt; Benedict Evans..going wrong. See the picture.RIM shares rise on hopes of Samsung licensing deal &gt;&gt; ReutersJefferies &amp; Co analyst Peter Misek said RIM's strategic review process, begun earlier this year, would likely result in the Canadian company concluding that it needs to license BlackBerry 10, the operating system it is now developing."Given recent management comments in the press, it now appears that RIM is realizing what Wall Street has been saying for some time: they are a subscale manufacturer and desperately need a partner," Misek wrote in a research note on Tuesday."We believe RIM is attempting to revive discussions with Samsung regarding a BB10 licensing deal."Samsung never saw a mobile phone licence it didn't want to licence.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Here we go into Thursday, the second best day of the working week!
Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC, which briefly outsold Apple in the US only a year ago, has joined Nokia and BlackBerry on the mobile industry casualty list after a £750m crash in its stock market value.Last Friday evening, when HTC warned that its third-quarter revenues could be 45% lower than a year earlier, the company was worth 236bn New Taiwan Dollars (£5bn). In just three days' trading on the Taiwanese exchange it is worth £4.3bn.The first company to use Google's Android software, HTC was once seen as leading the smartphone revolution. Last autumn, while consumers waited for the new iPhone, HTC briefly sold more smartphones than any other brand in the US.Its subsequent decline, with shares more than halving so far this year, is a measure of how rapidly fortunes change in this fiercely competitive market.Since February, 47 foreign institutional investors, including funds managed by UBS and Invesco, have completely sold down their holdings in HTC, according to data firm FactSet. A further 88 funds have sold down their holdings in the company.The problem stems from the US, where the largest mobile networks have withdrawn subsidies from HTC in order to pump them into the two most popular brands, Apple and Samsung.According to Graeme Oxby, head of mobile at Virgin Media, HTC's slide in popularity may be "difficult to come back from". Its attempt at a comeback this spring with one of the world's most powerful phones in terms of computing speed, the HTC One X, was drowned out by the buzz around Samsung's latest Galaxy model, the SIII."The HTC One is a really good phone, but it's just lost its cachet," said Oxby. "You have seen a real polarisation towards the top end in smartphones, led by Apple. HTC are firmly in the middle, but the market has moved up. It's often difficult to comeback from that."The move towards phones that are increasingly able to do as much as a basic desktop computer has also hammered Nokia and BlackBerry maker Research In Motion, which have both issued profit warnings amid plummeting revenues.Founded in 1997, HTC is one of the newest companies in the handset business and among the most specialised. While Samsung has a history of making TVs and white goods, and Apple's heritage is in computers, HTC has concentrated on phones and pocket computers. It rose to prominence making phones to be sold as own-label by mobile networks – so-called white label products – before successfully marketing handsets under its own brand.The growth of Android helped propel it to a peak global market share of 10.7% in the second quarter of 2011, putting it in fourth position among the smartphone makers according to research firm Strategy Analytics. That share has now slipped back to 6.1%."If you've got the wrong product you can decline very fast, it is quite a frightening market to be in," said Neil Mawston, who researches handsets for Strategy Analytics. "History shows that when you decline so fast, the recovery tends to come slowly. We are looking at a two or three year time span for HTC to get anywhere near where it was before."He put Samsung's success down to greater marketing muscle and a bigger global sales force. Analyst Pierre Ferragu at broker Sanford Bernstein estimates that Samsung spends about six times more than HTC supporting its sales, while Apple spends nearly four times as much.HTC declined to comment on its share price decline, but its chief executive, Peter Chou, said in June he was hoping to increase sales in China and India to make up for falling income from the west.
They are tent poles of the economy, companies so big that for many, it can seem hard not to do business with them. Now Apple and Amazon are moving like a pair of lumbering synchronized swimmers to plug gushing leaks in their online security policies.In the last 24 hours, Apple stopped processing password resets over the phone, and Amazon stopped accepting changes to account settings – including credit card numbers and emails – over the phone.The reason? On Friday, reciprocating vulnerabilities in the two companies' security practices allowed hackers moving between Amazon and Apple to pull off an attack heard around the world – the technology world, at least.The hack exploded in the news because on Monday the target of the attack, Mat Honan, published a detailed, damning3,500-word piece about it on the technology site Wired.com, where he works as a senior writer."Those security lapses are my fault, and I deeply, deeply regret them," Honan wrote. "But what happened to me exposes vital security flaws in several customer service systems, most notably Apple's and Amazon's."NeitherApplenorAmazonis commenting on the security changes, which were first reported in Wired.The attack erased Honan's digital existence and wiped clean the contents of his iPad, iPod and MacBook hard drive, including all his pictures of his one-year-old daughter. It obliterated eight years of Gmail messages. It culminated in the hijacking of his Twitter account, which was the hackers' goal in the first place – a coveted prize, according to a hacker whom Honan succeeded in contacting, due to itsstylish three-letter handle, @mat. (Honan has since regained control of his Twitter account, and reports headway in Apple's attempt to recover his hard drive data, including the pictures.)How did it happen? The short answer is that Honan made it easy for the hackers to guess the .Me email address associated with his AppleID by using the same email prefix for multiple accounts. His use of iCloud – which Apple aggressively promotes – meant hackers could remotely wipe all his Apple devices.Honan's telling is a recommended read, not least for his description of the instant-message exchange he had with one of the hackers. In an act of journalistic aplomb, Honanpursues the hacker as a source toexplain exactly why the hack was carried out and how it worked.But the attack could not have happened without seemingly lax and interlocking security rules at Apple and Amazon. Once the hackers had Honan's Apple email, they needed only two other pieces of information to gain full access to his Apple kingdom: a billing address and the last four digits of a credit card number.The billing address was obtained through a quick search for Honan's personal web domain onwhois.com.The credit card is where Amazon came in. Before the recent change in policy, all the hackers needed to crack Honan's Amazon identity – and view the last four digits of his credit card number – was a name, an email address and a billing address. They had all three.They got the digits. Then they called back Apple."At 5:02 p.m., they reset my Twitter password,"Honan writes. "At 5:00 they used iCloud's 'Find My' tool to remotely wipe my iPhone. At 5:01 they remotely wiped my iPad. At 5:05 they remotely wiped my MacBook. Around this same time, they deleted my Google account. At 5:10, I placed the call to AppleCare. At 5:12 the attackersposted a messageto my account on Twitter taking credit for the hack."To learn how to protect against a hack like the one that hit Honan,click here. Two quick steps: make sure you use different passwords for different accounts and if you use Gmail, set uptwo-step verificationfor access to your account.The new security rules at Amazon and Apple seem to have plugged the leak used by Honan's hackers. Anattempt by Wired on Tuesdayto replicate the hack failed, after similar attempts Monday had succeeded.Do the security patches at Amazon and Apple go far enough? Unfortunately the hackers are likely to know before the rest of us do.
Somehow, everyone seems to love Popcap. It is a games company that started out in typical fashion for this industry – as a garage project shared between three young geeks. It's exactly how Doom creator id software began – although Popcap founders John Vechey, Brian Fiete and Jason Kapalka always had a very different idea of what gaming was. They originally called their company Sexy Action Cool and began working on a strip poker title, before wisely changing course and aiming at the nascent casual gaming market. They never went for gamers.Now, with offices all over the world, Popcap is responsible for some of the most successful casual gaming brands of all-time. Titles such as Zuma, Peggle and Bookworm have been downloaded 1.5bn times, with debut title Bejeweled alone selling more than 50m copies. According to the company, players spend 1.1bn hours a year glued to its games.Popcap is also an example of how to succeed in this ultra competitive industry without making vast numbers of enemies. Indeed, while Zynga's every move is debated and condemned by the gaming intelligentsia, Popcap has earned little but admiration and respect – even after it was bought out by perennial industry bogeyman, EA.So what's the company's secret? How has it managed to create a string of accessible mega-hits, from the match-three behemoth Bejeweled to the tower defence masterpiece, Plants vs Zombies? And why does no one hate them for it? Last week, during the Casual Connect conference, I spoke to several of Popcap's most senior designers and producers about how the company approaches game design, and how it operates within the industry.Here is what they revealed.1. Forget the competitionAlthough Popcap has often worked in very familiar casual genres, its designers claim to have never looked at what other developers were having success with. "It's not that we're deliberatelynotlearning from what our competitors are doing," says senior producer Matthew Lee Johnston. "We're open to whatever lessons we can learn. I think it's easy to see what's successful in the market and what isn't, but ultimately we listen to our hearts and do what we think is right for our games, not what is right because our competitors are doing it or because something seems popular. We try to make decisions that will benefit the player and make the games engaging."Amusingly, there's almost a sense of deliberate Ludditism in the company's approach to the games market. "Popcap has never been about chasing the next big thing," says franchise business director, Tony Learner. "We've almost been anti the next big thing!" It's a theme quickly taken up by Ed Allard, the VP of Popcap's development studios. "We have not been so focused on being ahead as much as responding to where players are and putting our games there – sometimes we do that slower than our competitors; in fact we always do it slower than our competitors! We often just paint our own path, we make games that we feel great about – and staying true to that sometimes gets us there a little later, but that has served us well. We don't gaze into the crystal ball and try to predict the future – we just pay attention and respond to wherever the players are at."2. Make games for everyoneAnother denial – apparently, Popcap doesn't look at new platforms like Facebook or Android or smart TV and say, "we've got to be on there"; and it doesn't target specific demographics. It just targets everybody. "We've kind of never made games for gamers," says Johnston. "We've made games for people. And if new platforms are connecting more people with games, that absolutely plays in our favour. We try to create experiences that are appealing to anyone, and platform shifts can open people's eyes to games they haven't seen."The company's games have always had a higher percentage of female players then men, but it seems that this has never shaped the design process. "There's a vein of casual gaming that's very targeted towards women I can understand and respect that," says Allard. "But it's never been the Popcap path. For every feature we add, however, we do ask, is that going to turn off a female gamer? Or a child? We put everything through that filter. We approach it inversely – it's not, will this feature appeal to a certain demographic, but will it make a certain category of person not want to play this game, and if it does, what's it doing there?"A key risk the company took in this light was the inclusion of the undead in Plants vs Zombies. When designer George Fan originally came up with the concept for the game, it was going to pitch plants against aliens – it soon became clear, though, that extraterrestrial invaders would be too smart to fall victim to a garden full of vegetable warriors, so he switched to zombies. However, the art team specifically designed the characters, not only to be rather cute and non-threatening, but also to look much less human: the horror of zombies is the idea that they were once someone alive, someone recognisable. By removing that element, the company was able to put stumbling corpses into a casual game without scaring anyone.3. Monetisation is a conversation about trustAs with many other developers in the casual sector, most of Popcap's games are now free – the revenue comes from in-app purchases, including virtual goods. It remains a controversial model, open to abuse and viewed with suspicion by traditional gamers. So how does Popcap implement it without becoming a free-to-play pariah? "We talk about that almost everyday," says Johnston. "It's an evolving philosophy. We want to create great experiences regardless of how you charge the customer and we have erred on the side of being gentle with in-app purchases so that we don't ruin the experience. But obviously this is a business - game development isn't free, so we need to make sure we have a mutually beneficial relationship with the player."Sure, that all sounds lovely, but how does that actually impact development? "From a design standpoint, people working on games at Popcap feel very connected to players, because they are players themselves," continues Johnston. "One of the metaphors that I use a lot is, imagine game design as a face to face conversation – if we're talking and money comes up in our conversation, I can either be a friendly presence, asking for money in exchange for great value, or I can be smiling at you and conning you out of the cash – that transaction point is probably the most important part of the conversation, it's the time people are going to remember the most and it's when they're going to be most sensitive. We treat that very respectfully – it has to be a positive part of the relationship. I think people do trust Popcap.""In any kind of game design you can take an approach which is very manipulative of the player from a behavioural standpoint," says Allard. "Or you can take an approach which is about providing value to the player. If you respect the players and don't try to trick them into getting out their credit card that's a win-win situation – they'll be a more loyal customer and they'll do it again. We're not a charity making games for free, but in terms of running a business - the best businesses provide you with value. That's the driving force".4. Everyone is a game designerMost truly creative game design studios organise special events where staff get together in small teams, either to pitch new ideas or to actually prototype their own games. It's how respected US studio Double Fine came up with offbeat cult gems like Stacking and Costume Quest. Turns out Popcap has a similar scheme in operation."We have this process called Popcamp, where we carve out time throughout the year and anybody within the studio can apply to participate," says Allard. "One of the underlying principles is, you can't work on it alone – you have to have a team of people behind you. Popcap began with three guys working in a garage, it wasn't one guy, because game development is a multi-disciplinary endeavour. So you have a project and you have a team and if it seems like something worth exploring you get a week to work on it. We then do a sort of expo in one of the meeting rooms where we show case all of these projects and everyone, from the marketing teams to publishing, comes and plays around with what people have created. It's a great process, and although most of them don't see more than a week's effort, some do emerge – Solitaire Blitz came out of Popcamp".Popcap also runs its own indie spin-off label,4th and Battery(the address of the development studio in Seattle), where staff can work on and release experimental projects. The label's second title, Candy Train, was created by Sophia Hohing who originally worked for an external technology group, until she asked if she could take part in Popcamp. Her prototype was so good, she was given a few extra weeks to complete it and is now on the in-house design team. "She's a great game developer," says Allard. "We may never have found her if we didn't have this structure that allows us to see what people are capable of.""It also helps people to understand the difference between an idea and the execution," says studio director Joe McDonagh. "There's a yawning abyss between those two positions. That's one of the greatest myths about this industry – that the idea is everything. It's not, it's the execution."5. Word-of-mouth &gt; marketing"The best marketing for our games is our games," says Allard. "In fact, we didn't market our games at all for the first five years." For this reason, the company tends to launch each title on one platform and let the buzz grow before considering any conversions. "Multiplatform launches tend to be about leveraging a certain amount of marketing across a lot of different platforms," he says. "But if you're not throwing a whole bunch of marketing at the launch, multiplatform is less important than seeing if the idea is really resonating. And if it resonates with a certain group then you build on that momentum. It turned out to be a good strategy – it gives our franchises a longer life and it ensures the game is the best it could be for each individual platform."6. Get back to basics for inspirationPopcap puts a lot of its success down to one simple facet: all of its staff are obsessive gamers. Yeah sure, every studio says that, but the difference here is that the team seem to be trying to get back to the fundamentals of electronic game design. "There tends to be more of a sense of going further back in time," says Allard. "It's less a bout what's hot now, and more about, well, what did I like back in the day on my Intellevision? What would be the modern equivalent of that? A lot of us are of a similar age, we grew up on Atari and Pac-Man – we're looking for inspiration that will bring to a broad group of people the feelings we had when we first experienced those introductory games."It's not just about design, it's about the experience of playing – with their excitable sound effects and visual flourishes, titles like Peggle and Bejewled hark back to the audio-visual feedback loops of those first arcade games; the strangely pleasing bleeps and blips that we all still recall. "Popcap games share an emotional reward system with the early games," says Johnston. "Back in the day, you weren't playing over multiple sessions to build up a character; there were no saves in the cloud with Pac-Man. Partly, the reward was the high score table, but primarily, it was the emotional feedback - it had to be immediate. If you think about the voice in Bejeweled that rewards you when you make a match or the 'extreme fever' in Peggle, or the little things in PvsZ that make you connect with the characters, it's not about the player building up stats over a long period of time, it's about that thing that happens right now, that feels great and sounds awesome – that's always been in the DNA of Popcap games."Allard also makes the interesting point that audio-visual feedback in a casual game provides the grammar of the experience for players who don't speak the vocabulary of gaming. "Without the history of gaming at your finger tips, you're not going to say, 'okay, where's my level up mechanism', you don't walk into it with those expectations," he says. "So all that feedback, to some degree, teaches the player what's good behaviour and what isn't - that's different from manipulating behaviour, it's about rewarding the stuff that's good for game progress."I have a good example. There used to be a sound in Bejeweled Blitz that drove me crazy because I couldn't work out what it was connected to - it was the loudest sound in the game, and it kept happening away from where my mouse cursor was. Every time it happened, I just stopped playing and thought, what was that? And it was actually the coin gems dropping in. The problem is, it was telling players that something was happening, but it wasn't connected to their actions - they may have made a bad move and a good sound happened. That's problematic. With the right kind of reinforcement – the escalating tones when you get hit pegs in Peggle, for example – you don't need to be TOLD that the more pegs you get, the higher your score: the sound and the visual feedback all do that. That stuff is important – if there's one thing we've learned about our gamers it's they won't read anything!""It's also inherent in our design philosophy that our games are things that you can keep coming back to," he concludes. "If the appeal of the game runs out when the player reaches the end, you've failed. A lot of games have that problem. But with Bejeweled, there is no end – it's just a fun experience."7. Concentrate on the experience not the featuresetCasual games are immediate and transitory. They have to be instantly accessible, yet compelling. Designing them isn't about plotting out a huge gameplay arc or narrative through line, it's about digging down to the fundamentals of the interactive experience. "What the player is doing from second to second is what we iterate on the most," says Allard. "That's different for every game. In Solitaire Blitz it's how does it feel to flip over the cards, how quickly can I click on stuff, should it be three or four decks up here? Should it be more up there? It's a moment to moment thing. And the point at which a player can sit down for just three minutes and it feels great, we start building out. The core is the biggest percentage of the time – and that's where we fail more often than where we succeed.""It's an experiential focus," continues Johnston. "We're concerned with visual polish and sound and all that stuff, but only to the point at which it combines to make a great experience – it needs to be combined with a core mechanic and a really rewarding loop. That's the thing. You need to be able to distil the game to that second-to-second experience. That's what we have a knack for."8. Understand focus testingOn the subject of focus testing, Popcap reckons the key skill here is being able to properly interpret the feedback of user groups brought in to play the games. "It's usually not about what people actually say," reckons Allard. "If you put a game in front of a non-developer – even a gamer – and they say, 'oh the zombies are too scary,' it might have nothing to do with the character design. What they're actually saying is, the zombies move too fast, I feel threatened. That's the tricky thing for the designer - to hear 'the zombies are too scary' and translate that to 'the zombies are moving too fast, there's too much threat'. User feedback is almost never a valid description of the problem."9. Trust the core mechanicForget tutorials – the core gaming mechanic should be able to teach players what they need to do as they go along – and no game should be released until it is capable of doing this. "Plants vs Zombies is actually one giant tutorial," says Johnston. "That entire experience is one long, masterfully created, linear tutorial that teaches you how each plant counters each zombie. I's a beautifully articulated journey through George Fan's mind and through this meticulously balanced experience. The game, by many publishers' standards, would have been shippable a year before we were done with it. But it progress significantly, in very subtle ways in that year and that completely contributed to the game's success – it made it possible for my three-year-old to play alongside my grandma."10. Be ruthlessApparently, Popcap is constantly working with new game concepts, but most never make it to production – indeed, the developer claims that the ratio of axed projects to released games is 20:1. "We've killed far more games than we've shipped," says Johnston. "Finishing a game is really hard – if you don't feel great about it, there are another hundred ideas waiting to be born. Why spend all that energy finishing a game you don't believe in? If you hit a point and you don't think you're proud of it, there's always something else worth working on…"
Some people think ofSmuleas a maker of novelty music apps like Ocarina, I Am T-Pain and Magic Piano – which respectively involve blowing a virtual ancient wind instrument; tapping out songs on a curly touchscreen piano; and Auto-Tuning yourself to robo-rap.Some novelties. Smule's apps have been installed 61m times so far, and in July the company had 15m active users across its collection, with users having created more than 750m songs.Magic Piano alone has notched up 21m installs and has 730k daily active users (DAUs), while AutoRap – released in mid-July 2012 – already has 3m installs and 350k DAUs. The caveat, as with many social/apps companies, is that it's unclear how all this usage is turning into revenues for the company.Even so, 15m active users for a firm that, according to co-founder Ge Wang, has been trying to "help the democratisation of music" since its first app in 2008."When we first started doing this, no one really knew what music apps meant, or what apps really meant," says Wang. "We were just going for it! Now we feel more like we understand it…"Smule has raised $25.5m over four rounds of funding since 2008, and in December 2011 drove a spot of consolidation, buying fellow music apps developer Khush – which had itself had hits with apps like LaDiDa and Songify.Prerna Gupta, Khush's chief executive who now works at Smule, says the two companies shared an ethos from the start."The goal was to make music creation accessible to people who don't have the ability to take music lessons. Our belief is that every human is musical," she says.Both Gupta and Wang offer similar explanations for their beliefs: the idea that music was once a fundamental form of human communication, but that in the era of recorded music, it became something to consume rather than create for the vast majority of people."There was no 'Am I a musician? Am I talented?'," says Gupta of the pre-recordings era. "People would just come home every day from work, get together and make music with their family and friends. We want to take technology and bring that back."The company's newest app is calledSing!and has just been released for iOS. It's a logical step on from the company's earlier app Glee Karaoke, helping people to sing songs alone, in pairs or in groups, adding vocal filters, connecting to Facebook friends and listening to other people's efforts.The songs come from a variety of artists – more than 100 at launch including big pop acts like Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga and Carly Rae Jepsen.Like some of the company's previous apps, Sing! uses a spinning globe interface for its social listening feature. This time, though, it's the homescreen of the app, rather than placed behind a menu option."Our goal has been all about making music creation more accessible to people, but sometimes they just don't feel confident," says Gupta."By putting the globe and the social features up front, and showing them people all over the world – some of whom are good and some of whom are… not so good – it really reduces the intimidation factor."Smule's Sing! app puts its social features front and centreTalking of intimidating, Smule is one of the developers forging relationships with the music industry: not just record labels, but music publishers too.To gauge the achievement in getting so many licensed tracks into AutoRap and Sing!, for example, collar a music lawyerand ask about the complexities of licences for apps that not only involve users exchanging virtual credits for songs, but which also let them create new versions of those tracks and share them on social networks."It's not a walk in the park, but we're starting to see a shift," says Gupta. "People are starting to understand that this is not something that is cannibalising sales of the music."On the one hand, Smule's apps are a potential new revenue stream for artists, labels and publishers. On the other, though, it's part of that wider democratisation threat to the established music industry."We work with the music industry. We don't see ourselves as a competitor trying to take them down," says Gupta. "And yet I can see why we may seem threatening to them, because the whole thing about recording technology has been to create this hierarchy where a very small percentage of people are professional musicians and controlling the content."She stresses that Smule isn't trying to suggest that anyone can become a professional musician by using its apps. An obvious parallel is with Instagram, which is about the joy of creating and sharing beautiful images, rather than suggesting anyone can be a professional photogapher.Even so, Wang hopes that if the main impact of music recording technology has been to concentrate music-making in a small percentage of the population, Smule and its apps are a part of the trends that could reverse that.If there's that desire in all of us to be musical, then if technology changed behaviour one way, we may be at a crossroads of using technology to pass into that part of ourselves once again," he says."We're very happy to see things moving away from the perception that you have a few individuals producing music and the rest of us consuming it. The lines are being blurred, and we want to help that happen even more."
Twitter has complied with a court order to provide the New York police department with information on a user who threatened to commit an Aurora-style attack at Mike Tyson's one-man show.The NYPD issued a subpoena on Tuesday when Twitter refused to co-operate with an investigation into an anonymous users' posts referencing last month's Aurora, Colorado movie theater shooting which left 12 people dead and nearly 60 injured.Using the now-invalid handle @ObamasMistress, someone calling themselvesAnonymous Celebrity tweeted threats including: "This shit ain't no joke yo I'm serious people are gonna die just like in aurora," and "I might just shoot up this theater in new York I know they leave their exit doors unlocked. Ha now I gotta plan it step by step."Police told the AP they received new information from Twitter "that we're using as part of our ongoing investigation," the spokesman said.Threats seemed to be directed towards the one-man showMike Tyson: Undisputed Truthwhich deals with the former heavyweight champion's harsh Brooklyn upbringing and his contentious history with women. The show, directed by Spike Lee, transferred from Las Vegas to New York this week and opening night guests included Donald Trump, Gayle King and Derek Jeter.Police increased security at the midtown Manhattan Longacre Theater – where the show is playing – in response to the threats.Twitter told the NYPD in an email:We appreciate the timeliness and sensitivity of this matter, and have reviewed the reported Twitter account. While we do invoke emergency disclosure procedures when it appears that a threat is present, specific and immediate, this does not appear to fall under those strict parameter as per our policies.Twitter's privacy policy became a subject of critical debate after itsuspended British journalist Guy Adams'profile for tweeting the email address of an NBC executive. His account was eventually reinstated and Twitter issued an apology.
US startup Ouya made a splash from the very first day of its Kickstarter campaignseeking $950k of fundingfor a $99 Android games console. It raised $2.3min its first 24 hours.Nearly four weeks later, Ouya hasraised $7.7m on the crowdfunding site, with (at the time of writing) 15 hours still to go before its deadline. Once that elapses, though, the hard work really begins for the company as it tries to deliver on its promises, while aiming to disprove its vocal critics.As a reminder, Ouya will be an Android-based games console with a projected launch date of March 2013. It will be open to any developer that wants to make a game or app for it, and the company is promising that the console will be fully hackable too.Ouya has already provided a model for a successful Kickstarter campaign, announcing regular news and partnerships throughout its four-week funding drive.That includes apartnership with cloud gaming service OnLive, which is promising hundreds of streaming console games for Ouya. Publishers like Square Enix and Namco Bandai have pledged their support, as well as indie developers U4iA and Robotoki – both launched by veterans of Activision's Call of Duty franchise.Ouya is working with open source media player XBMC, and has secured partnerships with TuneIn, Vevo and iHeartRadio from the entertainment space, hinting at its ambitions to go beyond games – a wider trend that's already evident for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.Along the way, Ouya has drawn a lot of criticism too, including concerns that the rootable console will foster piracy; the difficulty of making a device like this for $99; questions about the company's plans for its app store and global marketing; and the suggestion that even if Ouya is a success, larger TV manufacturers could simply squash it by building in similar functionality to their products.Havinginterviewed Ouya chief executive Julie Uhrmanjust before the Kickstarter campaign launched, I talked to her again at the start of its final week about some of the bouquets and brickbats coming Ouya's way, and about its plans for the future.Early feedback"We are truly excited and blown away by the support: it's amazing how well an open, affordable, accessible games console has resonated with gamers and developers," she says."A lot of people were surprised that we wanted to do something as audacious as taking on the console industry, which hasn't changed much for 20 years with its closed platforms and content that costs more than anywhere else. But people are really excited about somebody wanting to buck the trend."In truth, there is no shortage of disruptions to that traditional industry: smartphone and tablet gaming on one side, and Facebook social games on the other.Ouya's hope is that it can combine two of the key elements of both those sectors – free-to-play games and much lower barriers to entry for developers – and make them as much of a success on televisions as they have been on other devices."People started asking 'if this is possible, why hasn't it been done before by a large corporation?'," says Uhrman. "But sometimes the simplest ideas are staring you in the face, and they escape people."Uhrman accepts that Ouya hasn't provided details of its business model and launch plans as full as its critics (both constructive and less so) would have liked."We're running a business: we're not Charlie Sheen on a media blitz," she says. "We're building our business in front of people. But that allows us to have a two-way conversation with our audience, and incorporate their feedback before we finalise the development."Piracy fearsWhat about the feedback on piracy? Android is already a platform that sparks lots of debate about high levels of piracy – even though the phenomenon exists on rival platforms like iOS as well.Will a rootable console automatically lead to piracy at a level that makes it difficult for developers to turn a profit on Ouya?"Developers understand what we're doing, and those questions haven't been coming from them," says Uhrman. That's debatable: a number of developers have raised piracy as one reason to be cautious about Ouya when I've asked them, although none have seen it as a deal-breaker.But Uhrman goes on to make a good point about Ouya's focus on free-to-play games. Every title available through the console's store will be free to download initially, with developers then free to make money however they like: upgrades to paid versions, in-app purchase (IAP) for virtual items, subscriptions and so on."Piracy is one of the reasons we chose the free-to-play model," she says. "You don't see piracy on Facebook games, or on free-to-play games [on mobile]."Yes and no. Yes, in that a free-to-play focus means any piracy of game clients for Ouya simply widens the funnel of players who may then pay for stuff in-game.However, this simply shifts the scrutiny onto the security of whatever payment mechanisms are being used for in-app purchases in these games. As Apple recently found out, IAP systems aren't uncrackable. Ouya will need to choose its payment and security partners carefully.TV competitionOne of the most interesting criticisms of Ouyacame from Forbes journalist Erik Kain, who claimed that the console's "fatal flaw" was the risk that large TV manufacturers who are already involved in the Android ecosystem – he cited Samsung – could build similar technology into their TVs and kick the legs out from under Ouya's business and developer ecosystem.And when I put this question to Uhrman, in a slightly rambling way, I stumble on a different but related question: couldn't Ouya be the technology that gets built into televisions rather than existing as a standalone console?There's a very long pause."Building a great gaming ecosystem is about more than the console," she says. "We always believed that the console would die away and become a chipset on the television. But you still need a great, responsive controller and a gaming ecosystem with great developers and great games."But? "Ouya could be in a TV. Right now we are focused on building a great business around gamers and games, and right now we have to be a console connected to a television. That's where the biggest reach and biggest audience is. Who knows what the future holds? We'll have the best suite of content, and the best controller on the market…"That long pause makes sense. What Ouya doesn't need right now are opportunistic headlines suggesting it plans to get out of the console market and into TVs as soon as it can – especially when its future depends on lots of people pre-ordering its first-generation console.But it's clear there could be a future for Ouya as an open, Android-based gaming platform for connected TVs, likely via partnerships with manufacturers. And that's potentially even more disruptive in the grand scheme of things than a $99 games console – although such partnerships may bring their own challenges to Ouya's open ethos.Those debates are for the future. In the meantime, Ouya has a final funding push to complete, and a business to build."We're thrilled by the level of enthusiasm and support so far, but we're also focused on building a great product, delivering it in March 2013, and continuing to work on more great content for launch," says Uhrman.
Some took the recent news that OnLive – the cloud service with ambitions to become a Spotify for video games – is to partner with Ouya, the unreleased Android game console, as a move that will legitimise a project that has to date been viewed with widespread scepticism. After all, the more established game publishers and services that agree to have their name associated with Ouya, the less likely it is the $4m (£2.6m) Kickstarter-funded system will turn out to be an elaborate swindle.But for Bruce Grove, general manager of OnLive UK, it's more a case of ensuring his service is available to users on as many platforms as possible than providing a ringing endorsement of a piece of unknown hardware. "OnLive has always set out to work across as many platforms as we can, and it is up to device makers to develop competitive offerings," he explains. "As another platform connecting to the TV, we're keen to be available on it, just as we're becoming available on Google TVs, Blu-ray players, and media streamers."In that sense OnLive works in much the same way as LoveFilm delivers movies from the cloud – allowing subscribers to access games no matter what piece of technology they face at any one time.Users will be able to access the hundreds of games in OnLive's library through an app. "Our goal is to have all of OnLive's game library available for Ouya's launch," says Grove. All social features will remain enabled, such as worldwide massive spectating, Brag Clip sharing and voice chat.But while it's natural that OnLive would want to appear on as many hardware platforms as it can, something must have attracted the team to Ouya. "Ouya is an open game platform at a very compelling price," says Grove. "They're attempting to do something disruptive in the space, which fits well with OnLive's view of the world."For Grove and the team there is little to lose if Ouya is a giant failure. "If it's a success everyone gains, the developers, publishers, OnLive, Ouya and ultimately the consumer who gets a new form of accessible gaming into their living room," he says. "And no matter what level of success Ouya ultimately finds, OnLive users still have access to their games on all other devices, so there is no risk in giving Ouya a chance."Coming so soon after OnLive's rival, Gaikai, was acquired by Sony – a move that many are taking as a sign that cloud gaming will  appear on PlayStation 4 – there's a sense that, in the Ouya partnership, OnLive may have scrabbled around to find a hardware partnership announcement.Not so, says Grove. "OnLive partners with both top brands such as LG and Eidos/Square interactive, as well as startups/indies such as Ouya and Hidden Path Games."In a sense, OnLive's Founder, Steve Perlman, took a bet on Ouya a long time ago when he provided the seed funding for a then unknown platform called Android, upon which Ouya is based."This tradition has continued, as OnLive has supported countless indie game developers, including sponsoring developer contests and providing international distribution of the top indie games, side by side with the top major game titles."Some startups/indies transform the industry, some don't. A key priority at OnLive is to give them a chance. In the case of Android, most of the known brands from five years ago are struggling to survive today. Who knows what the next five years will bring?"Still, for many, Ouya's ambition to become a mass-market machine is unfeasible. The console is directly marketed to the modding community, an especially tech-savvy subset of game players who are drawn to the open platform's facility for tinkering. The threat of widespread piracy (an on-going issue for game makers using Android as a delivery platform) is a significant one.But Grove is not concerned that the ease with which users will be able to pirate games will undermine OnLive's presence on the platform. "OnLive hosts games that are much higher performance than can be played on Ouya's local hardware and, as such, are not directly competitive," he says. "OnLive's patented cloud game technology instantly streams games that are hosted remotely, so there is no local copy that can be pirated."Grove also disagrees that Ouya's core demographic of hackers and modders may put off the larger publishers from allowing their games to be played on the console. "Publishers love the fact games can't be pirated on OnLive, and gamers love the fact that the lack of piracy enables OnLive to great deals like our £6.99/month PlayPack subscription with over 200 games. We're looking forward to adding the ability to host modded games in the future, so great mods are accessible to any gamer, regardless of their technical know-how."It's this sense of distance that allows OnLive to support the hardware without fear of recourse if the project is a failure. When asked how OnLive will respond if, for whatever reason, the console never releases and the project's Kickstarter investors are left with nothing to show for their $99, Grove is pragmatic."This is like asking what if a product that plays YouTube videos never ships," he says. "OnLive is free and available on almost any device, so if any product (whether a TV from a major brand or a start-up device) with OnLive fails to ship, there is no OnLive cost to the user, and the user can access OnLive on another device."Despite appearances, this distancing isn't evidence of a lack of belief in the Ouya hardware on Grove's part. "Ouya's using commodity hardware with a commodity OS," he explains. "As long as they deliver on the SDK and work with a good manufacturing partner then Ouya has every chance of succeeding. It's not the first low-cost simple set-top box on the market by any means, but it is the first that's focusing on gaming, which gives it a great edge in that market."
Earlier this year Codemasters announced that, for the foreseeable future, it was going to concentrate exclusively on making racing games – which instantly piqued the interest of the car-obsessed sector of the gaming community and launched a specific topic of debate. In that case, the speculation went, the Leamington-based company will surely bring us new versions of all its four-wheeled franchises, so can we expect a new version of Grid?Now, it can be confirmed that Grid 2 is under development. It will arrive in summer 2013, on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 – and from what we have seen and played, should have what it takes to build considerably on the franchise's cult-classic reputation.Grid evolved from Codemasters' most simulation-oriented racing franchise, TOCA Race Driver (TOCA being the outfit that oversees the British Touring Car Championship). Race fans will be aware that the BTCC offers the most bruising, full-contact four-wheeled racing that anyone could crave, and Grid 2's predecessors reflected that, although the BTCC wasn't their main focus.You had to participate in a number of very different formulae, of which the likes of Formula Ford 2000, in which it was virtually impossible to corner without initiating a four-wheel drift, stood out. 2008's Grid dropped the official licence and concentrated on gritty, down-and-dirty racing across street and custom-built circuits, mostly in super-powerful rear-wheel-drive cars.Grid's standout aspect was the way in which it provided an emphatic antidote to the antiseptic, squeaky-clean nature of rivals such as the car-damage-averse Gran Turismo and particularly Microsoft's Forza. Everything in it looked a bit grease-stained and well-worn, and as a result, you could almost smell the petrol fumes when you played it.It was also the first driving game to let you rewind time (a feature much copied since), and was indeed one of the first games to come out for the Xbox 360. Now, as executive producer Clive Moody pointed out, its successor will be one of the last games for that console. Moody refused to be drawn into the likelihood of Grid 2 being upscaled for Microsoft and Sony's next generation of consoles.So what is it like?Before we could get our hands on the game, a procession of the men in charge of making various aspects of it talked us through their specialist areas. Moody kicked off by answering why it took Codemasters so long to make to a sequel for Grid."When we came into pre-production for Grid 2, it was clear that our ambitions were outstripping the technology and processes that we had, so we held back," he said.But at the end of the current console cycle, and having rewritten its driving game engine in recent years, Codemasters now feels ready. Moody set out Codemasters' overriding ambition for the game."We want to make the most immersive racing game that's out there, and within that, we want to provide the perfectly distilled racing experience," he said. "It will take place on a real-world global stage, in US, European and Asian locations – there will be no fictional areas, and all the cars will be real-world ones."Players will be able to shape their own path through the game, although there will be overall goals. And their actions and successes will be reflected in a constantly evolving world."In practice, he said, that would mean that when you started off, you would have a one-man-and-his-dog support operation, but as you progressed, you would gain access to vast, well-equipped garages, sponsors would throw money at you, and so on.Race and car variety"There will be three key types of race locations," Moody said. "Firstly, street racing – tight, wheel-to-wheel affairs through iconic city streets [which will include Chicago and Paris].""Next, there will be road-racing, which is new for the Grid franchise – taking the form of high-speed runs on open roads and long, sweeping highways, so you can put your foot to the floor for long periods. And the third element is track racing: it's still a really important part of the experience, taking in a selection of internationally renowned circuits including Abu Dhabi's Yas Marina."Associate producer Toby Evans-Jones talked us through the cars: "There will be four tiers, based on performance, so you may see, for example, American muscle-cars versus European classics."The first tier will include the likes of the Ford Mustang Mach I and the E30-shape BMW M3 Sport Evo. Tier 2 will include the Nissan Skyline GT-R R34 and the [modern] Chevrolet Camaro SS, and will introduce traction and launch-control. In tier 3, you'll find the McLaren MP4-12C and the track-special BAC Mono. And tier 4 will consist of money-no-object cars like the Pagani Huayra and the Koenigsegg Agera R, with 1,140bhp."MultiplayerAssociate producer Ian Smith stepped up to talk us through the multiplayer side of Grid 2."It's about redefining the multiplayer experience for racing games," he said. "In the single-player journey, there's a lot of customisation possible, and it's about you telling your story. But the multiplayer experience will be more about what competitive players want to do."You'll start the multiplayer from scratch, and it isn't linked to the single-player XP system. It will be a fully emergent, social experience."Codemasters confirmed that Grid 2's multiplayer side would be built on Racenet, its answer to EA's much-loved Autolog, but beyond that, it remained annoyingly vague. Undoubtedly, it will reveal more about Grid 2's multiplayer experience as time unfolds.Hands-onWith the talking over, it was time for some hands-on play. And the good news is that, while Grid (and, for that matter, TOCA Race Driver) were all about car-feel, Grid 2 has somehow managed to up that particular ante even further.First up was a road-racing sequence on swooping Californian Pacific Coast Highway roads, which looked simply stunning with cliffs on your right (so you were heading south). We were at the wheel of a pumped-up Mustang with 500-odd bhp, racing against a similarly fast and tail-happy American beast.The experience was a bit like Nascar on real roads, which required precision braking and, especially, very fine throttle-control. This stage was played on a D-Box: a hugely expensive seat, wheel and controls rig with motors that move you around to simulate real car movement. The effect was dramatic, with simply unprecedented amounts of car-feel on offer.Thanks to the D-Box, it seemed as though you could actually feel individual tyres starting to break away from the road surface, and the Mustang's handling characteristics – initial understeer followed by throttle-on oversteer – came through clearer than we have ever before experienced in a game.The other track that we were able to play was experienced in a much less esoteric manner, simply using a joypad (although the game was actually running on PCs). Its backdrop was the streets of Chicago, and given that we were driving a pumped-up Mercedes AMG SL65 Black on a pretty twisty street-circuit (some parts of which even had a concrete central reservation), it took us a while to get tuned in.But again, the car feel on offer was immense, and we soon learned to almost back the Merc into corners, braking and turning in early, in the sort of style associated with World Superbikes riders.As well as looking amazing (Codemasters talked us through the graphical innovations in Grid 2's engine at length), the Chicago track gave us an insight into the game's AI. Essentially, you could describe it as do-as-you-would-be-done-by.So, if you tend to lean on the cars ahead as you try to pass around tight corners (as we did when we started playing), you can expect to fall victim to the odd shunt from the rear. Conversely, the cleaner you as regards the cars around you, the better they will behave.The AI was also noticeably realistic, in that some of the drivers it controlled did actually make tiny mistakes, allowing you to take advantage and nip through, which contrasts with the driving-game norm of being surrounded by drivers who appear to be clones of Ayrton Senna.Even though it's early days for Grid 2, what we've experienced of it so far bodes phenomenally well. The cars feel much more real than any we've ever experienced in a game – and that includes Gran Turismo 5 and, especially, Forza, which has always felt as though it was built in a laboratory by robots.It looks magnificent, yet still exudes a pungent virtual whiff of exhaust fumes. It should make a fitting last hurrah for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.
The mother of Richard O'Dwyer, who is facing extradition to the US on copyright charges over his website TVShack.net, has reacted angrily after a leaked memo exposed a fresh lobbying effort by Hollywood studios to counter public support for the British student.Aleaked communications plandrawn up by the Motion Picture Association of America, which represents the six major film studios, urged studio publicists to focus more on the criminal activity of alleged filesharing websites.The document showed a renewed attempt by the MPAA to recruit what it called allies and third parties to speak in favour of the controversial extradition.Julia O'Dwyer described the memo as "unnecessarily vindictive" and said her son was being subjected to trial by MPAA.O'Dwyer, 24, faces up to 10 years in US prison for alleged copyright offences relating to TVShack.net, a website that provided links to places where users could watch TV shows and films online.He has been described as the human face of the battle between the content industry and internet freedom.More than 240,000 people havesigned a petition against his extradition. The petition was launched by Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales on 24 June.The MPAA'scommunications plan, which was first publishedby the website TorrentFreakand verified by the Guardian on Tuesday evening, showed the Hollywood studio industry body trying to seize control of the propaganda war that has surrounded O'Dwyer's case."The overall media coverage has been and will continue to be challenging," it said, noting UK domestic pressure on the Home Office to halt the extradition."To counter these assertions, the MPAA and its allies need a coordinated effort to focus more on the [alleged] criminal activity involved in the operation of TVShack and other similar linking sites."Ideally, this would be done through third parties – but finding third parties, especially in the United Kingdom, has been very difficult so far, so the MPAA must be prepared to respond to media requests on the issue and set the record straight to counter the misinformation campaign by our opponents."Howard Gantman, the vice president of corporate communications for the MPAA, confirmed that the memo was genuine and for internal purposes at the lobby group, which speaks on behalf of film studios including Twentieth Century Fox Film and Sony Pictures."The MPAA was reaching out to allies in the film and entertainment business who have a common interest with us," Gantman told the Guardian."The bottom line is that most of our allies do not want to go out and talk about it publicly because it's a controversial case. The allegation that this was some attempt at sockpuppeting is 100% wrong. This was an attempt to correct some misconceptions. That's all this was about."O'Dwyer's appeal against extradition is due to be heard in London in October. The case was brought by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which claims that his TVShack.net website earned more than $230,000 (£147,000) in advertising revenue before US authorities obtained a warrant and seized the domain name in June 2010.
When Steve Jobs launched the first iPhone he invited Google's former chief executive Eric Schmidt on stage, but one of the most successful collaborations in Silicon Valley is gradually being unpicked.Apple has taken another step to creating a Google-free iPhone by confirming that the latest version of its mobile software will not come with YouTube pre-loaded.The search giant has had a major presence on the iPhone since the first model appeared in 2007, with Apple's bestselling product dependent on Google for three of its most popular applications: search, maps and YouTube.Apple has already announced that Google maps will be dropped from the iOS6 software when it is released this autumn. It has now emerged that the YouTube icon will no longer automatically appear on the home screen.In a brief statement, Apple said: "Our licence to include the YouTube app in iOS has ended, customers can use YouTube in the Safari browser and Google is working on a new YouTube app to be on the App Store." The days when Schmidt had a seat on the Apple board are long gone. Since the arrival of Google's Android phone operating software as a powerful contender to the iPhone, the two companies now compete directly.While the changes to maps and YouTube may not seem earth moving, speculation is now mounting that Apple will oust its rival from its most lucrative iPhone stronghold. Google is the default search button when using the Safari browser on iPhones. It is a privilege that is said to cost Larry Page and Sergey Brin's company $1bn a year in shared advertising revenues.The iPhone accounts for two thirds of mobile web browsing, making the position of default search option a major revenue earner for whoever holds it. Apple has already dumped Google in China in preference for the country's native firm Baidu, and in the west may decide to give its prime spot to Yahoo or Microsoft's Bing engine. News of any change could come as early as 12 September, the date on which Apple is expected to unveil the iPhone 5.
On Tuesday, it was hurdles; today, it's hoops. Yes, Google has given over its Olympic doodle to another mini-game this morning. This time, visitors to the Google homepage get to lob basketballs through a hoop by pressing the space bar.It's a slightly more demanding simulation than yesterday's, and it took me a few goes to get the feel of it. You hit the bar once to prepare the shot, then again to launch the ball, and the timing between the two strokes denotes the power. As the seconds tick down, your player moves further from the basket, so you'll need to minutely adjust your tapping speed – if you're skilful enough you'll be able to get in a couple of three pointers before the clock runs down.While the hurdles game was clearly inspired by eighties coin-ops such as Hypersports, today's challenge is much more similar to all those smartphone titles where you lob crumpled pieces of paper into a bin (check outPaper Tossif you haven't already – that'll be the rest of the day wasted).Anyway, I've just sunk 27, so that's the one to beat. Add your scores in the comments section below.
It's hardly the biggest gaming surprise of the year, but Codemasters has officially announcedGRID 2, the sequel to its successful urban driving title, Race Driver: GRID. Set for release in 2013, the game is once again set to mix street races with licensed circuits and scary mountain passes. Events will take place across the US, Europe and Asia with new cities Paris and Chicago joining locales such as Miami and Abu Dhabi.The game is using the next-generation of Codemasters' in-house EGO engine, the tech behind all of its most recent racing titles. The developer is promising advanced AI and damage calculations, as well as a new TrueFeel handling system, which apparently combines authenticity with intuitive feedback. Along with split screen two-player, there will also be lots of online modes, all supporting Codies' new RaceNet community feature, which – like EA's Autolog – offers a social framework for online competition and challenges."GRID's back and we're going to make street, track and road racing exciting again," promises exec producer, Clive Moody. "The core design philosophy for GRID 2 is that we treat the race as a character, not a consequence of simply putting cars on tracks. Everything that goes into the game impacts on that second-to-second, in the moment, blockbuster drama – the feel and personality of the race."The game, then, is clearly being pitched as a sort of flashy cinematic counterpoint to the off road thriller, Dirt, and the serious F1 simulations. The company will no doubt be revealing more at next week's Gamescom event in Cologne.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's Massive Metro Mistake &gt;&gt; PCMag.comIt's tough being Microsoft right now. As always, the company must balance the needs of basically conservative desktop and enterprise customers with the opportunities offered by new, growing markets. Windows 8 could hit that balance, but the balance is delicate. Forcing non-touch-screen devices into Metro - whoops, I mean µ - and crippling Windows RT out of the gate are two choices on the wrong side of the line.Payback: Samsung says Apple destroyed evidence &gt;&gt; AppleAbsolutely no love lost here.Samsung's 2010 Report Says its Galaxy Would Be Better If it Were Just More Like the iPhone &gt;&gt; AllThingsDCould this be central to Apple's case?In short, the evaluation report makes the case that the Galaxy (identified here as the "S1?) would be better if it behaved more like the iPhone and featured a similar user interface. And it appears to play directly into Apple's charge that Samsung "slavishly copied" the iPhone.After Epic Hack, Apple Suspends Over-the-Phone AppleID Password Resets &gt;&gt; Wired.comThey moved quick.Apple on Tuesday ordered its support staff to immediately stop processing AppleID password changes requested over the phone, following the identity hacking of Wired reporter Mat Honan over the weekend, according to Apple employees. An Apple worker with knowledge of the situation, speaking on condition of anonymity, told Wired that the over-the-phone password freeze would last at least 24 hours. The employee speculated that the freeze was put in place to give Apple more time to determine what security policies needed to be changed, if any.See below.Amazon Quietly Closes Security Hole After Journalist's Devastating Hack &gt;&gt; Wired.comOn Tuesday, Amazon handed down to its customer service department a policy change that no longer allows people to call in and change account settings, such as credit cards or email addresses associated with its user accounts.How Apple and Amazon Security Flaws Led to My Epic Hacking &gt;&gt; Wired.comFrightening:On Monday, Wired tried to verify the hackers' access technique by performing it on a different account. We were successful. This means, ultimately, all you need in addition to someone's e-mail address are those two easily acquired pieces of information: a billing address and the last four digits of a credit card on file.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Mid-week gaming chat, ahoy! (You can talk about the Olympics as well if you like.)
It's been hailed as one of the greatest zombie games of all time and a boot up the rotten arse to a genre that's currently being flogged to (un)death. And soon, DayZ will be released as a standalone title, in an extended and polished form.If you're not a veteran PC gamer you might not be familiar with the concept of 'modding', in which fans of a particular title, use the source code or editing kits (often made freely available by the developer) to construct whole new gaming experiences. Such mods are then distributed online and almost always require the original title in order to run.Launched earlier this year in a very early build,DayZis an open-world zombie adventure, which pitches players into the middle of a zombie apocalypse. Here, amid the scarred environments of the fictitious Eastern European hellhole, Chernarus, particpants must search for food and weapons while avoiding the murderous intentions of both the computer-controlled undead and other players who are also trying to eek out an existence in this barren online wasteland.Developed by ex-soldier Dean "Rocket" Hall, the game is a mod of Arma II, a military shooter released by Bohemia Interactive back in 2009. DayZ requires players to purchase both the original Arma II and its expansion pack, Operation Arrowhead, before it can be downloaded and installed, but once its on your PC it chucks you into a nightmarish world of constant threat and unending dread. Participants can break bones, go into shock or starve to death, and most other people they meet are hostile – recalling the gruelling narratives of The Road and Walking Dead.Despite its amateur origins, DayZ has beenheraldedas one of the best PC games of the year by popular gaming blog, RockPaperShotgun, an opinionsharedby writers at US news site Kotaku. (There's also an excellent introduction by Andy Kellyhere.) The title now boasts over one million signed-up players and is likely to figure in many games of the year lists.And today, Hall announed that Bohemia Interactive, which has supported the mod since its successful inception (and not just for altruistic reasons: DayZ caused a huge spike in sales for the three-year-old Arma title), is going to develop a standalone version of the game, with its creator as project lead. "This is the fairy-tale outcome for a mod that many would have said impossible four months ago,"exclaimed Hallon his development blog.This is by no means the first example of a mod being subsumed into a professional development set-up. First-person shooter classics Counterstrike and Day of Defeat started out as mods of Half-Life, while classic team-based blaster Team Fortress was a modification of Quake.There are no details on the project just yet, but it's likely that some of the rougher edges of the game will be evened, and new features added. Hopefully, this will be achieved without losing the fundamental appeal of the game – a narrative-free sand box of death and dispair and a unique study of human behaviour within a virtual environment that gives no guidance on how players co-exist.
Facebook has made its first move into online gambling in the UK, launching a virtual bingo machine that offers real cash prizes.Britons aged 18 and over will be able to stake real money on the new Facebook game,dubbed Bingo Friendzy. The US social network plans to introduce virtual slot machines in the coming weeks.Facebook insists that its controls will prevent anyone aged under 18 from gambling, but the move is likely to provoke some concern from parents whose children spend vast amounts of time on the site.Bingo Friendzy has been developed by the gambling giant Gamesys, which runs several big-name jackpot sites including the Sun Bingo and Caesars Casino.When a user signs up to Bingo Friendzy, they are asked to enter their personal details and confirm their date of birth. They are then asked to enter bank account details and make a deposit of between £10 and £500 to begin playing.The game will not be regulated by the UK gambling commission because Gamesys is based in Gibraltar. The governmenthas said it plans to make any company offering gambling services in the UK comply with the country's regulatory regime.According to media regulator Ofcom, nearly two thirds of internet users in the UK are on Facebook. The average UK user spends six and a half hours a month on Facebook, which was the most popular internet destination behind Google search in March.A spokeswoman for Facebook said: "Facebook is a place that allows people to connect and share. Real money gaming is a popular and well-regulated activity in the UK and we are allowing a partner to offer their games to adult users on the Facebook platform in a safe and controlled manner."Facebook said it had no immediate plans to expand the venture to other markets, but the site could partner with other companies to launch new games in the UK.Many countries outside the UK have more burdensome regulatory regimes for online gambling. In the US, for example, online gambling is largely prohibited in all but some states.The venture into online gambling had long been expected for Facebook, which generates a growing amount of its worldwide revenues from gaming.In the three months to 30 June, £123m ($192m) out of Facebook's £760m ($1.2bn) in revenues were generated from payments made in games such as Zynga's Farmville and Mafia Wars.Licensed UK gambling is forecast to reach £10.0bn by 2012, according to the market intelligence firm H2 Gambling Capital. European interactive gambling was worth €8.3bn (£6.6bn) in 2009 and is expected to reach €12.6bn (£10bn) by 2012.
This week on Tech Weekly,Aleks Krotoskilooks at the young coding revolution taking place in the UK. Firstly we talk to the founder of Rewired State, Emma Mulqueeny, about her Young Rewired State festival and Aleks meets two of the festival's coding competition judges: actor, model and tech entrepreneur Lily Cole and Downing Street adviser Jonathan Luff.Finally we have a special feature interview with gaming legend David Braben about his Raspberry Pi project. Guardian games correspondentKeith Stuartdiscusses at length why Braben was inspired to create this DIY educational computer and why learning code in school and after school clubs is the lifeblood of a dynamic tech industry in the UK.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple has claimed an internal Samsung document showed that the 2007 iPhone launch triggered a "crisis in design" at its great rival, at the start of the second week of the US court battle between the two technology giants over patents.On Monday Apple also turned to a veteran designer to bolster its claims that Samsung Electronics copied the iPhone. Apple called Peter Bressler, a college professor with electronics design experience and some 70 patents to his name, who analysed Samsung gadgets and the iPhone and iPad.This came at the beginning of the second week of the trial between the world's most valuable tech company and rival Samsung, which has edged past Apple in market share and is intent on expanding its American footprint.The US company accuses Samsung of copying the design and some features of its iPad and iPhone, and is seeking billions of dollars in damages and sales bans. The Korean company says Apple infringed some of its key wireless technology patents.On Monday, lawyers for Apple showed an internal Samsung document that likened the look of their rival gadgets to "heaven and Earth" and described a "crisis in design".But Samsung strategy chief Justin Denison called that kind of language "hyperbole", saying it sounded like something senior executives would have used to motivate and energise employees."What we would like to be able to do is just compete in the market," Denison said. Asked by Apple attorney Bill Lee whether there was a difference between competing "fairly and squarely" and taking someone else's intellectual property, he said: "Yes."When Bressler was giving evidence Monday's hearing quickly descended into a laborious rundown on design differences between the iPhone and Samsung gadgets, as the Korean firm's lawyer – Charles Verhoeven – used visuals and real phones to try and prove his point.The plethora of examples included different curvatures of corners, sides that protrude marginally above the screen, different positions for "lozenge" earpieces, even encircling bezels that are not uniformly thick."You're asking me to compare peanut butter and turkey," a slightly exasperated Bressler quipped after about an hour of grilling, and Verhoeven quickly asked which design was which lunch treat. "This is a level of detail that the ordinary observer would never be interested in looking at," Bressler replied."The overall impression that the ordinary observer would have of that design, is that they're substantially the same," said Bressler, who has worked with Motorola and other technology clients."I do not believe they should be investigating teeny little details, one at a time," said Bressler, who lectures at the University of Pennsylvania and founded design firm Bressler Group.Bressler said he read numerous depositions of Apple employees and discovered the company employed special machine processes, for instance. He also examined a number of gadgets, and Apple's patents on file before forming his conclusion that Samsung had borrowed multiple Apple design elements.The trial in downtown San Jose mirrors a fierce battle for industry supremacy between Apple and Samsung, which between them account for more than half of worldwide smartphone sales.It is one of many disputes between the two around the world that analysts see as partly aimed at slowing the spread of Google's Android, now the world's most used mobile software.The trial has already granted Silicon Valley an unprecedented peek behind the curtain of Apple's famously secretive design and marketing machine.On Friday, lawyers showed Apple vice president Eddy Cue urging then-chief operating officer Tim Cook in January 2011 to build a mini-iPad because he believed there was a market for a seven-inch tablet. Late co-founder Steve Jobs was "receptive" to the idea, according to Cue's email, fanning speculation Apple plans to make a mini-iPad to take on cheaper gadgets from Google and Amazon.
Music apps and children's apps are two of the most creative and innovative categories in modern-day app stores, but also two of the hardest to make money from. It's a brave company that looks to make its fortune from music apps for kids, then.Gabuduckis that company. The Las Vegas-based developer's first two iPad apps were released in July 2012: storybookMiko and Cola, andKBC Kids – Kid Friendly Hip Hop.Both include music-making as key features, with children tapping characters and items in on-screen scenes to trigger samples and loops. Gabuduck used a technology called Art Jam from another startup,Moonrider, to make this happen.The company was co-founded by chief executive Angela Abshier, a "recovering IP lawyer" with a music industry background, and partner John McClain, an Emmy and Grammy-winning sound designer."Music is central: we are working with as many musicians as possible and relying largely on the marketing power of some of the personalities we are using," says Abshier."Every musician to have a child wants to be in this space. We are using them as voice talent, licensing existing tracks and commissioning new works."Gabuduck customised Art Jam's interface after meeting its developer in January at the CES show, but it's also working on its own "kid-friendly mixing studio" for future apps.The company is already working on its next app, Go Go Greta, a storybook app that involves two music artists. Lisa Loeb is providing the voice narration, while the theme song will come from a band called Happy Racers.Loeb is also on board for an app called Jenny Jenkins, where she'll take the form of a guitar-playing cat. "We've created these amazing music homages," says Abshier. "Black sounds like Johnny Cash, and yellow sounds like The Beatles…"Gabuduck is hoping to create new revenue streams for artists at a time when many are looking beyond their traditional live and recordings income. The company is also ambitious beyond this."We would love to have a music subscription service," says Abshier. "If ArtJam connects and people love it, we will absolutely put it all in one place and charge a small monthly fee, and constantly update."Like other companies making apps for children, especially new startups, Gabuduck needs to build trust with parents. Abshier says the company has decided that "there will never be ads in our apps", although it is using in-app purchases.So, KBC Kids costs £1.99 and includes two songs to play with, then charges 69p for a third, with more to come. Miko and Cola also costs £1.99, which includes its storybook element, then charges 69p for the ArtJam songs."We have worked hard to create proprietary parental controls: when you buy a Gabuduck app, it is delivered in a locked state," says Abshier."For us its about the consumer, and we have two: the parent and the child. We want parents to trust us and kids to be delighted by what we create… Our apps are expensive to produce. We will always charge premium prices but we believe that you get what you pay for."
For the past ten days, Google has been celebrating the Olympics with a range of doodles depicting key events. Well, today's is something special – a functioning hurdles sim.On visiting the Google homepage and pressing the little play button, you have to quickly tap the left and right arrow keys to get your athlete sprinting along the track, then smash the space bar to tackle the hurdles. At the end of the race you get a time that you can share with friends via Google+; you can even clock on the little search icon to check out the best times during the actual Olympics.The mini-game is, of course, a tribute to Konami's classic arcade games Hypersports and Track &amp; Field, which both presented a range of sports for players to compete in by frantically bashing alternate buttons or waggling joysticks to build up speed. The titles spawned a whole genre, which quickly moved onto the home computers of the era, via legendary titles like Daley Thompson's Decathlon and Epyx Summer Games.Anyway, have a go this morning, and let us know your score in the comments section.
It's Tuesday, let's reallytalkabout games!
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow many iPhone 5s will be sold? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu estimates that Apple is likely to sell 250 million iPhone 5s.Google records show book scanning was aimed at Amazon &gt;&gt; paidContentInteresting:Google has so far spent more than $180 million on book scanning and, at the outset of the project, one of its stated goals was to keep web searchers away from Amazon. These are among the details set out in a new court filing by the Authors Guild, which is locked in a long-running case over the search giant's decision to digitize libraries.Apple design expert calls Samsung a copycat &gt;&gt; CNET NewsOutsiders brought into the fold in Apple-Samsung patent dispute.Google Slaps $100M Golden Handcuffs On Wildfire To Retain Employees After $350M Acquisition &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe price of doing business.Apple: YouTube app will not be included in iOS 6, Google working on standalone version &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle working on a new version. Apparently.Apple obviously did away with Google Maps in iOS 6, but another of the web giant's biggest properties won't be available as a default option, either. 9to5Mac noticed that the latest beta version of iOS 6 no longer includes the long-standard YouTube app, and Apple just told us that its license to include YouTube in iOS had expired.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Wikipedia was inaccessible globally for a couple of hours on Monday after someone accidentally cut through fibre cables connecting its servers in Florida.The online encyclopedia was down for about two hours on Monday afternoon after the mishap near its worldwide data centre in Tampa, Florida.The site was brought back online at about 4pm UK time, 11am Eastern Standard Time in the USA.A spokesman for the site said there was no suggestion of foul play for the outage.He said that two overland cables were cut between Tampa and Virginia, which took down the website for just over an hour. It took another hour to bring the site back online, although some services were still not fully accessible.The rare outage prompted a flurry of quips on Twitter."Wikipedia is down. I don't know anything anymore,"tweeted Guillermo Esteves.The Twitter user Lexexclaimed: "Oh my god, Wikipedia is down. WHERE IS ALL THE KNOWLEDGE? WHAT ARE WE TO DO WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE?".David Bedwellreplied: "@lexcanroar QUICK. GRAB ENCARTA."Wikipedia is renowned for its reliability, despite lacking the financial resource of several other major websites. The site is run by the Wikimedia Foundation, a charity that relies on donations.Its last blackout was deliberate, when Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales brought the site offline for 24 hoursin protest at antipiracy laws being debated in the US.The outage is reminiscent of the Georgian woman who inadvertently sliced through an underground cable in March 2011, cutting off internet services to all of neighbouring Armenia.The woman, 75, had been digging for the metal not far from the capital Tbilisi when her spade damaged the fibre-optic cable. Large parts of Georgia and some areas of Azerbaijan were affected.
Streaming radio serviceTuneInhas raised $16m (£10.2m) in its latest round of funding, while announcing that it now has more than 40m monthly active listeners.The service, which is available as a website, mobile apps and through connected hi-fis and TVs, helps people stream more than 70,000 radio stations, while also providing on-demand shows and podcasts.Its success comes alongside similar growth for personal radio service Pandora, which had 54.5m active listenersat the end of June 2012, all in the US. TuneIn's audience is global: the company says it has listeners in 230 countries and territories, and stations from 206.The company's latest funding round was led by venture capital firm General Catalyst Partners, with Jafco Ventures, Google Ventures and Sequoia Capital all chipping in.The round follows $6m raised in 2010, bringing its total to $22m. Chief executive John Donham said in a statement that it will be spent hiring new staff and investing in product development and marketing.TuneIn's mobile apps have been the key driver of its growth. The company says that its number of mobile listeners increased by 267% in the last year, with the amount of mobile "listening hours" increasing by 348% in the same period. TuneIn hasn't revealed specific numbers for either metric.The company is also benefiting from the fact that it's not a competitor for traditional radio stations like Pandora, but a supporter and potential partner. It has deals with radio broadcasting groups including CBS, NPR and Entercom.TuneIn is hoping to help stations keep their audiences as those listeners switch to streaming as their preferred way to access radio. As Donhamtold The Guardianin January 2012: "DJs still play tastemakers. The place that people are still discovering the majority of their music is the radio: this person that's there and hand-selecting pieces of content."Besides Pandora, TuneIn's key competitor in the US is iHeartRadio, the service belonging to Clear Channel, which offers a streaming combination of traditional stations and Pandora-style personalised channels.iHeartRadio had more than 45m unique users in April 2012, with 10m of them registered to use its personal channels. Also in the US radio mix is Spotify, whose own personal radio feature is available in a free version of its iOS and Android apps in the US.
On Friday afternoon, Lucy Bradshaw, the general manager of games studio Maxis,posted a message on the site of her publisher, Electronic Arts. The company would be filing a lawsuit against social gaming giant Zynga for copyright infringement, alleging that Zynga's Facebook game The Ville is a direct copy of EA's own Sims Social. The blog post was angry, passionate and determined, ending with the following declaration:As a longstanding game developer, I know what it feels like to pour your heart and soul into creating something unique and special for your fans to enjoy. Today, we hope to be taking a stand that helps the industry protect the value of original creative works and those that work tirelessly to create them.Later, US game site Joystiqreproduced the legal document in full. In it, Electronic Arts has pinpointed a range of significant similiarities between the two games, with certain animations, gameplay elements and virtual goods highlighted via screenshot sequences. The accompnying text is unequivocal:Zynga's The Ville, released on June 26, 2012, is an unmistakable copy of EA's The Sims Social. Not only does The Ville blatantly mimic the entire framework and style of gameplay in The Sims Social, but it so closely copies the original, creative expression and unique elements of The Sims Social – ie, the animation sequences, visual arrangements, characters' motions and actions, and other unique audio-visual elements – that the two games are nearly indistinguishable.This is, of course, not the first time that such accusations have been levelled against Zynga. The company has faced legal action from developer SocialApps over the similarities between its own title myFarm and Zynga's Farmville. And in 2009, the creator of the Facebook mafia sim Mob Wars sued Zynga for copyright infringement, due to the latter's comparable title, Mafia Wars. Last year, the Learning Companytook legal action against Zynga, alleging that the use of the phrase Oregon Trail in Zynga's Frontierville title infringed its copyright.In the past, Zynga has always defended its approach to genre iteration. When Gamesblog interviewed company chief executive Mark Pincus recently, he said: "We don't believe companies should appropriate other people's artwork. But we don't believe that companies have any ownership on a category or a genre just because they were first or more popular."True enough, the company has issued a statement vigorously defending itself against EA's accusation, with Zynga's general counsel declaring:It's unfortunate that EA thought that this was an appropriate response to our game, and clearly demonstrates a lack of understanding of basic copyright principles. It's also ironic that EA brings this suit shortly after launching SimCity Social which bears an uncanny resemblance to Zynga's CityVille game. Nonetheless, we plan to defend our rights to the fullest extent possible and intend to win with players.So, is there a case? Despite EA's wealth of compelling evidence, it's far from certain. The criteria for copyright infringement cases are stringent and complex. Game concepts cannot be copyrighted and a selection of graphical similarities between two games would not usually be enough to prove such a claim. Even major gameplay similarities wouldn't be sufficient – unless it can be proven that a developer has effectively stolen the original source code of another company, which is not the case being brought here."In the case of video games, copying functionality does not amount to copyright infringement," says Alex Chapman of media law firm Sheridans. "Where successful claims could be brought is in the area of artistic copyright, which protects the visual appearance of the game. In most titles that is very difficult to prove because when you are simulating real-world objects there are going to be similarities in how those are represented. It would have to be an infringement of a very specific art style – for example, the look of Habbo Hotel, which is very distinctive. But even then, you have to show that a developer has reproduced asubstantialpart of the original artistic work."The problem is in defining exactly how unique all of the elements highlighted by EA actually are. "The isometric view is commonplace, it's shared by hundreds of games – it's not original to any EA title," says Chapman. "Also, it's a girl getting in to bed – is that an infringement? How else could you represent that in a 2.5D view? The fact that there are several similarities does not make a difference – copyright law does not protect the overall feel of a game. I think this case will illustrate how difficult it is for rights holders to protect their products against clones."One possible angle for EA may be in the similarity between whole animated sequences. In this sense, the company could argue that Zynga has infringed a dramatic work, rather than a single still image, which could lead to a copyright claim – but again, it would depend on the uniqueness of the sequence in question. A girl getting in to bed might not be enough.It's certainly an interesting and compelling case, however, complicated by the fact that Zynga employs several designers recruited from Maxis including Jenny Martin and Chris Trottier, once a lead designer on The Sims. EA is unlikely to put time and financial resources behind a case it has no possibility of winning, but this also feels like something of a creative rebuke to Zynga. There will certainly be plenty of schadenfreude directed at the social gaming company, which has based its model on 'iterating' established genres and genre leaders.And will a victory for EA be a nail in the coffin of clone culture? Chapman is unconvinced. "This case will probably just illustrate how difficult it is for developers to prevent the creation of clones and if it doesn't then it will just tell the industry that Zynga went too far. There is a point at which there is no infringement and future clone developers will make sure they go as far as that line without crossing it."There are possibly also question marks over the use of such legal action in the games development field. Maxis has put forward a strong, highly charged case and the need to protect the innovations of developers is vital, especially in this era of smaller studios competing against vast corporations. But the line between copying and iteration can be fuzzy, and if a precedence is set it won't just be controversial companies like Zynga that are affected."Overall, while I am keen not to prejudge anything, the point is that the industry is built on the concept of copying without infringing," says Chapman. "And there is a very significant difference between 'copying' and 'copyright infringement'."If you look at video games from the beginning, had the law allowed all developers and publishers to enforce the rights in functionality or feel from day one, we probably would have found that there could be no innovation in the industry. If the law allowed the creators of Space Invaders, Pong, Pac-Man and Doom to retain sufficient rights, games that borrowed mechanics from those titles would never have come about. The industry is built on the concept of innovation through iteration, and that's what Zynga will claim that it's doing."•The Guardian has approached both EA and Zynga for comment, and will update this story when they reply.
A Twitter feed which helped people find tickets for "empty seats" at the London Olympics has been reinstated days after being blocked by the authorities.The@2012TicketAlert servicehas been helping tens of thousands of people find last-minute tickets and was set up a week ago by a man trying to get seats for the gymnastics for his fiancee.But it was shut down on Friday by a  running on Ticketmaster servers designed to root out potential touts trawling their database for tickets.The decision prompted protests from the near 30,000 Twitter users who had started following the feed and a slew of bad publicity for the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.Web developer Adam Naisbitt, who set up @2012TicketAlert, said he believed Locog was aware it had been closed down, but said technically it was TicketMaster who blocked and reinstated his seat-seeking service."I got a call at 9pm on Friday night from Ticketmaster to establish who I was and then to make sure the script didn't interfere with their own system," he said.Naisbitt, who runs his own technology firm in Milton Keynes. "I was trying to get tickets for my fiancee for the gymnastics finals on Tuesday. If you go to the official site, you have to look for seats, see they are unavailable and have to sit there refreshing your screen until they are available and then by the time you get through to the Ticketmaster booking screen, they can be gone."I thought there must be a better way and wrote the script. I still haven't got tickets for the gymnastics though," he said.He put the program together after amassing session codes for more than 500 Olympics events and then working out how to crawl the Locog data to alert to any changes at those sessions. Once tickets became available his script created an alert that was then be pushed out on Twitter for anyone to see."You still have to be quick. Sometimes there are only two tickets available and they can be gone within five seconds of the Twitter alert," Naisbitt said.A spokesman for Ticketmaster said: "We didn't target this guy, it was just an IP address that was acting unusually."He added: "Once Adam Naisbitt approached Ticketmaster and Locog, and we were able to establish that the activity was legitimate, we discussed with him the best way to re-enable access without compromising the performance of the website or the experience of consumers. We have now unrestricted @2012TicketAlert and we will to continue to remain focused on ensuring that the London 2012 website can sell as many tickets as possible to get even more sports fans to the Games."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 4 August 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)PC (0)62 (2)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (13)Wii (13)73 (3)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (63)3DS (36)364 (5)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (46)PC (2)295 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (37)PC (15)366 (11)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (20)PC (13)357 (7)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)3DS (2)DS (1)68 (16)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (34)PC (12)409 (4)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)PC (3)1110 (6)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (44)PC (5)Wii (2)3711 (9)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (25)Wii (14)PSP (12)4512 (15)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (43)PC (3)513 (18)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (32)5614 (–)Risen 2: Dark Waters (16+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (30)115 (13)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1316 (14)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (45)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (17)3DS (7)2917 (19)WWE '12(12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)918 (20)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1519 (10)Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance(12+)3DS (100)320 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)12UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
When it comes to launching an app with a bang, developers have several baskets to put their eggs in. Pray for Apple and Google to feature you on their app stores. Spend a fortune on advertising, mobile or otherwise. Turn to promotional networks that are legit (Free App a Day and its peers) or otherwise (bot farms).Or call Justin Bieber. Well, his manager Scooter Braun, more likely. Bieber is one of the celebrities whose endorsement – often related to his investment – can drive downloads for an unknown app. But how big is this Bieber Effect really?Social ratings appStampedis the latest to benefit, with Business Insiderbreathlessly claimingover the weekend that "One Little Tweet from Justin Bieber Boosted This New Startup To The Top Of The App Store".Atweet from Bieber– "this just happened! CHUCK NORRIS is #STAMPED . lol" with a link to his account on Stamped led to a surge in downloads for the app, sending it into the Top 100 Free Apps chart on the App Store, and the Top 10 in the social networking category – both in the US.The effect was short-lived. At the time of writing, Stamped has fallen out of the Top 200 Free Apps chart, and has slipped to 28th in the social networking chart.AppData, which only measures the number of users who connected the Stamped app to their Facebook account,suggests the app jumpedfrom 6,812 monthly active users (MAUs) on 3 August – the day of the tweet – to 7,866 two days later.Not such a big leap given Bieber's 26.2m Twitter followers, really.The Bieber Effect was more in evidence for video-sharing app Viddy, which Bieber adopted in May 2012 – posting avideo of himself shirtlessat a photo shoot and tweeting the link to his followers. Unsurprisingly, it was quite popular.Bieber has sinceattracted 239k unique followerson Viddy, which grew fast to a peak of more than 16m MAUs in July, although it hassince been sinking againto its current 8.4m MAUs. More on that later.What Viddy and Stamped share isn't just Justin Bieber as a user, but Justin Bieber as an investor. Forbesreported in Maythat Bieber had already invested in Stamped, with Viddy to come. It also cited Spotify, Tinychat and Sojo Studios as previous investments."In a typical Bieber deal he'll put in about $250,000 at the favorable pricing generally reserved for smart money—the kind of strategic partners that help a company long term. Braun won't disclose the size of Bieber's portfolio but says it's between 2% and 5% of the singer's net worth. FORBES puts Bieber's fortune at about $80 million, which translates to somewhere in the ballpark of $3 million in venture investments."Bieber certainly isn't the only example of this. His girlfriend, Selena Gomez,invested in social app Postcard on the Runin November 2011, and Shakirachipped into Viddy's last round of funding too. Outside apps, Lady Gaga and her manager Troy Carterinvested in social media startup Backplane, and used its platform to build her Little Monsters fan community.The appeal of pop-star investors is clear for startups: they have money, and they have fanbases and social media profiles big enough –in theory– to help apps cut through the ferocious competition on the app stores.Savvy managers like Carter and Braun are at the forefront of a growing realisation among top-tier musicians that $250k spent on a promising startup rather than a video / second mansion / inflatable Eiffel Tower for the live show may be money well spent if its ultimate exit is lucrative.The money aspect is persuasive, but the theory that pop stars can turn an app into a hit through social media alone is less convincing – check those Stamped figures from the last weekend, or Viddy's ongoing slide.Entrepreneur and investor Chris Dixon has just published aninsightful blog poston why "Ten million users is the new one million users", giving this advice:"For consumer startups with non-transactional models (ad-based or unknown business models), you need something closer to 10 million users versus 1 million users to get Series A funded."For all Justin Bieber's social media clout, he's unlikely to send a startup like Stamped soaring through the 1m users mark, let alone 10m. But hard dollars from he and his fellow stars may at least provide the cushion for startups to develop the features that will make their apps good enough to aim for those targets through organic, word-of-mouth growth.
