Once the best of enemies in the battle to be the world's No 1 social network, MySpace today finally capitulated to Facebook's popularity, announcing a partnership that brings the two sites closer.Facebook's 600 million users will be able to move their likes and interests over to MySpace, creating a "real-time stream" of automatically tailored updates from their favourite musicians and movie stars. The unlikely alliance, dubbed Mashup with Facebook, sets the two companies in direct competition with Apple's two-month-old social network, Ping.Repositioned as a "social entertainment" site last month, MySpace's latest move sets in stone News Corporation's strategy of aligning itself with Facebook, rather than competing against it. Mike Jones, chief executive of MySpace, said he was "thrilled" at the collaboration, which builds on a users' existing Facebook profile to recommend similar interests on its own.The collaboration, which allows MySpace users to "follow" updates from their favourite celebrities, is akin to Apple's own belated play for the social media market. Apple launched Ping in September after sensing a gap in the market for a social network based around music. But the launch of Mashup with Facebook will prove difficult for Apple to compete with, as its social network is restricted to users of iTunes.Mashup with Facebook works by allowing Facebook users to move their profile information – such as their favourite band or actor – onto MySpace with one click. This then creates a MySpace profile already populated with a user's interests, from which recommendations to follow certain celebrities or other users are based. MySpace will also soon implement the Facebook Like button across its site. This will build on a recently introduced feature that cross-posts status updates between the two sites – a feature used by more than a million MySpace users, according to its chief executive.MySpace, the world's No 1 social network when Facebook was but a project in Mark Zuckerberg's Harvard dorm room, was earlier this month labelled "a problem" by its owner, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Chase Carey, the corporation president, said the site's losses have been "neither acceptable or sustainable" since being acquired for $580m (£360m) in 2005.Elsewhere across News Corporation, executives are examining ways that the company's traditional news and broadcast media could integrate with the social networking site. Although the thinking is tentative, they reflect a corporate interest in developing ways of propagating news in an era of falling newspaper sales.Facebook has gained more than 50 million new users in the past 12 months, according toonline metrics firm comScore. The site now has 620 million users around the world.More than 33 million people in the UK use Facebook, figures for October show. MySpace, meanwhile, has just under 3 million UK users. MySpace has lost 19% of regular users in the same timeframe, although it is still the fourth-largest social network in the world with nearly 91 million users.
A British company backed by the musician and technology entrepreneur Peter Gabriel hopes to break through in an area currently monopolised by major online retailers such as Amazon – recommending content that you would like to buy and consume online.The Filter, a Bath-based startup in which Gabriel is a significant investor, already has deals to provide its content recommendation systems for NBC.com in the US – so viewers watching one programme on its site will be recommended others to fit with their mood and interests – and Nokia, which is testing a downloadable app for its phones which suggests nearby gigs with available tickets by bands whose music chimes with what the user already likes.After an abortive attempt to market its recommendation system to consumers – "it wasn't growing virally enough, but the algorithms seemed to do the job very well," said Gabriel – the company, led by David Maher Roberts, turned to selling its technology to businesses, which could present its output to consumers.Gabriel has form with the internet: he was one of the first musicians to experiment with CD-Roms in the 1990s, and was an early investor in On Demand Distribution (OD2), a music sales service that pre-dated Apple's iTunes and had clients including Nokia, Virgin and HMV. But his business partners pushed for a sale in 2004 when Apple began to dominate the music download business. Gabriel is reckoned to have earned $11m from the $40m sale.Gabriel and Roberts believe that as the internet expands, recommendation becomes more and more important – and in digital media, such as songs, photos and films, even more so. The advantage that The Filter holds over Amazon, whose product recommendation service cannot discern if you bought a Susan Boyle CD for yourself or your aunt, is that it knows precisely when, how and how much of a piece of music or segment of TV you watched: "We know what time of day, what device, whether you listened to 10 seconds or to the end, whether you passed the link on to a friend," said Maher Roberts.Sophisticated algorithms crunch that information, add a dab of serendipity, and recommend your next listening or viewing choice.NBC, Nokia, Sony, video-sharing website DailyMotion and the UK streaming music service We7 (in which Gabriel is also an investor) are all customers. NBC.com's Steven Andrade, senior vice-president of digital development, told Business Week in April: "The Filter did better than a lot of its competitors. That's why we are moving forward with them."Maher Roberts said that several other deals had been signed over the summer, but that the clients in question did not yet want them to be made public: "There's a video aggregator that's like YouTube, a TV-over-internet service, some other video services – they'll be announced in the next four to eight weeks."Traffic is soaring, he reports: "Once those are running we'll go from serving recommendations to 100 million people to 150 million every month."The 22-strong company is not looking for investment, as it is now generating its own cash; talk earlier this year that its venture capital partner, Eden Ventures, might seek a quick exit has gone, said Gabriel.Now The Filter is looking for British companies that would want to use its services, though Maher Roberts suggested there may be a cultural difference between the UK and US that would inhibit UK growth: "In the US, clients sign a contract accepting that we'll use the aggregate of their information to tune our algorithms, because once you get to a certain size, what you need is just more data. In the US they get that. In the UK, media companies are more defensive about their data. The story hasn't got through here in the UK."He believes that the government's increasing push to make its own data available will change that. The question is whether American rivals will be far ahead thanks to British technology – rather as Cambridge's Autonomy found more interest in the US than the UK – by the time having a recommendation system becomes a necessity rather than a nice add-on.
Old arcade habitués are liable to wax nostalgic about Time Crisis games, which generally accompany a new Sony console, although Razing Storm, neatly, arrives in time for the Move peripheral. Being a shooting game, it is well suited to this (although you should ignore the extra accessory that slots the Move into something akin to an arcade light-gun, as Move's ball obscures your aim). Somewhat disappointingly, Razing Storm is a mixed bag, the main problem being the new game itself, which is annoyingly perfunctory and forces you to use whatever weapon you're given. It does have plenty of difficult-to-dispatch boss mechs, but the dialogue, generally risible in Time Crisis games, plumbs a new low.You do, however, get the chance to play in story mode, which is the first full first-person shooter for the Move, as instead of being on rails, you have to perform your own movement, which necessitates investing in the Move's Nunchuk-like navigation controller. This works well enough, but Razing Storm's story mode lacks any wow-factor and falls somewhat flat. An extra sentry mode, in which you take out waves of escaping prisoners, is quite fun though.Much better are the two games that come free with Razing Storm: Time Crisis 4 and, especially, Deadstorm Pirates. The latter is an entertainingly ludicrous high-seas romp in which you take out the likes of a kraken, a giant snake, a giant crab and hordes of zombie-skeletons and ghosts with a laser-like golden gun that requires no reloading and has a great multifire power-up. Plus you often have to steer by rotating the Move like a wheel, and fire satisfyingly destructive cannons.Those previously unaware of Time Crisis will find the whole affair bafflingly cheesy, but devotees of the franchise will love Razing Storm as a package, although most will surely agree that it should have been billed as Deadstorm Pirates, with a free copy of Time Crisis: Razing Storm thrown in. Still, at least it proves you can play proper first-person shooters with the complete Move setup – something, we suspect, that is beyond Kinect's capabilities. At the very least, it will let you practice using the navigation controller while we wait for the likes of Killzone 3 and the next SOCOM.• Game reviewed on PS3
If any game is guilty of corrupting the innocent and perverting the moral health of the nation, it's this sort of thing.A no-mark SingStar rip-off that takes everything brilliant about Sony's karaoke game, rolls it in filth and then tries to hide the mess by covering it in X Factor branding, this exists for exactly one reason: to dupe the desperate and the easily led into buying it for some other unfortunate as a Christmas present. If you're one of the sorry few who winds up unwrapping this, make sure you savour every tear of the paper, because once you get the disc in the machine and the flakey little mics in the USB ports, the fun will be utterly, utterly dead.Most unforgivably, the X Factor game lacks pretty much anything that's identifiably X Factor. Beyond the logo, a couple of musical stings and a lumpen effort to imitate the show's auditions-rehearsals-finals structure, nothing about this resembles the programme.The makers couldn't secure so much as a Kate Thornton cameo or a Sharon Osbourne lookalike. Instead, your singing progress is judged by a panel of genero-judges. There's guy with dark hair, grey haired guy, sweepy fringe brunette with the flapping arms, and sweepy fringe brunette with a paralysed neck. It's a bit like having a fever dream about being a contestant, especially when you notice that the faceless, 2D audience members are all clapping for you in synch.And what do these judges have to say to you? In The X Factor TV show, cruelty is king: it's a platform that eats the emotionally unstable and spits them out with sneer. But that's all gone for the game. Instead, the grotesque marionettes assessing you say things like "That was great!", or "You've improved so much!", or "I wasn't convinced at the start… but I am now!"And they say these things again and again and again, regardless of the actual performance. The software isn't any more rigorous. You can wobble off the notes for a good half line, and &nbsp;the game will still spring for a "Perfect!" at the end. The song selection is miserably narrow, the backing tracks are depressing session versions (the sort of thing you'll hear while choosing BOGOF shampoo in the supermarket) and the default song length is shorter than the post-Factor career of the average winner.Breaking up the rounds are useless quickfire "trivia" questions on things such as how many times you've practised so far, and eye-gougingly senseless trips to "Boot Camp" – a dressing room setting that acts as a hub where you can check stats, review fan mail and try on the new outfits you get every time you croak through a song. The X Factor is desperate for you to like it, so it showers you with tat: I got three trophies before I finished the first song, and later on I earned one called "Brilliant", apparently for skipping a cut-scene. Good, then, for giving you an unearned ego boost; bad in every other way imaginable.• Game reviewed on PS3 &nbsp;
Namco is no stranger to retro gaming collections. The company started firing out its Namco Museum series in the PlayStation 1 era, while its mobile division has been busily mining the archives for several years. And now the publisher has announced Namco Generations, a new series of downloadable retro titles available for Xbox Live and PSN.Apparently, Namco Generations releases will add HD graphics and 'enhanced gameplay features' to the original titles. The first in the series, which launched yesterday on XBLA and is hitting PSN on November 24, will be the previously announced Pac-Man Championship Edition DX, the sequel to the excellent Xbox Live Arcade and mobile title from 2007. Pac-Man C.E added new maze designs and fruits to the classic recipe and the DX version will bring in a new rainbow-coloured ghost-type that can be triggered to follow Pac-Man around the maze (Games Radar has a good previewhere). The series will also come with its own community news service boasting, 'behind-the-scene information, insider tips, and other special announcements'.What do you think? Have we seen enough of these old Namco favourites? And when they are brought to new platforms, should they be left well alone? Wii owners have been treated to many ageing greats via the Virtual Console and plenty have acquitted themselves well without high score tables and visual refreshes.I'd argue, however, that a good update is always welcome. Pac-Man C.E was a really interesting take on the classic gameplay, and elsewhere, I loved Taito's Space Invaders Extreme titles on the DS, which brought new visuals and enemies to the old shoot-'em-up.But back to Namco, the next titles to appear in the series will be Galaga Legions DX and Aero-Cross, a 'reimagining' of the 1985 arcade title, Metro-Cross. If you accept the whole Generations premise, what titles would you like to see on the list? Dig-Dug in HD? Rally X with open maps and short cuts? Pole Position with multiplayer?
The UK government's plans to abandon net neutrality threaten British business startups and if taken up elsewhere could undermine democracy, says Peter Gabriel, the influential musician and technology entrepreneur who has backed a number of successful internet companies."I feel very strongly about it," said Gabriel, who has invested in a number of companies, including Bath-based The Filter and On Demand Distribution (OD2). "Freedom of access [to information online] is going to be an important battleground. It's vital to a free and open democracy: [net neutrality] serves everybody."The communications minister Ed Vaizeysaid in a speech on Wednesdaythat internet service providers would be allowed to discriminate in favour of one content provider over another in order to manage internet traffic as long as they informed customers what they were doing. He said a lightly regulated internet was "good for business, good for the economy and good for people".But Gabriel, and David Maher Roberts, chief executive of The Filter – the Bath-based company which has sold its recommendation system to a number of companies including Nokia and NBC – said that such a move would potentially undermine new businesses and users' access to information."From our point of view net neutrality makes things accessible," said Maher Roberts. "That plays into the ubiquity of content, and that makes everything more relevant to me. If users only have access to what their ISP allows through, that's not good from a business perspective. You've got to allow startups to deliver next-generation tools."Gabriel sees the abandonment of net neutrality as a dangerous precedent when governments around the world are trying to stifle the free flow of information as the internet reaches further and further. "The pace of technological change means there's a battle for the internet," he said. "It used to be a free and open zone. Now there are governments around the world, especially in China, spending money trying to control this beast."Others have added their voices to calls about the importance of net neutrality elsewhere. Barry Diller, head of the US content provider IAC,said that the principle was under attack from big telecoms providers, who he said wanted to set up a "tollbooth" on the internet. He said that would hurt "the little guys" who create content: "It seems ridiculous to charge the toaster for the electrical grid, instead of the consumer. [The ISPs and telecoms providers] want to charge both."Vaizey's suggestions may meet other opposition. Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web who is presently advising the cabinet office on making data accessible,said in 2006that net neutrality was a simple principle: "If I pay to connect to the net with a certain quality of service, and you pay to connect with that or greater quality of service, then we can communicate at that level... net neutrality isnotasking for the internet for free, or saying that one shouldn't pay more money for high quality of service... Freedom of connection, with any application, to any party, is the fundamental social basis of the internet, and, now, the society based on it."The proposals have been opposed by the BBC's Erik Huggers, who said last month that "This innovative and dynamic ecosystem, that enables huge public value, could be put at risk if network operators are allowed to use traffic management to become gatekeepers to the internet."
China today denied US allegations that it "hijacked" highly sensitive internet traffic – including emails sent to and from US military websites – earlier this year.A state-owned telecoms company in China had access to 15% of global internet traffic, including confidential emails from Nasa and the US army, for 18 minutes in April, according to an annual security report delivered to the US congress on Wednesday.The report warned that the capture "could enable severe malicious activities" by China. The state-owned company accused of "hijacking" the encrypted information, China Telecom, today denied "any hijack of internet traffic".Online security experts say the capture represents "one of the biggest hijacks" of sensitive information in the history of the internet.Relations between China and the US – number one and two in the world, respectively, in terms of internet users – have long been fraught when it comes to the web.Earlier this year US technology giantGoogle saidit was to stop censoring results on its Chinese search engine, following a sophisticated and allegedly state-sponsored cyber attack directed at the company. China earlier accused the US of making "groundless accusations" about restrictions on internet freedom against the country.The US report said that some 15% of global internet traffic was routed through Chinese servers earlier this year, prompting worries that the country now has access to sensitive correspondence from US government bodies. US commissioner Larry Wortzel raised concerns on Wednesday that China would now "get the internet addresses of everybody that communicated" with the US armed services' chiefs of staff.The rerouting began at a smaller Chinese ISP called IDC China before being passed on to China Telecom,the reportcompiled by the US-China economic and security review commission claimed. Encrypted correspondence from the US senate, the department of defence and "many others" were among the huge amount of traffic captured by China.Dmitri Alperovitch, a threat research analyst at internet security firm McAfee, said the capture "is one of the biggest – if not the biggest hijacks – we have ever seen"."No one except China Telecom operators" know what happened to the traffic during those 18 minutes, Alperovitchadded. "The possibilities are numerous and troubling, but definitive answers are unknown."
It was inevitable. Last week saw the release of Call of Duty: Black Ops and the Treyarch shooter (now affectionately known as Blops, or Codblops) dominated discussion on Chatterbox. Some stuck with Fallout, a few even ventured back toward PES, but most played their part in the Cold War activities of the CIA.But what's this? Glitches? Trouble getting on multiplayer servers? And worst of all, small windows?! Has Blops turned to plops? Did I actually write that?All will be revealed in this week's Best of Chatterbox extravaganza.Monday November 8A new week and a new AAA rated game for the box to get its teeth into. The game? COD Black ops of course, with talk of whether to buy it, where to buy it and when to buy it... with Cameroon95 quoting a friendly member of staff at the nation's largest chain of supermarkets, "Yes, the store is opening at 12 for all you geeky types."The normal tales of NaN exploits abounded but special mention must go to the Battlefield NaN 360th regiment and the 14 strong Guardianista takeover of a Bad Company 2 server. Yes, yes PS3ers, I'm sure you've seen more wonders together on a MW2 Thurday, but that night must have been a thing of beauty, pixelated explosive destructible beauty.Veering away from shooters, to... well, RPG shooters, stories from the wasteland kept sporadically ticking in like a pip boy nearing a suspiciously green glowing barrel.Then Salubriousone began the big theme of the day: proudest online gaming moment. Catzillas' 25-man killstreak using nothing but a riot shield and a couple of rockets was an early contender, then came epic accounts of battles won against the odds in TF2, MW2, BFBC2, but I'm writing this and my favourite was Sheep2's unbelievable: "Holding the controller the right way up while playing PES 2v2 late on a Friday." However, I'm still waiting for photographic proof of this occurring, GWX style...Mid-afternoon, talk turned to our illustrious leader, GBCBBOTY2009 BeardofBees, who has shown a complete lack of commitment to his loyal and his not so loyal subjects by not being around for two months. The reason he's not around you ask? Lets just say he was a fool and failed to protect his tool![Should I have edited that out? – Keef]This lead to chat about who might be able to step up in his absence. Criticbots lack of recent posting was lamented, and some boxers reminisced about the previous incumbent Limni. St00 was surprised: "Limni got this? The same Limni posting currently? Great news! If Limni can do it with his chat skills, even I'm in with a chance."Quotes of the day"why must Hollywood destroy everything it touches... It'll be Justin-sodding Beiber playing Tetsuo next..."Roblindsay Shhh! You'll give them ideas."The aptly named Sniper Rifle is good at long range"Pokemon, Shhh! Thats a military secret you're divulging"Anyone here on Twitter?...It's only the hottest social networking tool of 2007, the site that Friends Reunited could have been. Get on it. I think it's going to be massive. You heard it here first."Treble – just Shhh!TuesdayTuesday kicked off with an early appearance of weatherblog – one of our favourites. WeeCooper piped up to say, "Never too early to discuss the weather. We're British after all." Indeed old chap. Wot wot.It was actually a bit of a miracle that anyone was around to discuss anything considering it was Call of Duty: Black Ops release day. Points go to Cameroon95 for queuing up in the rain for the midnight release and still making it into work (one assumes) by 9am the next day. Special nerd points go to the friend he bumped into whilst in the queue who had driven for an hour and a half from Banff just to pick up the game. In the words of the late, great Roy Castle – "Dedication's what you need, if you wanna be a psycho killer…"Later, after criticising queuing all night for games, Timthemonkey foolishly admitted to going to see wrestling at the O2 arena – "Should be shockingly entertaining."  Crispycrumb kindly fixed it for him – "Should be shocking entertainment."  Good work fella.St00's suggestion that wresting is fake, vacuous, talentless, exploitive, solely money orientated and for children prompted EasilyLead to state, "That makes it sound brilliant."The rest of the conversation is unprintable, but it did lead to an interesting discussion about whether Catholics should socialise with lesbians.  A classic philosophical debate…There was some games talk during the day – about the excellent Valkyria Chronicles II, Fallout: New Vegas, Neptune's Pride and probably some others.  But mostly it was about Black Ops (or CodBlops as it has become collectively known) – as expected.Quotes of the day"If you type '58008' in to a calculator, then turn it upside down, it says 'BOOBS'.  Brilliant."A random and unprompted comment from HereComesTreble.[Also, the definitive version is 58008618 – Keef]"First day of working from home today in my new job."SuperSmashIn posts an unintentional contradiction.WednesdayPrompt as always, SuperSmashin was up and atom at 8:20 with his first blog contribution.One decision was hanging over many bloggers today: Call of Duty or Fallout. And with Game offering them both for £65, only those bloggers with liquid assets where going to make their choices without the sage advice of the gamesblog.The first reports of Black Ops started to trickle in, freezing menus, slow pace, and small windows, were just some of the complaints. I presume a small window restricts your field of fire, or kill zone, as one might say. I for one think small windows are an environmental staple, and should be imposed on all of us really.Turns out BarryEans also has a small gaming window, how very green of him.Speaking of things green, PES league games are still a big hit, mostly 0-0, but you know, so lifelike. EnglishRed blamed his preparation – the rest of us know the real reason. Apologies, etc.Router blog, reared it's head for a moment, as some people failed to get invited into Black Ops games. SerenVikity spent some time talking about opening up the NAT settings on the BT Homehub, before realising Cameroon and Count Ginula just didn't have any friends.Turns out SuperSmashin also had a brief window for gaming, if these are anything like the small windows our environmental friends above were talking about, and not a pair of briefs with a window, then we forgive him. Briefs with windows are just wrong.Crispycrumbs window was more of a porthole – it's the sea man in him. StiLteD doesn't have any windows, and seems to live in an Austrian's basement. Foolsgold74's window was just large enough to tell us about his PES League A game – show off – and finally, SandySleaze thought there may be a window after the Manchester derby. Of course that window won't have any glass in it. Something to do with corrupt glazers, if I understand correctly.The conversation then turned to mashed potatoes, the freeze dried instant kind, and my mind sort of wandered and I failed to pay any attention to anything after 1pm. I'll leave you with HereComesTreble's culinary skills:Grilled egg and mashed potatoes? I've never heard it called Egg in a Nest before. I call it The Babymaker. Never fails.[Seriously, what?! – Keef]Thursday – Remembrance DayIf Thursday had a child and it was called 'BlackOps' then it would definitely have far to go. Once again the latest outing of CoD dominated discussion on the Chatterbox. Unfortunately it seems that many bloggers were disgruntled at the number of glitches the game appears to have but it was agreed that it was best to persevere at least until Treyarch have released some patches.[Weird, I didn't notice any of this, I will have to investigate – Keef]Another discussion with legs was scrambled egg blog. Opinions varied on the best way to cook scrambled eggs but the consensus definitely agreed that Crème Fraiche should never be included. The evidence of cooking prowess amongst the Chatterbox community moved the discussion into Michelin chef blog. Heston Blumenthal appears to hold little appeal to TimtheMonkey: "I thought he just lobbed random ingredients in a bowl and poured on some liquid nitrogen."In other news, Crispycrumb discovered Scotscare – a charity for Scottish people living in London. SirGiggidyMMVIII was straight on the phone setting up his travel and accommodation funds for the 2011 Awards. Loser answered EdibleVision's complaints about the absence of a similar charity for English people in Glasgow: "you don't need a charity, we gave you fecking Edinburgh...".Quotes of the dayThe NaN spirit summarized by ChilliOil: "The atmosphere was so casual, with hijinks aplenty and talk of plans for the weekend that I half expected to see my squad mates wearing jeans and sipping on pints rather than wearing battledress and toting machineguns." (Fact: every round of BFBC2 was lost that night).CunningStunt lets slip about his weekend plans: "Does anyone know where I can buy a cheapish gimp mask?"And Bloatboy lets slip about his weekend hobbies:I once built a red light district out of toilet rolls and clinical waste from the local hospital; and filled it with rodent sex workers. Mice breed like rabbits so I thought it would be a good way to make money from the dirty rats. I call the place Hamsterdam.FridayHello, are you still with us? Well give yourself a virtual pat on the back and let's plough on through to the end together. Like a team.Friday started, as much of the week did, with plenty of Black Ops talk (the abbreviated Blops seems to have reached critical mass already). The usual Thursday night games were hampered somewhat by some continuing issues with lag and people joining games, but the majority managed to have an enjoyable time with UnbelievableJeff being hailed as coming into his own after honing his craft carefully on Modern Warfare 2.It wasn't all Black Ops. Bloodbowl, PES and Fallout were all discussed early doors, Herecomestreble was even introduced to one of the unfortunate staples of online gaming: "I got my first ever abusive PSN message last night: 'In a single game, not only have you shown yourself to be a poor player, but a horrible personality.' I thanked him, both for his honesty and his brevity, and I assured him that I would continue to work at these development areas. I also requested to add him as a friend. He hasn't accepted, yet."Aside from possibly thinking he was on the wrong blog, Hayers also managed to accidently kick off 'afterlife' blog with an Alan Partridge quote. A shame on everyone (except Limni) for forgetting Rule 1 of the box there.[I thought rule number one of the 'box was not talking about the 'box? – Keef]In better news, Sorbical announced he had a new job starting on Monday, something I think we can agree to wish him all the best for.Talk then, bizarrely, turned to Ghostbusters, with Lazybones trying to remember whether or not Dan Ackroyd was seduced (the polite term…) by a ghost. In the end it turns out he was, but it wasn't Zuul. Or something. It was a highpoint of chat regardless that saw us strongly into lunch.The final few hours of the week meandered along with discussion of the latest (possibly final…?) release date for GT5 and its 1000+ cars, and people's favourite Mario Kart track. Of which there was little agreement.And so the week ended with a whimper, rather than a bang, as the 'box's habit of finishing well before 5 o'clock was in full effect, much to the annoyance of Cunning (and others) who's schedule is less lackadaisical.Quote of the day"Sometimes, recently, I have thought about the infinitely small and the possibility of universes at the subatomic level … You could have an infinite number of universes inside you own head, and when you die these universes might keep living, because the matter is still there, and it's all just various energies, fluctuating. Then I think that I am not a particle physicist and I probably sound like I've eaten some drugs, and am just boring someone at a party ..."Lazybones expands all of our minds once again.Quote of the Week"I think you've grossly misjudged the situation. This is not the place to talk about computer games."Mr Tony HayersOther stuffGames:COD:Black Ops, Fallout: New Vegas, PESFilms &amp; TV:Let the right one in, Exit Through The Gift Shop, Ghostbusters, Getting On, Full Metal JacketRecommended Books:The Secret History of the World by Mark BoothEnd gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – Don't Let's Start by They Might Be GiantsCheck theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by SerenVikity, OneDaveofMany, OfficePest, Tjvs and a mystery Fool's Gold stand-in. It was edited by Smellavision."You can discover more about a person in an hour of play than in a year of conversation."Plato
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Evan Williams in May 2010. Photo byJoion Flickr.Some rights reservedTwitter has been in talks with Facebook about interoperating their services, after Facebook blocked Twitter integration – a move that Twitter co-founder Evan Williams described as "frustrating" at the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco."We're talking to them often to see if there is a way to work together, but so far neither side has found out a way to do that," Williams said.He also admitted that the company had "screwed up" its relationship with third-party developers, who have complained about the way that its product development has begun to encroach on territories that they thought they had sewn up for themselves.Twitter originally set up an API to let third-party companies hook into its system because "we thought it would be neat", Williams told the Web 2.0 conference, but as it grew it realised it needed to fill in holes in its feature set - leading to the acquisition of the Twitter client Tweetie, and previously the acquisition of the Twitter search company Summize. "We've learned a lot about having an ecosystem and working with third-party developers and we've screwed up a lot of that," he said.But he said the company will keep on adding facilities whether or not other companies were already offering them. It launched an analytics service on Wednesday - stepping on the toes of a number of other companies which offer similar functions."We launched Twitter sort of as a Model T - it was very basic, but was popular, and it got people excited, and a swarm of developers came in and made it better in the after-market, and that was great [because] it increased demand for the Model T and we could focus on increasing production… but gradually we realized that wasn't really serving users as much as we should," he said.Williams, who recently stepped aside as chief executive, said his company was not running low on capital, amid media reports that the company is considering raising a large round of funding.Williams told the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco that Twitter has "a lot of money in the bank", but wouldn't comment on whether the company was talking to investment firms about funding.The company has around 175m users but has only recently started efforts to generate revenue through special ads that appear in certain parts of its service.Williams said the company's initial efforts at generating advertising revenue had exceeded the company's expectations – though he wouldn't say how much it had garnered. He did say that most of the advertisers who have tried its "promoted tweets" and "promoted trends" services have returned to use them.TechCrunchsuggested on Wednesdaythat Twitter is looking for more than $100m in funding, having already raised more than $160m, and that it would be valued at about $3bn - suggesting the company would look to sell around 3% of its stock in the round. Likely investors would include Russian investment firm DST Global, which has previously invested in Facebook, Zynga and the coupon company Groupon.Twitter declined to comment on the rumours. Its last funding round of $100m valued the company at $1bn, indicating that it sold about 10% of its stock there.At Web 2.0 the DST Chairman Yuri Milner acknowledged that Twitter was among the 25 to 30 companies that would fit his firm's investing strategy during an on-stage interview, though he declined to comment specifically on whether DST was talking to Twitter about a deal.Milner said that DST invests in companies that typically have a $1 billion-dollar plus valuation, are in the "social Internet space," and can be located anywhere in the world. "My guess is there are probably 25 to 30 companies like that," he said.He also noted that about 80% of the volume of DST's investments is made through buying shares of a company on the secondary markets, rather than through direct investments.
Optical fibre cephalopod. Photo byErik Ludwigon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEd Vaizey to meet with network operators to discuss fibre tax &gt;&gt; Think BroadbandIntriguing: having gone back on the Conservative manifesto pledge to review the tax on fibre, it seems like Ed Vaizey is heading back that way. Except he's the culture minister, and it's a Treasury topic. Puzzling.Twitter's Official Analytics Product Has Arrived &gt;&gt; Mashable"With Twitter Analytics, users will be able to see a plethora of data about their account; for example, information about which tweets are most successful, which tweets caused people to unfollow, and who the most influential users are that reply and retweet their messages." There goes that market for third-party developers.The Java Crisis : programming &gt;&gt; RedditJust in case you needed to read a few more comments about Tim Anderson's article about the struggle between Oracle, Google, IBM, Apple, Apache, Uncle Tom Cobley and all.Vodafone, France Telecom Struggle to Regain App Edge From Apple &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Seeking to avoid being just pipes that carry services and applications from Apple, Google and others, operators are starting to go beyond ringtones and links to radio and television channels to offer apps of their own.Companies like Apple 'need our investment to exist, but that's not enough for us to grow,' France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in an interview in Paris. 'We need to find ways to be more useful to our clients, like through mobile banking and electronic health.'"Wonder how they get on with the app store approval.Day 1 - Part 1 | Windows Phone 7 Development for Absolute Beginners &gt;&gt; MSDN Channel 9Get on the bus.Many Eyes Wikified is closing &gt;&gt; IBM"It's been a wonderful 18 months. Sadly, we've reached the end of the experiment that was Many Eyes Wikified. We'll be discontinuing this service and taking down the website on November 18th, 2010." No explanation, and you need to archive your content. Argh.Microsoft shouldn't break up but break away from its antiquated business model | Betanews"Now isn't the time to break up Microsoft. But it is time for Microsoft executives to decide what the company will be." Interesting consideration - after Steve Ballmer was asked why Microsoft doesn't split itself up at the shareholders' meeting - of what would and wouldn't follow from doing that, 10 years after the DOJ told it to do just that.Hard-Coding Bias in Google "Algorithmic" Search Results &gt;&gt; Ben Edelman"How do Google's less popular services come to receive such valuable placements? Does favorable pagerank (or other favorable reputation) of google.com spill over onto other Google services to guarantee top position under standard ranking algorithms? (Google has made a similar claim in defending why its house ads systematically enjoy prominent placements.) Or have Google staff manually adjusted ("hard-coded") search results to provide special treatment to other Google services? I believe the latter theory offers the more convincing explanation."Well, Google does say that it tweaks its algorithms regularly. Perhaps in favour of its own properties?Deprecating XML &gt;&gt; Norman Walsh"Someone asked me recently what I thought about XML being removed from the Twitter streaming API. Around the same time, I heard that Foursquare are also moving to a JSON-only API."As an unrepentant XML fan, here's the full extent of my reaction:'Meh'."&#10;XML is going the way of SOAP, it seems, at least for API queries.New Medical Calculators in Wolfram|Alpha &gt;&gt; Wolfram|Alpha Blog"Over the past couple of months, we have worked to implement over 20 new equations. For example, hematocrit levels outside the normal range are indicative of any number of health concerns ranging from dehydration to kidney disease."Once you see Gregory House tapping into WolframAlpha, you'll know it's arrived.Welcome to My World, Mr Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; Challenging Complexity...The co-creator of the MIME standard has a welcome for Facebook:"From the outside, email seems pretty simple — there's a To, a From, and a few other relevant fields, right?  But almost every aspect of email harbors a "gotcha" — some fundamental, some a legacy of email's evolution, but all critical if you want to "play nice" and have your email interoperate well with everyone else's."Unfortunately, most of these pitfalls are known primarily through Internet folklore; when old email hands get together at an IETF meeting, it's likely that someone will pass out before anyone runs out of horror stories.  If you haven't hired any experienced IETF email gurus, I urge you to do so, or to start sending your newer-to-email programmers to IETF meetings, or — best of all — both.  I hope I'm wrong, but the absence of any Facebook attendees (or anyone from their recent Zenbe acquisition) at the last two IETF meetings makes me fear you may not know what a tar pit you are stepping into."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Oxford University last week announced research suggesting that playing the computer gameTetris reduces flashbacks to trauma. Tetris was found to be far more effective than playing a quiz game. Players weren't just being  distracted from unpleasant memories; the falling-blocks game has a beneficial effect. The researchers suggest it could lead to a "cognitive vaccine against traumatic flashbacks".The researchers think  Tetris helps because this type of game uses the brain's "perceptual channel", but not the "contextual" one. Internet parodies such as "Tetris: The Movie" notwithstanding, Tetris is the archetype of a game that takes plenty of attention but has no meaning. So, it competes in the brain with memories of vivid sense perceptions – which create flashbacks  – but doesn't compete with the  helpful contextual associations that give meaning to traumatic experience.Tetris is one of the most popular  and most played games;it's sold more than 70m copies. It's also the kind of game that's often called "mindless" –  nothing is built or created, no story is told, no characters are encountered.But it occurs to me that Tetris, and Tetris-like "casual" games such asBejeweledorBubble Shooterhave  become popular over the same period that we have been increasingly  bombarded withtraumatic images  in the media. Even the least game- playing people I know admit to the  occasional session ofSnakeorFlight Controlon their phone. Perhaps we're all self-medicating against traumatic images; perhaps "mindless"  gaming is just what  we need.
BT, TalkTalk, Sky and other internet providers will be allowed to create a "two-speed" internet – favouring broadcasters and other media companies who pay them extra for a faster service – under proposals put forward by communications minister Ed Vaizey today.The move prompted immediate concern from the BBC, which fears that its popular but traffic-hungry iPlayer service could be relegated to an "internet slow lane", while rivals spend large sums with the likes of BT to ensure faster online transmission to the nation's homes.Vaizey, speaking at a conference in London, said it was a "crucial stage in the history of the internet". He added it was necessary to allow broadband providers "to shape" how services such as the BBC iPlayer are delivered as demand for watching online video takes off and consumes more internet capacity.However, Erik Huggers, the BBC's director of future media and technology, said afterwards that he was concerned by the plans. It was "critical" that access to all internet services was equal. BBC insiders fear that the internet providers will try to charge the corporation considerable sums to ensure EastEnders and other popular programmes are delivered smoothly.Ministers, though, want regulations to ensure that consumers are informed as to what their internet provider is doing. Vaizey said that the new rules would require providers to "present information about their service, including the nature and extent of their traffic management policies and their impact on service quality in a clear, visible and easy to understand form".In the past, internet providers have treated all data equally – a concept known as net neutrality – which means that all content, whether video from the BBC or a pirated song, will travel across the network under the same rules. But BT and Talk Talk, in particular, want to charge heavy users extra to ensure their content is delivered more quickly and reliably. Ofcom and the European commission are holding a joint consultation on the subject, which is due to report early next year.The debate has already proved controversial. While BT and Talk Talk claim that the BBC's iPlayer and Google's YouTube account for a high proportion of their traffic, companies such as Google have warned that if internet providers are allowed to discriminate it would stifle online innovation and freedom of expression."Maintaining an open and neutral internet is critical," Huggers said in a keynote speech. "I am concerned by recent developments whereby ISPs discriminate in favour of certain traffic based on who provides it. An open and neutral internet is crucial to the growth of our digital economy."BT welcomed the announcement, saying broadband providers "should be free to strike commercial deals" with content providers who want "a higher quality of service delivery". A BT spokesman said ISPs were "unlikely to discriminate against particular traffic" since customers could "easily switch" to a rival provider.But consumer rights groups argue that such a move would still restrict the choice of most internet users. Jim Killock, executive director of the campaigning organisation Open Rights Group, warned: "Removing net neutrality is likely to reduce innovation and reduce people's ability to exercise their freedom of speech."What I fear about what Ed Vaizey and the government are saying is that they're expecting the ISPs to start providing more and more content directly to their customers and that gives them lots of incentive to not provide the same level of access to internet services, create market abuse and distort competition."
Gordon Lewis, who has died aged 86, was an innovative engineer whose groundbreaking work led to the development of the vertical take-off Harrier jet and made Britain the world leader in the field – thanks in part to a&nbsp;Frenchman's initial idea and American support and money in the face of British government indifference. Lewis also did much early work on the development of the Bristol Siddeley Olympus engine, which powered the Vulcan bomber and&nbsp;ultimately Concorde.In 1956 Lewis, working for the Bristol Aeroplane Company, was approached by a Frenchman, Michel Wibault, with a proposal for a vertical take-off aircraft called the Gyroptère, powered by Bristol's Orion engine. Wibault had been turned down by all the French companies and was referred to Stanley Hooker, Lewis's boss at Bristol, by an American officer based in Paris who thought it was a good idea.The cold war was at its height, and the military needed a short or vertical take-off aircraft to protect Europe's military bases. Lewis sketched out a&nbsp;jet engine, replacing Wibault's four centrifugal compressors with one axial compressor with a rotating nozzle at&nbsp;each side, plus a vectoring nozzle at the rear. Hooker then sent that back to&nbsp;Paris for consideration by the Mutual Weapons Development Program, funded by the US to advance European defence. But Rolls-Royce was supporting a&nbsp;rival aircraft, designed by the French company Marcel Dassault, powered by eight lift engines and a ninth for forward flight, and wanted mutual development funding for that.As BBC air correspondent at the time, I reported on the hazardous test flights of both concepts and how one of the Bristol prototypes crashed. But Lewis's concept won when Sir Sydney Camm, head of Hawkers, decided that the Rolls-Royce lift engines became dead weight after the Dassault plane converted to forward flight, whereas Lewis's gimballing nozzles provided one big engine to power both vertical and forward flight.Lewis was the son of a Great Western Railway clerk, and educated at Pate's grammar school, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. He joined the Bristol Aeroplane Company in 1944 as an Oxford graduate and spent his whole working life there, surviving mergers as it became first Bristol Siddeley and then was swallowed by Rolls-Royce.Hooker, who had himself switched from Rolls-Royce to Bristol's in 1949, quickly recognised the talents of&nbsp;his young engineer, and made him responsible for the compressor design and associated research for all Bristol engines. Lewis followed up the work of the Royal Aircraft Establishment at&nbsp;Farnborough, Hampshire, on the two-shaft Olympus engine which proved highly successful in the hurriedly built Vulcan and later became the Olympus 593 which powered Concorde. Another version, the Olympus 22R, was developed for the cancelled TSR2.Lewis was among the first to lead and&nbsp;organise collaborative programmes, and by 1968 was directing the Rolls-Royce team working with German and Italian partners on the engine for the Tornado and the successful EJ200 turbofan for the Eurofighter Typhoon.Jock Heron, a retired Harrier pilot and now chairman of the Rolls-Royce Heritage Trust in Bristol, said: "With a dry sense of humour and a practical approach, Gordon Lewis was an inspiration to innumerable teams, not only on engineering matters but also on commercial and project aspects. His&nbsp;judgments were usually adopted, but if his advice was not taken he committed himself wholeheartedly to making a success of the chosen policy. "Lewis retired in 1986 as Rolls's technical director, having been appointed CBE in 1977. He was awarded the Royal Aeronautical Society's gold medal in 1978 and was a member of the team that won the MacRobert award for innovation with the Harrier Pegasus engine in 1970. He received awards from the American Helicopter Society in 1985 and the American Institute of&nbsp;Aeronautics and Astronautics in 1989. In 1980 he was appointed a fellow of&nbsp;the&nbsp;Royal Academy of Engineering, and in 1987 an honorary DSc from Bristol University.Lewis is survived by his wife, Marjorie, whom he married in 1947, his son, David, and two daughters, Susan and Jane.• Gordon Lewis, jet engineer, born 24 June 1924; died 4 October 2010
Future of BBC television, as delivered online... Photograph: BBCThere you were thinking that all information was created equal, only to discover that the coalition government thinks not. But then, the Declaration of Independence was never a British idea. And nor was the First Amendment, whose defence of free speech underpins, some believe, the idea of net neutrality. Well it might if this was the United States at least.Net neutrality has not – so far – been a big issue in the UK. For those not paying close attention, the basic theory of the internet was that all packets, all data was created equal, which means that a pirated copy of Hey Jude can fly around the network with the same speed as a page of your favorite digital newspaper. All of which is fine in an era of bandwidth plenty, but as the BBC iPlayer and YouTube hog traffic, they start to cause problems.BT, TalkTalk and the internet service providers smell money here, or rather are annoyed that they have to upgrade their kit to provide for all the video they say is clogging up the network (although in reality this is exaggerated). So they want to get anybody who takes up a lot of network capacity to pay more – or if they don't face relegation to the internet slow lane. And, come to think of it, any content owner who splashes out a bit extra will find they get a better service.The fear, of course, is that this leads to a world where – say – the Daily Mail's web pages arrive more quickly than the Mirror's because one publisher is willing to pay BT more for a better deal. Or where the BBC's online video crawls and becomes no fun to use, while Sky speeds along. It's another reason, in fact, why critics fear the News Corporation-BSkyB merger because if Sky is also an internet provider that could discreetly provide a fast lane to its own content (and why phone companies are watching closely whether the £8bn deal is approved).EastEnders episode delivered by hostile internet provider.
Photograph: Stephen Kelly/PANever mind those worries, though.Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, has come down firmly on the side of big business, saying "content and service providers should have the ability to innovate and, most importantly, to reach users" through allowing preferential treatment. Meanwhile, the BBC, rightly, seeing this idea as a covert handout from the licence fee payer to phone companies, has no intention of paying up – leaving viewers looking forward to the prospect of regularly watching the modern day testcard – endless spinning wheels.But we shouldn't worry because Ed Vaizey wants internet providers to "present information about their service, including the nature and extent of their traffic management policies and their impact on service quality in a clear, visible and easy to understand form for all their customers". You still awake after that? Well, hmm, not only is this a complex area to explain, but it's hard to be sure if we can expect credible metrics from an industry that rarely, if ever, tells the truth about the broadband speeds we get at home (yeah, that'll be 10 megabollocks to you sir).Example of typical ISP service? Surely not. Photograph: David Jones/PANever mind, though, you might think. It all sounds a bit technical. Well, let's try an analogy then. If you think about it, net neutrality is about as important as the rules governing impartiality in broadcast news. If Vaizey turned up and made a speech about ditching those, there would be a more vigorous debate – more of an outcry in some quarters. But these are the rules about having an impartial internet and because this is a technical subject, then it's best to simply roll over and leave the debate to the geeks ... right?Actually maybe not. There's still an Ofcom consultation on the subject. So critics can try shouting a lot – well the middle class kind of shouting, letter and article writing and all that. A second hope is to look for pro-consumer solutions. Already the BBC is thinking of one – a traffic light system for rating how your ISP is handling its iPlayer traffic. That is a good idea in principle – if, that is, consumers are willing to shop around to get a better service. The reality, though, is that not everybody can be bothered – which is why letting net neutrality go by the board is such a troubling idea.
I'm late with this, but just wanted to mention it. Nottingham's annualGameCityFestival is celebrating its biggest ever attendance figures. Over 45,000 people flocked to the city last month to catch the likes of Keita Takahashi, Jonathan Blow and Chris Hecker providing fascinating insights into the development process. Gamesblog was also present, running a daily discussion event in the Broadway cinema cafe. I've found out since that many a raging hangover was quelled by our potent mix of gaming arguments and full English breakfasts."We've been surprised and delighted with the critical and popular response to GameCity5, both from the industry, public and media," says festival director Iain Simons. "This year proved that there's a real appetite for alternative ways of celebrating and exploring videogame culture with the widest possible audiences. We can't wait to explore new possibilities for 2011..."The festival organisers are also continuting with their regular GameCity Nights events, which feature quizzes, talks and indie developers. The next will take place On Friday November 26 at the Antenna club. More details will appearhereshortly.
Of course, the naysayers are already suggesting that gamification is dead. The hot tech trend of 2010 (or 2009 if you were a bit early. 2006 if you were, like, totally ahead of the curve) refers to the use of game mechanics in web sites, services and applications, and it's actually illegal to mention it without then immediately referencing the social location service FourSquare. I think there's a bylaw that now allows you to get away with Gowalla, though. Or EpicWin if you have a really good solicitor.Anyway, last month game researcherSebastian Deterdinggave a great talk at thePlayfulconference in London, entitled'Pawned: Gamification and its Discontents', which suggested that simply adding badges and high score tables to a website didn't make it a game – or fun. The problem is, game mechanics don't actually always makegamesmore fun, let alone banking websites.That said, the whole debate about bringing competition and reward into otherwise mundane activities has led to a lot of interesting applications.I'm very into the idea of 'the gamification of education' because I hated school. It said nothing to me about my life, because between the ages of 11 and 16 my life was computer games. And a bit of hip-hop. For this reason, I love MIT'sscratchproject which aims to get kids developing games. I also wish that Lee Sheldon's decision toreplace grades with experience pointson his game design course at Indiana University would be extended to ALL schools. I might have mastered quadratic equations if there was a chance I'd level up as a result.Two recent developments in this area have caught my eye. First up, Scottish games company 3MRT is bringing its online education quizzes to the iPhone. TheInQuizitorweb app has been around for a few years, providing GCSE syllabus questions in a gaming context. The studio will soon launch 12 iPhone and iPod Touch apps based around subjects on the national curriculum, combining question and answer sessions with gameplay rewards. Brilliantly, 3RMT is made up of ex-members from the original GTA development team, though sadly it's unlikely that the InQuizitor apps will allow you to run people over while attempting multiple choice questions on the French Revolution.Meanwhile, American Express has just launched its first UK iPhone game. InCash IQ, players complete a range of brain training mini-games designed to test your mathematical and memory skills – indeed, just the sort of mathematical and memory skills you need to understand the average credit card terms and conditions booklet. Developed by experienced mobile games studio Fishlabs, it's quite diverting, even if it is a not-very-thinly-veiled advert for the Platinum Cashback Credit Card. As such, it represents both the gamification of financial services and the gamification of marketing.My two other favourite new concepts represent opposing ends of 'the gamification of food'.4Foodis a healthy fast food joint that's just opened on New York's Madison Avenue. Hungry Manhattanites can head to the website to create their own sandwiches and burgers from a list of ingredients, then pick them up in the restaurant. If their creation is good, they can share the concept with friends online, and when anyone else orders one, the amateur burger chef responsible earns points. Collect enough, and you can claim free food. This brilliantly absolves the restaurateur of two major responsibilities: building word-of-mouth buzz and actually devising its own menu.A slightly more worthy concept comes from the product development company,Teague. Its designers were worried about water consumption among workmates so rigged a simple meter to the office taps, they then added an iPad app which measured and compared the amounts each worker got through, effectively shaming guzzlers and rewarding thrifty H2O hoarders with peer respect. You can read about the experiment, watch a video and learn how it has led to a campaign for water charitieshere.Of course, whether or not any of these actually qualify as games is an interesting ongoing question. Personally, I would prefer to live in a world of experience points rather than grades, in which every task, however menial, could benefit me with unlockable achievements. Certainly, in my experience, school might have been a whole lot more fun.
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) is ready to allow Indian authorities access to the emails and messages of its most high-profile corporate customers, according to a ministry official in the country.The secure communications of India's 400,000 BlackBerry owners could soon be lawfully accessed by government officials, the unnamed official said, adding that RIM is preparing for "providing live access" to customers' encrypted servers."They have in principle agreed to provide us recorded data from their servers," India'sthe Mint business newspaperquoted an unnamed Indian ministry official as saying."Now they have assured us that they will discuss the issue first among themselves and find a way to meet our demands. Later, they would be providing live access to BES [BlackBerry Enterprise Server]," the official told the paper.However, the threat of a blackout for the 400,000 BlackBerry owners in India still looms aftermonths of terse, but largely fruitless, negotiationsbetween RIM and India's telecoms ministry.The Delhi government has opened up a front against Google, Skype and the many mobile carriers operating in the country, citing security fears over the level of encryption employed by the companies. Officials suspect the culprits of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack, in which 116 people died, used encrypted BlackBerry devices.RIM today said: "RIM has once again found it necessary to address certain media reports in India containing inaccurate and misleading statements and information based on unsubstantiated claims from unnamed sources."All our discussions with the government of India have been and continue to be productive and fully consistent with the four core principles we follow in addressing lawful access matters around the world. Any suggestion to the contrary is false."The company added that any "lawful access" negotiations would abide byfour principles: that it was legal, that there would be "no greater access" to BlackBerry services than other services, that there would be no changes in the security for Enterprise customers, and it would not make "specific deals for specific customers".Last monthRIM escaped a banon the BlackBerry communications of its 500,000 customers in the United Arab Emirates, while Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Lebanon have also raised concerns about the Canadian company's security policies.The chief concern of India, which is the world's second largest mobile phone market behind China, surrounds communication passed between corporate BlackBerry devices using Enterprise servers. Organisations using BlackBerry Enterprise Servers (BES) host their own server and encryption key – which only it can use to unscramble encrypted emails and messages – thereby offering a higher level of security.RIM has publicly remained defiant, insisting that it would not offer special deals to specific countries and that security measures for its Enterprise customers would not be compromised.Informa Telecoms &amp; Media forecasts that there will be more than 600,000 BlackBerry sales in India this year and that India's smartphone market will have reached approximately 12m – a figure forecast to grow to 40m by the end of 2015.The increasing popularity of smartphones running Google's Android operating system has eroded RIM's grip on the corporate communications market in 2010. RIM's most recent smartphone release, the Bold 9780, has failed to make an impression on consumers or traderssince its launch in October.
Internet service providers such as BT should be allowed to abandon net neutrality and prioritise users' access to certain content providers, the communications minister Ed Vaizey said in a speech today.The move away from net neutrality in the UK will prove controversial as it opens the door for ISPs to favour some websites in terms of the volume and speed of the delivery of their content to users, while others given lower priority could see their internet traffic suffer.Both Google and the BBC have warned against allowing ISPs to discriminate in their delivery of content in recent months, saying that such moves would stifle online innovation. Abandoning the so-called "net neutrality" principle that all internet traffic – content, platforms and websites – should be treated equally would harm growth of the medium, the companies warned.Ditching net neutrality could lead to websites paying ISPs to ensure their content gets priority.Vaizey today said ISPs should be free to favour one content provider over another as long as they inform customers in order to manage internet traffic."Under the new provisions providers must present information about their service, including the nature and extent of their traffic management policies and their impact on service quality in a clear, visible and easy to understand form for all their customers," Vaizey tolda telecoms conference hosted by the Financial Timesin London.He said a lightly regulated internet was "good for business, good for the economy and good for people". "Consumers should have the ability to access any legal content or service. Content and service providers should have the ability to innovate and, most importantly, to reach users," Vaizey added.Last month Erik Huggers, the BBC director of future media and technology,warned against abandoning net neutralityin the corporation's submission to a consultation on the issue being conducted by Ofcom and the European Commission."An emerging trend towards network operators discriminating in favour of certain traffic based on who provides it, as part of commercial arrangements, is a worrying development," Huggers wrote onthe corporation's BBC Internet blog."This innovative and dynamic ecosystem, that enables huge public value, could be put at risk if network operators are allowed to use traffic management to become gatekeepers to the internet."Vaizey today said that early responses to Ofcom's consultation showed there was "broad agreement on the need for traffic management".He added "there is not yet evidence of any impact either on competition or consumers from traffic management"."We are still at an early stage here. Such impacts and harms could arise in the future, and greater transparency is required to combat this," Vaizey said.Jim Killock, executive director of the campaigning organisation Open Rights Group, today warned: "Removing net neutrality is likely to reduce innovation and reduce people's ability to exercise their freedom of speech."ORG will campaign against any market abuse, if companies like BT, Sky and Virgin restrict customer's internet access for market advantage."
Just in case you missed this yesterday, APB, the massively multiplayer online cops-n'-robbers shooter that sunk British developer Realtime Worlds, looks to have won a reprieve.GamersFirst, a publisher of free-to-play MMOs has acquired the intellectual property rights and is handing (re)development duties to US studio, Reloaded Productions. It's not clear whether any of the original team members will be involved, although the good news is, as a consequence of the purchase, outstanding wage and holiday bonus claims will be apparently be met."APB was a game that had several exceptional features and some brilliant ideas, even though it was plagued by some initial balance and monetization issues," said Bjorn Book-Larsson, CTO and COO of GamersFirst. "We want to take all the unique features of this title, such as its unparalleled character, weapon and car customization systems, and convert the game to a true free-to-play game. We are deep into the planning and early execution stages for this next chapter of APB and we will share more details in the near future. In order to put 'Gamers First' we will also actively engage the community in many aspects of all the planned changes."GamersFirst is the online portal brand of Californian gaming service providerK2 Networkwhich formed in 2001 and is running several MMOs, many of them localised versions of successful Asian titles. Whether or not the company can transfer APB's complex payment set-up and gameplay mechanic into the free-to-play space is a big question. The online experience never really captured the essence of Dave Jones' high concept, though perhaps with scaled down ambitions and a clearer remit, a new studio may have better luck.Meanwhile, it looks like Activision is preparing to sell veteran Liverpool studio Bizarre Creations.Originalrumours suggestedthat the developer might be closing, with the loss of over 200 jobs. However, later reports indicated that the publisher was 'exploring its options' with the developer of titles like Project Gotham Racing, Blur and James Bond: Blood Stone.Gamasutra quoted a spokespersonwho commented, "over the past three years since our purchase of Bizarre Creations, the fundamentals of the racing genre have changed significantly. Although we made a substantial investment in creating a new IP, Blur, it did not find a commercial audience."The quote continues: "Bizarre is a very talented team of developers, however, because of the broader economic factors impacting the market, we are exploring our options regarding the future of the studio, including a potential sale of the business."Activision bought the previously independent developer in 2007, after its huge succes with the Project Gotham series for Microsoft, but fortunes have been mixed since then. The company's offbeat shooter The Club and its arcade racer, Blur, both attracted critical praise, but failed to win massive audiences. Its most recent title, James Bond: Blood Stone has proved less successful with reviewers.The Guardian is currently seeking comments from both Bizarre Creations and Activision.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM PlayBook demo v Apple iPad. Looks pretty good for speed.Firefox 4 for Mac OS X: Under the Hood &gt;&gt; Boom Swagger BoomTwo years after Firefox 3, a lot has happened. "We enabled OpenGL accelerated layer composition. This stage in the rendering pipeline is where we composite independently-rendered regions of a web page for your screen. Accelerating it helps us most when resizing images and video. GPUs are much better at performing those sorts of transformations than CPUs. For more information, see this post from Joe Drew. We hope to accelerate the rest of our rendering pipeline on Mac OS X soon."Learning to Love HTML5 &gt;&gt; Smashing MagazineUseful primer if you haven't dipped in yet.Open User Interfaces Suck &gt;&gt; Timothy Blee"The decentralized nature of open source development means that there's always a bias toward feature bloat. If two developers can't decide on the right way to do something, the compromise is often to implement it both ways and leave the final decision to the user. This works well for server software; an Apache configuration file is long and hard to understand, but that's OK because web servers mostly interact with other computers rather than people, so flexibility and scalability are more important than user-friendliness. But it tends to work terribly for end-user software, because compromise tends to translate into clutter and inconsistency."Take the First: Why Facebook badly needs Steve JobsFacebook's "not a Gmail killer" might not be an anything killer. "This solution doesn't actually solve any user problem. Humans were successfully texting, IMing, and emailing each other, before SmartEngineer came along &amp; decided to slam them all together into a mixed up mess, in the name of 'abstracting away the transport.'"His suggestion: get someone who really focusses on the user experience and the user problems. "Without a Steve Jobs, Facebook is going to become the new Google," he says. Facebook probably won't settle for that.Is it hard to become an Android developer…? &gt;&gt; Kreci.net"It is good to have and Android phone… I will say even more… it would be best to have a few phones with different Android versions and different add-ons (Android tablet may be useful too) to test if your app is working with all of them!"The Beatles on iTunes? (slight return) &gt;&gt; Martin Belam's currybetdotnet blog"Unless legislation changes the length of time that recorded sound stays in copyright, the earliest Beatles recordings will become public domain in 2013." The performances, but not the compositions, of course. This stuff is complicated.Free Sophos Anti-Virus for Mac review by About.com &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityWhat's intriguing here is the screenshot, which shows a warning for Jahlav-C, which is about the only piece of malware targeting Macs alone seen in ages. Free is a good price for something which only has to detect a few pieces of malware, of course.Flash/HTML5 video side-by-side &gt;&gt; UppodMay need Chrome or similar to run - don't try it on Internet Explorer 6, for example.Invent Your Own Computer Games with Python &gt;&gt; InventwithPython.comCC Sharealike book (PDF or HTML) with source of games: ""Invent with Python" was written to be understandable by kids as young as 10 to 12 years old, although it is great for anyone of any age who has never programmed before."Instant Previews: Under the hood &gt;&gt; Google Code BlogHow Google does its Snap-like (though less annoying) visual popups of sites in its newer search. Involves compiled Javascript.John Suffolk to leave as Government CIO - a blow to G-Cloud, innovation and radical reform? &gt;&gt; Tony Collins Blog"John Suffolk has decided to leave his post as Government CIO by the end of this year, a departure that will be seen by some as a setback to the campaign for major cuts in wasteful IT-based spending in the public sector."Let's hope not. The G-Cloud is sorely needed, as are the other reforms in government - else the whole machine could just fall apart through funding starvation.Fox.com now blocking Google TV devices &gt;&gt; GTVHub.com"The list of networks allowing Google TV devices to access their online content appears to be dwindling. Stay tuned."Google techno-optimism, meet TV networks.A zombie keyboard, an app-store rejection, a call from Steve Jobs and the Economy-for-iPad app &gt;&gt; Cascade Software CorporationDescribes what it says on the tin. Intriguing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Did you go "uh?" when Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook's new email system isn't email? Don't worry – so did everyone else. Facebook's plans for integrating email, text messaging, instant messaging (aka "SMS" and "IM") and Facebook messages are technology's equivalent of the Schleswig- Holstein Question: only three people understand it, and one is mad and another is dead.Well, Zuckerberg's not dead. But integrating email with, well, everything else is a trick no one has ever managed to pull off. Here's how it might work.You're on Facebook on your computer at home, and you start chatting to a friend using its Chat facility. Then, say, you leave home but you're using your smartphone's Facebook app: there you can continue the chat. And if your friend leaves their computer and heads out with just a dumbphone that can only do texts, they'll still be able to contact you. Or if your friend gets a smartphone, and starts checking their email, in time (not yet) the conversation will continue in email. A huge, horrendously long, never-ending email of your conversation.Sounds simple to do; in fact, it is hideously complicated. Facebook has had 15 programmers working for more than a year on this, and it's still not cooked. If Zuckerberg has solved this problem, we'll all cheer – though if it means we all have to live inside Facebook.com, maybe not.
The Beatles may have signed up to iTunes, but still missing are . . .▶AC/DC- The makers of the second bestselling album in history, Back in Black, refuse to make their tracks available individually.▶Jay-Z- Most of the rapper's work is available, but not his American Gangster album: "this collection will not be sold as individual singles."▶Frank Zappa- The Zappa catalogue was removed from iTunes by his widow.▶Kid Rock- Because there are no packaging or distrubution costs on iTunes, argues the US rock-rap crossover star, artists should get a much higher royalty.
Two new independent examinations of the Stuxnet computer worm, thought to be the work of a national government agency, show that it was definitely built to target technology used at Iran's Bushehr nuclear power plant.Described as one of the "most refined pieces of malware ever discovered," Stuxnet took direct aim at industrial systems based in Iran, whose first nuclear power station recently began operations. Speakingto the Guardianin September, security experts said the attack was likely a state-sponsored case of "modern espionage".Nownew researchby cyber security firm Symantec shows definitively that Stuxnet was built to target uranium enrichment equipment used to fuel Tehran's controversial nuclear programme.Eric Chien, a researcher at Symantec, said the the company had "connected a critical piece of the puzzle" with the finding.Stuxnet works by sabotaging frequency converter drives used to alter the speed of motors in factory machinery, the study shows. The worm only attacks drives that run at a higher speed – between 807 Hertz (Hz) and 1210 Hz.When Stuxnet finds drives running at those speeds, it begins changing their revolution speed dramatically - "to 1410Hz and then to 2Hz and then to 1064Hz," Symantec says. That could make a system tear itself apart due to inertial effects, and would certainly prevent it functioning properly."Modification of the output frequency essentially sabotages the automation system [preventing it] from operating properly," Chien said.That Iran is the target emerges from the second part of the discovery, Symantec's team explains: "we can now confirm that Stuxnet requires the industrial control system to have frequency converter drives from at least one of two specific vendors, one headquartered in Finland and the other in Tehran, Iran.  This is in addition to the previous requirements we discussed of a S7-300 CPU and a CP-342-5 Profibus communications module." They note that "while frequency converter drives are used in many industrial control applications, these speeds are used only in a limited number of applications."Specifically, "efficient low-harmonic frequency converter drives that output over 600Hz are regulated for export in the United States by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as they can be used for uranium enrichment.  We would be interested in hearing what other applications use frequency converter drives at these frequencies."The worm was identified by a Belarusian security firm working for an Iranian client earlier this year, after finding that some technology in the Tehran plant wasn't working properly. Experts said the worm must have been well-funded and that the team which wrote it probably comprised between five and 10 people, and would have taken around six months to ready for deployment.Ivanka Barzashka, a research associate at the Federation of American Scientists, told Reuters: "If Symantec's analysis is true, then Stuxnet likely aimed to destroy Iran's gas centrifuges, which could produce enriched uranium for both nuclear fuel and nuclear bombs."Another computer security firm, Langner Communications of Germany,also independently foundthat the worm was designed to target systems used in power plants, such as those at the Bushehr nuclear power plant.Alan Bentley, senior international vice president at security firm Lumension, said Stuxnet is "the most refined piece of malware ever discovered", and that the worm was significant because "mischief or financial reward wasn't its purpose, it was aimed right at the heart of a critical infrastructure".Graham Cluley, a senior consultant with the online security firm Sophos, told the Guardian that the attack heralded the "third age" of cyber crime, where "there are political, economic and military ways in which the internet can be exploited – and malware can be used – to gain advantage by foreign states," he said."I think we will see more and more attacks which will be blamed on state-sponsored cyber attacks. There have been numerous attacks in the past which could be said to have possible military, political or economic motives, but it is very difficult to prove that a hack was ordered by Mossad or instead dreamt up by a Macclesfield student."
Assassin's Creed 2 marked a massive improvement on the original game, but with this sequel appearing only a year later I was half expecting something of a rush job. Fortunately, Brotherhood manages to combine old and new elements with skill and imagination while adding, for the first time, a potentially fascinating multiplayer component.Fans of Ezio's time-straddling storyline may initially worry that all the action is now set in Rome, rather than the three distinctive city architectures of the previous game. And indeed, things do start slowly, with the Siege of Monteriggioni lulling you into a false sense of security as you get used to new abilities – from being able to ride horses, to two-handed combat against enemies that will happily gang up on you rather than waiting politely for their turn. Finally, when all hell breaks loose (courtesy of a cannonball crashing through your wall), the real story begins and you'll find that things move at a speedier pace.When in combat, you can now use more powerful kicks, a new disarm move and even a crossbow that allows your to shoot enemies off nearby roofs – but this is just the start. Ezio is now an assassin leader rather than just a lone operative, and is able to summon teams of assassins to perform "brotherhood assisted moves". You can train these cohorts as much or little as you like, even to the point where they can take care of mundane skirmishes while you're up to something more interesting.However, as before, this is primarily a stealth-based game, with enemies likely to bolt or summon reinforcements at the first sign of trouble – which makes early recon essential to pick exactly the right position and time to strike. And it's not all about fighting – there are missions that involve sabotage, retrieving objects or escorting other players and, as in AC2, hidden levels that rely on purely platforming skills, with pixel-perfect jumps made all the trickier by needing to examine the scenery with your eagle vision to discover the upward path.As for the multiplayer side, players can choose from eight assassin types and a pair of weapons before being cut loose in disguise somewhere around Rome, tasked with locating and taking down a player-character who is also hunting you. It will be interesting to see how the dynamics of this play out once the servers fill up, but it's something that could easily evolve into its own MMO, given time and a few more playing modes.For now, it's the single player campaign – filled with stunning cut-scenes, music and voice acting – that prove the most compelling reasons to play this excellent sequel. On this evidence, I can't wait for the next one.• Gamre reviewed on Xbox 360
Google is urging western governments to challenge internet censorship in countries such as China, saying the economic implications of stifled trade will become more grave if nothing is done."More than 40 governments now engage in broad-scale restriction of online information, a tenfold increase from just a decade ago," the US-based technology giant warns in a policy brief on internet trade restrictions published yesterday.The warning follows an embattled 12 months in China, where Google has had to comply with state censorship rules or risk being kicked out of the world's most populous internet market. Google yesterday denied its policy brief was sparked by developments in China, where the company lags some way behind the native Baidu in the search market, but said the country's government was capable of "arbitrary and capricious behaviour" in its dealings with internet companies.But in a rare public appearance the chairman of Baidu, the Chinese search engine which has the majority share there, said Google had failed to understand the market before itlaunched there in January 2006. "China is a very different market. Market conditions change every day. If you are not close, it is difficult for you to keep up," said Robin Li at the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco.Bob Boorstin, Google's director of public policy, said ina post on the company's blog: "Governments are blocking online services, imposing non-transparent regulation, and seeking to incorporate surveillance tools into their internet infrastructure. These are the trade barriers of the 21st century economy."These actions unnecessarily restrict trade and, left unchecked, they will almost certainly get worse," the briefing warns.A row over hacking with China earlier this year led to the US technology giant withdrawing from its mainland offices and re-routing Chinese internet users via its Hong Kong service. The company later restored its original service, adding a prominent button to redirect users to the Hong Kong service and away from the so-called Great Firewall, whenit renewed its Chinese business licence– a prerequisite for doing busines in the country – in July.In MarchGoogle saidit was stopping the censorship of searches that the Chinese administration had demanded, following a sophisticated cyber attack originating from China directed at the Gmail account of dozens of human rights activists and at Google's internal systems.Google's share of the Chinese search market has continued to deteriorate since March, currently down from 24.2% to 21.6% in the third quarter, according to Beijing-based research firm Analysys International. Baidu  has continued to grow during this time. Google has accused China of tilting the market in favour of Baidu, and said authorities in Vietnam, Turkey, Russia and Pakistan have all blocked information online in some form.Baidu's Li said earlier this week that his company's success, which saw it double its net profit to 1bn yuan (£98m) in the third quarter, had been aided by Google's falling share of the Chinese market.Li said he had urged the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, to spend at least six months in China when his company launched its service in China. A local domain version of Google, Google.cn,went livein January 2006. "Apparently, Eric did not take my advice," he said. "I knew that, eventually, he would hand me a gift, and it happened."Google urged the governments in the US and European Union to take "concrete steps to ensure that rules in the next generation of trade agreements reflect new challenges of internet trade."
They're up now: the Beatles catalogue is now available from the iTunes Music Store, 20 minutes ahead of the expected 3pm launch of the albums.In the UK, they're priced at £10.99 per album, with individual songs priced at 99p. Or you can spend £125 on the entire box set – is this the most expensive iTunes Music Store purchase out there?The albums come with "iTunes LP" extras including photos and lyrics.Beatles albums are available on iTunesThat's some premium over the vast majority of the songs on the Store, suggesting that Apple Corp (which licenses the Beatles music) has prevailed in its desire to place the Fab Four as the expensive end of the music business. In the US the albums are slightly cheaper (at $12.99); even when you remove the 17.5% VAT on the UK price of £10.99 (which brings it down to £9.35), the US price is still lower on the conversion.Does it matter much? As Mike Davidsoncommented on Twitter, "I feel like the Beatles coming to iTunes is a much bigger deal to Steve Jobs than it is to anyone else." Possibly Jobs can now feel his canon - invent computer, turn computer into appliance, be midwife to animated film revolution, get everyone to buy The Beatles catalogue - is now complete.TheApple press releaseabout it is fulsome, especially from Jobs:"We love the Beatles and are honored and thrilled to welcome them to iTunes," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "It has been a long and winding road to get here. Thanks to the Beatles and EMI, we are now realizing a dream we've had since we launched iTunes ten years ago."Whereas Ringo, befitting someone who once voiced the antics of childrens' trains, is more down to earth:"I am particularly glad to no longer be asked when the Beatles are coming to iTunes," said Ringo Starr.The countries where the Beatles are now available is (courtesy ofWaffle Wootest): Australia, Austria,  Belgium,  Canada,  Denmark,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Mexico,  Netherlands,  New Zealand,  Norway,  Portugal,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  UK,  and the USA. The holdouts are interesting (see the map below), and it will be interesting to see if Beatles songs flood the charts in the coming weeks.Perhaps a Beatles No.1 to thwart theKaraoke Sauron? What do you say? Grand idea?There's also anentire section of Apple's site dedicated to the Beatles- TV adverts, Apple [Inc, the computer maker, not Corp, the music licensor] adverts, and so on.Apple Recordsitself is being low-key about the launch - though it does now mention iTunes as well as that purveyor of physical objects, Amazon.The British Phonographic Industry (BPI) said the news marked a "coming of age for digital music," no less. Here's BPI chief executive Geoff Taylor:"The announcement that The Beatles will be available to download legally on iTunes marks the coming of age for digital music. British music fans have never had so much choice - from the smallest indie dance act to the superstars of rock and roll, there are millions of tracks available on more than 70 different digital music services, catering for every possible taste and budget."We'll have more analysis of the negotiations and backroom dealing that was necessary to get this catalogue onto the (legal) internet. Meanwhile, if anyone has AC/DC's number, or knows when they're going to be on iTunes, do get in touch...Update:here's the map (link). You're out of luck if you're in Eastern Europe, Africa, south America or China. How will people there possibly get the songs? Oh, yes - they've been downloading them for years.Meanwhile the snark has been quite remarkable; those who were expecting spotted unicorns, or simply don't care much about the Beatles, have been out in force. Here's a sampling:Mark Hughes: Ugh, the Apple home page has been hacked, it just shows some hippy retards, probably GPL fanatics.Matt Gemmell: "Could be worse. They could've added a Beatles section to the iTunes sidebar."Tim Weber: "Pirate Bay didn't make such a song and dance when they put Beatles in their catalogue"Kosso: "Sergeant Pepper's DRM Protected Band - Now on iTunes."Richard Pen Llawen: "If you like The Beatles enough to spend $149 on iTunes but not enough to have ever bought any CDs: today is a day you'll never forget."Danny Greg: "Just a technicality: How on earth can iTunes sell a "box" set?"David Friedman: "Breaking: Microsoft announces the Monkees catalog now available on Zune."
Keith Stuartpresents this special discussion programme on stories in games, recorded at the National Media Museum for the Bradford Animation Festival.Video game narrative is put under the microscope – how far has storytelling come in game design over the past 30 years, and has it come far enough? Are there lessons to be learned from the animation and comic book industries, both of which have provided visual inspiration to game developers?Veteran game designerCharles Cecil– famous for the Broken Sword adventures, as well as the BBC's brilliant new Doctor Who games – details what it was like working with the programme team, and how parts of the new Tardis were designed purely for the game.We also welcomeKieron Gillen, once one of the most respected games journalists in the world before he packed it all in to write comic books for Marvel.And we hear fromDan Pinchbeck, an experimental game developer and senior lecturer at Portsmouth University, where he specialises in the significance of narrative within video games. He discusses how putting yourself in a game using new technology, such as Microsoft's Kinect, might not be ideal: "If I pick up a novel, I don't want a blank space and a paragraph for me to fill in the main character."Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
In generations to come, when futuristic space children put their hands up in class and ask, "what was the first truly 21st century arcade racing game?" the answer they'll receive from their robot teachers will be Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit.While the under-rated Blur dabbled in social networking functionality and Disney's showy Split/Second revelled in cutting edge automotive destruction, it is Criterion's game that successfully fuses those elements together into one exhilarating ride.The action takes place in the fictitious coastal country of Seacrest, where petrol-head nutjobs are engaged in turbo-charged battle with the traffic cops. Through a series of unlockable events and challenges, players swap between the two sides, earning points and unveiling shiny new vehicles as they go.One minute you'll be competing in a four-car Hot Pursuit, angling for first place as the cops attempt to shunt you all off the road; the next you'll be in a squad car on an Interceptor mission, desperately trying to smash boy racers into trackside barriers. As you progress, more areas of the map open up, each offering a range of new missions – including against-the-clock time trials, duels against single enemies and the mouth-watering preview sessions where you get to try out scorching hot exotics like the McLaren F1 and Pagani Zonda Roadster ages before you're able to unlock them for real.Typically for a Criterion racer, players are free to attempt unlocked events in any order they like. Racers get a gold, silver or bronze medal at the end of each task depending on their performance, while cops get a distinction, merit or pass – so there's always room to come back and try for a better rating if you've only just scraped through. Better still, connect the console to the net and the game monitors all of your Xbox Live or PSN friends, showing your best times against theirs and letting you know when a pal performs better.The neat "Autolog Recommends" mode also picks out key times achieved by mates and lets you go straight in to challenge them; this creates a beautifully seamless sense of competitive multiplayer action, even if you're never all online at the same time.But if you do manage a synchronised cyberspace get-together, Hot Pursuit really comes alive. Via a vast range of customisable race options, drivers can engage in thrilling multiplayer road fights, ranging from straight-up eight-car races to four-vs-four challenges, where police squads face racer gangs.The latter are just ridiculously enjoyable. Cops must work together to shut down racers, while the racers themselves are competing for first place while occasionally teaming up to see off squad cars. The perfectly judged power-up system provides both sides with spike strips that can be dropped to pop the tyres of pursuers, as well as electromagnetic pulse systems that target vehicles just ahead of you with a system-crashing boost of energy.The police also get to call in road blocks and helicopter support, while racers get a one-off turbo boost that sends their vehicles scorching into hyperspace. These power-ups can also be gradually unlocked through the career mode, and they add a hugely satisfying competitive twist to the events. They're not as visually captivating as the weapons in Blur or WipEout HD, or as entertainingly destructive as the scenic special moves in Split/Second, but they're certainly better balanced and less intrusive, providing an augmentation to good, solid driving rather than a scene-stealing get-out-last-place-free card for slow coaches.This certainly isn't the bruising smash-happy joyride some misguided fools may expect from the catchall term "arcade racer". With a handling model that nudges in somewhere between the Burnout series and the more sim-like Need For Speed: Shift, it's a technically demanding racer that takes its array of beautiful motors seriously.Sure, muscle cars like the Corvette ZR1 and Dodge Challenger oversteer with throbbing abandon, while the low slung exotics stick more resolutely to the surface, but there are dozens of variations in between and mastering the cornering and drifting potential of each model takes genuine skill. While you can certainly bash into rivals and grind along barriers, no one is going to wait around for you to recover – there is a touch of rubber-banding in the AI, but it never approaches the taut, springy farce of Mario Kart Wii. You need todrive, you need to grip the racing line, you need to learn the shortcuts and use them brilliantly.And while you're learning, there are wonderful heart-stopping moments of drama and tension. What fun it is to spy, in the far distance, two rivals clipping an oncoming truck and spinning across the road in a confetti shower of shrapnel, allowing you to slip by amid the carbon fibre corpses. And how terrifying, when you scorch over the brow of a hill, only to hit a spike strip or a damaged car resting across your path.Hot Pursuit is a game of millimetre escapes and of awesome, high-speed pile-ups that are Ballardian in their lustful depiction of splintering metal. Every environment is rendered in gorgeous HD detail giving us everything from dust-churning desert tracks, to wintry peaks, to sylvan passes along glittering lakes. Meanwhile, the lighting engine works minor miracles every time a swirling police light hits the walls of a tunnel, or the sun glints off the chassis of a Maserati Gran Cabrio scorching along the coastal freeway.All that's missing perhaps, is the free-roaming anarchy of the Burnout series; the road layouts constructed as much for stunts and choreographed smashes as for race events. Hot Pursuit is much more conventional in that sense. But at the same time, it points the way in terms of social functionality, investing every single-player session with asynchronous multiplayer potential, and allowing cautious gamers to segue almost seamlessly into the world of online play.Hot Pursuit, like the high-end vehicles it fetishises, has been crafted with genuine care, with great insight, with technical brilliance. Gran Turismo 5 will grab the headlines and the purist vote, but it surely won't live like this game does; it will be an austere cathedral to Criterion's joyous modernist structure.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
The fact that Apple's teaser on itshomepageand itsiTunespage for the announcement today – widely expected to mean the arrival of the Beatles catalogue on iTunes – has puzzled so many people may be indicative of one very important thing: we've pretty much forgotten what the Beatles were.The clue is that Apple has four clocks, with the third of the clocks (the London time) at 3 o'clock, just like Paul McCartney's arms in the "semaphore" cover ofHelp!, their giganto-enormous selling album of ... August 1965.Here are Apple's clocks:And now here's the cover of Help!:The Beatles 1965 album Help! - cover (British version)Which doesn't actually spell "Help" in semaphore; it spells "NUJV" because the photographer thought it "looked better" than the actual shapes they'd have to make.By the same token, the Apple clocks actually spell K T J * (there isn't a semaphore signal with both hands at 12 noon).The line "just another day" also features in a Wings song by Paul and Linda McCartney.This brings to an end a long struggle by Apple (the computer and gadgets company) to get Apple Corp (the Beatles management company which had the final say on making the music digitally available) to let it sell its music on the iTunes Store. After the titanic lawsuits between the two, which have rattled on literally for decades (Apple Corps insisted Apple Computer, now Inc, should stay out of "music", but quite how you defined music had to be decided by a court; it found in favour of Apple Computer), it looks like Steve Jobs is going to get his way.But does anyone care any more? The Beatles have been held out as the pinnacle that online music stores want as the songs to sell – yet if someone really wants them on ther iPod, they can go and buy the CD in a shop and just rip it (and get it in better quality to boot). Is there anyone left who wants the songs yet doesn't have them? The release today would have to include an enormous back catalogue of unheard material that will appeal to completists to really sell.Meanwhile, no signs yet that AC/DC are going to join in any time soon: are the Aussie band the biggest analogue holdouts, or do you know of others? And will you buy the Beatles if they come to a legal download link near you later today?(Since you're wondering how we know so much about semaphore, here's the handy alphabet, courtesy ofWinterbourne. Very useful, especially if you need tore-enact Wuthering Heights at a distance.The semaphore alphabet
Sun/Java cup. Photo byigorschwarzmannon Flickr.Some rights reservedWhat is happening with the Java language and runtime? Since Java passed into the hands of Oracle, following its acquisition of Sun, there has been a succession of bad news. To recap:• TheJavaOneconference in September 2010 was held in the shadow of Oracle OpenWorld making it a less significant event than in previous years.• Oracle is suing Google, claiming that Java as used in the Android SDK breaches its copyright.• IBM hasabandonedthe Apache open sourceHarmony projectand is committing to the Oracle-supported Open JDK. Although IBM's Sutor claims that this move will "help unify open source Java efforts", it seems to have been done without consultation with Apache and is as much divisive as unifying.• Apple isdeprecating Javaand ceasing to develop a Mac-specific JVM. This should be seen in context. Apple is averse to runtimes of any kind – note its war against Adobe Flash – and seems to look forward to a day when all or most applications delivered to Apple devices come via the Apple-curated and taxed app store. In mitigation, Apple is cooperating with the OpenJDK and OpenJDK for Mac OS Xhas been announced.• Apache has written astrongly-worded blog postclaiming that Oracle is "violating their contractual obligation as set forth under the rules of the JCP", where JCP is the Java Community Process, a multi-vendor group responsible for the Java specification but in which Oracle/Sun has special powers of veto. Apache's complaint is that Oracle stymies the progress of Harmony by refusing to supply the test kit for Java (TCK) under a free software license. Without the test kit, Harmony's Java conformance cannot be officially verified.• The JCP has been unhappy with Oracle's handling of Java for some time. Many members disagree with the Google litigation and feel that Oracle has not communicated well with the JCP. JCP member Doug Lea stood down,claimingthat "the JCP is no longer a credible specification and standards body". Another member, Stephen Colebourne, has aseries of blog postsin which he discusses thegreat war of Javaand what he calls the "unravelling of the JCP", and recently expressed his view that Oracle was trying to manipulate the recent JCP elections.To set this bad news in context, Java was not really in a good way even before the acquisition. While Sun was more friendly towards open source and collaboration, the JCP has long been perceived as too slow to evolve Java, and unrepresentative of the wider Java community. Further, Java's pre-eminence as a pervasive cross-platform runtime has been reduced. As a browser plug-in it has fallen behind Adobe Flash, the JavaFX initiative failed to win wide developer support, and on mobile it has also lost ground. Java's advance as a language has been too slow to keep up with Microsoft's C#.There are a couple of ways to look at this.One is to argue that bad news followed by more bad news means Java will become a kind of COBOL, widely used forever but not at the cutting edge of anything.The other is to argue that since Java was already falling behind, radical change to the way it is managed may actually improve matters.Mike Milinkovich at the Eclipse Foundation takes a pragmatic view in arecent post. He concedes that Oracle has no idea how to communicate with the Java community, and that the JCP is not vendor-neutral, but says that Java can nevertheless flourish:I believe that many people are confusing the JCP's vendor neutrality with its effectiveness as a specifications organization. The JCP has never and will never be a vendor-neutral organization (a la Apache and Eclipse), and anyone who thought it so was fooling themselves. But it has been effective, and I believe that it will be effective again.It seems to me Java will be managed differently after it emerges from its crisis, and that on the scale between "open" and "proprietary" it will have moved towards proprietary but not in a way that destroys the basic Java proposition of a free development kit and runtime. It is also possible, even likely, that Java language and technology will advance more rapidly than before.For developers wondering what will happen to Java at a technical level, the best guide currently is still theJDK Roadmap, published in September. Some of its key points:• The open sourceOpen JDKis the basis for the Oracle JDK.• The Oracle JDK and Java Runtime Environment (JRE) will continue to be available as free downloads, with no changes to the existing licensing models.• New features proposed for JDK 7 include better support for dynamic languages and concurrent programming. JDK 8 will get Lambda expression.While I cannot predict the outcome of Oracle vs Google or even Apache vs Oracle, my guess is that there will be a settlement and that Android's momentum will not be disrupted.That said, there is little evidence that Oracle has the vision that Sun once had, to make Java truly pervasive and a defence against lock-in to proprietary operating systems. Microsoft seems to have lost that vision for .NET and Silverlight as well – though theMonofolk have it. Adobe still has it for Flash, though like Oracle it seems if anything to beretreatingfrom open source.There is therefore some sense in which the problems facing Java (and Silverlight) are good for .NET, for Mono and for Adobe. Nevertheless, 2010 has been a bad year for write once – run anywhere.Latest: Oracle has posted astatementsaying:Therecently released statementby the ASF Board with regard to their participation in the JCP calling for EC members to vote against SE7 is a call for continued delay and stagnation of the past several years. We would encourage Apache to reconsider their position and work together with Oracle and the community at large to collectively move Java forward. Oracle provides TCK licenses under fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms consistent with its obligations under the JSPA. Oracle believes that with EC approval to initiate the SE7 and SE8 JSRs, the Java community can get on with the important work of driving forward Java SE and other standards in open, transparent, consensus-driven expert groups. This is the priority. Now is the time for positive action. Now is the time to move Java forward.to which Apacherepliessuccinctly:The ball is in your court. Honor the agreement.Related posts on Tim Anderson's blog:•IBM to harmonise its open source Java efforts with Oracle•Apple deprecates Java•Oracle versus the JCP as Java's future is debated•Oracle breaks, then mends Eclipse with new Java build•Apple not Android is killing client-side Java &ndash; so why is Oracle suing Google?Tim Anderson has beena technology journalist since 1992; he blogs atitwriting.com. You canfollow him on Twitter.
Much has already been written about the Nokia N8 and what a mess the phonemaker has made with the operating system of a truly lovely handset.I wasn't going to add much to that when I decided to look at the handset's imaging qualities,for which it recently won an award, but no matter how good the camera is – and it is good – I kept falling over the horrible software, which gets in the way of everything you want to do.First, getting to the camera function is an infuriating plod through the menus. There's a hardware button on the handset. If it took you straight to the camera function, it would be fantastic. It doesn't. Or if it can be made to do so, I couldn't work it out. You have to press Menu, then Applications, then Camera. Missed the shot? What a surprise. The button only captures the image once you're in the application.It's potentially a fantastic camera to have tucked about your person. It's a 12MP camera with a xenon flash which captures colours faithfully and produces surprisingly high-quality images (though I thought the pictures were a little soft). And it copes well with low artificial light at night. The handset itself is nicely weighted and it fits neatly into the hands, while the camera button is exactly where you want it to be – under the tip of your right index finger. Thoughtful.You don't even have to transfer the images to your computer to edit them as there are some useful basic editing functions on board the handset itself. You can resize, crop, get rid of red-eye, add text, add some clipart smilies (if you're an eight-year-old girl), put a frame on a picture and do some quite detailed fine-tuning of highlights, shadows and colours of photographs . You can distort images – brilliant for making your already-drunk friends look even more unattractive before you post the image to Facebook. You can add text to images. You can email them to your other mates.All that on-the-fly editing ought to be fantastic, and in fact the results are really not bad, but in reality it's utterly painful to do as the menus aren't intuitive and you'll find yourself stabbing away at the touchscreen and wondering how to get back to where you were.The flash isn't great, but then you shouldn't expect it to be. It drowns anything near the camera in harsh light and doesn't reach very far. However, in a moderately well-lit room at night you could probably get away without it, although you will get some noise on the resulting images.Getting to the video app is similarly annoying, and I also found the video images rather soft – though again, the camera handled low-light conditions well.The onboard video editor should be fun to play with, but it's massively fiddly and I had to resort to the manual (which you have to download; there isn't a hard copy in the box) to work out first what I could do (add images, transitions, text, music etc) and then how to do it (lots more stabbing at the touchscreen).This is such a disappointing cameraphone. It should be great fun to play with, to take to parties and capture those priceless moments of your friends falling over as they leave the pub. The software can do a myriad of cool and fun stuff and the hardware is fantastic: the lens is impressively good for a phonecam. But at every turn, the software gets in the way and stops you having fun with it. Too much stabbing at the touchscreen makes you want to stab someone. Probably the person who designed the software in the first place.Pros:good quality lens, thoughtfully designed hardwareCons:the software. The software. And the software.Nokia.co.uk
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft's Kinect motion control accessory for the Xbox 360 has shifted1m units in 10 days on sale. Not bad going considering the relatively high price and proof that motion control is here to stay. Microsoft have said they plan to sell 5m units before the end of the year.Just imagine how many more they could sell if, say, one of the fitness games was replaced by theStar Wars lightsaber game. Games for more hardcore gamers – like the Star Wars title – will start trickling through in 2011. For now, though, the Kinect is aimed firmly at the mass market.Microsoft's head of interactive entertainment, Don Mattrick, is pleased so far:We are appreciative of the response we have seen from consumers that has culminated in sales of more than 1m units in the first 10 days on the market for Kinect for Xbox 360. This is a great start to the holiday season, and we will continue to work with our retailer partners to keep pace with high demand and deliver against our plan to sell more than 5m Kinect sensors worldwide by the end of this year.What do you think then? Are Kinect games popping up on your Xbox Live friends list? Have you dived in yet?
Jeff Bonforte, chief executive of Xobni, which lets you search your Outlook inbox and organises mobile address books,commentson the context: "Yahoo! and Hotmail made it global and free. Microsoft made it work for business with Exchange and Outlook. BlackBerry made it portable. And Gmail took off the storage limits, which, lucky for them, increased the need for better search. Facebook announced this morning they intend to make two more contributions. They will make messaging social and, undeterred by Google Wave, more realtime."Real time he's not so fussed about (or, he'll let other people fuss about): "To me, the biggest announcement is making messaging social, or socially aware as we say here at Xobni."He thinks this is too big a chunk to bite off: "Even armed with the identities of over 500M users, Facebook has a big challenge in using social data to make messaging better. In fact, their blind spot might make the problem worse in some regards. The reason is the size and breadth of the index matters. Facebook's perspective is too narrow. First, it is focused, primarily on our personal relationships, and more importantly, it is heavy in explicit (public) data and light on the more important implicit (private) data."He points out that the identities of people can be dual: "Facebook tells me that the number one 'Damion' I know is the lead guitarist of a big Journey cover band. Kind of right. Except, Damion, to me, is my painting contractor, not a guitarist playing next week. This is similar to how Linkedin incorrectly (for me) identifies Nancy as the Director of the Turf Club in Del Mar. She is that…but of course to me, she is my Mom. And Facebook doesn't, actually, know her at all."AllFacebook has the lowdown onthe technology behind the announcement: "MySQL proved to not handle the long tail of data well; as indexes and data sets grew large, performance suffered." Instead it works on HBase, which is modelled after Google's own internal BigTable product.SearchEngineLandexplains how it worksCharlene Li thinks that the implications include migration away from traditional email ("today's numbers look like this: 350 million active Facebook Messages users (not everyone on Facebook uses Messages. That's compared to 363 million Hotmail users, 303 million Yahoo Mail users, and 171 million Gmail users") plus an "elegant way to consolidate everything in one place".A key point she does note: "The underlying assumption to Facebook Messages is that you have a real relationship with your Friends. I expect that Facebook will keep refining how messages are prioritized within the Friends inbox (for example with Friend Lists, recency of interactions), but it highlights the importance of being someone's friend in the first place."For example, if you want to gain access to a key person, becoming their friend now has tremendous value as it gets priority treatment. Anyone can send an email to charleneli@facebook.com, but it won't reach my prioritized inbox unless you're my friend."That latter might be the biggest difference about this. But will you be happy for your sensitive "email" to be hosted on Facebook?
Baidu's headquarters. Photo bysimone.brunozzion Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Baidu Won China &gt;&gt; BusinessWeekIn print, it's the cover story with "Be Evil" as the headline: "The world knows Baidu as the search engine that kicked Google's butt out of China, with an assist from the Communist Party. The company has a 73 percent share of the world's largest Internet market by users, and has the fifth-largest market capitalization ($38.3 billion) among the world's pure-play Internet companies, trailing Google, Amazon.com, Tencent (an instant messaging and gaming company based in Shenzhen), and only narrowly, eBay.. It's now 57 percent bigger than Yahoo! — and with significantly brighter prospects. Baidu "has the best business in the world," says Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray (PJC). "It's hugely profitable, with massive growth ahead in the population of Chinese Internet users, and the government backing it up. Essentially it's a state-sponsored monopoly.'"Confirmed: Kin One and Two are returning to Verizon. Wait, what? &gt;&gt; EngadgetWithout the expensive data plans that sank the Microsoft-acquired Danger phones this time. Most likely to get rid of surplus stock.Bram Cohen on the Future of BitTorrent: Video &gt;&gt; Gigaom"BitTorrent co-founder and chief scientist Bram Cohen explained today at GigaOM's NewTeeVee Live conference that the company hopes to help content creators reach its sprawling user base (80 million active users per month) and, within a matter of months, release its long-awaited P2P solution for live streaming."UK government creates Entrepreneurs' Forum advisory board. Which ones are just celebrities? &gt;&gt; TechCrunch UKYou're invited to help figure it out in the comments.Microsoft vs. McAfee: How free antivirus outperformed paid | ZDNet"How effective is free antivirus software? I had a chance to see a real, in-the-wild example just this month, and the results were, to put it mildly, unexpected. The bottom line? Microsoft's free antivirus solution found and removed a threat that two well-known paid products missed."What is more worrying is that Ed Bott, who's very computer-savy and hardly likely to go prodding the murkier bits of the net, could have a malicious PDF and a Java file with three exploits. Then again, he wasn't afected by them because they relied on old versions which he had already updated. From which you can conclude..One on One: Tim Wu, Author of The Master Switch &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comQ: What worries you about Apple?&#10;A: As I discuss in the book, Steve Jobs has the charisma, vision and instincts of every great information emperor. The man who helped create the personal computer 40 years ago is probably the leading candidate to help exterminate it. His vision has an undeniable appeal, but he wants too much control.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The long-running dispute between Apple Inc and the Beatles' Apple Corp appears closer to resolution last night with Apple Corp apparently relenting on its refusal to allow the group's catalogue on the computer maker's iTunes music store.The expected announcement, which was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, will settle a dispute that's run since 1978 when the group's representatives first brought a lawsuit against Apple Computer for trademark infringement over the both the name and symbol used by the California company.Over the years, there have been several lawsuits and several settlements, including one in which the technology company agreed not to enter the music business. With the launch of iTunes, lawyers for the surviving Beatles or their widows sued again.This time, a British judge found in the computer maker's favour and ordered the Beatle's promotional arm and label to pay its legal costs."We love the Beatles, and it has been painful being at odds with them over these trademarks," Apple CEO Steve Jobs said in 2007. "It feels great to resolve this in a positive manner, and in a way that should remove the potential of further disagreements in the future."Neil Aspinall, the late combative manager of Apple Corp said, "It is great to put this dispute behind us and move on."But the two parties continued feuding. Two years ago Sir Paul McCartney offered assurances that the group's work would soon be made available. The remastering and release of the entire catalog last year appears to have brought online availability of the catalog closer.But terms of the latest deal have not been revealed, and sources warn Apple – the label – could still pull the plug.
From the decline in affection of one relationship to the growing warmth of another, Facebook users will soon be able to chart their entire conversation history with friends, family and lovers using the company's new communication system.The social network website plans to combine text messages, emails and instant messages all in one place online.Today, at an eagerly awaited presentation at Facebook headquarters in Palo Alto, California, Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of the site which now has 500 million users, unveiled the details of a product which some in the industry had been classing a "Gmail killer", referring to Google's email offering.Zuckerberg, speaking to an assembled group of journalists, talked quickly but coherently as he revealed the philosophy behind the system.He was especially keen to stress one point. "It's not email," he said early in his presentation. "It's true that people will be able to have an @facebook.com email addresses, but it's not email."The new service, which will be called Facebook Messages, will offer a social inbox and "seamless messaging", a clearly excited Zuckerberg said.What that means is that if users so wish the company will now begin to compile their chatter from across four platforms: text messages, instant messages (IMs), emails and messages sent on Facebook.The Facebook chief executive said that, in addition to the benefit of the software pooling messages from different devices, another boon would come as Facebook Messages provided the ultimate in spam and message filtering – a feat that existing email services have never fully accomplished, he suggested. "There are a lot of different classes of junk, and it's really difficult for any email system to know [that] 'this is a person who is sending me a legitimate message but you just don't care about what they have to say'," he said, displaying a glimpse of the social awareness – or lack of – for which he is famed.Facebook Messages will prevent communiques from the unwanted, Zuckerberg continued, as users would be able to alter their settings in a manner similar to the current Facebook privacy settings, allowing messages through from "Friends only" or "Friends of Friends". Conversation histories going back years would be saved into users' accounts and spam filtered out, he claimed.Demonstrating the new tool – after making his own, apparently obligatory, "it's not email" preface – Facebook's director of engineering, Andrew Bosworth, pulled up his personal chat history with his girlfriend, saying that he was really jealous that the "next generation" would be able to see their entire conversation history with their own partner or friends.Whether this next generation will want to see every single utterance they have ever exchanged with their incumbent is a different matter – one can imagine good reason for not recording some heat-of-the-moment remarks for all eternity.Questioned on the wisdom of total documentation Bosworth stressed that users of the service would be able to delete conversations.So will Facebook Messages be the future of communication, or will it be the next Google wave?The latter was another development much heralded at the time as a way to unify communication on the web. It was released in May 2009 and quietly disbanded in August this year."The key for Facebook's success with messaging will be to get the privacy settings right the first time," was the snap reaction of Michael Gartenberg, consumer specialist at the technology analysis company Gartner. Ironically he provided his view on Twitter.Only time will tell how successful the ubiquitous social networking site's latest development proves to be.For the time being, just remember not to call it email.
Britain could lead a sober international debate about the threat of cyber warfare, avoiding melodramatic claims made about aggressive actions in a world where it is difficult to point the finger at perpetrators.This is a conclusion of a report published todayby Chatham House, the British foreign affairs and security thinktank, on a threat whose potential seriousness is only now being publicly recognised by the government.It warns:• cyber warfare can enable actors to achieve their political and strategic goals without the need for armed conflict;• cyberspace gives disproportionate power to small and otherwise relatively insignificant actors;• attackers can act with almost complete anonymity and relative impunity, at least in the short-term;• in cyberspace the boundaries are blurred between the military and the civilian, and between the physical and the virtual; and power can be exerted by states or non-state actors, or by proxy;• cyberspace should be viewed as the "fifth battlespace" alongside the more traditional arenas of land, air, sea and space.However, it says that while "cyber actions" of terrorist groups, spies, and organised criminals, might be harmful they do not in themselves constitute acts of cyber warfare. There is a beguiling and dangerous argument, it adds, that cyber warfare can be preferable as a "painless" or "bloodless" form of conflict delivering decisive outcomes.The report continues: "Cyber warfare is often discussed in terms of alarming anecdotes which often seem closer to the world of science fiction than public policy. Moving beyond the anecdotal, cyber warfare must, however, be understood in the context of national strategy."It adds: "Victory and defeat are far from recognizable in cyberspace. These concepts have little traction in a domain where political, ideological, religious, economic and military combatants fight for varying reasons ... and applying their own code of conduct to the fight. This results in a discordant and chaotic sphere of conflict in which it is not yet obvious that a common framework of ethics, norms and values can apply."Close cooperation between Britain and the US on intelligence and military matters has extended into cyberspace, says the Chatham House report.In the US, where the Pentagon has set up a special Cyber Command, the debate is who should control the fight against cyber attacks – military or civil agencies.The report says that though the government earlier this month emphasised the threat of cyber warfare, it was still unclear which agency would lead it. "The government should make [cyber warfare] a much more accessible issue," said Claire Yorke, one of the report's authors.
Not content to revolutionise online search and email, Google is preparing to enter the fashion business on Wednesday with a website believed to be called Boutiques.com.The attraction is obvious: with conservatively estimated revenues of $500bn (£310bn) worldwide making it the fourth largest industry globally, and estimated to be worth £37bn to the UK economy alone, fashion represents a potential e-commerce honeypot to the search company.The fashion industry publication WWD reports Google is not itself planning to be a vendor; instead, its fashion-dedicated website will direct customers towards existing retailers such as Net-a-Porter and Asos, or designer's sites. It has also asked mostly American designers such as Tory Burch, Oscar de la Renta and Marchesa to set up virtual shops within the site.In addition, Google is hiring Sarah Jessica Parker to establish a personalised shop and has invited other celebrities, including Tom Cruise's wife Katie Holmes, to do the same.The fashion industry is moving more of its promotional and sales business online. It hopes shoppers will create profiles describing their preferences and make it easier to focus advertising and marketing efforts. In theory, Google's revenue will come from advertising and it could charge click-through fees or take a cut of sales.Google is not alone; eBay recently launched fashion-specific areas. But industry executives say Google is more compelling. One noted in WWD: "Isn't that a lot sexier than eBay? Google owns the world … and it's a different platform than eBay."Some executives see the push online as a further step in the democratisation of the business. Last week, plans leaked out for an art-sales website, Art.sy, backed by Rupert Murdoch's wife Wendi Deng, Google's Eric Schmidt, Roman Abramovich's girlfriend Dasha Zuhkova and super-dealer Larry Gagosian.But the extent to which sophisticated consumers of art or fashion are prepared to buy online remains open to question. As one fashion executive told WWD: "It's incumbent upon us to be open to and explore new areas. In the business sense, the bricks-and-mortar business is not growing by leaps and bounds. It's become more of a market share question."
The photographic scientist Geoffrey Crawley, who has died aged 83, played an instrumental role in the debunking of the world's longest-running photographic hoax. The unlikely deception was hatched in 1917 by two cousins, Elsie Wright, aged 15, and Frances Griffiths, 10, who claimed they had captured photographs of fairies near their home in Cottingley, west Yorkshire. The "Cottingley fairies" tale quickly caught the public imagination, rolling on until some six decades later, when Geoffrey's scientific analysis of the pictures led the cousins to confess that the fairies had been nothing more sensational than cut-outs kept in place using hatpins.He may be best known for exposing a schoolgirl prank, but Geoffrey also had a far-reaching influence on photographic science. Yet he held no professional scientific qualifications nor had any formal training. He learned much from his father, Tom, who built microscopes and radios in his spare time. In a manner akin to a home-based inventor of the Victorian era, Geoffrey went on to create a black-and-white film developer called Acutol. First manufactured by the British firm Paterson in the 1960s, the range was used in darkrooms up and down the land.Geoffrey was born in Bow, east London. Aged four, he moved with his parents to Southend-on-Sea, Essex, and then to nearby Leigh-on-Sea, where he helped out in the darkroom set up by Tom, a keen amateur photographer, who worked for the Admiralty in London. Geoffrey attended Westcliff high school for boys. His mother, Alice, died when he was 12.During the second world war he was evacuated to Derbyshire, where, as a keen pianist, he persuaded the mining family he was living with to buy an upright piano so he could practise. Harbouring an ambition to turn his musical talent into a profession, Geoffrey gave recitals both at school and later at Cambridge University. There, in the mid-1940s, he studied languages at Selwyn College, specialising in German and French. However, his musical dreams were cut short when he became ill during his final year at Cambridge and was unable to pursue his chosen career or finish his degree.Over the next few years Geoffrey gave piano lessons and honed his skills at inventing black-and-white film developers for Paterson. Three of Geoffrey's concoctions, Aculux, Acugrade and FX-39, are still made today. During the 1960s, 70s and 80s, Geoffrey found himself in demand, in a profession and pastime spiralling in popularity.He tested newly developed lenses for Leica and wrote a series of books about photographic equipment, including The Nikon System (1969). Geoffrey became adept at communicating complex principles, using detailed graphs to display how sharpness and distortion differed from one lens to another. He influenced amateurs and professional photographers alike: as editor of the British Journal of Photography (BJP) from 1966 until 1987; and as photo-science consultant for Amateur Photographer magazine, where he was still reviewing cameras and lenses shortly before his death. Above all, Geoffrey relished the challenge of an investigation and was often called upon as an expert witness for photographers involved in court cases.It was as editor of the BJP in 1982 that he applied a detective's eye to the five Cottingley fairies photographs, the authenticity of which had first been endorsed by Edward Gardner, a theosophist, in 1920. Gardner had heightened the allure of the story by having the glass plate negatives retouched for public show, in a way that Photoshop software might be used today. The tale snowballed further when Sir Arthur Conan Doyle – the creator of Sherlock Holmes and a spiritualist – endorsed the revelations in an article for the Strand Magazine.Geoffrey brought an objective, in-depth, technical analysis to the case. He acquired two of the cameras used by the Cottingley cousins – a quarter-plate Cameo folding camera and a Midg box camera – to assess whether they could possibly have used them to take the pictures. "Of course there are fairies, just as there is Father Christmas," Geoffrey concluded. The story proved irresistible to Hollywood: the films FairyTale: A True Story and Photographing Fairies based on the case were both released in 1997.Geoffrey's analytical mind also appealed to the producers of a 1988 TV programme about the shooting of President John F Kennedy. Geoffrey was dispatched to Dallas, Texas, to analyse claims that an unidentified figure (dubbed the "Badge Man") was visible in the background of a faded Polaroid photograph taken at the scene of JFK's assassination in 1963. However, Geoffrey felt his tests were unable to prove, one way or another, whether there was a previously unknown human figure on the grassy knoll.Geoffrey was awarded honorary fellowships of the Royal Photographic Society and the British Institute of Professional Photography. Yet, a mild, modest man, he was shy of the spotlight, even reluctant for his full name to be used as a byline for his articles in Amateur Photographer. In his spare time he enjoyed boating, spending his summers off the south coast with friends in a motorcruiser called Kanita. He is survived by his wife Carolyn, whom he married in 1994, and his son Thomas.•Geoffrey Wakefield Crawley, photographic scientist, born 10 December 1926; died 29 October 2010
Block 1Is Facebook really planning a 'Gmail killer'? Is Gmail ready to be killed off only six years after it was launched in April 2004 – when Facebook itself was only two months old and limited to Mark Zuckerberg and everyone else at Harvard University? Stay tuned...Skip to:•how Facebook Messages could turn bad•the good things about Facebook Messages•final thoughts and analysis on Facebook MessagesBlock 2Suppose for a second that Facebook is about to launch a 'Gmail killer'. What does thatmean for spam?Graham Cluley, the oft-quoted security head at Sophos,saysa Facebook email service won't mark the end of spam: "It may, however, mean more of a different kind of spam."What Cluley refers to is spam sent by cybercriminals from compromised Facebook accounts. "More emphasis by Facebook on email could mean that the social network becomes even more attractive for spammers to abuse," he says."Don't forget, cybercriminals are like a horde of hungry lions looking for their next meal. If they see a whole bunch of zebras (users) congregating in one place (Facebook) for a quick drink at the waterhole, don't be surprised if they focus their attention there. Spam makes the bad guys money, so they're going to carry on finding ways to send spam for as long as they can."Tom Scott, writing for the Guardian's Technology Blog,says: "Despite the hyperbolic headlines that will inevitably follow tonight's launch, the truth is – of course – that Facebook Mail will be neither a swift revolution nor a privacy disaster. It'll just be another incremental improvement – but perhaps also a step change – in one of many social networks, and another small step forward for our online lives."Basically, everyone and their mother is 100% certain that Facebook is going to do something which takes it further into the messaging field, which means of course that (just as with Google's Gmail) it will be able to see more of what information is flowing through the internet, and particularly what information is being shared around the "social graph". That doesn't mean it will actively spy on it, any more than Google's staff sit around reading your emails; but it does offer even more chances to sell stuff against it. Because you can bet that if there is an email offering tonight it will come with the most tightly targeted advertising you can imagine.But in a world where free webmail is commonplace, and Gmail offersIMAP, which means you can use it on a computer and never see a Google advert, what's compelling about a Facebook offering? Why use that, rather than anything else?Block 3Over at Facebook HQ, the journalists and others are milling about, awaiting the entrance of theSun Kingchief executive of Facebook. We're all going to be mightily disappointed if he uses the time simply to say that he's not at all like the portrayal in The Social Network, as much as anything because he'salready done that- he said at Y Combinator in October that the biggest difference between the movie and real life stems from the fact that movie-makers "can't wrap their head around the idea that someone might build something because they like building things."Block 4Newsflash! Robert Scoble, the man who knew (when he worked for Microsoft) that Vista would be a hit,says on Twitterthat "Mark Zuckerberg just told me that what everyone expects isn't quite right on. 'It's not quite email.' Then told me to watch presentation."In a world of instant gratification, this means that we may have to waitfive entire minutes– possibly more - to find out what "not quite email" actuallyis. Fortunately, we have laid in provisions.Meanwhile, the milling journalists at Facebook are... sitting down. Something is happening...Block 5OK, and we're off: Livestream is saying there are 11,700... 11,938 viewers.Zuckerberg: "really appreciate all the time you guys [girls too?] have made coming to these announcements."Everyone is on Facebook cafeteria chairs."A couplayears ago, Thanksgiving, we were hanging out with my girlfriend's family, who has a high school sister. I wanted to know what software they were using, it makes me feel really old." (Laughter.)"I asked what they use for email? They said they don't use anything, it's too slow. I said what do you mean, it's instantaneous... I was boggled by this."Block 66.01pm:"They were like no, email is too slow. I said what is this. They said it's too formal, the weight and friction of thinking who you want to send it to, the subject line, write 'hey mom' at the top, all this extra stuff you put in the email adds to the cognitive load.""So I asked them what they do.. they said they use Facebook. I said when I get an email on Facebook I find out through email. They said, we're already there."Email gets used internally.. but a lot of folks don't see it anyway. (High schoolers make Zuckerberg feel old? Give him another 20 years.)Block 76.03pm:Presently around 350m people using messages on Facebook - "big part of that because it's a really simple system." 4bn messages sent every day including messages and IMs, "the private private sharing that goes on on the service".Still waiting for the big reveal. He's set up the failure - email is too 'heavy' - but what else would you do?19,300 people watching this online... 19,625 people."We don't think a modern messaging system will be email. It has a bunch of characteristics - seamless, informal, immediate, personal, simple, minimal, short."Block 86.06pm:Working through the list - "immediate" should mean you send an email and displays immediately. (Er, it does on IMAP.)"Personal" - what people like about SMS or IM is high signal-to-noise ratio: SMS or IM very likely to be from someone you care about.(Honestly,Jemimawould be loving this. It's like Zuckerberg has beenlistening to her thoughts. Oo, spooky idea.)Block 96.08pm:"It's not email. People will be able to have facebook.com email addresses but that's not the aim of it."Block 106.08pm:"Conversation history. Threading model is very archaic. In real life you have a stream of conversation with them, in IM or SMS you don't have multiple threads, you have one thread with them which has interesting properties, you can have the entire conversation in one view." (Er, like in Gmail?)"You can have one history and go through it, you'll have one full rich history with your friends all around you."Third thing: "Social inbox. Because we know who your friends are and your friends have put in their friends list we can put in really good filters to make sure you only see things you care about."Spam is a big problem. "There are a lot of different classes of junk: how can email know that this is a legit message [from a person] but you don't care what they say."Block 116.11pm:Whitelists haven't been effective because people don't want to build lists - but Facebook does that automatically.You can get your list from the friend-of-friend network - so you can check that less regularly.(Zuckerberg is talking faster and faster and faster. He's really excited about this.)Block 126.12pm:So he recaps the introduction: seamless messaging, conversation history, social inbox. And now he hands over to Andrew Bosworth, director of engineering at Facebook.Started a little over a year ago trying to build this. How to integrate Facebook Chat + Facebook messages? "We should be more integrated but because we have so many ways to communicate - phone, internet - it's hard to know how to do it." SMS for younger nephew, email for mother, "I have to hold this lookup table in my head to know how to contact people".Block 136.14pm:"We're giving people an @facebook.com email address which matches their Facebook username."But he says it's not email, it's more like chat.Shows how an "email" comes over in Facebook as a chat. Then how you can refer back through your message history.[Thought: this might look great in a conversation that's just a few days or weeks old, but try to imagine how it would look once you've been on it for fiev years or 10 years.]It's email but it arrives as a text, or a push notification on email.Works with Jabber/XMPP, IMAP "on the way", Facebook API. IMAP won't be there at the launch but is being built. Hmm.Block 146.17pm:Looking back over previous chats he has had: "I feel jealous of the next generation who will be able to look back over this stuff."[Yeah, but what if all it shows is the trajectory of a failing relationship? How will that look?]Block 156.20pm:Rebuilt the infrastructure. And whoa, they realised that they will have to support attachments. Facebook's is calledHaystack."This is the biggest engineering team Facebook has ever put together for a project." You're thinking wow, it must easily be 50, perhaps 70, maybe 100?"There they are, 15 engineers.."That's yourmythical man-monthslain. 15 people working for a year.Showing offsocial inbox: "junk will be somewhere else." Junk? There's junk on Facebook? No, it's bank statements, alumni statements.He's making it sound like Gmail Priority Inbox on steroids. "We expect people will look at this once a day, but we expect them to be interacting with the other one all the time."In short - Facebook looking to make you spend even more time on its site. I wonder what the mood is like in Google. They'll probably have questions: what's the capacity? How many messages?"You can bounce emails that come from people who aren't in your friends. This is something people have wanted for ages." Er, it's something that's been standard in email programs for ages, surely.OK! Questions!Block 166.25pm:Zuckerberg is back: "it's a huge problem as IM growth have grown faster than the number of people.. what we expect today, there was a lot of press today about this is an 'email killer', this is not an email killer, this is a messaging system that includes email as part of it. We don't expect people to turn off their Yahoo account or their Gmail account and use this."It's like those high school students, they're shifting to real-time messaging because it's simpler and helps people connect better and it's more fun and more valuable for them to use. If we do a good job with that, in six months, a year, two years out people will say this is the way to do it, maybe email isn't as important a part as it was before, and we can push messaging towards this important real-time simpler experience we can."Going to be rolling out over the next few months via an invite system, and then you can invite people and watch it scale up.Now, questions.Block 176.27pm:34,908 viewers of the live stream..Q: (inaudible) .."What do the system not do that you want it to do?"Zuck: "we want to have IMAP support, that's part of the philosophy that it should be interoperable. It speaks email protocol but having it sync is on the roadmap. There's a lot.. and we'll look at feedback."One thing heavy email users do is subject lines with multiple threads with the same person... we don't think that's the direction the world is going to go in, we think you'll have a single history with each person."Block 186.29pm:Q: what about people with multiple email addresses or platforms?Zuck: "this is one of the complicated things we had to work out. If you have been interacting with someone by email.. it'll go by email. Or phone...[Basically it goes by the platform that it comes from.] We want to make this simple and lightweight. .. Policy Engine for routing these messages.Bosworth: "we want it to feel like a conversation so you don't have to type BRB or GTG."Zuck: "we've tried to make it so people don't have to think about this stuff. And also where not to send it - so it doesn't go to five different channels.Q: any plans for VOIP?Zuck: "maybe over time, but easier to unify the four channels - SMS, email, IM, ? [missed it] - we think this is a pretty big step by itself."Block 196.32pm:Q: adverts in messaging screen, content-driven ads, and where does this sit in the rivalry with Google for user time?Zuck: "advertising works the same way as on the rest of Facebook, not on the text of the content, but it's about stuff that the user puts in, that's the difference from other ad networks, they track you around the web, but you put in that you like Green Day, we'll put in an ad for concert tickets."Competition with Google... I think Gmail's a really good product. I think it's funny, people say it's a 'Gmail killer'... [long ramble about codenames for the products, previously Gigabox, now Titan].. we think this will shift the communication. And if people like to use it they will."Bosworth: "this will work with Gmail."Block 206.35pm:Q: Gmail has a private feature in chat, how about you?Bosworth: "you can delete it, or archive it."Zuck: "in other systems it's different.. but you could be IMing with someone who receives it as an email or an SMS, so it doesn't make sense to say you can't archive it. You can delete threads but in terms of separating email from IM.. we thought the off the record metaphor didn't make sense in terms of what we're doing."Block 216.36pm:Q: hurrah! BBC is asking a question! Is it Facebook's biggest technical challenge to date? And is it Facebook's aim to be the be-all and end-all?Bosworth: "don't want to start a nerd fight.. it was a big challenge. As to its aim.. if people are used to IM it will look the same, email, Jabber, chat.. will provide a conversation that's ongoing. That it will feel like an ongoing conversation rather than fragmented messages that don't relate to each other."Block 226.38pm:Q: how will it affect the Social Graph for people who aren't on Facebook?Bosworth: "we're focussed on people who you say are your friends..."Q: but I have conversations with people who aren't on Facebook so you don't know my social graph as well as I do. So how does it work?Zuck: "that's true... there's the three folders, Main, Friends, Junk... we don't start off knowing how to put email into the Main folder, but people will know to do that."[Think this fails to understand the shifting nature of friendship and email relationships, or IM relationships.]Q: what if my mom keeps sending funny cat emails... can I folter that?Zuck: "no, but there's only going to be one thread with her." He laughs.Block 236.41pm:(One could also think of this a little as a landgrab for the future LinkedIn generation: that Facebook could become how business people of the future communicate.)Q: what about people outside Facebook?Zuck: "what we expect is that you're constantly checking your main folder... and you'll go to your old folder once a day, and if you want your grandmother's email in your Main inbox.. you will... I think that's what you're asking? I'm not sure?"(The uncertainty shows how everyone has a different view of email. It's the elephant with blind people.)Q: How do we email you in the press team?Zuck: "after much discussion the Farm Bureau has agreed to give us fb.com." Huge grin. "And we've agreed not to sell farm subsidies."Block 246.44pm:Q: a lot of people on Facebook are casual, they're not my closest friends, I have Yahoo for my really close friends, is there some way this will discern between them?Bosworth: "no, the email address [@facebook.com] is optional. But we think 'friend' is meaningful, and people will be able to send you messages, just as they can already today."Q: this has you grouping people into close friend, not close friend in ways that aren't like the original goal of Facebook to expand your friends?Bosworth:"it wasn't to expand the social graph, it was to map it."(Emphasis added because it's so key to understanding what Facebook is about.)Block 256.47pm:Q: How important will it be to have cell [mobile] phone messaging to get these messages?Bosworth: "that's been built in for three or four years..."Q: will users be associating emails with profiles, filling in holes where you don't have the information?"Bosworth: "no, we're not planning to do that now... with SMS if they haven't set it up we'll send them an option to do it.."Block 266.48pm:Q: how much storage, and can you forward messages?Bowsorth: "yes, you can forward messages, and you can select what in the conversation to forward, and you can group people in and you can leave the thread."Storage? "We're not going to give a specific number.. if you're a good user and you're not abusing it, you'll have no problem. If you try to find the limits, you'll be abusing it, and you'll find them." [And get cut off, one assumes. But how? Exclusion from Facebook?]Block 276.50pm:And that's it! Finished up with 30,955 viewers of the live stream, which held up very well. As my colleague Adam Gabbatt points out, we don't even know what the name of "Project Titan" is in the wild. Wait, we do: Facebook Messages.Block 28Potentially bad:OK, so thinking of all the things that can go horrendously wrong with this, what do we think?• if a spam link gets through your email and you click on it and it sends itself to your friends while infecting your machine (something thathappens pretty often) then it is going to have the chance to get everywhere – not just onto computers where you view a status update, but on PCs and phones. Even a hundred million phones might begin to look like an attractive target for malware authors, especially as they could target one browser (those runningWebKit) and aim malware at that.• will you use it for business emails? Will you be allowed to use it for business emails? Probably not. It might look great to the high schoolers (secondary school for British readers) who surprised Zuckerberg by their unwillingness to use email, but once you're working for an organisation that sees Facebook as synonymous withdossing, it's not going to look so clever.• can organisations with Facebook Pages email you? That's going to be a spamfest, though people will of course be able to move those emails to "Junk".• the problem - the real, core problem – with email of all stripes (because that's what this is tackling: IM and SMS work pretty well, as Zuckerberg acknowledged) is thatsometimesyou get emails from people you've never heard of, which you want to get. And sometimes you get emails from people you have heard of which you want to ignore. And sometimes you want those two groups to swap over. And you're dealing with multiple threads and topics. It's complicated, email, which may be part of why nobody has managed to "solve" it.Block 29Potentially good:• tying together IM, email, SMS and Facebook email-things is a smart idea. It pulls email into the 21st century, because even though IM and SMS are 20th-century products, they've made a lot more sense from the start: SMS lives on your phone, which is personal to you (which is why people get enraged by text spam); IM is particular to you. Email though can be generic and annoying, but Facebook is clearly approaching this as a communication problem, and asking how email can be made to behave more like good communication media.• knowing what platform you want to receive something on, and not duplicating messages over multiple platforms, is smart (assuming they manage to pull that off).• integrating attachments lifts this above the idea of just text, and accepts that we have multi-capable devices that can view attachments directly. Well, some people have those.• itisn't email. Or more precisely,it isn't just email. That's the single key thing here: Facebook is not trying to be a Gmail killer... any more than Google's search engine wanted to be a Windows killer. It's orthogonal to the idea of email; it treats email not as a single problem to be solved, but as part of what you use to communicate which needs to be integrated into your life. So it tries to rise above Gmail, Hotmail or Yahoo mail, and give you the helicopter view of what your friends are contacting you about.• no worrying about how much storage space you've used, and how much you've got left, as long as you don't try to find the limits. Hotmail and Yahoo users might be happy for that. (Some Gmail users might even find it a relief.)Block 30Final thoughts:we've seen Google try to "redefine" email by integrating email, IM, chat and, um, project management software. Yes, weremember Google Wave: launched May 2009, interred August 2010 without a flower or a tear.So why should Facebook Messages, which is trying to integrate email, IM and chat (plus Facebook on-site communication), come off any better? Are we going to be throwing earth on the coffin in 15 months' time?Probably not. This isn't a big bang; and where Google was trying to generate excitement but required people to learn an entirely new way of working which hardly anyone could wrap their heads around, Facebook is simply using what we already have and trying to pull in other media.In some ways it's similar to what Microsoft is trying to do with Windows Phone 7, which isorganised (in theory) into "hubs"which "bring together related content from the Web, applications and services into a single view to simplify common tasks".Well, Facebook Messages too. It's related content - conversations you're having - offered in a single view, but on different devices or programs. It doesn't say you're in email, so you can only see email-y things; it accepts that you might want to see texts in your email too, if you spend your life in your inbox. (One thing I'm puzzled by is how it will represent updated conversations in email: my understanding is that IMAP, and email, is a single-message protocol; IM and SMS are more fluid.)Block 31It's easy to think that people won't use this - but they will, because it'snot email. It's easy to think of instances where people won't use this (business, really private stuff that they want to keep right off Facebook and everything) – but other people will.In short, it's not going to be the big bang that finally makes email usable; that may be impossible for the vast majority of email. It's probably not going either to wipe out spam: just wait for the first few weeks for reports of spam floods, mass infections and so on as people unwarily fall victim to hoaxes or malware.But Zuckerberg has his eyes on the longer term: six months, one year, two years. He's already got 500m potential users, and he is going to try to pull them all in withFacebook Messages. Even if this only captures a little slice of the email market (in preference to, say, Hotmail or Yahoo or Gmail, because people find it more convenient for whatever reason) then that's a huge number of messages that Microsoft, Yahoo and Google don't get to serve, and which Facebook does.Zuckerberg's in it for the long term. And that's what makes him the person you have to watch most closely of all.
Apple promises a day "you'll never forget" as it teases about tomorrow's "exciting" announcement about iTunes."Never forget"? Didn't Take That release their new album today? Will Robbie and co. be superseded to The Throne of Jack Johnson?The announcement follows no more than four days since the rollout of themost recent major iTunes updateto 10.1. As well as setting application up for syncing with iOS 4.2 (to be released on Tuesday?), iTunes 10.1 also includesAirPlaysupport for streaming video to Apple TV.Streaming appears to be where the smart money lies for tomorrow's announcement – as it has for announcements going back almost to the beginning of the year, weeks after Apple acquired music streaming siteLala. Silence fell on the streaming front at Apple's September announcement, probably because the necessary licences hadn't been settled. Could we be in a different place now that two months have passed?The next – and overdue, for the iPad – update for iOS devices (4.2) is also on the cards. That said, the timing of the announcement (7am California time, 3pm UK time), while stock markets are still open, suggests that nothing market-sensitive or financial will be unveiled.Hence, no new hardware.And it's probably not the umpthy-billionth song sold - the'10 billion sold' mark was passed in February, and there doesn't seem much point marking other numbers.We put it to Twitter. Here were the serious (and not so serious) suggestions of reliably-informedGuardian Technologyfollowers. Chip in below. We're glad to see old favourites like "Beatles back catalogue" (missing in action since, um, the iTunes Store launched in 2003; we'd not put money on them appearing), but we especially like Andymarkpeel's suggestion. Don't be late!GabrielDesignUK: "Maybe they'll sponsor the speaking clock? (the pips?) :o)"Oke92: "It's gonna be some sort of Apple version of Microsoft's Zune pass."PatRiddell: "Cloud-based streaming, Spotify-style surely?"Stevejadams: "The Beatles back catalogue will be on there".Myssi: "We're dropping Ping"Deadmanjones: "per play DRM; automatically direct debits .01p (+9.99p admin fee) from you every time you play a track. Fergal Sharkey a fan"Andymarkpeel: "They've fixed the alarm bug"
Facebook is moving into the email business, or so the speculation says; we'll know for sure after their special event in San Francisco, kicking off at 6pm tonight. It would be one hell of an anticlimax if after inspiring months of speculation about its mysterious "Project Titan" – and sending out an airmail-themed event invitation – Facebook simply announced that it was redesigning its site again.It's safe to assume that Facebook Mail is being switched on in the very near future. It's also safe to assume that the inevitable "switch it back off" petition from an extremely vocal minority will fail, as such petitions always do. In the technology columns this evening, there are going to be two main views: first, that this is a "game changer"; and secondly, that this is a "privacy nightmare".If Facebook really is releasing a full webmail client, able to send and receive messages beyond Facebook's traditional walled garden, then it might well be a "game changer": perhaps it's an even more significant launch than Gmail (which had a rather low-key launch on 1 April 2004). In Facebook Mail, everyone's address book isalready filled out, and there's no need to convince users to sign up.It's also worth noting thatFacebook's Friend Finderadverts have been particularly aggressive over the past day or so: I have a suspicion that Facebook really has kept all the email contacts uploaded using that tool over the years, as it said it might in theservice's small print. Anyone who has used the importer may find that more than just their Facebook friends are waiting for them in Project Titan's address book.Let's not forget that over the past couple of years, Facebook quietly won the decade-old instant messenger (IM) wars, at least in the English-speaking world. Windows Live Messenger and AIM, the networks of choice for Europe and the US respectively, have both added support for Facebook Chat – and for many people, it has replaced other IM networks entirely. Millions of other Facebook users who had never used IM before suddenly found, when the service was turned on, that they were receiving messages without any effort on their part.Facebook's IM service revived the medium's popularity after the dip caused by social networks – including Facebook itself. A new Facebook Mail product could prove just as popular simply by virtue of (a) existing and (b) being the only way to send private Facebook messages. Rather than being the death of email, Project Titan could herald its resurgence.The catch, of course, is the "privacy nightmare". Beating up on Facebook's privacy policies is a pastime beloved of the technology media; I've done it myself, writingweb pages that trawl for users who have unknowingly made their phone number public, or creating games involvingquestionable public status updates.All of these concerns, however, revolve around semi-public information – the messages you share with your social circle – rather than absolutely private data like your email inbox. Even Facebook's own developer programme, the source oflast month's user ID leak, has strong protection for users' personal messages. Facebook has also taken some rather proactive approaches to the security of its users' accounts: it is one of only a few web services to offer one-time passwords viaSMS, for use when logging in on untrusted computers. And if you access your account from somewhere unexpected – if you're going on holiday, for example – you may find that Facebook asks you to answer some extra questions about yourself just in case it's someone else who's stolen your password.Despite the hyperbolic headlines that will inevitably follow tonight's launch, the truth is – of course – that Facebook Mail will be neither a swift revolution nor a privacy disaster. It'll just be another incremental improvement – but perhaps also a step change – in one of many social networks, and another small step forward for our online lives.It's certainly not the death of email; but neither is it going to cause teens to suddenly start typing long-form messages instead of texting.While those of us at the leading edge of tech (which is almost everyone reading this) are being constantly buffeted by new services and new revolutions, any change in the way the world at large communicates will take years to take effect.How can I be so sure of that? Simple. Last week I had to send someone a fax.•Tom Scott's web site istomscott.com; he's on Twitter at@tomscott
An error by Google Maps which wrongly gave Nicaragua a tiny parcel of land in Costa Rica is threatening to escalate into a continent-wide dispute.Nicaragua says it will take  its quarrel with Costa Rica to the international court of justice after it took over a San Juan river border.The Nicaraguan president, Daniel Ortega, said the country will not remove its 50 soldiers from the Calero Island section of land, and accused theOrganisation of American States(OAS) of making matters worse with Friday's diplomatic intervention, in which it requested the two neighbours to meet before November 27 and called on them to refrain from deploying armed forces in the area. A majority of the 35 member countries voted in favour of the resolution, which Costa Rica hailed as a "diplomatic victory". Google said on Friday that it had used faulty data to create the initial online map, which has now been updated.But Nicaragua refused the OAS request. Ortega, who has been president since January 2007, said the OAS had "completely killed" any possibility of the dispute being resolved through dialogue – and went on to accuse a number of neighbouring countries of being influenced by the drugs trade."That OAS meeting completely killed the possibility of dialogue," he said. "They killed it because they started to establish conditions. I repeat, on a matter of principle, we are not leaving any area within Nicaraguan territory along the borders with our brotherly nations of Costa Rica and Honduras, nor are we pulling any of our forces from any maritime borders. Not the army, not the police who are in the fight against drug trafficking."The president's dispatch riled nearby Mexico, which sent a diplomatic letter to the country in protest at its "unfounded and unjustified accusations". Costa Rica accused Ortega of "recklesskly [launching] accusations about drug trafficking against various Latin American nations in his desire to distract his people from the overwhelming defeat suffered [in the OAS resolution]."Ortega went on to accuse Mexico, Colombia, Panama, Honduras and Guatemala of being influenced in their OAS vote by the drug trade. Mexico's war against drugs trafficking is reported to have claimed more than 28,000 lives since President Felipe Calderón launched a crackdown on the influential cartels nearly four years ago.Nicaragua moved security forces into the contested river border late last month to carry out a dredging project. An official in charge of the project told a local newspaper that he had used Google Maps to decide where the work should take place, though the mapping service later turned out to be incorrect. Costa Rica described the move as an "invasion" and appealed to the OAS for a resolution.The ownership of Calero, a small section of land near the Atlantic coast, has been contested by the Central American nations for two centuries.Googlesaid in a blogpostthat it had used faulty data from the US State Department which led to the error.Costa Rican president Laura Chinchilla said the country "is seeing its dignity smeared and there is a sense of great national urgency" to resolve the dispute. Around 70 Costa Rican police officers have been seconded to a town near the contested area.
Let's get it on... In the case of EA's Mixed Martial Arts brawler, that means strengthening your thumbs to teenage texting levels and developing Jedi-like skills of anticipation.In a genre where button mashing can usually see you most of the way home, two minutes of career mode in EA MMA will prove otherwise. Under the tutelage of Bas Rutten – a big noise in the world of Ultimate Fighting – you will be taken through the various aspects of the sport. This basically means using the right stick and the L2 button (on the PS3) to throw a combination of jabs, roundhouse kicks, low kicks, knees to the abdomen, uppercuts and blocks. Assuming you're standing up, that is. If you've managed to floor your opponent and straddle them – with good, old fashioned Track and Field-style button thumping – you can then apply elbows and punches to the face.Attempt random stick action during the fights, however, and you will pay the price. Get the timing of a move wrong and you will pay the price. Miss a block and you will pay the price. Lose focus during an on-canvas grapple and you will pay the price. Even in the practice bouts, your opponent shows … well, if not full AI, then at least a strong fighting spirit. They will wriggle, they will try to block your legs, and they will attempt to flip you. They'll also succeed on a very regular basis, requiring some button work to recover and, as a neat if unexpected touch, some caressing of the stick to apply the perfect choke hold.That's assuming you get through training, of course, because even that's not the straightforward experience you might expect. The tutorials, while incredibly thorough, go far beyond the basics to give you a taste of what's in store: exacting standards and a reward for hard work. I may have a particularly flabby thumb – unlikely after years of this stuff – but the speed with which you have to throw combos to proceed is exhausting and the range of skills to master is vast: so vast, in fact, I may actually have a new found respect for the sport's real participants.Beyond career mode, things are at the kind of high level you'd expect from EA. Customisation is detailed and simple, multiplayer has "post-pub fun" written all over it and the online experience is slick and varied (and will even include a live sportscast of a weekly "best of" fight card).If there's a catch it is, apparently, the lack of big names – a dispute between EA and the powers behind the Ultimate Fighting Championship. That, for hardcore fans, may be a deal breaker. It would be a shame if that's the case because even for this non beat-em-up fan (I'm a PES lover, not a fighter) EA MMA is clearly a painstakingly researched, precisely realised game. Surprisingly impressive.• Game reviewed on PS3
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 13 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)PC (2)12 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (35)Wii (9)PSP (7)73 (4)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)54 (–)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)15 (1)Football Manager 2011(3+)PC (100)26 (5)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)47 (7)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (37)PC (5)48 (6)New Super Mario Bros. Wii(3+)Wii (100)339 (10)The Sims 3(12+)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (21)DS (20)PS3 (19)1710 (9)Star Wars: The Force Unleashed Ii(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (40)Wii (6)3Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy;2010UKIELtd
With Just Dance proving there is a huge market for dance-related games, it's no surprise that the Singstar series has followed suit.As you would expect, singing is still core here, but with Singstar Dance you now wave your Move controller (sold separately) and pull some moves. It's not easy though. Even the simplest songs – like the robotic synthpop of La Roux's Bulletproof – require coordination skills that will tax younger or sober players. While the Just Dance series can be quite forgiving, Singstar Dance requires you to practice and memorise the best moves.The action is simple. Alongside the video and lyrics, there is a dancer that you need to follow. The moves vary from song to song but usually involve some twists, stretches and lunges. If it wasn't for the alcohol needed to get in the mood, you would probably lose weight playing this. As with the singing the game grades your performance as you dance. The tracking is done via the Move controller in your hand, so you do get a certain amount of leeway. But don't think this is easy. Almost any track on "normal" skill level will require some patience to get a half-decent score.As you would expect from a Singstar game, the presentation is faultless. Slick menus and a simple interact make it easy to get into the groove. Best of all is the ability to watch and edit your video – all performances are recorded – afterwards. Seeing your graceless – or for the lucky few, graceful – efforts at mimicking Lady Gaga (Poker Face) or The Supremes (Baby Love) is enough to get any family gathering going. The track list reflects this too, with a smattering of 60s and 70s efforts joining the bulk of the tracks which are from the past 20 years.However, with only 30-odd tunes you won't be playing this game forever. The addition of the dance moves does add longevity though, and fans that may have got bored singing the tracks will probably play longer to master the moves.Singstar Dance feels like a logical next-step for the series then and will likely get a few parties going this Christmas.• Game reviewed on PS3
Kinect and Black Ops may be the big releases but I've been playing some lower key new titles this weekend. First up wasDivinity II Dragon Knight Sagafor the Xbox 360. The original Divinity II was released 12 months ago and got lost behind the similarly themed RPG Dragon Age.  Now with improved graphics and controls - plus a hefty add-on release - Divinity II deserves a wider audience. This is a beautiful role playing game which encourages exploration and experimentation while keeping you at least interested in the main plot. Like all European RPGs it suffers from a lack of hand holding - though some players will appreciate the lack of glowing quest trails and waypoints - and appalling voice acting but don't let that put you off. From what I've seen so far this could well end up being a cult hit on the 360.Elsewhere this weekend I playedRugby League Live. The first rugby game - of either code - on the 360 and PS3 the game lacks the glitz of the EA sports games. Rugby League fans will enjoy though and the online community is - in my experience this weekend - a lot friendlier than the FIFA one.What about you though? How was your gaming weekend?
