&bull; If you missedyesterday's slanging matchbetweenYouTubeandViacom, well, you're in for a treat. The two companies have been at loggerheads for three years because of a lawsuit alleging that YouTube deliberately encourages copyright infringement, and a pile of court documents were released yesterday. As some have said,there's a lot of he said-she said, but basically Viacomclaims"countless internal YouTube communications demonstrating that YouTube's founders and its employees intended to profit from that infringement", while the Google-owned video site says that Viacomuploaded thousands of videos to the site in secret, can't tell which ones they are and is just annoyed because it wanted to buy YouTube. Who will win? There's only one way to find out...FIIIIGHT!.&bull; TalkingGooglefor a moment longer, a report from China (here's a translated version) suggests that the companymay be preparing to pull out of the country on April 10. The search engine is staying quiet for now and won't confirm the report, but it can only maintain the protracted silence since itsattention-grabbing threat to lift censorship in Januaryfor so long.&bull; It's not too longbefore I head off to pastures unknown, but as if that uncertainty wasn't enough, researchers in Tokyo havebuilt a robot journalistthat examines its surroundings, asks questions, writes short articles and publishes them to the web. Just in time for the weekend, I have developed a serious case of the fear. Gulp!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
In or near London next Thursday (25th) and looking for a slice of gaming discussion mixed with hands-on play? Then you'll probably be interested in the event ex-gamesblogger Aleks Krotoski is running at the Science Museum. Titled "What are games *really* teaching us?" the event includes a panel discussion that looks at the cultural ideologies of gaming – think capitalism, communism and feminism – as well as hands-on play with relevant games such as Harvest Moon, Job Island: Hard Working People and Civilisation.  Or, as the blurb says:Commercial computer games are built by designers whose personal philosophies and social backgrounds creep into their products. They're at times explicit (e.g., war games portrayal of enemy soldiers), and  at other times implicit (.e.g., 'God Sims' reinforcing various political and financial ideologies). Why is Lara Croft attractive? What does the hippy ideology of Northern California have to do with virtual world Second Life? This lively discussion looks at what the  underlying ideologies of games are teaching us when we play them.The panel includes Pat Kane, author ofPlay Ethicand – for those 80s kids reading – a member of popsters Hue &amp; Cry, and games researcher and consultant John Kirriemuir.What Are Games Really Teaching Us? takes place at the Dana Centre at the Science Museum on Thursday 25 March between 7-9pm and is free to enter.What do you think then? Do games designers really allow their "personal philosophies and social backgrounds" to influence the games they make? Personally I would argue that – for example - Blade Runner has been more of an influence on gaming than political ideology. But what do you think?
American media conglomerate Viacom considered buying YouTube just months before it launched a $1bn (£655m) piracy lawsuit against the video sharing site, according to court documents.Files released today by a US court suggest that the television giant - which owns channels including MTV, Nickelodeon and Comedy Central - had considered purchasing YouTube in 2006 in what executives said could prove a "transformative acquisition".That deal was scotched when YouTube was bought later that year by internet leviathan Google for $1.65bn - shortly before Viacomlaunched its billion-dollar lawsuitaccusing YouTube of "massive intentional copyright infringement".The claims have come to light after the US court hearing the case unsealed hundreds of documents as it prepares to make a ruling on Viacom's claims. Lawyers have been arguing the case, which experts say could redefine the relationship between media and internet companies, behind closed doors since 2007 - but the court's move has made the astonishing revelations from both sides public for the first time.Viacom's case hinges around the accusation that the video sharing site's founders - Chad Hurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim - knew that copyright infringement was taking place, deliberately encouraged it and then failed to act properly when asked by rights holders.In one filing, Viacom quotes an email from Chen who tells his colleagues to "concentrate all our efforts in building up our numbers as aggressively as we can through whatever tactics, however evil".The company also submitted evidence showing that Karim was among those who had submitted videos that infringed on the copyright of its owners - and that his colleagues were aware of the situation.YouTube has consistently rejected the accusations, however, suggesting that it does not encourage illegal activity and that US copyright law means that it does have to police every uploaded to its servers.It says that Viacom's evidence is largely used out of context - and that the entire court case could even be an outbreak of sour grapes.One filing by YouTube suggests that Viacom had seriously entertained the possibility of buying the website in 2006, referring to an internal Viacom presentation which said that "we believe YouTube would make a transformative acquisition for MTV Networks/Viacom that would immediately make us the leading deliverer of video online, globally". It is not clear how serious this proposal was at the time.In addition, YouTube argues that not only did Viacom "routinely" take the step of deliberately leaving pirated clips from ordinary users on the site because of their promotional value, but that it actually put up videos on YouTube - often surreptitiously."For years Viacom continuously and secretly uploaded its content to YouTube, even while publicly complaining about its presence there," said Zahavah Levine, YouTube's chief counsel,in a blog post published today."It hired no fewer than 18 different marketing agencies to upload its content to the site. It deliberately 'roughed up' the videos to make them look stolen or leaked. It opened YouTube accounts using phony email addresses."Faced with underground marketing efforts which had the stated aim of making video "look hijacked" in order to make sure it would "leak on YouTube", the site argues that it could never have been expected to accurately gauge whether or not had permission to post videos online.Under American copyright law, internet service providers and websites are not directly responsible for the actions of their users and it is the duty of copyright holders to request that pirated versions of their be taken offline. However, the situation has become more complex in recent years with the advent of widespread file sharing and systems that make it easier to share copyrighted content without permission.In the seminal Betamax case of 1984, a judge found that home video taping was legal because the technology could be used for legal purposes and not just piracy. But in 2005, the US Supreme Courtruled against file sharing site Grokster- whose lawyers had argued their case on the same basis - because it found that the company had deliberately encouraged users to infringe copyright.Since launching in 2005, YouTube has become the world's most popular video website - garning hundreds of millions of users worldwide and having 20 hours of video uploaded to its system every minute.A final ruling from US district court judge Louis Stanton, who is hearing the case, is not expected for several months.
Facebook has told the home secretary, Alan Johnson, it has "no objection in principle" to installing an anti-paedophile panic button he is pushing for, but continued to refuse to commit to installing the feature on its main site, despite this week's outcry over the murder of a British teenager by a convicted sex attacker she met on the site.After a meeting today the website – which agreed to a further meeting at its headquarters in Washington next month with the panic button's creators, the UK's Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop) – said it had revealed to the home secretary details of its "more robust reporting system".It said its alternative to the Ceop button had been developed "by analysing millions of reports submitted by users over the years" and reiterated its position that it would consider giving users links to Ceop away from the main Facebook site in its "safety centre" area – but only after they had used the existing Facebook reporting system.The talks between Johnson and the UK's most-visited social networking site were in response to the backlash against the site in the wake of the murder of Ashleigh Hall. The 17-year-old was killed by serial rapist Peter Chapman, 33, who posed as a  teenage boy on the site and lured her to her death.After he was convicted of murder, Ashleigh's mother criticised the site for not doing enough to protect youngsters from paedophiles.Johnson said today that he was pleased with the outcome of the talks.  "We had a frank exchange of views in which I emphasised that including the Ceop abuse reporting button on their site has the potential to transform child protection – and that the company should put this above all other considerations."Facebook told us they have no objection to the principle of including the Ceop button on their site and that they have now agreed to a high level meeting with Ceop in Washington on 12 April to discuss this issue further."[Minister] Alan Campbell and I reiterated our view that Facebook must find a way to use this button. I am pleased that the meeting with Ceop is taking place and await the outcome with interest."But it appeared that Facebook had not significantly changed its position.In a statement the site said it "would explore" adding the Ceop button to its safety centre and would discuss proposals with Ceop at the meeting.Later Richard Allan, director of policy for Facebook Europe said in principle the Ceop button might be effective but only "for other sites" and not Facebook. He said it was possible users who reported a concern via the Facebook system would thenget a text box that would have links to the Ceop site. Including the button in the main reporting field could discourage concerned users from coming forward, he said. "Our experience of trying to put icons on the normal reporting flow is that it can reduce the number of reports. Our experience is fewer reports, not more," he said.Last week senior police officers criticised Facebookfor repeatedly refusing to sign up to a panic button, with the chief executive of Ceop, Jim Gamble, saying police had been asking the company to do so "for too long".Last year 267 reports were received about suspicious activity on Facebook, 43% of which related to cases of suspected grooming. In 81% of cases the individuals targeted had to make their reports to Ceop through other websites because Facebook does not have the direct link.Children use the button to make reports to Ceop's specialist police teams about suspected abuse, grooming and severe bullying. Although Bebo and MSN have adopted the button, Facebook has refused.On 11 MarchFacebook threatened to sue the Daily Mailover the newspaper's allegations that 14-year-old girls who create a profile on the social networking site could be approached "within seconds" by older men who "wanted to perform a sex act" in front of them.
When programmers are working on code and want to see how the old and new versions compare, they use a program called "diff" to do a line-by-line comparison. It's quick, simple and can make the process of combining and reconciling two slightly different files much easier.Alternatively, if you have ever wondered about the history of a Wikipedia page, you can see how changes have happened by choosing to highlight the changes. That's a diff. (Here's anexample.)Wouldn't it be great if parliament could see that that's just what it needs to make parliamentary bills more comprehensible?OK, you could argue that the picture above isn't very easy to understand - and I'd agree. But that's partly because it's had to be taken from PDFs of the bills, which have then had to be processed to remove line numbers - not always successfully - and other strange formatting additions which are useful for humans, but not for computers.But I've been trying to work out how much the digital economy bill has changed in its progress through the House of Lords. The answer: a lot (that's 263 differences in the bottom-left hand corner). But does it make much sense? Not really - the bill consists of lots of amendments to other acts, such as the Communications Act 2003, so it really is like trying to understand an operating system while only seeing a few of the programs. (The red rectangle on the right-hand side shows where the bill has altered; the picture is only a snapshot of part of it.)More comprehensible bills that citizens can make sense of? That's what MySociety is calling for in itsFree Our Billscampaign (hmm, snappy name - wonder where they got theidea?).MySociety explains:"The problem, to put it simply, is that the way in which Bills are currently published out is completely incompatible with the Internet era. As a consequence few people ever get to find out what a Bill says before it becomes law and binds us all. Bills are currently buried within the parliamentary website, published in a hopelessly old fashioned way that makes them difficult to find, difficult to read and impossible to do anything clever with."Though parliament has improved the accessibility of bills, their presentation is still rooted in the world of print - more to the point, of print that gets scratched out with pens. It's all PDFs or very stilted HTML.As MySociety says,"It's time for parliament to improve its act and start publishing these vital documents properly in the first place. Quite apart from the fact that we're a tiny charity without many resources to fix this information, you're paying for them to produce it in a uselessly old fashioned way. Unless Parliament produces better bills:"You can't get an email alert to tell you when a bill mentions something you might be interested in."You can't find out what amendments your own MP is asking for, or voting on."You can't learn, or help other people learn, about the process by annotating them to explain what they're really going on about for everyone else."MPs and their staff can't receive services that would help them notice when they were being asked to vote on dumb or dubious things."You can't get a rounded view of how useful your MP is if you can't see their involvement with the bill making process."The horrendous way that the digital economy bill is being hustled through parliament, as though it were something that would spontaneously combust if it were to see too much debate, shows just how necessary this is. Parliament has been dragged, somewhat reluctantly, into the 21st century with theyworkforyou's reworking of Hansard; now we need the bills - which are the stuff of laws being made, and so important to democracy - to become more transparent too.
The tangled tale of the ownership of sex.com – once thought to be the most valuable piece of internet virtual estate – has taken another twist.An auction of the domain's ownership scheduled for Thursday has been postponed after three creditor companies, apparently all controlled by one man, forced its current owner Escom into involuntary bankruptcy overnight.The domain was due to be auctioned at 11am EDT on Thursday by Richard Maltz, an auctioneer acting for DOM Partners, a New Jersey lender which backed the 2006 purchase of the domain by Escom for $14m (£9m).DOM Partners had claimed ownership of the domain after Escom had been in default for more than a year on a loan it had taken out from the company to buy sex.com from Gary Kremen –who had fought an 11-year battle with Stephen Michael Cohen, who fooled registration companies into assigning the domain to him.But on Wednesday night three companies filed lawsuits claiming Escom owes them a total of $10m, forcing the company into Chapter 11 bankruptcy court – meaning that its assets cannot be sold before a judge determines their disposal.All three companies – Washington Technology Associates, iEntertainment and AccountMatters.com – are chaired by Michael Mann, who told the domainnamewire.com site: "I am merely an investor [in Escom] who got completely railroaded by other investors with big guns, bad practices and bad attitudes."In the bankruptcy petition, Mann's companies said that the "petitioners took this action to protect their interests and to maximise value for all other creditors and equity holders. The filing will stay the public auction foreclosure proceedings previously scheduled for March 18, 2010, which petitioners believe would have diminished the value of Escom's assets."Anyone who had wanted to bid for the domain was required under the auction rules to put forward a $1m certified cheque. No date can be set for the auction until the judge rules on the correct disposal of Escom's assets.Although Google is now the dominant search engine, and ranks companies in its search results not by their name but by how many other sites point to it, the taste for spending on domain names actually increased in 2009.The record for most expensive domain name ever sold was set late in the year, when QuinStreet, an internet marketing firm, bought insure.com for $16m. Also in 2009 toys.com was bought by Toys'R'Us for $5.1m in March, and candy.com for $3m in June by two cousins from the family-owned Melville Candy Company.The top 10 most expensive domain namesrankingdomainsold toamountwhenGoogle ranking on its name1Insure.comQuinStreet$16 million200912Sex.comEscom$12-$14 million20065 (No 1: pornhub.com)3Fund.comFund.com$9.99 million20083 (No.1: Google result for Royce Focus Trust, whose NASDAQ initials are "FUND")4Porn.comMXN Ltd$9.5 million20073 (No.1: pornhub.com)5Business.comeCompanies Ventures$7.5 million199916Diamond.comice.com$7.5 million20063. (No.1: Wikipedia entry on "diamond".)7Beer.comcommercial beer company$7 million2004>50 (No.1: Wikipedia entry on beer)8Israel.comanonymous individual$5.88 million2004>50 (No.1: Wikipedia entry on Israel)9Casino.comMANSION Online Casino of Gibraltar$5.5 million20032 (No.1: IMDB entry on the 1995 film Casino)10Toys.comToys ‘R'Us$5.1 million20097 (No.1: Toys'R US, which owns it)
The browser choice screen forced on Microsoft to give people alternative browsers has paid off for Opera, the company which filed the complaint with the European Commission which led to the ballot.Opera says that it is seeing a "dramatic uptake" in downloads of version 10.5 of its browser, and that more than half have come via the ballot screen."This confirms that when users are given a real choice on how they choose the most important piece of software on their computer, the browser, they will try out alternatives," said Håkon Wium Lie, chief technology officer of Opera Software in a statement. "A multitude of browsers will make the Web more standardized and easier to browse".At the beginning of this month Microsoft provided an update which meant that Windows 7 userssee a screen offering them alternative browsers for download. A total of 12 browsers is offered, but the top five - Internet Explorer, Firefox, Apple's Safari, Google Chrome and Opera - are offered in random order.Opera said that the increase represents more than a doubling from the normal download numbers, even only after a short period with the ballot screen. According to plan, the rollout of the ballot screen will continue well into May for existing Windows computers and for five more years on new installations.What's not yet clear is the extent to which the rollout of the ballot has affected market share for browsers. That may take some months to become clear; just because a user downloads an alternative browser does not mean that they will continue using it.Microsoft this weekpreviewed Internet Explorer 9, the next version of its browser, which includes support for a number of modenr standards, including SVG and HTML5. However, it will not be available for users of Windows XP.Growth of Opera browser downloads by countryCountry:Choice Screen increaseChoice Screen as % of total DLPoland328.00%77.00%Spain215.00%68.00%Italy202.00%67.00%Denmark198.00%66.00%Netherlands157.00%61.00%Portugal157.00%59.00%Belgium123.00%55.00%France117.00%54.00%Sweden111.00%53.00%Switzerland109.00%52.00%Greece93.00%48.00%Austria85.00%46.00%United Kingdom85.00%46.00%Czech Republic64.00%39.00%Germany64.00%39.00%Norway57.00%37.00%Hungary53.00%35.00%European average130.00%53.00%
The Liberal Democrat peer whose co-sponsored a controversial amendment to the digital economy bill has defended his failure to disclose, during the House of Lords debate, that he is a partner in a law firm with close ties to the content industry.Lord Clement-Jones is a partner at DLA Piper,which has worked closely with the FA Premier Leagueto clamp down on websites offering live coverage of football games without the organisation's permission, and also advised Universal Musicabout its digital music plans. The amendment he moved could have resulted in YouTube being blocked.While he has notified the House of Lords of his work with DLA Piper in the register of interests, the chamber'scode of practicealso states that a member must "declare when speaking in the House, or communicating with ministers, government departments or executive agencies, any interest which is a relevant interest in the context of the debate or the matter under discussion". Clement-Jones,as reported in Hansard, did not mention his work at DLA Piper when he moved his amendment with a fellow Liberal Demcrat peer, Lord Razzall, earlier this month.Speaking to the Guardian, however, Clement-Jones said it would be "completely ludicrous" for him to declare an interest before every debate which might touch upon the activities of DLA Piper's clients. "When did you ever see a partner in a law firm declare their partnership before the beginning of the debate?" he said."Do you know how many clients we have in DLA Piper? Thousands upon thousands. We have 70 offices across the world, we act for every side of the argument: for content providers, internet service providers, technical companies who provide the hardware, software, a massive range. It would be completely ludicrous."I am not particularly sympathetic to the idea that I have got to stand up and tell everybody that I am the partner in DLA Piper every time I open my mouth."The amendment to the bill – amendment 120A – tabled by Clement-Jones and Razzall was designed to replace the controversial clause 17, introduced at the last minute by Lord Mandelson and designed to give the government sweeping powers to change copyright law to deal with future forms of online piracy.The two peers decided instead to focus on the blocking of access to websites and other services that store unlawfully copied material on the web. Privacy campaigners, however,suggested that could lead to ISPs blocking access to sites such as YouTube.It then emerged that the wording of the amendment wasvery similar to a draft proposal by the BPI, the music industry association. Clement-Jones told the Guardian, however, that there is nothing unusual in peers tabling amendments from lobby groups if they believe they have merit."How many amendments did I put forward in the bill? Probably a hundred or so from the Lib Dem benches," he said. "They came from Which? They came from the BPI, they came from ISPs, they came from Sky – people draft amendments and you put them down and you see whether they fly or not."In fact, the amendment was not included in the bill when it completed its third reading in the House of Lords on Monday. The government has instead decided to draft a new section to the act to deal with so-called cyberlockers and other websites that store unlawfully copied material as part of the pre-election "wash-up" processunder a deal between digital Britain minister Stephen Timms and shadow culture secretary Jeremy Hunt.The move has dismayed campaignerswho have been fighting hard for a proper debateover the more controversial aspects of the digital economy bill. Already more than 6,700 people have emailed their MP to demand a democratic debate on disconnection, according to Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, quoting figures from campaigning website 38Degrees."There is a massive groundswell of opposition to extreme laws being rammed through Parliament without debate," said Killock. "People are angry with lobbyists writing our laws and with disconnection being proposed as a punishment. MPs need to give this Bill the democratic scrutiny it deserves."In fact, Clement-Jones expressed surprised at the scrutiny which the bill has received, some of it not altogether pleasant."People have threatened to castrate me for God's sake," he said. "When I looked on Sunday someone said they were going to nail Lord Razzall's and my testicles to the door. That's what it said on the internet."It's pretty unpleasant and of course it's all done anonymously. You cannot expect me to be that sympathetic with some of those people."
European governments are not doing enough to improve online security – leaving the entire continent vulnerable to cyberattack, according to a new parliamentary investigation.A report from the House of Lords suggests that officials in Brussels have failed to boost the union's internet defences – creating a yawning gap between Nato, the EU and member states that could leave the system prone.European countries are increasingly reliant on the internet for a wide range of services – including information, communication and commerce – and the global nature of the online world means they are more closely linked to each other than ever before. Despite this, however, the report suggests that the drastic differences between security operations in each nation leaves the entire system vulnerable."The collapse of cybersystems in one country can overlap into others," Lord Jopling, who chairs the Lords European Union committee, told the Guardian."The threat can come anywhere – including to individual businesses, financial services such as the City, critical infrastructure or the mechanics of government … and you never know quite who is responsible, which is part of the problem."He said that while Britain had extensive and robust systems in place to defend against a cyberattack, not every country could make a similar boast. In particular he highlighted the case of Estonia, which was the target of an online attack in 2007 that took down the banking system, government and other important services."It was a relatively minor attack, but their defences were very poor indeed – so the strike had a major impact," he said.The report highlights the increasing gap between the EU and Nato, which been giving higher priority to cyberdefence in recent years.While Brussels struggles to improve the situation across the continent, Nato has stepped up its own efforts – suggesting thatonline warfare presents as serious a threat as missile attackandestablishing a specialised online security centre in Estonia itself.Political tensions – particularly over Turkey's bid to join the EU – have led the chasm between the two organisations to grow wider than ever, despite the pressing need to coordinate cybersecurity policies around the world."We're exasperated by the lack of communication and cooperation between the EU and Nato on this," said Lord Jopling.The report offers a number of recommendations to improve the situation, including better training and setting up Computer Emergency Response Teams – groups to deal with the initial impact of a computerised attack – in some countries.The report also suggests that greater funding and should be given to Enisa, the European Network and Information Security Agency. The group, which has its headquarters in Greece, was given the task of helping to improve online security across the EU in 2004 – but operates with an overextended staff, relatively small budget and has limited scope.The Lords committee suggested that European officials should give more money to the agency to allow it to operate more effectively, as well as broadening its mandate to include working with police forces and courts around the continent to improve the enforcement of cybersecurity laws.It also criticises some aspects of the British government's strategy, in particular calling its lacklustre call for more public-private partnerships "superficial".While it is unclear what physical damage a successful cyberattack could cause, senior experts have suggested that the economic threat is very real, with countries and criminal organisations increasingly using the internet as a way to launch attacks on their targets.High-profile incidents in countries such as Georgia and Iran have shown that strikes can be used to take down important pieces of infrastructure, while incidents linked to China have cast a shadow over relations between Beijing and the west.Three years ago it was revealed that a hacking operation known as Titan Rain – which experts believe is linked to the Chinese military – had been successfully running raids on governments in countries including the US, Britain and Germany. Infiltrating computer networks inside the Houses of Parliament, Foreign Office and the Pentagon, the hackers were able to steal information and cause chaos for up to four years.Earlier this year, Google revealed that it had also been targeted by similar strikes originating inside China. That attack, known by investigators as Operation Aurora, saw raids against dozens of high-profile American companies – and led Google to threaten to lift censorship of its Chinese search engine in protest.
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBogus Piracy Report Misleads EU Legislators &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakIt may not surprise you that TorrentFreak isn't a fan of the latest report, but its analysis is insightful: "It gets even more ridiculous when we take a closer look at the claims. In the UK consumers spent €6.3bn on audiovisual products. If the projected trends continued, the 'lost' revenue because of piracy would exceed the actual revenue, meaning that the music and movie industries would end up having to pay people for pirating their products."Voicing concerns: the problem with video game acting &gt;&gt; Guardian Games blogKeith Stuart on the real weaknesses of modern games: the voicesHacker Disables More Than 100 Cars Remotely &gt;&gt; Wired.comYou worry that people can remotely wipe an iPhone? This is much more scary - and "hacker" overplays it; he was just an employee. &#10;&#10;"The dealership used a system called Webtech Plus as an alternative to repossessing vehicles that haven't been paid for. Operated by Cleveland-based Pay Technologies, the system lets car dealers install a small black box under vehicle dashboards that responds to commands issued through a central website, and relayed over a wireless pager network. The dealer can disable a car's ignition system, or trigger the horn to begin honking, as a reminder that a payment is due. The system will not stop a running vehicle." Phew.jd/adobe: Adobe on "HTML5" in June 2009 &gt;&gt; John Dowdell/Adobe"So [Adobe is] clearly supportive in terms of making sure as HTML 5 is evolving that we will support it in our web authoring tools but from the perspective of continuing to drive Flash and innovation around Flash and rich Internet applications, we still think that actually the fragmentation of browsers makes Flash even more important rather than less important."&#10;&#10;In other words - come on, Internet Explorer will never do HTML5.&#10;March 2010: IE9 announced and previewed with HTML support.Windows Phone 7 Series won't have copy and paste -- EngadgetAs John Gruber says, that is soooo 2007: "but Microsoft says most users, including Office users, don't really need clipboard functionality". Yes, that's why Office ships without cut and paste. Eh? Pardon?MySpace Employees Speak Their Mind. Lots Of Yelling Going On, Apparently &gt;&gt; TechcrunchBringing in new management to a company whose performance isn't improving is never a cakewalk. The only times it works is when you have really inspirational managers who can articulate a clear vision of where to go. On the evidence of these letters, that's not MySpace - although bear in mind this is only a small selection. What would Apple employees have sounded like in early 1997 when Jobs was killing pet projects right, left and centre?Microsoft präsentiert Internet Explorer 9 und HTML5-Demos auf der Mix ...Short clip of Microsoft's IE9 demo on stage at MIX in Las VegasCenzic Web Application Security Trends ReportCenzic Web Application Security Trends Report Reveals 90% of Web Applications Vulnerable, Adobe One of The Most VulnerableMac sales jump nearly 40% in February - not unexpectedly &gt;&gt; ComputerworldNot a surprise, because sales in February 2009 were dire, according to NPD. But on this figure it could reach 3m for the quarter, for only the third time; its best-ever quarter was 4Q09 (July-September 2009) when it set a record with 3.4m.&#10;&#10;Even so there are plenty of people waiting for the expected new MacBook Pros and MacBooks that prediction says should be just around the corner.Usability Nightmare: The My.SXSW iPhone App &gt;&gt; Rogueamoeba.comWhat if you designed an SXSW iPhone app and made it impossible for users to work out how to say they were attending a session?The Acid3 Test: how does your browser score?The fiendish test of compatibility for modern browsers. Patience required, but always fun to try.Corrected: The *Real* Top 100 Site Traffic Breakdown &gt;&gt;| SEO BlackHat: Black Hat SEO BlogBecause it's hard to believe that none of the sites in the BBC's list caters to the, um, steamier side of lifeMicrosoft Tells Windows Phone 7's App Story - Wired.comMost mobile apps will be made with Silverlight, while more graphics-intensive 3D games will most likely be developed with XNA. All apps will have trial versionsTelling Friends Where You Are (or Not) - NYTimes.comPeople are using location-based services such as Foursquare and Loopt at the South by Southwest Interactive conferenceYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Everybody and their dog has been developingweb-enabled TV setsrecently, so perhaps no surprise to see thatGoogle- the company that can't keep its finger out of any pie it comes across -is working with Intel and Sony to create Android-compatible tellies. Somebody unlikely to be impressed by the 7,194th Google project, however, is outgoing US Federal Trade Commissioner Pamela Jones Harbour,who laid into the companyfor launching products "where the guiding privacy policy seems to be 'throw it up against the wall and see if it sticks'".&bull; Most of us probably wonder what information other people might know about us through our social networking profiles - but do we ever wonder what law enforcement can find out? Just weeks after the controversy over Microsoft's"spy guide", Electronic Frontier Foundationhas released documents showing how US investigators obtain evidencefrom social networks. Worth reading... not that you'd ever do anything illegal of course.&bull; If you're looking to have your mind boggled, then think about the chaos causedwhen more than 100 cars were shut down in Texasover the web. The suspect, apparently a disgruntled worker with access to a controversial online immobilising system used by car dealers, went on a remote shutdown spree that must surely call into question whether we could end up making our vehicles too connected.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
URL shorteners have become a fact of life, given the proliferation of short messaging services (and also the demands of print, which finds URL shorteners mean you can link to long URLs in a few characters). But they're sometimes a roadblock - at least, the one from Facebook is.That's the conclusion of a study by Watchmouse, whichstudied the performance of a group of link shortenersand found:"According to our data, Facebook's fb.me is by far the slowest. It adds over two seconds on average to the page load time after the click on a link.  And, quite a few others still take over half a second of the page load time, which is really way too much for just a URL redirection. This substantially affects the user experience."Google, whose shortener is nominally in Greenland (.gl), does best. Is.gd (Grenada! But actually hosted in the UK) does quite well. .me, which was originally assigned to Montenegro but which it turned into a worldwide top-level domain - after all, this is the me generation - isn't performing so well because Facebook's servers aren't optimised:"Another interesting thing we noticed is that only a few of the URL shorteners optimized their name servers (DNS) for international use – i.e. it takes half a second for some of the URL shorteners just to lookup the IP address that is needed for a browser to retrieve a web page. That means, that while it might be fast for a visitor from the US, a visitor from Asia might get some extra waiting time when using snurl.com, for example."More usefully, Watchmouse has created a publicURL shortener status watch page- which, if you click on any of the shorteners, will take you to more detailed graphs about how it's going. Bookmark it. You might want something to do while you wait for that Facebook link to resolve.
For the first time this year, the Ivor Novello music awards will include a category for "best original videogame score". This development is overdue; videogame music moved beyond pinging MIDI files long ago, and game soundtracks are often better than those of many movies. In 2005, the opening song to the gameCivilization IV – Baba Yetu, a gloriously uplifting version of the Lord's Prayer in Swahili – was so popular that fans demanded it be  released for download. The piece  has now been performed at venues  including the Hollywood Bowl and  the Royal Festival Hall.Game music has long been the venue for "earworms" – pieces of music that get stuck in your head. Anyone who ever playedTetris on a Gameboywill have the Soviet-style theme etched on their brain. And the chipperSuper Mariotune is similarly unforgettable. But with technological developments audio quality has improved as much  as graphics and the earworms have  become more sophisticated. The music ofKatamari Damacy– a quirky Japanese game in which the player rolls up objects into a huge ball – is unbelievably catchy, and perfectly sets the surreal tone for the game.Games in which the main goal is to make music are also popular: from ElectroPlankton for the DS to Singstar, and the Guitar Hero and Rock Band games. But to my mind the game that makes the finest use of music isn't an expensive boxed production, but one that is free to play online:Auditorium. The player directs beams of light through markers that play different  elements of a track. Get all the  elements playing together and you've completed the level. It's addictive  yet relaxing, fine art combined with great gameplay. And the music,  naturally, is fantastic.
I received a virus warning from someone I trust which says that "If a person called simon ashton (simon25@hotmail.co.uk ) contacts you through email, don't open the message. delete it because he is a hacker!" and that I should "Tell everyone on your list because if somebody on your list adds him then you will get him on your list. he will figure out your id computer address, so copy and paste this message to everyone even if you don't care for them and fast because if he hacks their email he hacks your mail too!"It also says I may receive an apparently harmless email titled 'Mail Server Report' but that "If you open either file, a message will appear on your screen saying:  'It is too late now, your life is no longer  beautiful.'"Should I send this message on to warn my friends?Richard, LondonThe old ones really are the best. Nobody knows quite what Simon Ashton did to deserve this notoriety (or fame), but this is just one of a long-running series of internet hoaxes which try to bamboozle people into re-sending messages to everyone in their contacts books.So no, don't send it. Instead, gently send your friend a link to this post.This particular variant seems to have taken on new life lately (even Sophos's finance department wasmoved enough to go and ask the in-house expert Graham Cluley), but asHoax Slayer points out, it's not less fake than the first time it started doing the rounds - probably in 1995 with variations every year since.The Mirror's investigations team, who must have been having a quiet day,also dismissed it, as hasSnopes.When you get emails like this, the best thing to do is not immediately hit the Forward button. Use a search engine instead: plug a few of the words into the search query and see what comes up. It can save a lot of embarrassment later.
The rushed process of getting the digital economy bill through Parliament – it had its first reading in the Commons on Tuesday night, having just had its third (and final) reading in the Lords on Monday night – has prompted an angry groundswell of people using 38 Degrees to lobby their MPs to block it.Thenewly-created page on the 38 Degreessite lets people find their MP via their postcode, and then email them to demand that the bill gets a proper debate - or is abandoned for this Parliament.(Disclosure: 38 Degrees is apartner with the Guardian in its digital election coverage.)As the page puts it, "Peter Mandelson is rushing to force the digital economy Bill into law before the general eection. The draconian law is opposed by industry experts, internet service providers (like TalkTalk and BT), web giants including Google, Yahoo and eBay and even the British Library. Despite all this opposition, the government is trying to rush it through quietly just before the election without proper debate – without a chance for us to voice our opposition. Email your MP now and urge them to stop the government rushing this law through."It'sbecoming clear that the bill won't get the proper scrutiny that is required for a bill of this importancedue to the rush towards election. If the election is on 6 May, as is widely expected, then parliament will be dissolved on 6 April, meaning that any bills which haven't been passed by then but which are still in process and which the government wants to push through will go to the "wash-up", where they will be processed at top speed without debate through deals done by the whips of the three main parties.Surprisingly, the Tories, who oppose various elements of the bill such as the £6 per year "landline tax", seem minded to support the passage of the bill.[It doesn't; thanks all who have pointed this out - CA]Tony Hirst of the Open University asks whether clause 97B - "The High Court (in Scotland, the Court of Session) shall have power to grant an injunction against a service provider, requiring it to prevent access to online locations specified in the order of the Court for the prevention of online copyright infringement" - could be used to block sites likeWikileaks(which after all exists for the reposting of material from organisations - which those organisations could argue is copyrighted). My reading is that it could - and it's no use government saying "oh, but we wouldn't". Bad law isn't made good law by not being used badly; it's made good by actually being well-drafted.The question now is whether the 38 Degrees action - and any other action that citizens take - will have as much effect as some of the lobbying groups.As the 38 Degrees page puts it, "There's plenty to oppose in the digital economy bill, it gives the government the ability to disconnect millions. Schools, libraries and businesses could see their connection cut if their pupils, readers of customers infringe any copyright. But one group likes it, the music industry. In a leaked memo a few days ago they admitted the only way to get the bill through would be to rush it through without a real parliamentary debate. Let's stop that happening."Judging by thenumber of clickthroughsto the page (more than 3,000 at 12.20pm) andTwitter links to the page, this is proving a popular topic. The key question now: will MPs be listening, will they take action, and will that make any difference? It might be the sort of thing that could win you votes...
From next month, you should be able to get digital forms of Ordnance Survey (OS) maps for free - free as in beer, and free as in speech - under a new initiativeannounced last Novemberby the prime minister. And why's that important today? Because this is the closing date for thepublic consultationon which of those maps should be made available, and in what form.The consultation, and the options it presents, stirred up strong feelings among the people working in geographic information. And the outcome could have a dramatic effect on how you use maps in the future - digital ones and paper ones.Gordon Brownannouncedthat OS "will open up its data relating to electoral and local authority boundaries, postcode areas and mid scale mapping information. The Government will consult on proposals to make data from Ordnance Survey freely available so it can be used for digital innovation and to support democratic accountability."OK, so what about the detail? That's the tougher part. The Department of Communities and Local Government (DCLG), which is ostensibly in charge of OS, began a consultation in December, setting out three possible options:1) leave OS as it is.2) make all OS's maps and digital data available for free reuse on a Creative Commons-style licence3) make only some of OS's digital maps - roughly from 1:25,000 (equivalent to Explorer) to 1:50,000 (Landranger) - available for free reuse on a Creative Commons-style licence.Option 2 is what the Free Our Data campaign has been pushing for since its inception in March 2006. The benefits are obvious: anyone who wants to build some sort of digital or even paper product can use the OS data - which you can rely on because it's the UK's national mapping agency, and so meant to get it right - and create new products and services that build on it.But there's a catch: where's the money to come from? If we were in the middle of a boom, it might be easy to argue that OS should just be funded directly from the public purse. The catch, though, is that it isn't: it operates as a "trading fund", a government-owned business which charges for the use of its data. Its revenues last year were around £117m, on which it was profitable and gave a few million pounds to the Treasury. A profitable government business? They're like hen's teeth, you might think.However the next catch is that half of its revenues came from the public sector - so actually this is the public sector charging itself and then saying how well it's done by remitting money to the Treasury. Except that the departments which pay for the OS data are centrally funded themselves. So not so clever.It's also emerged from the consultation that OS undercharges the public sector compared to the private sector (which hasn't pleased the private sector). But the tricky thing is this: if you just make all the OS data free, can you really persuade the Treasury to provide the necessary extra £50m or so of public money that's needed to fund its operation? (£50m because you save £50m in public sector fees, but lose about that amount in private sector fees, and it costs about £100m to run the OS.) By contrast it's much cheaper to go with option 3 - you only have to fund the "lost revenue" from the digital maps and the loss of revenues on paper maps as rivals start using the CC-licensed data to produce their own paper maps. That's probably going to be closer to £20m.Into this Gordian Knot scenario comes not just Gordon, but also Sir Tim Berners-Lee, who pushed it all through. But it's the detail that matters now. Which is where the consultation comes in.You can find various responses: we published theFree Our Data responseon the Free Our Data blog, obviously; and aninformal one from Tristram Cary of Getmapping, a private company specialising in aerial photography (and which got into a legal battle with OS that nearly killed the company).But by far the most interesting is theresponse from the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information (APPSI)- the advisory body to the government that has the same role on information as the Council on the Misuse of Drugs does on, well, drugs.APPSI reckoned that Option 2 - making it all free - is actually the more sensible option because it's logically "cleaner". That's a radical proposal.As theUKAuthorITy.com site noted in a news story:"The panel, which advises on policy and adjudicates in disputes over public sector licensing, says that a "free data" regime for the OS would be "the most holistic, durable and clearest solution". However it recognises that this would be an irreversible step and agrees with the government's inclination for a phased transition from the current trading fund model. Less complex, restrictive and expensive licensing is crucial to the success of the government's open data initiative, it says.""In particular, OS should not have any intellectual property rights in derived data.""That one alone is very important. At present, OS claims that if you create some new dataset while using an OS map, OS owns the copyright in that dataset. Yes, it does. This is the reason why you don't see much council data mapped out on Google Maps, even though there are plenty of people in councils who have the programming chops to do that. And it's also why you find some councils have been doing their mapping for public consumption on OpenStreetMap - which is free for use and doesn't have the same "derived data" rule.The reason for the OS "derived data" rule is essentially to prevent people from re-using OS maps in other forms. But it drives local government and the public sector - not to mention the private sector - absolutely barmy. If the consultation has one effect, it should be to remove the "derived data" rule from OS products released under "OS Free". Ideally, and suggested by a number of people, it should move to something like theCreative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) licence- meaning you'd have to say you used OS data, but otherwise leaving you free to build on it.The final point about the APPSI consultation:"In unusually forthright terms, the panel, chaired by professor David Rhind, a past head of OS, points to what it calls "a fundamental contradiction" in government information policy. "The great bulk of government organisations are those that provide that information to citizens and businesses at marginal cost or for free. But a relatively small number of information providers fall into a second category: notably the trading funds of Ordnance Survey, the Meteorological Office and the Hydrographic Office, and also the Royal Mail. There has been no consistent philosophy behind the allocation of a body to a particular category, other than 'make some money wherever we can'."Lastly: it's interesting to compare theCOI release(timed at 15.27 on 17 November, when the announcement was made) with the Department of Communities and Local Government(DCLG) release, which has the same date but no time. The difference? The COI one doesn't include a quote from Sir Rob Margetts, OS's chairman - the clearest possible indication that OS didn't know what was coming.The question now is: will the consultation give people what they want? And have you got your response in? If you need to do it quickly, then you could useHarry Metcalfe's quick'n'easy page. But hurry...Update: the Local Government Association has avery robust response(PDF) to the consultation: "The consultation .. fails to recognize that substantial elements of core public sector geographic data are generated by bodies other than OS, and include local authorities (address and street data under a statutory requirement), Office for National Statistics (census geographies) and Defra (national park boundaries). To this extent, the OS database consists of surveyed, redigitised and collated data from these sources." In other words, why does OS get to dictate how data it didn't generate gets used?And: "there must be clarity across the public sector about what constitutes a public task: indeed, we prefer the term public good because the issue is what should the public sector provide as a public good and therefore what is available for free, where should the public sector recover costs etc. So, local government is increasingly being asked to provide non-personal data for free on the basis that tax payers have already paid for the collection and collation of the data, while the same authorities have to purchase OS to enable this offer."It's going to be very interesting to see how DCLG pulls together the threads. But the clear message from the public sector is: we don't like the way things are set up at the moment. Change is in the air.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; It's been a while since we talked aboutSpotify, which has been putting a lot of energy intogearing up to launch in America. With co-founder Daniel Ek talking at South by South West yesterday, people thought the company might launch itself in the states - but no such luck. Eksaid the service was doing well, but that relationships with US music publishers were tricky. He also said Spotify now had more than 320,000 paying subscribers.&bull; HasGoogle'sNexus Onephone been a flop or not? Flurry, a mobile analytics company,estimates that sales are at around 135,000 since launch- just a smidgen of the numbers shifted by other handsets like the iPhone and Droid over the same period. Ryan Block, formerly of Engadget and now withGDGT, says that's not failure - after all, Google is only selling it online and not giving it the huge push other handsets get. Still seems like the company wouldn't want to put in so much effort for so little payoff. One thing we do know for certain, though:Google has had its attempt to trademark the Nexus One name rejected, though it's got nothing to do withPhilip K Dick.&bull; And... it's almost a year sinceMicrosofttook the great leap forward and introduced Internet Explorer 8. Now the companyis forging ahead with IE9. You cansee some demosand read more aboutwhat it can dointhese guides. Some stuff in there about HTML5 support, CSS3 and SVG. One note - perhaps unsurprising - is that itwill not support Windows XP.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
"I'm too full of pizza to do anything constructive this afternoon, so I thought I may as well submit it now." And with those gallant all-too descriptive words Office Pest emailed his Best Of text to me onFriday afternoon, no doubt assuming that nothing of gargantuan importance would hit the Chatterbox past 3pm on the last day of the working week.Fortunately, plenty happened before hand, including Final Fantasy XIII, great game quotes and how to become a meat-up regular. That sounds wrong, doesn't it?Final Fantasy XIII – tempted?On Monday morning, a beautiful weekend had just passed – clear blue skies and lovely bright sunshine. Such a shame that FFXIII didn't arrive on most people's doormats (myself included – hrumph), which meant we couldn't spend the whole sunny 48hr period indoors, in the dark, sat in our underpants, crouched over a controller. Or would that just have been me?[Regretably, I'm thinking, no - Keef]Tuesday (release day) spawned a few early blogger reviews of FFXIII for those of us lucky enough to get it a day early (w00t!). Plus points seem to be the shiny visuals, impressive cut scenes, frenetic battle system (when you eventually get it).  Negative points are the very slow pace (20 hours of linearity for a start) and typical angsty-teen and fluffy-girlie characters.  It seems like this one needs time to settle in, but has already done a good job in dividing the blog.Heavy Spoilers (again)Despite Heavy Rain only being out for just over a week, many people had already completed it and the blog was resplendent once again with posts headed 'HEAVY RAIN SPOILERS'.  This was frustrating to say the least for those waiting for the Qauntic Dreams masterpiece to hit the bargain bins, and it all got too much for Bigworv – "Can you go and talk about Heavy Rain somewhere else. One of you f****rs will forget spoilers and ruin it for me."Bargain SpottersIn between talk of Modern Warfare 2, football and mugs, PhilosopherK1ng managed to find a great bargain on Valkyria Chronicles – only £19.95 from ShopTo!  Chubster2010 later spotted another bargain buy – Chinatown Wars on PSP for £4.99 from play.com.  Sadly this one was quickly whacked back up to £24.99, but a couple of people did get their orders sent out at £4.99. Good bargain spotting fellas – keep it up!What a bunch of mugs…On Wednesday morning Be4ch expressed a desire to have his own Gamesblog mug, as his company now requires people to bring their own mugs to work for… you know… 'green' reasons.  He even mocked up several and has linked them to a Wiki page that he also set up.What a legend!  He clearly has too much time on his hands (as do the rest of us I guess, else we wouldn't be on the blog all day).Great London Pubs and Worst Places to LiveSee Wednesday's box for a full list of the best London pubs.  As for the worst places to live, honourable mentions go to Feltham, Canary Wharf, St Mary's (Southampton), Hull and Stockport.  Apparently PipSickness once found a dead lady on his bonnet when he lived in St Mary's, which led us all to wonder whether he is in fact the famous Southampton Ripper.Favourite game quotesOn Wednesday we got to discussing the best gaming quotes of all time, including such beauts as "You were nearly a Jill sandwich!" from Resident Evil(actually, it was "almost, a Jill sandwich" - Keef), the synthesized voice that said "Good luck!" as you exited the tunnel in Starwing, the garbled voice that says "Treasure Island Dizzy!" in the game with the same name and the all-time classics "Rise from your grave!" and "Welcome to your doom!" from Altered Beast.(I would add "Another visitor, stay a while, stay FOREVER", "Welcome to the stage of history" and "Game over, yeah!" though the latter is technically a song lyric - Keef)Get bitten by the bug…or dogOn Thursday our resident abstainer timthemonkey regaled us with his story of the night prior:"Gaming – None, as I went for a nice jog in the evening sunshine in an effort to get slighter fitter before Cricket season starts. This, however, turned out to be a poor plan as it lead to me getting savagely bitten by a dog on the back of the calf. 12 stitches and a three hour wait in A&amp;E and the fitness kick had lost its appeal. Looked at it this morning and the surrounding area has gone a wonderful shade of purple as well. Feet up tonight!"Cue jokes over purple, swollen limbs. There was of course plenty of advice on how to sue the owner. Or take revenge on the dog.Let's meat up…On Thursday morning, as people trickled onto the blog, there were some confessions of feeling rather ropey after the previous night's blog meat up.  Somebody chundered but nobody seemed to want to 'fess up to it.  Worryingly, these nights seem to be becoming a regular occurrence. What have I done?!If you want to join up to one of the London-based blog meat ups – generally a night to sit, drink and chat games (and war dollies if you want) – speak to resident organiser CunningStunt.Friday Ranting – advertsThe usual Friday vitriol was reserved for the terrible adverts we see on TV nowadays. Here are some examples:"Moonpig. Think it's the only way I can get a card to my mother before Sunday. However, their constant looping of the same annoying advert for years has built up my lava pit of hatred for them."SuperSmashIn voices his wrath at the personalised greetings card industry"Adverts. Go compare, We buy any car/gold, Moonpig - take a back seat.  Has anyone seen the new Dove for men advert? Good. F*****g. Lord."Uncle3en lets loose"I've always reserved a special hatred for the poorly dubbed Glade adverts. If your products that good, why haven't you shelled out the money for decent advertising instead of getting the receptionist to speak over the smug German woman?"Timthemonkey goes ape (see what I did there…?)"Those Ray Winstone Radio Adverts for Volkswagen Veeeeaaaaans. '20 poun' a mumf' 'Vowkswagin Transpowtah.'  Get out."KayJayM quotes an advert I've never seen, but sounds very annoying.This went on for some time and eventually evolved into hatred of Sunday morning show 'Something for the Weekend'.  The language was such that it cannot be repeated here.(Thank goodness, my delete finger is getting tired - keef)Quotes of the week"Cashback - Went to the cashpoint at lunchtime and got out twenty quid, and it gave me four fivers! Incredible scenes. Had to check I wasn't in 1987 by mistake."An exciting afternoon for Limni."@Whoever mentioned it was Chuck Norris' Birthday. He shares his birthday with Osama Bin Laden. Coincidence or something more sinister...?"Robotron2000 goes all 'conspiracy theory' on us."Has Cunning died? Or is he still going up and down the Northern Line?"Henrypootle's worried concern after Wednesday night's meat up.Also discussedGames:Battlefield Bad Company 2, Heavy Rain, Final Fantasy XIII,Films &amp; TV:Avatar, Hurt Locker, District 9Welcome to:Albatri, CobraOB
The government is planning to introduce controversial measures, backed by the Conservatives, that would force internet companies to block websites that host substantial amounts of pirated content as it scrambles to get its digital economy bill through parliament.But because of the truncated timetable for getting the bill into law before a looming general election, the government's as-yet unwritten clause is unlikely to face any major scrutiny before coming into force. It will be the product of a deal done behind closed doors between the government and opposition in the so-called "wash-up" of legislation hurried through before the dissolution of parliament.Its progress into law, however, seems assured after the shadow culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said yesterday that he had spoken to Stephen Timms, minister for digital Britain. "We are trying to find a policy that allows the blocking of websites set up to promote illegal downloading of copyrighted digital content but does not impact on the vast majority of legitimate web users," he said.He said the new legislation should encourage firms to find new business models "rather than look to legislation to protect their current business models".But the news will dismay privacy campaigners, as well as internet companies, who thought they had managed to defeat many of the more draconian measures in the bill. "It's a deeply unsatisfactory and very worrying development," said one senior executive from the internet service provider (ISP) industry tonight. "The fear is that no one will know what is being cooked-up before it becomes law. It's legislation on the hoof."Thebill already called for the broadband connections of persistent illegal filesharers to be slowed down or cut off, but just before it went to the House of Lords,the business secretary, Lord Mandelson, proposed granting ministers a sweeping power to amend copyright law as they saw fit, in order to combat any new form of online piracy that might appear. His plan, contained in clause 17 of the bill, was defeated and replaced with clause 18, which was designed to deal specifically with websites and other online services that give web users access to unlawfully copied material.The Liberal Democrat peers Lord Clement-Jones and Lord Razzall then proposed – initially with Conservative support – new curbs on websites that host a "significant" amount of copyrighted material. They wanted ISPs to deny their users access to such sites in a move that some internet watcherswarned could lead to the blocking of video-sharing sites such as YouTube.In the face of fierce public criticism, the two peers took the unusual step of amending their amendment butin the bill's third reading in the House of Lords on Mondaytheir amendment was in effect removed from the final bill.Speaking for the government, Lord Young of Norwood Green said "a revised provision" would be brought forward to deal with such sites before the bill became law. Clement-Jones told guardian.co.uk today that he had been assured the government's new clause 18 would allow for new regulations to be introduced that dealt with websites and other services that allow access to unlawfully copied material. But that any new regulation would only be introduced "after consultation with all stakeholders".Hunt reckons a solution has been found that would see the content industry pick up the bill for any court action needed to block certain websites with ISPs only picking up the bill if "they act unreasonably".But while Lord Young suggested in the House of Lords on Monday that a new clause could be introduced before the bill went to the Commons, where it will receive its first reading in the next few days, parliamentary procedure does not allow for amendments to bills until the committee stage. The bill will not reach committee if an election is called for 6 May.Instead, the new clause will be thrashed out behind closed doors by party whips in the "wash-up" of legislation. The wash-up, however, only facilitates unopposed legislation so the fact that the clause seems to have Conservative support is absolutely crucial.Hunt said yesterday "A rare example of opposition parties and government working together? Yes but it will still be nip and tuck to get the digital economy bill onto the statute book before the election so the battle is not won yet."Even if the government does manage to get its amended version of the bill into law, the new clause 18 is likely to fall foul of European law. The technical standards directive, otherwise known as the transparency directive, calls for any member state to submit to Brussels any law which introduces regulations that go beyond regulation demanded by EU law, three months before it is enacted. It is designed to stop countries giving local companies an unfair advantage over businesses from other member states.News of the latest horse-trading over the digital economy bill comes as research is published today showing the impact of online piracy. The report, Building a Digital Economy: the Importance of Saving Jobs in the EU's Creative Industries, measures the economic contributions of the creative industries and the losses due to digital piracy in its five biggest markets: the UK, France, Spain, Germany and Italy.
Downloadable content (DLC) for the consoles is clearly here to stay. I got a copy of Dragon Age: Origins - Awakening today - it was on disc, but it will be available for download - and now just need to find the time to play whatsounds like 25 hoursworth of decent content. Bioware have alsojust released detailsof a new character called Kasumi - the galaxy's most enigmatic thief, apparently - who will be appearing in the upcoming Mass Effect 2 DLC in April. Quite frankly I'll take any chance to play more Mass Effect 2 and - assuming the price is not ridiculous - will be snapping this up. The premise sounds promising enough:The galaxy's most enigmatic thief Kasumi has enemies everywhere, but only a few could put a face to her name. Not much is known about her, other than Cerberus has contracted her to assist Commander Shepard in the mission to save mankind. In exchange, she requires help with a dangerous heist to infiltrate the vault of a deadly criminal known as Donovan Hook.Bioware seem to be cornering the market in quality DLC then, but what else is out there? I'll be checking out the Bioshock 2 DLC very soon but anyone else got any good recommendations? Or are you simply too busy ploughing through your ever increasing to-play pile to get round to buying some DLC?
Technology can be challenging for brand managers, because "technology is all about change, and brand's all about consistency: there's a constant push-pull between those two things," says Brian Fravel, director of Intel's Brand Strategy &amp; Management.In London recently, Fravel gave a presentation about the new iCore processors that are replacing the Core 2 family … and simplifying Intel's brand by taking a BMW-style approach with the iCore 3, 5 and 7. You can watch it atV3.co.uk.Instead, I asked him about his day job. Today, Intel's biggest marketing challenge is to establish the Atom brand in consumer electronics devices. And with more than 10bn internet-connected devices expected by 2015, this could also be the most important marketing move since it used Intel Inside to brand its desktop processors.There were plenty of sceptics at the time. Why would people care what make of chip was inside their computer? Nevertheless, Intel persuaded PC makers to carry its branding on stickers on their systems, by using its logo in their print advertisements, and by adding Intel's bongs to their TV ads, perhaps by providing advertising and marketing support. So PC suppliers pushed the Intel brand, and only Apple has enjoyed margins big enough to turn it down.In the long run, it's always about money. Fravel says he wants consumers "to see it as a premium if there's an Intel chip inside, and be ready to pay a premium price". But consumers who buy mobile devices are probably even less bothered about the brand of chip they use, and Fravel accepts that they're not really going to want Intel stickers on the front of their phones.Worse, the mobile market is a battleground for all kinds of branding efforts by large manufacturers (Nokia, Samsung, HTC etc), network operators (AT&amp;T, Verizon and others in the US, Orange, Vodafone, O2 and others in the UK), software providers (Apple, Google, Microsoft etc) and even chip companies. ARM has some prominence, but geeks might enthuse about Tegra or Snapdragon, which are ARM-based chips.Fravel says the network operators have a lot more money to spend on branding than he does, so the Atom isn't going to get the level of TV advertising that established Intel Inside and sub-brands such as Centrino. Instead, much of the branding will be done via social networking and similar efforts."The whole media landscape has changed," he says. "TV definitely has a role in building brand awareness, but with social media there are ways to build a brand without putting hundreds of millions of dollars into a TV ad campaign. At the time of the original Intel Inside [campaign], that was it: there weren't these other options. If we look at the media mix, I can't go head-to-head and outspend a phone carrier, so I'm going to have to be intelligent about how I build my brand."The best way to build a brand, I tell him, is to have a hit product…."Absolutely," Fravel replies. "Google's a perfect example: they did no advertising. There's no doubt I have an extra challenge because you don't interact with my brand physically: I'm inside something all of the time. The only physical thing you see is the sticker or the logo on the device. But this is why we're actually bullish on Atom, because what Atom can do in the smartphone and the CE [consumer electronics] space is add a completely new experience. If it's a 'Wow' experience for the consumer, all I have to do is say; 'That as brought to you by Intel'."So the question is, where are consumers going to get that wow experience?"In consumer electronics, you're going to get intelligence that gives you a compute-like experience in a set-top box or a TV," says Fravel. "Most things today that have an interactive experience, they're slow, they're fairly clunky, they're basic. Imagine watching soccer and instantly pulling up stats from the web, just like you would on a computer, but now it's on the TV. You can embed awesome applications, and that's going to completely change the way you watch TV. It's going to be much more interactive."We know people already sit in front of the TV with their laptops: now I can offer you that just with your remote control. We're excited about that type of experience," says Fravel.These Atom-powered TVs aren't available, yet, but "you'll see the first this year".Will they sport Intel stickers, I wonder?"We're in negotiations with a couple of big consumer electronics companies on what we're going to do," he says. "It's very much work in progress. We have some ideas. Putting an Intel sticker on the front bezel of a beautiful TV may not be the right solution: I don't want to be intrusive and seen in a negative way. So we're looking at other ways to brand."We're blazing a new trail. I tell my team: 'If we do this right, someone from the Harvard Business Review will be interviewing us if five years time'."
The full title doesn't exactly leave much room for doubt. Family Party: 30 Great Games Winter Fun. If only we could take the publishers' word about that "Great" part there wouldn't be any need to review the game at all.Sadly, a more accurate title would probably have been 10 Quite Fun Games Plus Twice As Many Dull Or Utterly Infuriating Ones. That may not have sold quite as well. While it was inevitable in a compilation such as this that some games would turn out to be more fun than others, the gulf is nevertheless frustrating. The best will have you waving, twisting and shaking your Wiimote as enthusiastically as when you fired up the console for the first time; the worst will have you wanting to throw it out the window.Among the former are such gems as wall climbing, rapelling and bobsled – all of them easy pick up, get the hang of, and then become unreasonably competitive about with your friends or family. Among the worst are giant slalom, ski jump and figure skating, where the controls are often so unresponsive as to make it almost impossible to succeed – and often so-badly written as to make it only possible to understand through trial and error.Instead of including something as straightforward as a tutorial video, each game offers a written-through list of the actions involved, featuring such handy instructions as "swing the Wii remote with good timing" for speed skating or the "right timing" for the ski jump. The game has three different modes – challenge, in which you must play a set selection of events – battle, in which you can choose your own and co-operative, a smart inclusion which works fantastically for events such as curling, in which you take turns to slide stones and sweep. The graphics are cutesy and aimed at children, and while they clearly aren't testing the limits of the machine, they work perfectly well.Unlockable games and characters are included in a bid to add some longevity, though it's unlikely that many people will keep coming back to the one-player modes. The multiplayer modes hold some appeal, if probably more for kids than grown-ups, and it should be noted that this is a budget title with a recommended retail price of £19.99. In the end, though, 30 Great Games is likely to leave you feeling somewhat indifferent.
In the long hiatus between Command &amp; Conquer games, Supreme Commander was a worthy diversion – a massive three-way tussle fought out across vast maps. This year, however, it's another three-way that RTS fans are waiting for and SP2 is in danger of being lost in the melee. Is it as good as Starcraft 2? We'll have to wait and see about that. The bigger problem is it's not as good as its own prequel.On the plus side, SC2's interface and basic gameplay remain unchanged. This time you cannot play the three factions as standalone campaign; instead, the backstory links them together in more a satisfying fashion. Of course, there are new units, focussing on the bigger Experimentals that must be unlocked from the research tree to unleash massive firepower on the enemy. Experimentals provide the game's most satisfying and visually impressive moments, far more than the original where you only had three to choose from. As a result, the game is less dependent on amassing vast armies than the prequel with the subsequent improvement in frame rate and performance. After all, why go into all that bother churning out tanks when you can wait a bit and unleash a robot dinosaur or orbital airship on your enemy?The trouble begins when you consider all that has been lost in pursuing this more popcorn-friendly approach. The maps are smaller, making each much more linear than before. And although there are more in the way of mission objectives (taking or defending targets, researching a peculiar technology, etc) each level feels like a one-trick pony – depending on the research item that the developers deign to unlock for you. Given the size of the research tree, you can't help but feel cheated by this. It's also true that SC2 feel more like a console RTS than a PC one – hardly surprising, given the imminent launch on the Xbox 360. So yes, I'm definitely among the purists who feel this  dumbing down has been to the detriment of the game's unique scale and ambition.SC2's saving grace comes online. Thanks to the bigger research tree, there are three very different strategies to employ – each of them perfectly balanced. You can concentrate on defensive units such as the new Loyalty Canon, that can instantly turn your opponent's Experimentals against them. Then again you can beef up your base with nukes and go for a more destructive final solution. Or, of course, you can go for the all-out offensive route – concentrating on air or naval forces to wear down the enemy bit by bit. Either way, thanks to a simpler server solution, it makes for a far better online experience.I was a big fan of Supreme Commander and its Forged Alliance add-on pack. The sequel is still visually impressive and fun to play, but it's lost the epic feel that made it stand out. Pity.
Microsoft ispreviewing Internet Explorer 9- and it promises to add a stack of new technologies that may make it one of the most advanced browsers out there. No, really.Among the elements that Microsoft is touting are SVG (scalable vector graphics) capability, background compiled Javascript for greater speed, and - gasp! - HTML5 integration. So at Mix10, where it was first shown off on stage, people got to see it playing a YouTube video... without using Flash.Which is of course going to add mightily to the debate about whether Flash is dying, dead but doesn't know it, alarmingly healthy but just being overlooked by these whippersnappers, or simply going to evolve and be a happy shiny part of the future web as we know it.IE9's adoption of newer technologies, and technologies such as SVG which have been around for ages but not had that special Microsoft embrace, certainly makes it look like the company is trying to catch up and even overtake a lot of the other rival browsers out there.But it's still struggling a bit on some of the CSS parts - notably the W3C'sevil Acid3 test(warning: page will be slow as your browser chugs through the 100-part test)[nah, just my browser having a sulky moment], on which itonly scores 55 out of 100. (Firefox 3.6 scores9492, while Apple's Safari 4 scores 100/100.) Then again, that's better than IE8, which only managed 20/100.The big change though is the move towards HTML5, which hadn't frankly been expected.Last NovemberDean Hachamovich noted on the Microsoft Developer Network blogthat"Our focus is providing rich capabilities – the ones that most developers want to use – in an interoperable way.  Developers want more capabilities in the browser to build great apps and experiences; they want them to work in an interoperable way so they don't have to re-write and re-test their sites again and again. The standards process offers a good means to that end"However Jeffrey Zeldmanis less impressed:"Microsoft's marketing department wants the public to believe that IE and Windows are profoundly innovative. Thus efforts to catch up to the typographic legibility and beauty of Mac OS X and Webkit browsers are presented, in Dean Hachamovitch's blog post, as leading-edge innovations. Don't get me wrong: these improvements are desirable, and Direct2D may be great. I'm not challenging the quality of the hardware and software improvements; I'm pointing out the enforced bragging, which is mandated from on high, and which flies in the face of the humble stance other high-level divisions in Microsoft would like to enforce in the wake of the company's European drubbing and the dents Apple and Google have made on its monopoly and invulnerability."Well, it has to be said that the principal dent that's been put in Microsoft's monopoly have come from the European Commission and, to a lesser extent, the US Department of Justice; and that following that it's been Firefox (which, it's true, does get funding from Google via its built-in search box). It's interesting to try to figure out quite what has dented Microsoft's monopoly: its profits aren't going down, its cash pile is still vast, and it's still the predominant operating system on the desktop (or laptop).Even so, Zeldman concludes:"By torturing the IE rendering engine every couple of years instead of putting it out of its misery, Microsoft contributes to the withering away of its own monopoly. That might not be good for the shareholders, but it is great for everyone else."The reality is though that it's things like thebrowser ballot screenthat are really going to make the difference to IE's monopoly. But with that said, one has to welcome a browser from Microsoft that incorporates emerging web standards. Now let's hope that all the people stuck on IE6 can upgrade...
Kevin Anderson, Bobbie Johnson and Aleks Krotoski tackle the murky world of politics as the general election looms.The Conservative party has outlined its technology manifesto, but is it realistic? The team cuts through the rhetoric to detail what it really says.And at the other end of the political spectrum, Labour's digital economy bill is thoroughly dissected.Finally, the team looks at the latest web toy to enrapture the White House, Opinion Space – an opinion barometer filled to the gills with new web 2.0 technology that takes the pulse of the world on US foreign policy issues, and then spits it out in a nice graphic.Find out about all these stories and more in this week's Tech Weekly podcast from the Guardian.Next week, we visit the Science Museum for a recording in front of an audience which will be available in a couple of weeks.  If you would like to be there to see the programme being recorded and ask a few questions, there areprogramme details, and information on how to get tickets on the Science Museum site.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The Twitter "crimewave" reached a preliminary peak in October 2009, according toBarracuda Networks, which estimated that 12% of accounts created were eventually suspended as either malicious, suspicious or otherwise misused. In 2008, the equivalent "Twitter crime rate" averaged around 2%.Last week, sensibly,Twitter launched a new automatic link-screening serviceaimed at preventing phishing and other malicious attacks.It also hasadvice for users on how to stay safe on Twitter:• Use a strong password.• Watch out for suspicious links.• Make sure you're at therealTwitter login page before entering data.Twitter is also increasingly deleting mis-used accounts, a spokesperson of Barracuda Network says. "We fight phishing scams by detecting affected accounts and resetting passwords," said Biz Stone, co-founder of Twitter in a post. However, numerous accounts were used for malicious purposes such as poisoning trending topic threads with malicious URLs.According to the report of Barracuda Network, Twitter experienced a number of attacks in 2009 including the following:• January: Increase in Phishing Attacks on Twitter• April: StalkDaily/Mikeyy worm• June: Guy Kawasaki Account Offers Leighton Meester sex tape• July: Koobface Increase in Twitter Activity• July: Fake Retweets Spam• August: Profile Image Spam• August: Distributed Denial of Service Attacks• September: Spam Increase including 'Google is hiring'• September: Direct Message Worm• December: DNS records compromised and Web site defaced by "Iranian Cyber Army"As reported two weeks ago,thousands of Twitter users were victims of a severe phishing attack where users found a direct message from someone they followed saying "LOL that you??", or just "This you ??" including a link to a fake Twitter login page which url contained already the users twitter name. If the user entered his or her credentials on that page, the phishers could sign in and trick more people.Twitter bloggedabout that phishing scam, and explained to its users how to detect and avoid an attact."As social networking, and specifically Twitter, becomes more ingrained in everyday business, it is crucial to understand the nature of attacks happening on these sites, as well as how users and networks can be compromised." says Dr Paul Judge, chief research officer at Barracuda Networks.
Figures about web traffic are notoriously hard to interpret - as in, to what extent should you trust them? It can be like trying to discern which opinion poll to believe.So bearing in mind our story from last night aboutFacebook passing Google for traffic in the US in a week in March, according to Hitwise, see how you like these numbers: according to Compete.com, in the US in February Twitter's web traffic fell by 9.63%, Facebook's by 4.32%, LinkedIn's by 8.30%, while MySpace lost 11.5% of its unique visitors.Update:with splendid economy, nutsch points out in the comments that "There were 9.7% fewer days in February compared with January." On which basis Twitter stood still, Facebook actually grew, LinkedIn grew very slightly, and MySpace.. oh dear.The numbers areposted at Twittercism, and say that Twitter had 21.3m unique visitors in February, and a total of 143.9m overall. Both those numbers are down.What might you conclude? ThatTwitter is sooo over? Perhaps - though as the post itself notes, such measures as Compete uses don't include mobile clients or API-based connections. And Twitter's API traffic is the majority of its real traffic -four-fifths of it, according to a presentation by Twitter itself last year. (Which at the time said that if you had 127 followers, you were above average. The average is probably lower now, given that there haven't been many new celebrities joining but lots of normal folk.)The real problem with the Compete numbers though is that like many web metrics systems they rely on polling people who have toolbar extensions installed, which means that you can't be sure that it's really what happened - only that it represents what happened to the people you polled. Certainly, if you do it well - like polling companies try to do with voting intentions - then it's reliable enough. But just as election polls can be confounded by people who don't respond (or aren't on a landline, the usual system for polling), so toolbar-based metrics can be confounded by browsers that don't take toolbar - notably, mobile-based ones.Thus is it with Compete, whichexplains:"We have a diverse sample of 2,000,000+ U.S. Internet users that have given us permission to analyze the web pages they visit and ask them questions via surveys. We're betting that the insights we create from consumers' online behavior - whether they're watching, searching, shopping or socializing - is valuable for companies who are looking to radically improve their marketing."Now, 2m internet users is a good slice - so can we be confident that Compete is always right?The figure showing Facebook falling off is, frankly, strange - although it may be an artefact of the shortness of February plus the bad weather in the US this winter which meant some people, um, couldn't get to work to update their Facebook page to say "I'm at work, geez". (Note: the picture at the top was taken in December, not Febuary.)The fall in MySpace is in line with expectations. Is anything ever going to pull it out of the spiral towards the internet black hole that is consuming Friends Reunited, Orkut, and the rest?
Google has not yet applied to re-register as an "internet content provider" (ICP) in China, which some observers say is a sign that it is preparing to shut down its search engine there.Google UK denied the reports, saying that the ICP licence – required by the Chinese government for companies which want to operate a website inside the country – only has to be renewed annually before the end of March. "It's a bit early for such speculation," said a spokesman.But the timing follow weeks in which a growing number of reports have suggested that negotiations with the Chinese government over its stated intention to stop censoring search results in the country have reached an impasse.It is still unclear whether the company'sstated intention in January to stop censoring its search resultsinside the country will be carried out. Google has a minority share of the search market inside China, where local firms predominate.Inside Google there is a split at the head of the organisation over what to do about Chinese censorship. Sergey Brin, one of the company's co-founders, is known to have opposed censoring results as required by the government there. But Eric Schmidt, the chairman and chief executive, prevailed with the view that Google could do more good working inside the country than from outside. Googlestarted operations in China in January 2006, censoring its search results to omit pages that the government has declared "sensitive" – usually relating to dissidents.In recent weeks it has been Schmidt who has indicated a softer line over the ending of censorship. Google would be unlikely to be allowed to continue functioning inside China if it stops censoring content, and employees there might potentially be liable for arrest.If Google wishes to continue operating inside China it would have to make a late registration for an ICP licence or to shut down the search engine inside Chinese borders.If Google shut down its google.cn, users inside China may still be able to access Google servers outside the country, but will not be able to access the full set of results, and may be traced if they try to search for content that the Chinese government has deemed unlawful – whether political or pornographic.In January the company suggested that it would cease censoring its search results, as it has done at the demand of the Chinese government as a requirement of doing business there. That announcement followed the discovery of targeted hacking which seemed to be aimed at the email accounts of Chinese dissidents, and also at core programs used within Google to run its business.The New York Times reported on Mondaythat China's government has "warned major partners of Google's China-based search engine that they must comply with censorship laws even if Google does not".The report suggests that it has told those partners to prepare backup plans in case Google stops censoring its search results. One possibility might be that ISPs would be told not to carry traffic from Google – meaning that the company could stop censoring its search results but they would not be visible to anyone.
Most admirers of Quantic Dreams' interactive dramaHeavy Rainwill readily agree on the game's most glaring fault – the inconsistent voice acting. The visuals are astonishingly atmospheric, the plot (though choppy at times) is compelling, and the lush orchestral score is wonderfully resonant… But… Well, some of the acting performances are wooden to the point of somnambulism.The thing is, Heavy Rain is far from alone. Although the videogame industry loves to compare itself with the movie business, and clearly has ambitions to become the story-telling medium of the 21st century, poor vocal performances are common, even among Triple A titles. In the last few months Aliens vs Predator, Army of Two: 40th Day and even Final Fantasy XIII have drawn criticism in the areas of scripting and performance. So what's going on?"Although improving all the time, there is still a lack of focus on story and character in games," says Andy Emery creative director atSide, a leading provider of casting, directing and recording services to the videogame and movie sectors. "This has to be an integral part of the project from start to finish. We see problems with poor scripts all the time. A professional scriptwriter is an essential part of modern game development but still we get 'developer written' scripts with alarming regularity. Even with the best Hollywood actors on board, a poor script can result in poor voice acting."A sometimes mediocre script certainly contributes to the problems in Heavy Rain, where key snippets of dialogue are so laboured and cliché-ridden, they more or less eject you straight out of the experience. But then, actors work with dodgy scripts all the time, and can still put together a reasonably compelling performance (just ask anyone who's appeared in a romantic comedy in the last decade). Experienced direction helps, too.Clearly, there are deeper problems, involving the whole process of recording voice performances. And it starts with timetabling.Traditionally, voice acting has been recorded toward the end of the cycle, when the over-arching structure of the game and its narrative are safely locked down. There are compelling reasons for this. Games tend to evolve enormously over the standard two-year process, with whole missions often culled at a late stage, as playtesting reveals unforeseen fault lines and design issues. Having to recall actors and record chunks of new dialogue to reflect story changes is perceived as an expensive, time-consuming chore – the last thing a hassled studio needs in the generally hellish run up to a major delivery deadline.But while those justifications made sense in the old days, when voice performances tended to be restricted to skippable cut-scenes there for decoration only, they begin to look less convincing in the modern era. With titles like Heavy Rain and the forthcoming psychological thriller Alan Wake, where cinematic fidelity is a cornerstone of the experience, voice recording can't just be something jammed in at the end ostensibly to cut costs. But more on that later.There are also fundamental differences between voice acting in a videogame and voice acting in linear artforms such as radio plays and animated movies. Due to the interactive nature of games, actors can't be given a standard film script from which they're able to gauge the throughline of their character and a feel for the dramatic development of the narrative. Instead, lines of dialogue need to be isolated into chunks so they can be accessed and triggered within the game in line with the actions of each individual player. Consequently, the performer will usually be presented with a spreadsheet jammed with hundreds of single lines of dialogue, with little sense of context or interaction.As Emery argues, there's really not a lot of alternative. "For large complex RPG and MMO games, with dialogue that could add up to over 30hrs of play time, it's simply not practical to give the actors the whole script. You also risk information overload, with the actor struggling to focus on the areas of importance for their character. Star Wars: The Old Republic, the new MMO being developed by Bioware is a great example, as the project contains over 40 novels worth of scripted dialogue. The key is to give the actors the information they need for their scenes and ensure they are well directed by a professional and well-briefed director."But according to David Sobolov, one of the most experienced videogame voice actors in the world (just check outhis website), the significant time pressures mean that close, in-depth direction is not always possible. "Often, there's a need to record a great number of lines, so to keep the session moving, once we've established the tone of the character we're performing, the director will silently direct us using the spreadsheet on the screen by simply moving the cursor down the page to indicate if he/she liked what we did. Or they'll make up a code, like typing an 'x' to ask us to give them another take…" It sounds, in effect, like a sort of acting battery farm, a grinding, dehumanising production line of disembodied phrases, delivered for hours on end. Hardly condusive to Oscar-winning performances.Indeed, the establishment of a fully-rounded character is a vital element of the acting process. Most western drama schools conform to the model of acting developed by Russian Theatre practitioner Constantin Stanislavsy. His works on the development of character - An Actor Prepares, Building a Character and Creating a Role - remain essential reference texts, even though his methods have been superseded and remixed by dozens of acting luminaries ever since – most notably perhaps, Lee Strasberg at The Actors Studio. Stanislavski placed enormous emphasis on the ability of the actor to understand and inhabit the character's life, not just the two hours of it presented on screen or stage, but everything that took place beforehand. This takes time and imagination – elements seemingly absent from the factory-line schedules of many recording sessions.It's clear, however, that some studios have grasped this vital element. "The actors always have the opportunity to learn about the character before the session," says Emery of the work undertaken at Side. "For most leading roles the actor would have had a full audition, with a director present to brief them about the character and their motivations. Prior to a session they are sent their script and character bios, and where possible, an overview of the general story arc.  This allows them to better understand the character they are to play and how they should be played."But then there's an added inhibitive element in the videogame voice recording session – actors usually perform in isolation.  This is, of course, a necessary evil as in-game dialogue will need to be chopped up, mixed and played in a variety of contexts. But this isn't much consolation to the actor. "I've only worked on one game where that wasn't the case," says Sobolov. "When I played The Arbiter in Halo Wars, they recorded cut scene dialogue with all the principal performers in the same room together much as they do in television animation. Most times we have to silently skip over the other character's lines (if they're shown to us at all) then deliver our dialogue as if we were having a conversation in real time." Again, this runs counter to drama training where the art of reacting to other performers is an intrinsic element.Little wonder, then, that without a full script, a character chronology to study or other performers to interact with, voice acting can be both stilted and lacking in nuance. It's an intrinsic problem that the key voice over studios are really looking in to. Mark Estdale, director at casting and voice recording agency,Outsource Media, has been working for ten years on a system to provide voice over actors with a quick-n-dirty frame of reference for their characterisations."What the actor needs is something at the point of performance that they can react to," he explains. "To provide that, you need to throw away all previous script models. What we've done is build a database that can actually emulate game engine behaviours and recalls for the actor any kind of pertinent information - visuals from the game, audio, other actors' lines – and it's all instant recall. So you get the actor in the studio and when they're in the zone you hit them with this radical system – it's all on screen in front of them, and they're getting all the cues they'd get in the theatre or on a film production, they're not reliant on trying to figure out what the heck's going on."Added to this, there's a very simple way to improve the quality of acting in most videogames: start early. "To achieve a cinematic level of quality that so many titles demand now, the voice acting can't be left to the end of the development cycle," maintains Emery. "Making character performances an integral part of the pre- and main production stages opens up a whole range of opportunities to improve the final quality." Mark Estdale wholeheartedly concurs. "Actors need to be cast when the developer is starting the design process. I'm working on one production now where we're there really early in development, and the whole cast is involved - they're giving voices to the characters as they're being designed."Not only does this create a sense of ownership of the character, it also means that the director, writer, cast and game designers get to spark off each other – schlocky lumps of leaden dialogue, implausible character volte-faces and rampant cliché may all be avoided in a truly collaborative and respectful environment. In some ways, what developers need to do it stop drawing all their cinematic reference points from the big CGI-stuffed blockbusters and start looking at the likes of Ken Loach and Mike Leigh who employ improvisation and collaboration to build drama.Ultimately, Emery pinpoints an evolving role within the game development process; instead of script writers, what is needed now are 'narrative designers', experts in the creation of plot and dialogue for an interactive medium.  "Good narrative designers can work with game designers to ensure the story and dialogue becomes a fully integrated element of the game design, rather than a hindrance to pure interactivity. A lot of game players do not like to be stopped while a cut scene delivers story elements and clever Narrative design can ensure the story is delivered in a less obtrusive way."As narrative designers become more adept at delivering a compelling story in ways less obtrusive to game play, the distinction between 'Story' dialogue and 'World Filling' dialogue will continue to blur.  The challenge will be to ensure ALL acting in games is believable, from in-game greetings, to death cries, to the epic monologue."And Emery also highlights other vital elements of convincing non-linear narrative. "Good audio implementation ensures that individual files, separated for reasons of interactivity, can sound like fluid, natural, overlapping dialogue once triggered in the game. Using a professional director who is involved in casting, rehearsal and dialogue recordings makes a huge difference.  It's essential to have someone who knows the project inside out, has been on board from the start, can talk to actors in their language and translate that into a performance."The ultimate solution for Emery, however, is the emerging field of full performance capture, in which one actor provides motion and facial capture, as well as the voice. "For full performance capture sessions, it is more like a film shoot with script table reads, rehearsals and further familiarisation with the project all prior to an actual shoot," he says. "On the actual shoot the director will rehearse each scene with the actors together so they can get a feel of what will be going on in each scene and how they will interact and then have multiple live takes to get the required performance."On Dead Space: Extraction it was clear from the outset that the team was taking character performances in the game very seriously. They looked for actors to provide not only a vocal and facial performance but also facial likeness to be used in the game. Although the actors needed to have the right voice and the right look, the team were happy to be flexible about accent. The most important thing was to cast a group of distinct, believable characters and I think we really hit the mark, and the gaming press agreed with us."The weird thing is, this is exactly the avenue Quantic Dream chose. Of the four principle characters in Heavy Rain, three were played by actors who provided the voice, motionandfacial capture data.According toMadison Paige's body actor, Jacqui Ainsley, all the actors were given full scripts, and they spent three years on the project – ample time to inhabit their roles. Throughout the process, the game's creator and writer David Cage also provided oodles of background detail regarding the moral choices at the heart of the drama. They did everything right.And certainly there are moments of profundity in the game, moments when the dialogue and performances click into place with spinetingling effect. It could be that the actors were inexperienced in games, that the audio implementation, with so many branching dialogue elements to cope with, could not always call up exactly the right vocal intonations for the moment.Perhaps it is down to the ambition of the project, the fact that it has effectively created its own genre, that a few inherent weaknesses are cruelly magnified. The sheer size of the script (apparently 16 movies worth of text) may have contributed, though this scale is becoming more common these days. According to a preview of Rockstar's forthcoming adventure,LA Noire, in this month's Edge, the script weighs in at 22,000 pages. Yet still, the interactive drama, a genre at the forefront of narrative development, is in its infancy.Most titles, however, sit in well-defined game types, developed by experienced studios. For them, there is no excuse anymore. David Sobolov is predictably passionate on the subject. "We're moving into a time where games are attempting to create an emotional experience rather than simply a visceral one.  If developers intend to tell more complex stories they're going to need to hire the best talent they can find to complete that journey."A game can't be successful anymore if it's developed as a piece of software.  It has to evoke emotional reactions and create a reality a gamer wants to buy into to be successful.  In the best titles, good voice acting can be the glue that keeps a gamer immersed in the world that the developer is creating, often subconsciously. The human voice is the one thing in a game that's 100% real…"
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
When Apple decided tosue Taiwanese phone manufacturer HTC, it was hard to see it as anything other than a broadside at Google. After all, HTC makesNexus Onehandset, and Steve Jobs has previously told staff that he's angry because"We did not enter the search business... they entered the phone business".The ever-growing conflict between the two issomething I mentioned on Monday, and plenty of people have weighed in on the subject, includingformer Sun Microsystems boss Jonathan Schwartz, who said that any company launching a software patent lawsuit was basically undertaking an "act of desperation".But most of the action so far has been from Apple's side - the accusations about its rivals (including Nokia,which has in turn accused the iPhone maker of "legal alchemy"); theoffended and aggrievedstatements by Jobs and so on.So where's Google in this fight? Is it just staying quiet? Step forwardTim Bray, the Canadian technologist best known for his work on XML. Bray -who has written eloquently on software patents beforeand who left Sun himself last month - announced over the weekend that he was joining Google's Android team.Oh yeah, then he immediatelypoured fuel onto the fire with an extremely strong broadsideabout why he dislikes Apple's approach:The iPhone vision of the mobile Internet's future omits controversy, sex, and freedom, but includes strict limits on who can know what and who can say what. It's a sterile Disney-fied walled garden surrounded by sharp-toothed lawyers. The people who create the apps serve at the landlord's pleasure and fear his anger.I hate it.I hate it even though the iPhone hardware and software are great, because freedom's not just another word for anything, nor is it an optional ingredient.Strong words, and proof that Googlersareprepared to fire back from time to time. It will be interesting to see how long Bray is allowed to speak his mind like this (staff commenting, even obliquely, on lawsuits is something most corporate lawyers dislike intensely) but it's refreshing to see somebody on either side speaking openly and on the record.
&bull; Just a few weeks ago we were talking about howFacebookhad eclipsed Yahoo as America's second-largest website - now, according to Hitwise,it is now bigger than Google. Will the social networking monster ever stop growing?&bull; Some interesting data on earlyiPadorders from AAPL Sanity, suggesting that the cheaper version - which has WiFi but no 3G networking -is twice as popular as the more expensive option.&bull; And I'm lovingthe Wired Reread blog, which takes a walk through past issues of the magazine of the future. Most of the entries are adverts from days gone by, but even so it's an edifying glimpse of life over the past 20 years. This stuff always gets me.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The controversial digital economy bill has moved a step closer to becoming law after the House of Lords last night approved the proposals - but critics say the legislation is in danger of being rushed through parliament.Despite reservations from a number of peers, the scheme - which includes the contentiousthree strikes rule to cut off internet access for alleged file sharers- will now be put before MPs, with the government hoping that it can pass into the statute books before a general election is called.The bill contains a number of controversial aspects alongside three strikes, which could suspend the broadband connections used by anybody accused of file sharing three times whether or not they are convicted of copyright infringement.The notoriousClause 17- which has now had its scope diminished - had proposed to give the secretary of state the power to update copyright law without parliamentary assent.And the Liberal Democrats caused uproar when they proposed an amendment to the bill apparently aimed at bringing more judicial oversight into the system - but that criticscould end up shutting down major websites such as YouTube.The change - which gives the high court the power to shut down entire websites if they host "substantial" amounts of copyright infringing material -came in for strong criticism, particularly after it emerged that the language used wasidentical to a proposal by British music industry body the BPI.As a result, the Lib Dems yesterday made the unusual step oftabling a change to their own amendmentin order to allay some of the concerns.The government, however, pushed that aside and said it would enact the changes itself in the "wash-up" process in the House of Commons in order to ensure that the bill continued its speedy passage through parliament.Geoff Taylor, the chief executive of the BPI - which has been one of the groups lobbying hardest in favour of the proposals - said that he hoped the bill would become law soon."It is vital for the future of the UK's creative sector that the digital economy bill becomes law before the dissolution of parliament," he said last night. "We are pleased that it has passed successfully through the Lords and will continue to work closely with all parties as it progresses."Not everybody was happy with the decision, however, including those who fear that the "wash-up" process - which allows behind-the-scenes political bargaining to rush through legislation before parliament dissolves - could leave the bill open to abuse.The Earl of Errol expressed "concern" that future amendments will not be subject to full parliamentary scrutiny."My concern about the new clause... is that it will not be subject to any amendment, or discussion and then amendment, by either house," said theEarl of Errol. "We have no idea what it looks like, and it seems to be an abuse of parliamentary process."Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, a lobbying organisation that opposes the plans, said that the hasty attempt to enact legislation in time for the election could be disastrous."Our elected MPs will have spent a whole two hours on this bill... before they disappear back to constituencies to ask for our vote,"he said. "Meanwhile, a 'rump parliament' made up of retiring MPs and party whips will pass disconnection measures – with no actual debate."Regardless of last night's move, the divisive arguments over whether the bill would actually improve Britain's digital economy look no closer to being settled.On Monday, internet service provider TalkTalk continued its objections by suggesting that the three strikes rule would not have any significant impact on copyright infringement.The company, which has been avocal opponent of the bill, said a poll had indicated that 80% of youngsters would continue file sharing regardless.The result, it said, was that ISPs would be forced to police the actions of users with no tangible result."The digital economy bill proposals create a new and unfair duty on broadband customers," said Andrew Heaney, TalkTalk's director of strategy and regulation."It asks them to implement complex and expensive security measures on their connections to make it more difficult for their neighbours and others to use their connection for copyright infringement. The bill reverses the core principles of natural justice by requiring customers to prove their innocence."
Is that Google in Facebook's rear-view mirror? Why, yes, it is, at least in the US, according to thelatest figures from Hitwise.The statistics will be worrying for Google, principally because that won't be traffic heading downstream from Google to Facebook; it will be people logging directly into the social networking site. And pause to consider: if the problem of search - what Google aims to do - is solved not by building the most fantastic search engine, but by building the biggest social network, what does that tell us? That we're not actually looking for that much?Heather Hopkins notes that Facebook was the most visited site in the US last Christmas eve, Christmas day and New Year's day - but also on the weekend of March 6th and 7th. That starts to look like a trend.Compared to the same week in 2009, Google's visits were up 9% - but Facebook's were up 185%. So now Facebook was 7.07% of visits, while Google was put in the shade - just - at 7.03%.Again, this may be just temporary: it may be that Facebook will feel too much like a walled garden - but asJohn Naughton noted in the Observer,"By gradually breaching their walled garden, the Facebook founders have managed to avoid the fate of AOL – so far. Their boldest move was the launch of Facebook Connect – which allows external services like Twitter to interact directly with subscribers' Facebook accounts. "Google is still making plenty of money from ads - but there's only a limited amount of money to go around (even as more money comes online as businesses buy adverts to follow people following businesses going there). Some of that Google money may start being sucked into Facebook's gravitational pull. It looks like the real story this year is going to be how Google and to a lesser extent Twitter (which hasjust announced a similar breaking-the-walled-garden-down approach) handle the continuing rise of Facebook - and whether that rise is indeed borne out. Are people spending more time on Facebook, or is it getting passé?
For thousands of webheads gathered in Texas, the past few days have been a dizzying whirlwind of at South By South West Interactive - a conference/festival that is essentially Glastonbury for geeks. And while the event's panel sessions and parties have beenskewered by erstwhile Guardian columnist Paul Carr, plenty of people were looking forward to an on-stage appearance by Twitter chief executive Evan Williams.Why? Because the company was expected to talk about how it was going to make money - chiefly by showing off its rumoured advertising system.Instead, Williams did something different: he unveiled a new platform called "@anywhere" that it says will weave it even deeper into the fabric of the web.Confused? Let's look at what @anywhere lets you do.According to Williams, it will allow third party websites to pull information from Twitter very easily, letting sites implement actions such as "follow me" links or show profile information without much hassle. It will also let people log in to other websites using their Twitter credentials, in the same way many sites havelatched on to Facebook Connect."Discovery is one of the hardest challenges," he said in a Q&amp;A withLondon-based economist and blogger Umair Haquethat drewplenty of brickbats from the assembled crowd.Williams characterised @anywhere as a door into Twitter. "A window is transparent, but a door is open. A door lets you come in and mess with what you're doing".Still not clear? I'm not surprised. Here's alittle more detail from Twitter's blog:Our open technology platform is well known and Twitter APIs are already widely implemented but this is a different approach because we've created something incredibly simple. Rather than implementing APIs, site owners need only drop in a few lines of javascript. [...] Imagine being able to follow a New York Times journalist directly from her byline, tweet about a video without leaving YouTube, and discover new Twitter accounts while visiting the Yahoo! home page—and that's just the beginning.So technically, this is a way to package certain actions that are currently possible using the API in a way that non-developers can easily implement. Dropping a line of JavaScript into a web page is an awful lot easier than using your API credentials.A lot of this was already possible, if somewhat obscured, by using a variety of widgets and other techniques (you'll notice we have a "Tweet this" link at the top of each story). And while it seems like it will be great for expanding the integration of Twitter into a variety of websites - important for breaking the service out of the silo it currently sits in and making it far more mainstream - it doesn't really answer the big question everybody was looking at: how does Twitter make money.Indeed,according to CNet, Williams sidestepped questions about Twitter's plans for advertising by using the rather cringeworthy line "it's not an ad platform, it's an '@' platform".Still, leaving that aside, @anywhere raises a number of questions:What's the impact going to be on Twitter developers?Will this have any adverse affect on the ecosystem of application developers and engineers who are working on services that hook into Twitter?Is this Twitter fighting with Facebook, Google and others for the universal login?And what is the point of a universal login if everybody thinks their service is it? Will being more integrated into other websites bring more users Twitter's way?Will this allow Twitter to make money?There doesn't seem to be any indication that money is likely to change hands here. But the service is clearly being aimed at publishing sites and media companies who, one might expect, could be a revenue source in the future (even if not all of them are swimming in pools of cash right now).And, most importantly:What's going on with Twitter's ad platform?Suggestions are that it's going to be fairly similar to Google's AdSense programme - advertise against keyword search terms. Is this a step towards getting that more traction, simply because it might bring in more users and therefore give Twitter more opportunity to show adverts?
Photo from Flickr.CC-BY licensedThose folks over atCXOhave been playing with Google Mail's password strength meter. It turns out - as if you needed to be told - that simple dictionary words such as "princess" or well-known phrases such as "biteme" (yes, Bart Simpson, I'm talking to you) aren't secure at all.You may think that you know it, but theevidence from Rockyou earlier this yeardoesn't lie - people are still using amazingly simple passwords. Don't be among them.
The year is 1560. Which – as any fule, or Manga fan, kno – is the Sengoku Era, when Feudal Japan was in a violent political mess.As that movie voiceover chap would have it, it was a time of war, and that makes it a very popular setting for ambitious hack-and-slash games such as the Way of the Samurai series. Sadly, the execution of this new version doesn't live up to the ambition. You start the game as inexperienced Samurai in a world divided into three: the Fujimori Clan, the Ouka Clans and the villagers just trying to get by. You have choices as the game unfolds. Pick a side? Play one clan against the others for your own gain and greed? Be good? Be evil? Be violent or kneel submissively in apology? Your choices will determine what sort of game you have – and which of the 20+ endings you see.The aim then is Fallout 3 with blades. The reality though is some way off as the AI isn't up to standard, making the "cause and effect" notion somewhat piecemeal, and generally only succeeding during a handful of big decisions. The minute-to-minute stuff – draw sword or go gently – is inconsistent, with swords pulled on you with alarming regularity regardless of demeanour, even before you've made it across the region for a weapons tutorial. And not only is it possible to die en route to that tutorial, it's also possible to die during it – which seems unnecessarily harsh. Also, why can you only accept one task at a time? Given that the tasks generally involve running across the same eight locations to find things or deliver items, they soon become annoyingly repetitious.The good v evil decisions are also somewhat undermined by villagers wandering onto your sword while you're trying to defend them from the bad guys. As for the knelt apology, it's a nice idea but one that generally just gives your opponent several seconds to slash away at you without response.And yet … If you've got the time and wherewithal to accustom yourself to the foibles of the AI, the notion that you're going to spend a lot of time wandering, wondering and repeating (and repeating) certain activities, the deeper game gradually becomes oddly compelling. In short then, this is not a breakout WotS remould but a fan-pleasing, business-mostly-as-usual, genre franchise. Fourth time lucky perhaps chaps?
One surprising feature of the year so far has been the number of exclusive games for Sony's PlayStation 3 – and here is another which, while far from mainstream, will certainly please those who love the offbeat charms the Japanese always bring to gaming.Yakuza 3 is best described as the Japanese answer to Grand Theft Auto, except with an impeccable brawling engine, drawn heavily from the great Japanese beat-em-up tradition, in place of the cars and guns. You play Kazuma Kiryu, legendary ex-Fourth Chairman of the Tojo Clan, now retired to the bucolic surroundings of Okinawa, where he runs an orphanage. You can tell he's still a Yakuza, though, thanks to the trendy shirt and facial hair, plus the tattoo covering his back.Early indications aren't great, as Yakuza 3 proceeds at a glacial pace, with countless cut-scenes, conversations to trawl through (in subtitled Japanese, thankfully, rather than incongruously dubbed into American) and trivial tasks that involve looking after kids. But graphically, it is fantastic, and the gloriously immersive and detailed Tokyo and small-town Okinawa neighbourhoods evoke memories of Yu Suzuki's overblown but groundbreaking Shenmue.Indeed, Yakuza 3 has been hailed by Sega fanboys as the nearest thing to Shenmue 3, and its labyrinthine but gripping storyline – the Yakuza are circling around Kiryu-san's orphanage due to a putative deal to build an American air base and resort in the vicinity, and Kazuma, after being reluctantly dragged into the local Yakuza family, returns to Tokyo when full-blown internecine war breaks out – augmented with countless agreeably weird side-missions, and the ability to shop, hang out in bars and so on does indeed make it worthy of Shenmue comparisons.Gameplay-wise, it's fairly old-fashioned, although the brawling engine is nice and responsive. You get points to upgrade Kazuma's abilities when you defeat bosses (who literally are Yakuza bosses), and if you come across "revelations" – strange goings-on that you photograph with your mobile and blog about – you get extra fighting abilities. Mini-games, including the obligatory gambling games and even a full Tiger Woods-style golf engine, are rife, as are hidden collectibles. Even the core game is lengthy, and completists should be able to keep themselves occupied for weeks or even months.Yakuza 3 won't be to everyone's taste, but if the idea of immersing yourself in a meticulous and, more often than not, pretty bonkers reconstruction of the world of the Yakuza appeals, you'll love it. If you played Shenmue, it will probably elicit a few tears of nostalgia. And maybe ponder the irony of Sega providing Sony with an exclusive game that will become a cult classic, which has roots in the Dreamcast era when Sega and Sony were sworn enemies.
The Liberal Democrats are preparing to change their controversial amendment to the digital economy bill, which has its third and final reading in the House of Lords on Monday.The change would give sites blocked under the bill the power to challenge it in the courts, and to demand legal costs and damages from any copyright owner that caused it to be wrongly blocked through court procedings.But the Open Rights Group, which campaigns on digital rights and freedoms, said that the amendment would not solve deeper problems with the bill – which may be rushed into law with barely any debate in the Commons – and called for it to be abandoned.Amendments tabled to the billshow that the Liberal Democrats now want to alter amendment 120A, which wasshown last week to have been copiedalmost word-for-word from a lobbying paper prepared by the music industry, but which was also widely criticised as giving copyright holders too much power to close down sites on limited evidence.The Liberal Democrat peer Lord Razzall has moved an amendment to the amendment created by another Lib Dem peer, Lord Clement-Jones, which would give sites that have been blocked some legal recourse.The amendment deals with powers given under subsection 1 of an amendment to the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, which gives the high court (in Scotland, the court of session) the power "to grant an injunction against a service provider, requiring it to prevent access to online locations specified in the order of the court for the prevention of online copyright infringement".The BPI has lobbied strongly for such powers, on the basis that a growing number of sites offer "cyberlocker" facilities which allow people to swap files without their being publicly visible. The Liberal Democrat amendment was seen as agreeing with that stance – but other groups said that it was extreme because it would be impossible to prove what content is stored on cyberlockers without inspecting their contents, which would break their own agreements with users.At present, the bill obliges internet service providers to pay the costs of copyright owners who apply for successful blocking of sites "unless there were exceptional circumstances justifying the service provider's failure to prevent access despite notification".The suggested amendment says that where a service provider has blocked access to an online location, "any person aggrieved may apply to the court on notice to the copyright owner and service provider to require the service provider to remove or vary the nature of the block" and that if a block is rescinded, the courts "may also on request make an order if it sees fit requiring the copyright owner to imburse any loss or damages, including costs and legal fees, incurred by the applicant ... or by the service provider".But Jim Killock, head of the Open Rights Group, said that while the change was "some improvement", the flaw was that the changes have not been properly debated."The bill is now out of line with Liberal Democrat policy, which is against web blocking in this manner following a motion that was passed at their conference at the weekend," Killock said."The problem is that this could now go to the Commons, and because of the budget it could be pushed through to a second reading which will mean it gets debated for a total of an hour." That would only leave time for deletions, but not amendments, in the bill. Once the election is called, the bill would then go into a "wash-up" in which legislation is passed without any debate in order to get it onto the statute books.Killock said that "it's now too late to do anything about this bill except get rid of it. We are calling on people to complain vociferously about it because the disconnection policies in it are still flawed."
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Employees Love Gadgets, but iPhone Fans Lie Low &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Despite Mr. Ballmer's theatrics, iPhone users are in plain sight at Microsoft. At the sprawling campus here in a Seattle suburb, workers peck away on their iPhone touch-screens in conference rooms, cafeterias and lobbies. Among the top Microsoft executives who use the iPhone is J Allard, who helped create the Xbox game console and is chief experience officer for the entertainment and devices division.&#10;&#10;"Nearly 10,000 iPhone users were accessing the Microsoft employee email system last year, say two people who heard the estimates from senior Microsoft executives. That figure equals about 10% of the company's global work force." (may require login)News Is A Lousy Business For Google Too &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderNot even Haliburton wants to buy ads on Google against searches such as "Afghanistan war".Fibre rates inequity iniquity: why does BT pay less than startups for fibre? &gt;&gt; trefor.netThe VOA tax, which wenoted a year ago, discriminates against would-be fibre startups and in favour of BT. Just one question: why is it set like this?Microsoft's Xbox Sales Beat Wii, PS3 in February on BioShock &gt;&gt; Businessweek.com"Microsoft sold 422,000 Xbox 360s in February, up 8% from a year earlier, researcher NPD Group Inc. said yesterday. Nintendo, which has said it experienced supply shortages, sold 397,900 units, a decline of 47%. Sony sold 360,100 PS3s, a 30% increase,"Plastic Logic eReader is delayed &gt;&gt; USATODAY.comPre-orders sold out but buyers now have to wait...Google Product Manager RJ Pittman Defects To Apple &gt;&gt; Techcrunch.comBy their tweets shall ye know their movements: Pittman's last-day tweet at Google has been deleted from his stream, but the replies remain in Twitter's search.Beware of thinly veiled link requests &gt;&gt; JLH DesignYou know those requests you get from out-of-the-way websites to put a link on your out-of-the-way website back to them, because they have to you? They're fake. (Though some expertise is needed to understand why.)Six Delusions of Google's Arrogant Leaders &gt;&gt; GawkerThere's a growing feeling that the ancient Greeks had a word for it, even though they didn't have Google. (Come on, you can work out what the word is.)Dead iPad battery? Never mind replacing it, Apple just sends another &gt;&gt; Engadget"You'll pay $105.95 (including shipping) for a completely different iPad.... On one hand, you're getting a new (or potentially refurbished, actually) iPad in around "one week," but on the other, you'll be waving goodbye to every morsel of personal data on the device that you send in -- unless you backup beforehand, of course," says Engadget.Apple's Spat With Google Is Getting Personal &gt;&gt; The New York TimesIt's free and open Google v closed, proprietary and high-priced Apple, but also Schmidt v Jobs. ""It's World War III. Amazing animosity is motivating two of the most powerful people in the industry," says a source. "This is emotional. This is the biggest ego battle in history. It's incendiary."Apple loses key chip executive &gt;&gt; CNET News"Dan Dobberpuhl, the PA Semi founder and CEO who came to Apple with the acquisition of his company, has apparently jumped ship to work at a chip-related start-up."US Healthcare: why not do it like a programmer's diff? &gt;&gt; kmemeThe smart approach to US healthcare might be to do what Google would - introduce lots of different versions, test them extensively, see which give the best outcomes. It would have to be better than what's being done now.How the US broadband industry kept government in the dark &gt;&gt; Investigative Reporting WorkshopBroadband providers in the US have fought against proposals that would oblige them to tell the government how many subscribers they have and what sort of technology they use. Why would they do that, you wonder? Because it means they can assert that 99% of zip codes in the US have broadband, so George Bush could say "all" Americans had "affordable" broadband access. Except they didn't.Soulver, a calculator for use on computer screens &gt;&gt; AcqualiaLooks exactly like Marco Ament suggests a computer should look like. Mac OSX only; $19.95. Is user interface worth that much to you?Overdoing the interface metaphor &gt;&gt; Marco.orgIt's stupid to write a calculator application that tries to look like a calculator, because (unless you have a touch screen) you can't press the buttons like a real one. Instead, Marco Ament suggests a rather different form that better matches how we use computers. And as it happens it looks like...Hackers Not Playing Games With Gaming Sites &gt;&gt; DarkReading"the incentive to hack games has risen as virtual goods have been embraced by the masses: Online games are like banks, but without regulations and expensive security measures. Gold farming and gold frauding -- undesirable and illegal methods respectively of amassing huge amounts of in-game currency for black market resale -- cause losses to the gaming industry of somewhere between $1 billion and $15 billion, Wyatt estimated, though he conceded that no one really has accurate figures."Google's stated list of competitors grows from two to 10 &gt;&gt; Physorg.comA year ago, Google named just two competitors -- Microsoft and Yahoo -- in its annual report to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This year, Google lists 10 competitors by name in its recently filed 10-K report for 2009.America's Top Phone Makers? Not Who You Think &gt;&gt; New York TimesSouth Korean phone manufacturers have 47% of the American mobile phone market, according to Strategy Analytics.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The insane games rush of 2010 shows no sign of slowing down just yet. Final Fantasy XIII was out last week and God of War III is out soon too. I've been playing the latter over the weekend and very very pretty it is too. The action is fairly similar to the first two God of War games - ie plenty of gore - but GOWIII looks absolutely beautiful. Like Uncharted 2 it makes you wish the PS3 had a few more titles that really showed the graphical potential of the console. A review and more impressions of GOWIII are likely later this week. Once finished I'll get round to FFXIII. Again, too many games, too little time.What about you then? Enjoying Final Fantasy? Multiplayer Battlefield? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Tory proposals to fund high-speed broadband that were unveiled last weekwould mean rural constituencies that comprise the party's core vote would be last to get it – if they ever did, according to a new independent analysis published today.Instead, the Conservative plans unveiled last week would mean that urban constituencies, which form the core Labour vote, would be the first to get superfast broadband, while some rural constituencies might never see it, according to Point Topic, a research company specialising in national broadband usage and adoption.The two main parties have both targeted high-speed broadband as important to future economic development both in urban and rural areas. Such "superband" connections can transfer data at up to 100 megabits per second (Mbps), rather than the 4Mbps that average home connections now get.TheConservative "technology manifesto"published last week says a Tory government would encourage private sector investment by "opening up network infrastructure, easing planning rules and boosting competition" and that it would make the UK "the first country in Europe to extend superfast 100Mbps broadband across most of the population", and that "this is up to 50 times faster than Labour's planned broadband network" – which under the digital economy bill aims for a 2Mbps minimum throughout the UK by 2012.High-speed connectivity requires expensive fibre-optic cable to replace the existing copper cable of standard telephone lines, which cannot transfer data at high speeds more than a couple of kilometres from the exchange. Distances from exchanges to users are typically much higher in rural areas, making it more expensive to install the fibre – but returns on capital are lower because there are fewer users per kilometre of line.That means telecoms companies will be reluctant to install fibre in rural areas – leading the Labour government to propose an annual "landline tax" of £6 in the digital economy bill, to create a fund it says would raise between £150m and £175m a year, which would subsidise fibre installation in what would otherwise be low-return areas.However, Point Topic says the Tory proposals would mean rural constituencies missing out on such high-speed broadband. "Put simply, Labour wants to push ahead as soon as possible with subsidies for areas that are unlikely to get superband through market forces, while the Tories want to wait until 2012 to see how well the market works and then provide subsidies if necessary to fill any obstinate gaps. Strangely enough, the Tories are opposing a policy which is likely to bring most benefit to the places they represent."Point Topic estimates that annual funding of between £130m and £170m should be enough to support the rollout of high-speed broadband to at least 90% of homes and businesses in the UK.Among the locations that would require the highest subsidies are not just the rural constituencies, but also suburban ones such Tunbridge Wells, Rugby and Macclesfield – held respectively by the Conservatives Greg Clark, the shadow energy and climate change secretary; the whip Jeremy Wright, and Nicholas Winterton.Constituencies that were Tory seats in 2005 would need a total of £71m, or 51% of the £138m total required to upgrade to high-speed broadband, according to Point Topic's analysis – but that is precisely the method that the Tories are opposing.The Tories assert in the technology manifesto that their market-led approach "has proved successful in other countries such as Singapore and South Korea" but add that "if the market does not deliver superfast broadband in certain areas, we will consider using the proportion of the licence fee dedicated to digital switchover to finance superfast broadband roll out under the new BBC licence fee settlement, starting in 2012."Point Topic says that government intervention and subsidy will be necessary almost everywhere. "In more than half of [constituencies], 345 out of 650, anything from 20% to 90% of homes and businesses are unlikely to get superband just through market forces," it says.According to the analysis, it is not just rural areas that make up the Tory heartlands that most need subsidy to get high-speed broadband. Point Topic reckons that more than 7m homes and businesses will need some level of subsidy to get access to "superband "anytime soon. More than 3m of these are in urban areas."The key difference between the parties is that Labour is already working on government intervention and subsidy to promote the rollout of superband in less favoured areas while the Tories favour a "wait and see" policy," says Tim Johnson, chief analyst at Point Topic."Superband is not a huge issue on its own but it is a case study in the difference between the two big parties' platforms for 2010," said Johnson. "It's between 'keep spending to maintain growth' and 'cut now to get market-driven growth going as soon as possible'."
&bull; It's been a tough couple of years forMySpace,hit by job losses,falling user numbersandchanges at the top. But can anything save the troubled social network - which is still, after all, the world's second largest? I spent several hours with new bosses Jason Hirschhorn and Mike Jones last week, grilling them about their plans to push the site back into the limelight. Want to know what they said?Read on.&bull; It's pretty clear that things are getting nasty betweenAppleandGoogle, not least because of Steve Jobs'sdecision to sue HTC. Abig New York Times piecereheats most of the conflict between the two, but there's some interesting detail in there. One unnamed Silicon Valley investor calls it "world war three", while the piece also reveals that Google deliberately stepped in andspent $750m to lure mobile advertising company AdMobaway from under Apple's nose. That stuff's a little buried in the article, butBusiness Insider drags it out into the limelight. Reporters love a good fight, so expect plenty of coverage to roll through on this one in coming months.&bull; And just in case you missed it over the weekend, the Observer ran a number on the 10th anniversary of the dotcom crash, featuring anoverview of the landscape a decade on, while I spoke to some veterans aboutthe state of the US internet industry.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google's attempt to break into the mobile phone market has hit serious problems in Britain with the launch of its flagship Nexus One device understood to have been delayed until the middle of next month.The setback means that by the time Google's first own-branded foray into the market this side of the Atlantic is available to consumers, its local network partner Vodafone will have launched a competing product, which analysts say is better, called the HTC Legend.While Google has been working with the industry on the Android mobile phone software for several years, the Nexus One, made by Taiwan's HTC, is the first handset over which the search engine group has had complete control. But launching a new phone has proved more difficult than Google expected.It was released in the US in January, but Google's decision to sell it solely through its website immediately came in for criticism as buyers struggled to get help with technical problems, and Google, which has traditionally relied on email for consumer contact, was forced to introduce telephone helplinessupport and the problems it has experienced in the US has given it reason to pause over the phone's launch outside the US, to make sure it has its customer service operations in place. Last week Goldman Sachs slashed its estimate for Nexus One sales this year from 3.5m units to 1m worldwide.In the UK, Google will not only sell the phone at full price to any customer who wants to put their existing sim card into it, but it has also teamed up with Vodafone, which will offer the device free to anyone willing to sign a £35 monthly contract.But the delay in the launch of the Nexus One, which under Google's original plan would have been available earlier this month, means that it will come after the launch of rival Android devices that analysts reckon are at least as good, if not better. Vodafone, for instance, will be offering the HTC Legend in April which has the same operating system as the Nexus One but is more stylish: being built from a single piece of milled aluminium. Orange and T-Mobile, meanwhile, will both be stocking the HTC Desire – which is exactly the same as the Nexus One, but has an optical trackpad instead of a trackball – from next month.The delay also means the Google device will be available in the UK only weeks before another hotly anticipated gadget, Apple's iPad. Several of the UK's mobile phone companies are finalising deals with Apple to sell the tablet computer to British consumers. Unlike its last mobile device, the iPhone, which was offered through just one exclusive partner for the first two years, the iPad is expected to be available through multiple network operators from the start.Apple will ship two versions of the iPad in the UK, one that can access the internet using short-range wi-fi networks and one that can also access 3G mobile phone networks. But Apple needs to sign deals with at least one UK mobile network, because the iPad makes use of micro-sims, meaning that buyers cannot just put the sim card from their existing handsets into it. In fact, it will be the first device launched in the UK that uses micro-sims.Apple said earlier this month that the device will go on sale in the UK towards the end of April but the mobile phone companies believe that the 3G version of the iPad will not be available until May. Orange, T-Mobile, O2 and Vodafone all expect to be selling the iPad to customers and they are all locked in talks with the Californian company. Apple, however, has made it plain that it does not want iPad users to be tied to long-term contracts with any mobile phone operator. Instead it wants users to be able to pay for mobile network access on a pay-as-you-go basis.Vodafone refused to comment. A spokesperson for Google added: "Our plans for launching the Nexus One in the UK are on track and in line with our statement in January that we would launch in spring 2010."• This article was amended on 15 March 2010 to add comments from Google.
Racing on four wheels tends to dominate motorsport's limelight, with this year's F1 shaping up to be no exception, yet so good isMotoGP 09/10it simply demands that you pay attention to this two-wheeled rival. It's blisteringly fast and inconceivably dangerous, yet MotoGP remains somewhat of a niche sport, despite the efforts of Valentino Rossi, and our own rising star, Bradley Smith. Indeed it is Smith who fronts this fully licensed title that offers a host of new features.With three racing classes to choose from, 125cc, 250cc and 800cc,MotoGP 09/10eases you in with a comfortable learning curve to adapt to the super-responsive controls, although even on the slowest bike the sense of acceleration and speed is immense. Points are earned through overtaking, slipstreaming and showboating while avoiding crashes and collisions. However the real challenge is in shaving hundredths of a second off your lap times by "tucking in" on straights, an excellent new feature which wraps your body around the bike to reduce drag.Once you've mastered the controls, hone your skills in either arcade time attack or the more immersive career modes, both of which offer plenty of customisation options. Then, utterly convinced of new king of the Tarmac status, venture online where it turns out this niche has a vigorous following. Be warned: they will lap you six times while bellowing insults at your bikey ineptitude. Brilliant.
