Launched on iTunes today,Whale Trailis a Tiny Wings-style flying game, in which you guide Willow the Whale as he whizzes through a magical rainbow to escape the evil Baron von Barry. Yes, flying whale. Yes, magical rainbow. Bear with us.Controlling Willow involves tapping the screen to make him soar upwards; he must follow the trail of bubbles to maintain his flight, while avoiding the angry storm clouds that sap his energy. There are stars to collect though that temporarily allow Willow to attack his whispy lightning-filled enemies.It sounds absurdly twee and, yes, it is. But it is also just lovely to look at and beautifully responsive – though you'd expect nothing less from the game's creator, the achingly cool digital design agencyUstwo. This London and Malmo-based company also produces user interfaces for a range of commercial clients, and its interactive reading app,Papercut, made it into the Guardian'sTop 50 iPad apps.Candy-coloured skies, psychedelic landscapes and a perfect soundtrack make Whale Trail such a heart-warming little treat. If you think you've seen enough of this smartphone micro-genre, you haven't. Not yet.Whale Trail is available for iPhone and iPad for 69p.
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone maker by volume, announced forecast-beating sales of 107m handsets in the third quarter on Thursday, drawing a temporary halt to one of the sharpest declines in market share seen at a technology company.As the Finnish group revealed operating losses had narrowed from €487m (£425m) in the second quarter to €71m, details began to leak of the first Nokia phones running with a Microsoft operating system, on which Nokia's chief executive, Stephen Elop, is pinning his hopes for a turnaround.Performance at the phones division, which went from an operating loss of 4.5% to a gain of 2.4%, was boosted by strong demand in China and India for its dual-sim phones, which can take two sim cards so as to separate business and personal calls, or get better coverage and cheaper roaming charges from state to state.Shares closed up 5.5% at €4.73, despite an overall fall in revenues of 3% to €9bn in the three months to 30 September, caused by losses at the Navteq satnav division and the Nokia Siemens Networks equipment joint venture."From a product standpoint, our overall mobile phones portfolio performed well," said Elop. "We shipped approximately 18m dual-sim devices in Q3, and in markets such as India ... we gained market share."Nokia's greater China revenues grew 35% quarter on quarter to €1.3bn, bringing them within touching distance of Europe, its largest region, which fell 16% to €1.4bn. The firm shipped nearly 17m smart phones and nearly 90m ordinary phones."Given this strong set of results and the expectation of its new Windows-based phones being launched at Nokia World next week, the outlook for stock is positive, at least in the short term," said  analyst Janardan Menon at broker Liberum.Squeezed at the top end by Apple and  in its mid-market stronghold by Google's Android operating system, Nokia has seen its worldwide market share fall from 35% at the beginning of 2010 to 25% this summer, and from 33% to 21% in Europe. Elop's decision at the beginning of 2011 to abandon Nokia's Symbian operating system in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone has left it unable to compete for most of this year as it races to complete the transition.He confirmed the first Windows phones would be on sale in select countries before Christmas, before a full rollout in 2012. Pictures have leaked of a handset, likely to be called the Nokia 800, showing the body is similar to the N9, which was well received but given a limited release outside of the US and Europe earlier this year. The touch screen in framed by a black, light blue or pink case with curved sides. The phones are due to be unveiled at Nokia's annual showcase in London next week, with suggestions they will be in the shops from 15 November.Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for the research company IDC, said the results "show how painful has been the transition from Symbian to Windows Phones".He added: "Consumers and mobile operators are looking forward to see the new Windows Phones. For most mobile operators in Europe it is completely pointless to support a 'ghost' operating system. They want Windows Phones and that is what Nokia needs to deliver next week at Nokia World in London. Failing to deliver the Windows Phones this year puts Nokia in a very dangerous position on the market."He pointed out that Nokia's smartphone market share was expected to decline this quarter to 15% from 17% a year ago, and its worldwide market share of handsets to be about 29%, down from 32% a year before.
Siri, the voice-driven assistant on Apple's new iPhone 4S, poses a security risk according to Sophos, which has pointed out that its default setting would allow it to be used to send emails and texts even while the screen is locked with a passcode.Graham Cluley, security consultant at Sophos,points outthat he was able to do both those things, and could have meddled with the colleague's calendar appointments, even while the phone ostensibly remained locked.Cluley points out that there is a setting that can prevent Siri being accessed unless the screen is unlocked with the passcode. However, the default setting on the phone leaves it on – and given Siri's ability to be used with any voice, and to provide personal details from the address book, it would be possible for someone who'd stolen a Siri-enabled phone to extract valuable details even while not being able to get beyond the lock screen.Siri on the iPhone 4S is enabled by default even with a lock screen. Screenshot: SophosApple has said that in its present form Siri, which requires network access to function, is a beta. It is not yet clear whether greater security – which might include an "unlock word" or specific voice recognition tied to the owner – or more robust defaults will be included in the future.Cluley says: "What's disappointing to me though is that Apple had a clear choice here. They could have chosen to implement Siri securely, but instead they decided to default to a mode which is more about impressing your buddies than securing your calendar and email system. It's not as though Siri impressed me enormously anyway during my brief play with it: 30% of the time it misinterpreted what I was trying to say."Google's newly announced version of Android, "Ice Cream Sandwich" (4.0), includes a new "facial recognition" lock and unlock feature using the phone's front camera which can be used to authenticate a user. However, there is no announcement so far of any Siri-like functionality beyond the Google Voice Search built into Android phones.Google's head of mobile Andy Rubin was mostly dismissive about the implications of Siri.Speaking at the AllThingsD conference in Hong Kong, he said: "Your phone is a tool for communicating. You shouldn't be communicating with the phone; you should be communicating with somebody on the other side of the phone." He suggested that he wasn't sure what penetration Siri would get. He added: "This isn't a new notion… In projecting the future, I think Apple did a good job of figuring out when the technology was ready to be consumer-grade."However, some third-party developers for Android clearly think Siri is a feature worth incorporating. A team fromDexetra.comhas written "Iris" – Siri, spelt backwards – which uses Google's speech-to-text system to provide Siri-like functionality for Android phones by querying Wikipedia or other reference sites for topics such as art, literature, history and biology.According to TechCrunch, Iris – coded in an eight-hour blast – is due to be released soon on the Android Marketplace, although analpha version is already available. Iris requires both Google Voice Search and its text-to-speech library to be installed, though almost all Android phones have these pre-installed. Early responses are encouraging, though some say it "takes a lot of time to reply", and early ratings vary widely, from five stars to one star, running roughly 3-2 at four stars and above v two stars or less.
The Cambridge chip design company ARM has unveiled a chip design that it say uses could mean cheaper smartphones with battery lives five times longer by 2013.It also thinks they will enable cheaper devices, with smartphones easily costing less than $100 (£60) by that time.Already Broadcom, Compal, Freescale, HiSilicon, LG Electronics, Linaro, OK Labs, QNX, Redbend, Samsung, Sprint, ST-Ericsson and Texas Instruments have publicly signed up to support the technologies. ARM could not say whether Apple, which has a licence to build chips using the ARM architecture and deploys them in its iOS devices such as the iPhone and iPad, had signed to use it.ARM, whose chip architecture dominates the smartphone and tablet sectors, says that its new Cortex-A7 design is its most energy efficient ever, and that it was designed with low battery demand rather than huge gains in processing power in mind."This core will enable apps processors at similar levels of performance to what you find in a high-end smartphone today, but in a couple of years that level of performance will be in a lower-end, and therefore a lower-cost smartphone," the ARM chief executive, Warren East, said. The Cortex-A7, he said, "will help connect the next billion people in developing markets."The move is part of a continuing race between ARM and the US semiconductor giant Intel to make more power-efficient chips to capture the enormous smartphone market and its burgeoning cousin in tablets. Intel has been trying for years to break into the smartphone and tablet space, but without success, because its x86 chips consume significantly more power than the ARM architecture.East said: "Intel has been making great progress forward – but we would say we're making better progress at ARM. We have always said that Intel will be getting their devices into smartphones at some point, but our roadmap doesn't stand still."Commenting on the announcement, Richard Windsor, financial analyst at Nomura Securities, agreed: "the main effect of this processor is going to be the acceleration of smartphones down through the tiers [of pricing] enabling the Asian vendors [such as Samsung and China's ZTE] to make cheaper and cheaper devices."But, Windsor warned, "this has the effect of bifurcating the [smartphone] market into high and low end with very little in the middle. Stuart Jeffrey, Nomura's smartphones analyst,reckonsthat HTC, Nokia, Motorola and Sony Ericsson will be squeezed into the middle.The Cortex-A7's power efficiency derives from a combination of its 28-nanometer design and a shorter instruction pipeline, said Tom Cronk, ARM's vice-president of microprocessors. He said that users of top-end smartphones will also benefit, because the Cortex-A7 is compatible with ARM's newest high-power Cortex-A15 processor: they can both be deployed onto a single chip, and then – using a new ARM concept called Big.LITTLE – the larger processor can be left quiescent until it is required for more computationally intensive work such as navigation or video-based work, while the smaller one can handle simpler tasks like simple internet traffic. Switching is handled by technology on the chip and is largely independent of the operating system.Used together, the processors will offer power savings of up to 70% on today's top-end smartphones, ARM said.In MayIntel unveiled a new "tri-gate" manufacturing technology, called Ivy Bridge which it reckoned could deliver the power savings it needs to gain ground in smartphones. East conceded that "Intel made a step forward when they talked about tri-gate technology," but added that "Actually those finfets (tri-gate technology) will be available for people to build ARM processors on as well because all the semi-conductor process people are moving in that direction."But at the same time we are moving on a different axis of increased efficiency, and we decided it was time to talk about more than incremental improvements and talk about multiple."ARM's architecture is licensed by its chipmaking partners; it receives a royalty for each chip shipped, in devices ranging from Apple's iPhone to electronic toys and air conditioners.
Taking up almost a whole floor of the vast Encino Terrace Center, on a particularly soulless strip of the snaking Ventura Boulevard, Infinity Ward's office is… let's say lived in. A warren-like run of enclosed offices and small lounges cluster along a central corridor, with little natural light making its way in through the blinds. Apart from the life-size model of a spec ops soldier in the café, and the immense awards display cabinet in the reception, it's not obvious that this is where the biggest entertainment property in the world is developed.And that's 'entertainment property' rather than 'game'. The last title in the series, Call of Duty: Black Ops, shifted over 25m copies, making an estimated $2bn for its publisher Activision. This figure dwarfs the box office takings of any movie or album release of last year – and through regular downloadable map packs, the millions are still rolling in. In a month's time, Modern Warfare 3 is likely to have broken a whole new bunch of records – pre-orders for the game are reportedly already comparable to those achieved by its predecessor.This year, however, the game has an intimidating rival in the form of Battlefield 3, and EA is putting many millions into its marketing onslaught. Furthermore, there is a troubled history to recover from. Last March, Infinity Ward's co-founders Jason West and Vince Zampella left in a maelstrom of controversy and pending legal action, taking almost half the studio with them. The exodus meant that the remaining team members couldn't complete the project in time. So a plan was put forward. A new studio, Sledgehammer Games, originally tasked with producing a spin-off Call of Duty action adventure, would be brought in to help out. A dual-development – a weird, difficult and instantaneous relationship – was conjured. Suddenly, this was going to be a key year for the Call of Duty brand.Infinity Ward 2.0Walking in to the Infinity Ward HQ, there's no sense of any leftover drama. It's very quiet, everyone is getting on with last minute tweaks and corrections. Modern Warfare 3 executive producer Mark Rubin shows us in, and chats about bug-fixing and late nights at work. He's relaxed and affable as he explains the office layout. The team, it turns out, is divided into themed groups: one room will be single-player designers and gameplay engineers, another is multiplayer designers and engine coders, and another has animators, effects experts and related programmers."It's not, like, strike teams of designers, coders and artists – a lot of studios do that," says Rubin, referring perhaps to the agile development model that became trendy several years ago. "From what I understand talking to other developers, no one seems to work quite the way we do. But this system works for us. We have one producer, one production coordinator and that's it; we're not production driven, it's a very flat structure – everybody just knows what to do, and it gets done."It's certainly a stark contrast to the set-up at Modern Warfare 3's other developer, who I visit the very next day. While Infinity Ward grew organically into its surroundings changing floors and room configurations as the headcount grew, Sledgehammer has inhabited its pristine open-floor space since founders Michael Condrey and Glen Schofield first started to hire staff in 2009.For them, home is a high-tech chunk of office real estate in Foster City, regularly rated one of the best places to live in the US, and nestling on the periphery of Silicon Valley. Through the boardroom window there are rolling woodlands and a glittering lake, beside which the headquarters of Sony Computer Entertainment America is clearly visible. Nvidia, Facebook and Zynga are just down the road; Electronic Arts can also be seen from this office. "There's a great sandwich shop nearby that everyone goes to," says Condrey. "Sony goes, EA goes, our guys go… it's like (adopts a stern tone) 'Get your sandwich. Don't say a word to anyone while you're there!'"The reception at Sledgehammer's lush office in Foster City, outside San Francisco.This is a vast open office, with teams separated into spiralling pods of desks and low divides. According to Condrey, these are 'cross-functional' groups: "We get a designer, an engineer and a couple of artists – they come in as a team and we encourage them toowntheir level or area of the game." But there also seem to be a lot of impromptu meetings. Schofield and Condrey actually chose the interiors themselves with a clear idea of the working atmosphere they wanted to create. As Schofield explains, "What happens with an open environment is, you'll get three or four guys in one area who'll stand up and see something cool that someone else is working on, and instead of having to go from cubicle to cubicle telling everyone, sharing just happens naturally."Inside InfinityBack at Infinity Ward, Rubin takes us further into the complex. There's a games room complete with MAME cabinets and several foosball tables ("foosball is huge here," he confesses, pointing to a whiteboard that shows a recent in-house tournament named, 'Foosball Championship of the Universe Extreme 2011'). There's also a gym, which brilliantly provides the only access to the smoking balcony – "it's the walk of shame," says Rubin. Around the corner there's an office that's been converted into a mini-apartment for one of the artists. Apparently, he just wasn't leaving work that often – so now he sort of lives here.The Infinity Ward cafe, complete with lifesize soldier dummy and Pac-Man wall decorations, here customised for Halloween.Then we're into the cafeteria, which haphazardly doubles as the main meeting room. The walls are decorated with Pac-Man ghosts, the cupboards stuffed with boxes of chocolate bars. There is a sizeable drinks cabinet, which, among the gallons of hard liquor, boasts a huge bottle of Baileys – surely a concession to the studio's large contingent of British staff.Hours here, like everywhere else in the games industry, are erratic and long. The basic shift is 10am to 7pm, though it's a while since anyone was doing that. Rubin says he usually arrives at 8.30am and, for the last month, has been regularly leaving at 4am. Certainly, there are staff around throughout the night – hence, the three massive refrigerator units filled with energy drinks. (On the plus side, the studio is visited weekly by a masseur, who sets up a table, lights some scented candles and provides a few moments respite from the crunch madness.)One of the many Infinity Ward energy drink top-up points.So one thing that's immediately obvious here: Infinity Ward and Sledgehammer have very different cultures. How did they work together? It turns out, they got into it almost straight away. "We started out sitting around a table down at Infinity ward, with probably five or six members from each team," recalls Schofield. "They had some 3x5 cards filled with ideas and we did as well – we came at it as fans, really."It sounds tense, like two alley cats sizing each other up. "We were just feeling our way around each other," explains Schofield. "But we'd come to the same conclusions: that although the Modern Warfare story had started in the US, it now had to go global. We also agreed that we needed a really tight story – they understood MW2 was sketchy in places."From there, we started thinking, okay, if I'm commanding the Russian army, how would I invade these countries? And we didn't just say, 'well, let's go here, here and here'. We thought that London was the financial capital, Paris is a really iconic centre to attack, we looked at maps and plotted invasion routes… And we worked hard to ensure you always understand your objectives. We've also paired down the number of characters you play. It feels like a seamless story now.Crucially, there's also an ending – of sorts. While Modern Warfare 2 closed on somewhat of an anti-climax, MW3 looks to be finishing off Russia's invasion of the Western world, overseen by elusive ultra-nationalist leader, Vladimir Makarov. "We needed to wrap up everything from the first two games," says Schofield. "It's not like we're ending a trilogy, but we're not leaving you with a cliffhanger – we're going to pay off on your investments in the characters and stories."And on the subject of cliffhangers, come back tomorrow for part two of the feature...21 October 2011 update:Here is part two
I have a good idea for a website, which I hope to commercialise eventually, but I am at a total loss on the practical side of getting it off the ground. Things like domain servers and hosts are totally lost on me. I would like to learn all this stuff for myself and therefore I am reluctant to employ someone to do this for me. Any search I conduct on the net throws up many contractors and businesses offering to do this, but there appears to be no clear, trustworthy, comprehensive site that offers this information. Would you be able to recommend a good book, website or organisation that could start me on this path?Jonathon TownsendIn the days when websites could easily be developed in plain HTML in a text editor, this was a simple question, with simple answers. However, today's websites are so varied, and some of them are so complicated, that you need to start with a clear idea of exactly what you want. If you just want to put the equivalent of a flyer online, that's still reasonably simple, though the copy writing, photography and graphic design could still benefit from professional skills.If you want a commercial website with an ordering system, a shopping cart, connections to social networking sites and so on, that requires much more time and expertise… and I've never done anything like it. If I needed something like that, I'd want a real expert to at least walk me through it. Really complex sites are built by teams of specialists.Still, the "domain servers and hosts" part is not particularly complicated. There are three elements to the process of getting a website online. First you need to buy a domain name, such as mynewwebsite.com, which will be your website's address. Second, you need a company to host the domain name, so that web browsers can find it. (The domain name seller will usually host it as well.) Third, you need a host to store your web content on a web server and serve it when browsers ask for it. Your chosen web host will provide two addresses for your site. All you have to do is paste these into the "name server record" boxes in the admin section of your domain name account. After that, anyone trying to reach mynewwebsite.com will be directed to the host computer where your content is stored.In fact, you can set up a website without knowing anything about it. Most of the large web hosting sites offer cheap starter packages where you can buy your domain name and set up a website in a few minutes using a template. The setup uses forms so you can simply type in your customer details (name and address etc) and the name of the website, then design a page by dragging and dropping boxes for different elements. Some have semi-customised options for different personal uses, such as weddings, hobbies, pets and various arts, or for different professions. The resulting sites will be relatively simple and will have a generic look and feel, but thousands of people use them. An example chosen at random is http://justinejordan.co.uk/If you need a more powerful system, you can construct a site usingWordpress, which requires some work. WordPress is best known as a blogging platform, but it's free, it can be used for almost any purpose, and a great many hosts support it.WordPress has more than 25 million users, so it is very widely supported with ready-made widgets, plug-ins, tutorials and so on. There is a vast range of free and paid-for themes so you can choose one that suits your needs: WordPress.org's"most popular"section lists 1,430 free ones. If you gave us a better idea of what you have in mind, readers could no doubt suggest some good ones.Themes can be customised if you have some programming skills; if not, there are plenty of people offering customisation and set-up services. Alternatively, you can start by downloading WordPress (along with the PHP scripting language and MySQL database) to your own PC, develop your site offline, and worry about hosting it later.The WordPress.Org site provides good instructions on downloading and installing the code. YouTube also offers lots of step-by-step tutorials to explain the various aspects of setting up WordPress, adding widgets and so on. However, if you want to be methodical, theW3Schools.comsite has tutorials covering just about everything you might need to know. If you started by working through the tutorials for HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP and Web Hosting then you should be in pretty good shape to tackle it.There are dozens of books covering all these areas, butWordPress All-in-One for Dummieslooks good value. I haven't read it, but it's a compilation in a generally reliable series, and it was published this year. WordPress books tend to go out of date rather quickly.I suggest you browseSmashing Magazine. It has lots of readable features on technical aspects of WordPress and associated tools, while also considering aspects such as typography, graphic design, user interfaces and branding that otherwise tend to get neglected. Many of the best articles have been compiled into twoSmashing Books. I likeWebdesigner Depot, and both that and Smashingmag are good examples of WordPress sites.Other sites that use WordPress include Spotify, The New York Observer, TechCrunch, Boing Boing, La Web Shop, The Bedford Hotel, Perez Hilton, Markwebber.com, and KatyPerry.com.If you use Windows and have a background in Microsoft programming, you could also look at developing a site using its free tools to create what it calls Active Server Pages. ASP.net has aGet Startedsection. Go to theMVCpage where clicking the green button will install everything you need, including Visual Studio Express, IIS Express, SQL Compact and MVC 3/Razor. The page also has links to a "curated curriculum" of tutorials, plus Pluralsight training videos. Visual Studio tries to semi-automate programming, which real hackers may hate. Also, Microsoft's system is not as well supported by web hosts, or by the web/geek community that supports WordPress/PHP/MySQL/etc. However, W3Schools.com has plenty of tutorials, and it's widely used in business.There are good reasons for learning how to develop websites in Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft ASP.net and similar systems if you want to earn a living as a web developer. However, if you just want to get decent site online without getting too heavily involved in web development, then a WordPress theme looks like the obvious way to go. Indeed, it's the route I'm taking myself with http://jackschofield.com/ and the help of a good designer who knows WordPress.
A selection of 18 apps for you today:Whale TrailUK studio ustwo has been working on Whale Trail for a long time, and it shows. It's a beautifully-crafted casual game with one-tap controls to steer a whale through a psychedelic skyscape. What's more, Super Furry Animals mainman Gruff Rhys has contributed the theme song, which fits perfectly. This chilled whale has a chance of knocking Angry Birds off its perch.iPhone / iPadTime PopulistTime magazine has gathered a heap of pop culture lists and wrapped them up in a slick iPad app. There are hundreds of lists to browse in categories including music, films, books, TV shows and games. "With new lists added every week, PopuList is a perfect recommendation and discovery tool," claims the company.iPadSpotify for BlackBerryStreaming music service Spotify has finally launched a BlackBerry app, although it's being described as a "preview" that has so far only been tested on five handsets: the 9780 Bold, 9700 Bold, 9300 Curve, 9000 Bold and 8520 Curve. It includes offline playlists, search and Last.fm scrobbling.BlackBerryDK My First Word Play AppDorling Kindersley's latest iOS app is aimed at kids and based on the My First books. It gets pre-school children engaging with words through simple and colourful games, as well as a virtual fridge door with magnets to move around.iPhone / iPadAudioFuel Running Music + GPS Run TrackerAudioFuel makes compilation CDs with music specifically composed for exercising to. Now it has an app on iPhone, offering 14 of those compilations as well as features to track your runs and share them with Facebook and Twitter friends. Two compilations come free, while others are accessed through a paid in-app subscription.iPhoneThe Early Edition 2iPad news aggregation app The Early Edition has spawned a sequel, with more features including a column-based page layout pulling in stories from RSS feeds. The app has been rebuilt from the ground up for iOS 5, hence the developer's decision to launch it as a new paid app rather than a free update for existing users.iPadFruit Ninja: Puss in BootsFruit-slashing casual game Fruit Ninja has a new version based on upcoming animated film Puss in Boots. You're still swiping the screen to slice fruit (and tomatoes), with elements from the movie finding their way into the action too. Magic beans, anyone?iPhoneLiverpool FC Fantasy Manager 2012Liverpool are resurgent under new (old) manager Kenny Dalglish, and now they have their very own fantasy football game for iPhone. The official app has been developed by From The Bench, which has made similar games for Chelsea, Barcelona and AC Milan.iPhoneFacebook Messenger for BlackBerryIt's a good week for RIM in terms of high-profile new BlackBerry apps, although the launch of Facebook Messenger may be bittersweet. As with the versions on other smartphones, it gives people a slick (and free) way to message their Facebook contacts. That means, of course, that it's potentially disruptive for RIM's own BBM service.BlackBerryecoigoecoigo claims to be London's "premier environmentally conscious car service": cabs that promise to cut carbon dioxide emissions and donate to forest preservation and developing world campaigns. Now there's an app for that, to book the cabs from an iPhone or iPad.iPhone / iPadPaper Glider Crazy Copter 3DMore than one million people downloaded Paper Glider Crazy Copter 3D on iOS in the first week after its release. Now developer Neon Play has taken it to Android, letting Google-powered smartphone owners join the flying fun.AndroidDebenhams for iPadUK retailer Debenhams has launched an iPad app to join its existing iPhone, Android and Nokia versions, which have so far generated 700,000 downloads and £3m of sales. The iPad edition lets people browse and buy from Debenhams' collection, with a gift-finder feature to help with tricky Christmas presents.iPadThe Phantom ClickeristThe Phantom Clickerist is a characterful iPad app for children, with colourful characters spread over 26 virtual pages. What's more, the developer is promising to adopt a polar bear with the WWF for every 5,000 sales.iPadBike BaronBiking game Bike Baron is the work of developer Mountain Sheep, which made the excellent Minigore and Death Rally games on iOS. This new one sees 40 tracks to race along, complete with an editor to create your own.iPhone / iPadBest Burgers LondonHungry and stumped for lunch options in London? The Best Burgers app is your friend, promising a guide to gourmet burger joints across the capital. Users are invited to rate the burgers they eat to refine its reviews, too.iPhoneMilitary BooksMilitary Books is a combined e-reader and bookstore app for illustrated military books, complete with artwork and maps. Based around a virtual bookshelf iBooks-style, it has a selection of historical books available to buy, as well as a networking feature to chat to other military buffs.iPhone / iPadDriveSafe.ly ProDriveSafe.ly Pro wants to prevent BlackBerry-fuelled car accidents by speaking text messages and emails aloud, while letting people respond by speaking rather than typing. It's one of the apps that's been made free by RIM as part of its apology to BlackBerry users for the recent service outage.BlackBerryLove@Tube 2.0Here's a nice idea: a dating app specifically for people who get London's tube system to work. "love@tube can turn your boring tube journey into a date and London's Popular transport system into a buzzing dating hub," promises its App Store listing. "You can search for co-passenger profiles who share your daily tube journeys and can post missed connection messages." The app is free, but charges for credits that are spent on messaging and contacts.iPhone
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid chief says your phone should not be your assistant &gt;&gt; AllThingsDRubin unleashed (on Siri): "I don't believe that your phone should be an assistant. Your phone is a tool for communicating. You shouldn't be communicating with the phone; you should be communicating with somebody on the other side of the phone."Remembering Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; AppleA live page of tributes to the Apple co-founder.Groupon seeks offering near $12 billion valuation &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Groupon, the daily deal site, is considering an offering valued at close to $12 billion as it prepares for an investor road show next week, according to two people with knowledge of the situation." But if enough people come in then you can get it cheaper?MediaFuturist: The future of media: re-boot and enjoy."Soon, most of the world's Internet traffic will be generated by a huge variety of mobile devices instead of computers, and 'the other 3 billion' users aka consumers in the BRIC countries are coming online at a very fast pace. Remember: 10% more broadband and / or wireless equates to 1% growth in GDP - but also a 1000% percent increase in disruption:) "Give it another 3-5 years and it's very likely that almost 5 billion people will be connected with fast and very cheap (if not free) mobile devices - and they will not 'consume' media and so-called content in the same way that we did when renting a movie still meant getting a piece of plastic that embodied it, or becoming a faithful and constant visitor to the quite beautiful but nevertheless super-walled iTunes garden." People will want access rather than files, he argues.Currys slashes PlayBook prices to £250 &gt;&gt; PC Pro"Another tablet's price has been slashed, with Research in Motion's BlackBerry PlayBook now £150 cheaper at one major retailer. Currys and PC World have announced £150 off all models of the PlayBook, with the low end 16GB version dropping from £399.99 to £249.99. "'It looks like they need to get units moving, and it will be interesting to see if this is only PC World and Currys or comes from RIM,' said Geoff Blaber, director of devices and software platforms at analyst firm CSS insight." It comes from RIM. It also comes straight off RIM's bottom line. Its financials are going to be woeful next quarter. (Our local Currys had one on display. Then it didn't. And none replaced it.)Where Did Cached Pages Go On Google?"Since Google launched the new instant previews just about a month ago, the question we have seen come up from searchers time and time again is 'where did the cached page go?' "Yes, Google has moved the 'cached' and 'similar' links from near the display URL in the search results and to the instant preview section." Phew.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A fresh takeover bid for Yahoo in which Microsoft would play a lead role appears to be emerging following the company's latest set of disappointing financial results which saw both revenues and profits fall.But it is only one of a growing number of buyout options coalescing around the company, including one being proposed by China's Alibaba, another by AOL's chief executive Tim Armstrong, and the possibility of a private equity buying believed to be under consideration by Jerry Yang, the co-founder and former chief executive who still sits on Yahoo's board.The latest rumours, reported by the Wall Street Journal, suggest that Steve Ballmer's company would play the lead role in supplying cash for the buyout of the company, which is worth around $20bn (£12.8bn).The company was seen as being back in play after itfired Carol Bartz as its chief executive in September. Earlier this week itannounced profits down by 26% and revenues down 5%for the quarter to the end of September.Microsoft is believed to be working with Silver Lake Partners and the Canada Pension Plan Investment board on a proposal."Under the proposal being discussed, Microsoft would put up several billion dollars of funding, with additional financing being arranged by banks," the Wall Street Journal said, quoting unnamed sources.Silver Lake and the Canadian fund would provide the rest, though this would be less than Microsoft's contribution, the report said.For Microsoft, acquiring a controlling interest in Yahoo – which it tried and failed to do in 2008 – could mean that it could push its Bing search engine towards profitability. At present Microsoft's Online Services Division, which houses Bing, spends about $2 for every $1 of revenue it brings in. In Yahoo's latest quarter,figures published by the company(PDF) show that Microsoft paid it $53m in "cost reimbursements"; Microsoft also only gets 12% of the net revenue generated on Yahoo properties, after "traffic acquisition costs" (TAC) – the price Yahoo pays to bring searches in – are paid.That makes it almost impossible for Microsoft to profit even if search revenue goes up – and Yahoo's numbers show that search revenue after TAC for the third quarter fell by 13% to $374m. On the basis of fixed costs and falling revenue, Bing cannot make money from Yahoo except if Microsoft owns it, because that will cut out the shared revenue agreement and reduce its TAC.At present though Microsoft in effect loses money on every Yahoo search.Bill Cox, a Microsoft spokesman visiting Hong Kong, declined to comment on the report.Reuters has previously reported Microsoft and Silver Lake Partners, a buyout firm, were among a host of interested bidders.Jack Ma, the founder and chief executive of Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba, also reiterated his interest in buying Yahoo on Thursday."If the board is willing to sell, I'm interested. They've just got to let us know," Ma said at the AllThingsD event in Hong Kong.However, Yang suggested at the AllThingsD conference in Hong Kong that the company had not ruled out any possibilities."There are plenty of options for it to work and there are plenty of options for shareholders to realise that," Yang told the AllThingsD event when asked about the possibility of selling Yahoo.Yang and Tim Morse, who was appointed interim chief executive after Carol Bartz was fired in September, have been driving the strategic review process, sources said.Reuters has reported that Yang is interested in a deal with private equity firms to take Yahoo private in part because he sees that as the best option for preserving his connection to the company.But some potential bidders are being put off by Yahoo's demands for confidentiality in the bids, which would prevent them from discussing joint assaults on the company, according to sources.Yahoo's advisers Goldman Sachs and Allen &amp; Co told interested parties this week they must submit to a "no cross-talk" provision, part of a non-disclosure agreement that must be signed to gain access to Yahoo's sensitive financial data, the sources said.The provision has irked several potential buyers, including private equity firms that had planned to jointly bid for Yahoo.They have refused to sign the non-disclosure agreement, and one source went so far as to call the provision a deal-breaker.The "no cross-talk" rule is aimed partly at keeping that competitive tension in the bidding process."The board is taking action that is not conducive to the process," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Implementing a "no cross-talk" policy gives Yahoo more control over its strategic review. The company is not opposed to a joint bid, but it wants to encourage competition and avoid all the bidders forming one giant consortium, according to another person familiar with the situation."If they can control it, they can pair people up in a way so that you have a couple of consortiums," said the source."Whereas if they let everyone talk to everyone, it could very well be – given the size of the cheque – that you end up having only one buyer to bid on and then you have no tension in the auction."A Yahoo spokesman declined to comment.Over the past few weeks, private equity firms including Bain Capital, Silver Lake, Providence Equity Partners and Hellman &amp; Friedman LLC have stepped up efforts to partner among themselves or with potential strategic buyers, such as Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba or Microsoft.AOL chief executive Tim Armstrong is also actively trying to sell investors on a deal with Yahoo, though that is viewed to be a very long shot.Private equity firm Blackstone Group has also expressed interest in the Internet giant, said one of the sources. A Blackstone spokesman was unavailable for comment.The Wall Street Journal also reported that some private equity firms were valuing Yahoo between $16 and $18 a share. By comparison, Microsoft offered as much as $33 a share, or $47.5bn, for Yahoo three years ago.Yahoo shares rose 3.04% to close at $15.94 on the Nasdaq on Wednesday.Given the poor lending environment and lukewarm interest from strategic buyers, a club deal involving at least two or more private equity firms is seen as necessary to getting a deal done, sources said.But it would be hard for interested parties to put together an offer without access to detailed information on such things as the contractual agreements between Yahoo and its investment partners Alibaba and Softbank, or precise details of the search pact with Microsoft."The good news is there is a decent amount of information out there on Yahoo, but it is not at the level to do real due diligence," said the second source."You need to get under the covers there to peel back and see if the metrics are working in different business lines."Financial information on Yahoo is expected to be circulated to interested parties this week.
Thursday! Is everyone still playing Dark Souls?
Online discount firm Groupon is planning a scaled-back stock market flotation that will value the firm at less than half the sky-high price it was hoping to fetch less than six months ago.The firm is planning an initial public offering of less than 10% of the company at a value of $12.5bn (£8bn), according to reports. In May when the company announced plans to go public, analysts were predicting values of between $20bn and $30bn.But a series of missteps by the company and stock market jitters caused by the eurozone crisis have cut into the company's plans.The three-year-old firm founded by the former music student Andrew Mason sells discounts to local businesses. By some measures it is the fast growing firm of all time and now has over 50 million subscribers in 43 countries.Last year Google offered $6bn to buy the firm but was rejected as the company seemed headed for one of the biggest IPOs in recent history. But in August regulators forced Groupon to pull an unusual accounting metric called "adjusted consolidated segment operating income" from its offering materials.And in September questions from the US's top financial watchdog the Securities and Exchange Commission led to the firm cutting its reported revenue in half. The company cancelled plans for an IPO roadshow to court investors and its chief operating officer left the firm.The company is now expected to begin marketing a scaled back share sale next week. The move comes as a number of social media firms preparing IPOs have also reviewed their plans. Zynga, the online game developer behind CityVille, FarmVille and Words With Friends, announced plans in July for a $1bn IPO and has yet to set a date for completion. Amid the stock market turmoil, Facebook has put back plans for an IPO next year that could value it at more than $66bn.Selling a small slice of shares has proved successful for other recent tech firm IPOs, at least in the short term. Shares in LinkedIn, the business-focused social network, more than doubled on their first day of trading when the firm went public in May. The company sold an 8% stake in the IPO. Its shares are now trading below that first day "pop".
Ah, Grand Theft Auto III – was it really 10 years ago that you drove  your muscle car full of pimps and gangsters through the games industry's shop window? Yes, somehow it was.This autumn, Rockstar is releasing an iOS and Android anniversary edition of this seminal open-world shooter, and here's the trailer to tease us.Guns, cars, music, ultra-violence... Doyouremember your first time?
Age:Launched this month.Appearance:Hand-held HAL.HAL?As in the talking computer from 2001: A Space Odyssey. Think of Siri as HAL's much more helpful little sister.All right, but what is she?She's a feature on Apple's new iPhone 4S, a&nbsp;sort of all-purpose voice-activated personal assistant. She makes appointments, sends texts, checks the weather, finds local businesses and answers just about any question you'd care to ask.We ask Siri about today's Pass notes. Photograph: GuardianLike the internet?Well, yes, but only if the internet could talk back, would occasionally mishear you and was only available on an expensive new phone.And was a woman. Bit sexist, no?She's only a woman in the US, Australia and Germany. In Britain and France, she's a man.So why are we calling her "she"?Because that's what the techies and trendies raving about her online are calling her.Raving about her? Is she really that useful?Not useful, no. Most of her functions are easier to do manually, and she can currently access maps and business directories in the US only. It's just fun to ask her stupid questions.Really?Yep. So much fun, in fact, that several websites have sprung up to chronicle her responses. Ask her, for example, for her favourite colour, and she replies "My favourite colour is... well, I don't know how to say it in your language. It's sort of greenish, but with more dimensions."I'm in love.You're not the only one. Several users have already proposed to Siri, to which she responds "My end user licensing agreement does not cover marriage. My apologies."She's even funnier than us.High praise indeed.So where can I buy one of these new iPhones?"Sorry, I can only look for businesses, maps and traffic in the United States."I guess I'll look that one up myself, then.That would definitely be easier, yes.Do say:"What's the meaning of life, Siri?"Don't say:"This is the best thing since Furbies."
Google is understood to be a month away from unveiling its first music service, which will combine an MP3 download store with a cloud storage system set up to allow people to store songs remotely and play them back on multiple devices, according to sources in the music industry.The search giant has signed up fourth music major EMI and is in serious negotiations with market leader Universal – who together account for a third of all music worldwide. Sony Music and Warner Music, the remaining two majors, are also in talks with Google, although as yet neither are understood to be close to signing up.Andy Rubin, the head of development for Google subsidiary Android, told a conference in Hong Kong that "I think we're close" to launching Google Music, and added that the service would have "a little twist – it will have a little Google in it. We won't just be selling 99-cent tracks."He offered no timing for the launch, but sources in the industry indicated they believed Google Music would emerge in November. Universal acts range from Lady Gaga to U2, with the smaller EMI holding the rights to The Beatles and Pink Floyd.The cloud storage service roughly mirrors Apple's iTunes Match, in that it will scan a computer hard drive for all the music stored on it – whether paid for or pirated – and will make those songs available to be listened to legally from the remote services. Music executives are enthusiastic about the idea because it gives consumers an amnesty for all previous illegal copies or downloads.However, some of the music majors are keen that Google charges for its matching service, amid concerns that they do not want to see the search engine dramatically undercut its competitor. Apple charges consumers $25 a year cash – the service is only available in beta in the US – which in turn largely goes to the record companies as royalty payments, as a partial indemnity for years of piracy.Google is aiming to sign up worldwide agreements with the music majors, although music executives believe that the company is most likely to offer Google Music in the US before expanding the offering to other countries, including the UK.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Music Store -- "With a Twist" -- Coming Soon, Says Android Boss &gt;&gt; AllThingsDRubin: "[It] will have a little twist - it will have a little Google in it. It won't just be selling 99 cent tracks."Exclusive: Matias Duarte on the philosophy of Android, and an in-depth look at Ice Cream Sandwich &gt;&gt; This is my nextMatias Duarte, Android's head of user experience: "We're designing something bigger. We're designing a showcase product for people that says 'okay, this is what you could build,' but then we're also designing the Lego system that people build those products out of, and we have to do both of those at the same time. And we can't really cheat and cut any corners and do anything with our product that couldn't build out of this system."Apple's just-okay quarter in charts &gt;&gt; Dan FrommerUseful chart.Bit.ly announces beta launch of search platform, reputation monitoring &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Last week URL shortening service bit.ly announced the launch of their social search platform and reputation monitoring service. Used by all of us online over-sharers to shorten 80 million URL's a day, bit.ly now has the ability to tie-in a more in-depth set of their own search results by keyword/phrase and sentiment/tone with their already existing data set attached to short URL activity."iPhone4 Mobile Journalist Workflow &gt;&gt; VimeoThis is how Windows get infected with malware &gt;&gt; CSIS"When a Microsoft Windows machine gets infected by viruses/malware it does so mainly because users forget to update the Java JRE, Adobe Reader/Acrobat and Adobe Flash."Global fallout of Thai floods &gt;&gt; The NationHow the Thai floods affected electronics (and other markets) supply chains worldwide. Hat tip: @yelvington.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Shown off earlier this year at the Develop conference in Brighton,Kairois a 3D adventure puzzler by indie developer, Richard Perrin. According to the game's website, players must explore a series of mysterious monuments, bringing, 'strange and ancient machinery back to life'.It looks a little like Myst crossed with Echochrome and maybe even a little bit of Sentinel – at least in the stark graphical style.Kairo has been entered into next yearsIndependent Games Festivalawards, and is due out on PC and Mac later this year. If your interest has been piqued, you can eitherpreorderthe game for $8 or pay $60 to become an investing patron.Development of the game can be followed via@PerrinAshcroft.
Registration is now openfor the secondTech Weekly Tech City Talk, taking place on Monday 24 October at 6:30pm at Imperial College in London. The topic is entrepreneurship and innovation clusters: why is Tech City in East London instead of Cambridge, Bristol, Brighton, Edinburgh or Manchester? What will tempt the geeks to the Olympic site, and once they're there, what will keep them sweet?Joining the debate are:Eric Pickles, the MP for Brentwood and Ongar, and the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government. On 17 August,he announced three new Enterprise Zonesto boost growth. On Monday, we'll find out what his plans are for the technology cluster.Peter Barron, Google's Director of External Relations for Europe, Middle East and Africa since January 2011. He joined Google in 2008 and was previously Director of Communications and Public Affairs for North and Central Europe. Before joining Google, he was Editor of BBC TV's Newsnight programme from 2004-2008, and worked in TV News and Current Affairs at the BBC, ITV and Channel 4 for nearly 20 years.Alexandra Deschamps-Sonsino, a product designer &amp; entrepreneur, and founder ofDesignswarm. Alex has worked on digital &amp; innovation strategy for clients like Blast Radius and startups like Blyk, Jaiku &amp; ThingLink.She co-founded Tinker, a smart product design studio, which she ran from 2007 to 2010. Focused on creating product experiences that linked the digital to the physical, some of Tinker's clients included National Geographic, BT, BBC, The Evening Standard, Whirlpool &amp; Wired.She is now a consultant on "internet of things" issues in product &amp; digital design, an evangelist for Lirec (an EU-funded project about robots) and partner in design partnership RIG London.Tara Solesbury, a digital media consultant and strategist from Brighton, and former Director of Projects atWired Sussex, one of the most successful regional development services for technology in the UK.Join Tech Weekly for the live recording of this debate on Monday 24 October at Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, Exhibition Road, London SW7 2AZ (Find it!)Do you have a question to ask?Ask here, or send it to techweekly@guardian.co.uk.OnTwitter? Contribute to the discussion and follow the debate with the hashtag#TWTC2.
A highly sophisticated computer worm which has many of the same characteristics of the virus used to attack Iran's nuclear programme has been discovered targeting companies in Europe.Although the virus appears to have been spying on the systems it infiltrates - rather than attempting to vandalise them - experts say its code is so similar to the Stuxnet worm that attacked Iran, that it may have been engineered by the same people.The US and Israel were widely thought to be behind Stuxnet,which sent many of the centrifigues at Tehran's nuclear facilities spinning out of control. It took this kind of cyberwarfare to a new level.The new virus was discovered bySymantec, a leading cybersecurity firm, and has been called Duqu.Symantec would not disclose which firms had been targeted, but the company said one of its customers raised the alarm on Friday. An internal system at the firm "raised a number of red flags" and an investigation was launched."The majority of the code is consistent with the Stuxnet code," said a spokesman for Symantec. "So this new worm either came from the authors of Stuxnet, or someone was given access to the Stuxnet source codes."Symantec said that the information Duqu gathers is sent to a server in India, but that this doesn't give any likely indication of who launched it, or who is accessing the material it finds.It believes Duqu has been targeting a specific number of organisations in Europe and was designed to automatically remove itself from systems after 36 days.Symantec suspects that Duqu may have been the first in a wave of new Stuxnet-style viruses, and that further sophisticated versions of it with a more aggressive purpose may emerge in the coming months.Its experts suspect Duqu was looking for information such as design documents, which could help it mount a future attack on an industrial control facility."Stuxnet really laid new territory in terms of being able to get into and being able to control these nuclear power facilities [in Iran]," said the spokesman."The significance here is that since Stuxnet we have not seen anything else of that level of complexity. It has gone a little quiet since then. The question we are now asking is: 'Do they have a new goal or purpose?'"The fear would be that Stuxnet-style viruses become mainstream, he added.According to the New York Times,Symantec launched its inquiry after being contacted by a "research lab with strong international connections". .A Symantec's analyst, Vikram Thakur, told the newspaper: "This is extremely sophisticated, this is cutting edge."Stuxnet showed that cyberwarfare is developing fast, and is increasingly being thought of by states as a means of inflicting maximum damage with minimum risk. Earlier this year the Guardian revealed that theUK is developing its own "first strike" capability, and is investing millions in beefing up security around key servicessuch as energy, and government departments such as the Ministry of Defence.
Samsung and Motorola both upped the stakes in the smartphone wars on Tuesday. The Korean company launched the Galaxy Nexus device running Google's latest Android 4.0 software – called "Ice Cream Sandwich" – and with a 4.65in screen, while Motorola showed off a "watch computer" and unveiled a new version of its Droid smartphone, the Droid RAZR.Andy Rubin, Google's head of mobile, added that "this weekend marks the third birthday of the G1, the first-ever Android phone. Nine releases later, more than 550,000 Android devices are activated daily."Both Samsung and Motorola are laying claim to HD-resolution phones, offering 1280x720 pixel screens; the Samsung phone has a Super Amoled screen.The Samsung launch in Hong Kong overnight is the latest collaboration with Google to bring the newest version of its Android software to a phone: in December 2010 it brought Android 2.3 "Gingerbread", then the newest version of the mobile operating system, to the "Nexus S" phone.The phone will be available in the UK from November, with Phones4U and 3 both planning to offer it. Phones4U will offer it free on a £46 per month contract, or for £29.95 on a £41 per month. No unlocked prices have yet been announced.The Galaxy Nexus features a 5 megapixel camera, 1080p video camera, facial recognition, reduced shutter delay for taking pictures, and picture effects. Like the Nexus S it includes Near Field Communications (NFC) technology for short-range transactions. It uses a 1.2GHz dual-core processor.Ice Cream Sandwich brings a number of innovations, including "Face Unlock" which uses facial recognition to unlock the phone, and Android Beam which uses NFC to share web pages, apps and YouTube videos with similarly equipped phones by tapping them together.As with other "showcase" Android phones, the Nexus Prime uses only Google's software, without any of Samsung's Touch-Wiz skinning.Ice Cream Sandwich brings a huge number of changes to Android. In ablogpost on the update, Andy Rubin, Google's head of mobile, says: "We rethought how you browse your contacts with the new People app, which combines high-resolution photos and updates from Google+ and other social services. It's also easier to capture and share your life with family and friends."He adds: "We created a new font that's optimised for HD displays and eliminated all hardware buttons in favour of adaptable software buttons. We also dramatically improved the keyboard, made notifications more interactive and created resizable widgets." Emails can be searched offline.Awebpage of features in the Galaxy Nexusshows that, as in Gingerbread, the system also includes voice recognition for text – to compose emails, texts or tweets.Like the Nexus S, the Galaxy Nexus has a curved contour from top to bottom.Motorola, which is being acquired by Google for its patent catalogue, and with its handset business still facing an unclear future, released a number of updates. One is a "watch computer" – the MotoACTV – which has a touchscreen and can store up to 4,000 songs, workout details and has an FM radio.The new Droid RAZR is a superthin update to its Droid product, and has a 4.3in screen. It has an 8MP camera, takes 1080p video, and is just 7.1mm thick. The backing is made of Kevlar. It can support 4G/LTE connections in the US. It runs Android 2.3 "Gingerbread". No UK carriers have yet announced whether they will carry it.Motorola has afull list of specifications.
Microsoft has unveiled its new "playful learning" video games and interactive experiences at a press conference in New York. The initiative sees Microsoft collaborating with some of the biggest names in educational entertainment including National Geographic, Disney and Sesame Workshop – the company behind the educational TV show Sesame Street. All of the new games are played using Microsoft's hands-free interface module, Kinect.Top of the list of new games are Kinect Sesame Street TV and Kinect Nat Geo TV, two series of downloadable interactive television shows aimed at children aged three to nine. The programmes will contain gaming segments during which players will be able to interact with characters and content with their movements and voice.Microsoft says both titles will promote active engagement with education by blending gaming and learning."We know that the most effective learning environments for children are those that are engaging and exciting, and that foster collaboration and a positive attitude toward learning," said Alex Games, curriculum and learning sciences expert and educational design director for Microsoft."The new way to play allows children to learn by interacting with their favourite characters and engage with content in novel ways," he said.Microsoft says both shows will be available to UK consumers, although prices, delivery mechanisms and the number of episodes for each show have not yet been confirmed.Alongside those two experiences, Microsoft announced Rush, a game made in collaboration with Disney, which is to feature characters and film franchises created by Pixar. Microsoft also unveiled Double Fine Happy Action Theatre, an interactive free-play experience and Project Columbia, a game it says will promote reading, literary skills and a love of books.
Sony has announced the release date for its PlayStation Vita handheld gaming device. It will be launched throughout Europe and in the US on 22 February. Jack Tretton, chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment of America, revealed the launch date during a speech at the Web 2.0 conference on Tuesday.The device will be available in two configurations: a Wi-Fi only model and a combined 3G and Wi-Fi edition. They are priced at £229.99 (€249) and £279.99 (€299) respectively.PlayStation Vita is the follow-up to Sony's PSP console which has sold almost 70m units worldwide since its launch in 2004. The new console boasts a five-inch touch-sensitive OLED screen, a rear touchpad, rear and front cameras and two analogue control sticks. All games will be available for download from the internet, although some titles will also be released on an proprietary card format and sold through retail.A large range of titles has already been revealed for the games machine, including new versions of Wipeout, Call of Duty, Assassin's Creed and LittleBigPlanet. The 'killer app' is expected to be Uncharted: Golden Abyss, a miniature version of the hit action adventure series. About 80 game titles are already in production for the device.Vita also offers a range of social networking features, including video chat, as well as Twitter and Facebook access. The device also boasts a service named Near which allows Vita owners in close proximity to communicate and automatically swap data. There will also be compatibility with the PlayStation 3 console – some games will be playable across both formats.The new console will go into direct competition with Nintendo's troubled 3DS console, which has failed to sell as well as expected, despite (or perhaps because of) its unique glasses-free 3D display. Sony rejected a similar technology for the Vita.
Facebook's launch of itsmobile applications platformhas been an exercise in diplomacy. It plays nice with the iOS ecosystem, pointing people to native App Store apps and Apple's own in-app payments system, while also promoting mobile web apps and the Facebook Credits currency on other devices.A significant expansion of Facebook's apps platform, deftly executed. No wonder it was a long time coming: rumours about "Project Spartan" had been circulating for months before the official announcement on 10 October."It's a pretty cool launch for us," says Facebook's chief technology officer Bret Taylor."It really addresses some of the areas I've heard a lot of concerns about from mobile developers, and it plays to our strengths. For startups, it's very difficult to get their apps discovered. They have a honeymoon period in the app stores where they might be in a top 10 list and get a lot of downloads, but once that honeymoon period is over, discovery is very difficult. By integrating with these social channels in mobile, they can get discovered in really organic ways."The mobile platform went live alongside the launch of Facebook's native iPad app, but for now, the social network isn't talking about how things have gone. Facebook will hold an event towards the end of next week and release some stats.Taylor describes the challenges of taking Facebook's applications platform mobile well, though, highlighting the need to get apps working across various devices and operating systems."iPhone is extremely popular, but so are Android phones. Windows Phone has made a lot of inroads, and a lot of people use BlackBerry devices. Developing for mobile is a relatively nuanced and complex thing for a lot of developers, particularly in the context of social applications. If someone invites a friend to play a game with them, they don't necessarily know what handset they have."From that point of view, Facebook's solution is elegant. People tapping on application alerts in their newsfeed on iPhone and iPad will be directed to a native iOS app if it exists – Words With Friends is the example cited by Taylor – while people on other devices will be pointed to the HTML5 mobile web versions. The social network is clearly encouraging developers towards creating both native and HTML5 versions of their apps."350 million people are using our mobile apps every month, and that's split 50-50 between mobile web and native apps," says Taylor. "We expect that a lot of the developers that really integrate deeply with these mobile features will have a similar mix… When we talk to developers, they don't want to pick just one platform and live or die by that. They want to reach their customers however they want to be reached. It's not really an either/or discussion."That extends to mobile versus web as well as mobile web versus native mobile app. Increasingly, apps and services are looking to spread across every platform possible: web, mobile, TV, cars and whatever other devices they can run on.Taylor talks about his own usage of personalised radio service Pandora in this context: listening on his computer at work, on his iPhone while driving home and then via his TiVo set-top box at home."Those are some of the most compelling services, when you're talking about mobile as not just something about your phone, but really about the proliferation of devices, and wanting your application to be accessible on all of them," he says. "We hope that we can be the social discovery engine that drives growth across all of these devices."Facebook has just launchedthree new elementson its developer website focused on HTML5: a Resource Centre to help people build, test and deploy their apps; an HTML5-focused blog; and a developer group to foster discussion around the area.One of the key challenges for developers making HTML5 mobile web apps has been making money from them, so Facebook's decision to make its Facebook Credits virtual currency part of its mobile expansion is a significant one.Taylor warns that it's early days, though, saying that Facebook's team is working "very intensively" on making the payments system as simple as possible on mobile. The social network has made Facebook Credits mandatory for games running on its website, but mobile has required more diplomacy, deferring to Apple in not allowing developers to take payments using the currency from iOS users.Negotiating with the likes of Apple will be ever more sensitive and important for Facebook's ambitions going forward – Fortune has a very good feature on how the two companies, along with Google and Amazon, are likely to compete in 2012. How challenging is it to find co-operation and collaboration against this backdrop?"There is certainly a lot of competition in the mobile platforms space, but we have really effective relationships with a lot of those mobile platform owners," says Taylor. "It's complementary. We worked a lot with Apple on this release to improve discovery for iOS applications, and we're actively working to get this working really effectively on Android too."Rumours of a "Facebook Phone" or fully-fledged smartphone OS have remained just that: rumours. That means Facebook is still able to present itself as "not a mobile platform ourselves, but a social discovery and engagement platform" in Taylor's words.For now, at least, its promotion of HTML5 and the mobile web as a viable space for applications is aligned with the improvement in the browser capabilities on iOS, Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry. "That's the great benefit of all this competition: everyone's products are getting really good," says Taylor."There is so much innovation in the browser space both on mobile and desktop. HTML5 and the other technologies it represents really exist now because of that competition. Apple, Microsoft, Google and a whole bunch of other companies are investing so much in the browser, and it's so good for the web. Most of our developers are hoping the mobile web becomes a viable platform for their applications."
Aleks Krotoskiis joined byCharles ArthurandDan Cattfor this week's special studio-based podcast, as the team take a break from their busy live schedule. With a little more time, they have the chance to look back over the last few weeks of stories – from the launch of the iPhone 4S and the death of Apple's Steve Jobs – and consider the business impact of the BlackBerry's service disruption, the loss of computing legend Dennis Ritchie, and what lies ahead for the UK's digital enterprise cluster.Charles speaks to RIM chief Stephen Bates about the organisation's misfortunes – and the financial cost to the company of compensating millions of BlackBerry users for the loss of their service – and to Wikipedia's Jimmy Wales about the strengths of the UK's digital scene. Aleks speaks to the iPhone 4S, giving the speech recognition software a run for its money.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple is now bigger than Microsoft, its old rival. Not just in market capitalisation but also inquarterly revenue and profits. Its enormous, ruthlessly efficient and  capitalises on its strengths - its brand and marketing, and uses them to promote top class hardware and software packaged as brilliantly designed and easy to use products.And now it is looking to China: "I've never seen a country with so many people rising into the middle class who aspire to own products that we make," Apple's chief executive Tim Cook said. He has his eyes on the fresh possibilities of the hundreds of millions of people there in a way that no other western company has: he doesn't just want to sell them phones, he wants to sell them iPads and Macs too. If China clicks– and the fact that some Chinese cities hadfake Apple storeswhich were so good they were indistinguishable from the real thing – then Apple has space for years of growth.iPod: revolutionising digital musicApple began its comeback with the iPod, released on 23 October 2001. It wasn't the first digital music player but was easily the best in class (due to a clever choice of the hard drive – a first from Toshiba, for which Apple secured an exclusive contract) and the fact that it had previously developed a superfast connection system for video, called FireWire, which it adapted to transfer songs.The iPod's ease of use easily won over consumers. Apple revolutionised the music player and digital music download market. Then came the iPhone, where Apple wasn't first with a touchscreen, yet did it far better than previous efforts by companies such as Nokia and LG, which sniffed at Steve Jobs's presentation but have since sunk into loss.Apple hasn't been able to dominate the smartphone market, but it's noticeable that Google's Android mimics the iPhone system (but didn't before its launch: it used a keyboard-based system that looked more like a BlackBerry). Given that Android dominates the smartphone market, running on over 40% of handsets now being sold, compared to Apple's 18% or so, one could say that the "Apple interface" dominates.iPad: tablets of successThen of course there is the iPad. Apple spent nearly ten years, on and off, developing it; Steve Jobs thought that Bill Gates's announcement in 2001 of a Windows tablet was intriguing, but the design team led by Jonathan Ive couldn't make something with a touch screen that was a real pleasure to use. So it was shelved but the experience of touchscreens was then put to use to develop the iPhone. The iPad was the next step, and while Apple is again - just as with the iPod - not the first in the market, it has completely dominated it. It holds the Guinness world record for being the fastest-selling gadget ever. The iPad's market share is 75% and will retain its lead till 2014."I still believe that the tablet market will be bigger than the PC market," Cook said after the results.Apple has a tiny share of the PC market – it just edged past 5% this quarter compared to the 95% of Windows. Is Apple ever going to reverse that? No, never. Its share is growing minutely and has done so for over five years. Apple's increase, though small,has affected PC sales.Selling ApplesApple's strength is  the diversity of its range of products: phones, computers, tablets and it sells music, TV shows and films. It also sells huge numbers of mobile apps and simple hardware like mice and trackpads and keyboards. The company has colossal amounts of cash - about $70bn (£44.5bn), of which about half is  outside the US (and would be subject to heavy taxes if it were repatriated). So it uses that cash to buy favourable terms and equip factories for its suppliers; in return it gets special treatment. It's the same method it used with the iPod, but now done with hundreds of millions of dollars unlike what it could offer a decade ago.The iPod sales are falling year-on-year. Apple is mainly focussing now on its iPod Touch, in effect an iPhone without the phone. About 100 million have been sold. Many of these will be able to use the new iMessage service, which can send messages to other iPhone or iPad users over the internet. It's like an entry-level version of the iPhone (and a challenge to RIM's BlackBerry Messenger.The company needs its rivalsThe only thing Apple doesn't do is manufacture hardware. But Cook, who was hired by Jobs in 1997 has gradually changed that. Apple gives hardware contract to companies in China and Taiwan. Its most serious rival in hardware is Samsung, the South Korean conglomerate with whom it is fighting a series of court battles over patents on mobiles, smartphones and tablets. Samsung also has a new flagship Android phone, just released, but without the immediate UK availability of the iPhone 4S. And yet ironically, Apple is also Samsung's biggest customer. They need each other.The other key rival is Amazon, which sells more content than Apple, but also does hardware through its Kindle, and especially the low-cost Fire tablet. Where Apple profits on the hardware, Amazon profits on the content, siting them at opposite ends of the same market.Apple in the cloudAnd then there is iCloud. Both  Google and Microsoft have been pushing to take cloud computing to the next level.  But Apple's  iCloud service already has 20 million users, making it one of the biggest players in the sector. However, unlike Microsoft and Google, its aim is to use it to sell hardware, rather than software or services.But for a really clear example of Apple's efficiency, consider a figure that's normally ignored: its inventory (the hardware that's sitting around in  warehouses).At the end of the quarter, Apple, despite its colossal turnover, had just under three days' worth of stock under its ownership. Far less than Nokia(35 days) or BlackBerry-maker RIM (45 days).Short inventories are generally a good sign in a hardware company: they indicate good supply chain management and product planning. Steve Jobs hired Tim Cook to tighten up Apple's then-sloppy inventory management. He has got it down from weeks to days. Ideally, he wants it to be hours. But Apple's growth has defeated that ambition. It's not a bad one to miss, though.
Apple's revenues rose to another quarterly record of $28.27bn – up 39% – and profits rose 54% to $6.62bn, figures reveal.But weak iPhone sales compared with the previous quarter and comparatively slow sequential growth of iPad tablet sales left analysts asking if it had missed out by not releasing a new smartphone sooner.Tim Cook, the Apple new chief executive since August, said however that the company was "thrilled with the very strong finish of an outstanding fiscal 2011". He added that "customer response to the iPhone 4S has been fantastic" and that his team "remain really enthusiastic about our product pipeline".Apple shares fell by 5.8%, or $24.33, in after-hours trading, losing a week of gains and taking it to below $400.The company sold 17.1m iPhones in the quarter, a 21% growth over the year before, but a drop from the 20m the previous quarter, which made it the world's largest smartphone business. That title may now be handed to its bitter rival, Samsung,, which is expected to have shipped more than 20m smartphones in that period.Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, blamed the dip on the comparison with the iPhone 4's release a year before, and "speculation" ahead of the release of the iPhone 4S in October.Cook forecast however that in the coming quarter "we will set an all-time record" for iPhone sales, as analysts expressed concerns about it meeting manufacturing targets."Expectations for this company were red-hot, that is why we downgraded it," said BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis, who lowered his rating on the shares days before. "The reality is their business is not an annuity. They have to sell their quarter's worth of revenue every 90 days."They had a big upgrade cycle with the iPhone, the numbers came in weak. They need to set records every time they report to keep up the momentum."But Apple forecast that it will have a huge $37bn quarter as it will be adding an extra week on to the Christmas quarter - something that it does every six years to bring its fiscal years into line with the calendar. Cook said the company was making "strong progress" in China: "I've never seen a country with as many people rising into the middle class aspiring to own the products that Apple makes."Apple also sold 11.1m iPads, representing 166% year-on-year growth, but sequentially it showed only slow growth from the 9.2m sold the previous quarter.The Macintosh computer line had its best-ever quarter, selling 4.9m machines worldwide, pushing it above 5% of PCs shipped for the quarter for the first time in decades. Analysts however had been expecting higher figures, forecasting revenues of more than $30bn.Cook takes over during a critical juncture. Apple's chairman, Steve Jobs, died in early October; and the company is battling a fast-rising Google in the mobile arena while fending off consumer electronics giants such as Samsung and Amazon in the hardware field.• This article was amended on 19 October 2011. Owing to an editing error, the story first said that Tim Cook became Apple's chief executive on the death of Steve Jobs in August; then was re-edited to say that Tim Cook became chief executive after Steve Jobs died earlier this month [October]. This has been corrected.
Can't believe it's Wednesday already!
Troubled internet giant Yahoo announced a 26% fall in earnings on Tuesday as it published its first results since firing chief executive Carol Bartz.The company announced that earnings had dropped to $1.07bn, from $1.12bn a year ago, but the figure was not as bad as investors had feared and the firm's shares rose in after-hours trading.Yahoo posted a profit of $293.3m, or 23¢ a share, down from $396.1m, or 29¢ a share, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had predicted a per-share earnings of 17¢.The company is still one of the biggest draws on the internet. Yahoo said it expects revenue of $1.13bn to $1.24bn in the next three months, excluding traffic-acquisition costs.Bartz was ousted in September after her plans to turn the company around failed to take off. The company has failed to keep pace with advertising growth at rivals Google and Facebook. The outgoing chief emailed staff telling them of her dismissal, and later told Fortune magazine Yahoo had "fucked me over".After Bartz's dismissal, the firm announced a strategic review. Bankers have been appointed to sound out potential buyers.Among those who have declared an interest or are reported to be looking Yahoo over are Microsoft, which launched a $44.6bn hostile bid for Yahoo in 2008. Yahoo, which is now valued at $20bn, is also being targeted by Jack Ma, chief executive of Chinese internet company Alibaba, which is 40% owned by Yahoo.Interim chief executive Tim Morse said he would not comment on the state of the strategic review. "The board is actively looking at the full range of options available to return the company to a path of robust growth and industry-leading innovation," Morse said in a conference call. "The board also has said that when it has something to announce, it will do so."That will take time. It will not be today, and not on this call."Yahoo continues to lose visitors to its rivals. According to market analyst ComScore, Yahoo accounted for 9.9% of the time spent by US web surfers online in September, while Google had 10.2% and Facebook had 14.7%.Yahoo reported that its display ads business was flat at $449m compared to a year ago. Yahoo's share of display ads – a key indicator of the company's health for analysts – is set to decline this year, according to Emarketer. Emarketer is predicting Yahoo's share of banner ads will be 13.1% this year in the US, down from 14.4% last year. Facebook's share will climb to 16.3%, up from 12.2%. And Google should have 9.3%, an increase from 8.6%.
The UK boss of BlackBerry maker Research In Motion has admitted the company was too slow to update customers about last week's outages across Europe, the Middle East and US.Answering questions from BlackBerry userson the BBC website, Stephen Bates said RIM had launched a full audit of its infrastructure after millions of customers were unable to send email or browse the web for most of last week.The internal audit will also look at how the Canada-based company struggled to communicate with its customers, Bates said."We didn't spend enough time thinking about the communication, so we've since spent more time doing that," he said. "The communication can always be improved and part of the review we're doing is about that, so we can be much quicker in future."Bates added that it was "too early to say" whether anyone deserved to lose their job over the outage, by far the most severe in RIM's history, which stemmed from the company's Slough network operating centre."For us, we designed a very resilient system in our infrastructure that has lots of backups," he said."This problem happened with a system that should have backed up in the normal fashion, but it didn't. We test these systems and they work fine – the team have done everything they can and this appears to be an anomaly. It's early days, we're still investigating and we're not going to come to any conclusions on that point."He confirmed that RIM's chief technology officer, David Yach, has launched a "full audit of our full infrastructure". Bates said: "He's got the authority to do whatever he needs to do to ensure that resiliency is maintained."Those affected by the outagewill be compensated with $100 (£63) worth of appsfrom the BlackBerry App World, the company said on Monday.RIM shares opened up 2%, at $22.80, on the Nasdaq stock exchange on Tuesday, but remained almost 3% down on 12 October, at the height of the outage.
The value of Bitcoins, the "cryptocurrency" that some had thought would take over from more traditional currencies, has plummeted across exchanges – to a level where it costs more to "mine" them than they are worth.Though there's no obvious reason why, part of the problem seems to be precisely what economists remarked on when its value began to spike as more and more people piled in: the appreciation in value was a speculative bubble, caused by people hoarding the currency, rather than the start of a new (or parallel) economy.The value of Bitcoins on one of its main exchanges, MTGox, has collapsed since mid-June from a high where it was trading at the equivalent of about $30 per "coin" almost to parity now. That still marks an improvement over the year: on 1 January 2011, Bitcoins traded at 30c each.Bitcoins have appreciated in value since January 2011, but fallen a very long way from their peak. (Black line: closing price. Red and green spikes indicate volume of sales.)Similar falls in value are evident across other exchanges, as shown by the values onBitcoin Watch, where the value of Bitcoins being traded has fallen from a high of more than $30 to between $1 and $2 now.Bitcoins, which are in fact just very long strings of numbers, are"produced" by a processor-intensive calculationwhich requires increasing amounts of computing power to create each one. There is also a limit on how many can ultimately be produced, according to the algorithm which generates them. So far 7.48m have been produced.The problem with the Bitcoins' value falling below the cost of "mining" – actually the computer time that has to be devoted to them – arises because as each "coin" (or computer hash) is generated, the peer-to-peer network used by computers that accept and generate them makes it harder to generate the next.According to theexplanation at Tradehill, "New coins are generated by a network node each time it finds the solution to a certain mathematical problem (ie creates a new block), which is difficult to perform and can demonstrate a proof of work. The reward for solving a block is automatically adjusted so that in the first four years of the Bitcoin network, 10.5m BTC will be created. The amount is halved each four years, so it will be 5.25 over years four to eight, 2.625m over years eight to 12, and so on. Thus the total number of coins will approach 21m BTC over time."In May one usersuggested that the effort being thrown at Bitcoins was wasted: "We're all trying to profit from the high exchange rates (1BTC is 9USD at the time of writing this) that we're throwing everything we've got at the bitcoin network. We profit from our actions for a couple of days, then the network detects the increase in speed and adjusts itself down, negating all the efforts we put into it, forcing us to buy even more processing power. It's an endless cycle of stupidity that simply cannot be solved by human nature."With the value of Bitcoins dropping so low, and the computing power required to produce them growing steadily, it is becoming uneconomic to generate more except through the use of hacked computers in "botnets". Although there has been anecdotal evidence oftheir being used to generate Bitcoins, many botnets are hired out on a commercial basis to send spam or host phishing websites – and that may be more profitable, directly, than creating the currency.Hackers and members of the underground like Bitcoins because transactions involving them are almost untraceable, yet can be carried out between computers. That has proved both a blessing and a curse, though, after one user discovered in June thathis computer had been hacked and 25,000 Bitcoins – then worth almost $500,000 – had been removed from the "wallet.dat" file on his machine. Because of their untraceability, he could not know who had taken ownership of them.A few days later MTGox itself was attacked when someone tried to sell more than 400,000 Bitcoins, which would have been worth about $9m. But that prompted a huge drop in per-coin value from more than $17 to $0.01 because there weren't enough buyers at the higher price. MTGox went offline and pledged to reverse the transactions.However, commentators had suggested that the biggest weakness about Bitcoin was that although many were being produced, their apparent value was based on small numbers of transactions within a small group – which is not an effective model for a viable currency. Although there are a number of websites that accept Bitcoins in exchange for real-world goods and services, it is very difficult to measure how many transactions have occurred.That, in turn, makes it hard to calculate how many people are using them. But graphs on aBelgian site that tracks the computational power being applied to Bitcoin miningsuggest that the amount dedicated to it peaked in mid-August, and has fallen since then. That would indicate that fewer people are trying to mine Bitcoins – even though only one-third of those that could be discovered have been.Paul Krugman, a Nobel prizewinner in economics,criticised Bitcoin in an article in the New York Times in September:"What we want from a monetary system isn't to make people holding money rich; we want it to facilitate transactions and make the economy as a whole rich. And that's not at all what is happening in Bitcoin. Bear in mind that dollar prices have been relatively stable over the past few years – yes, some deflation in 2008-2009, then some inflation as commodity prices rebounded – but overall consumer prices are only slightly higher than they were three years ago. What that means is that if you measure prices in Bitcoins, they have plunged; the Bitcoin economy has in effect experienced massive deflation."Writing in the September/October edition of Technology Review, the New Yorker financial writer James Surowieckinotedthat Bitcoin might indeed be trapped in a deflationary spiral:"With ordinary currencies, though, there's a limit to how far down the spiral can go, since people still need to eat, pay their bills, and so on, and to do so they need to use their currency. But these things aren't true of bitcoins: you can get along perfectly well without ever spending them, so there's no imperative for people to stop hoarding and start spending. It's easy to imagine a scenario in which the vast majority of bitcoins are held by people hoping to sell them to other people."
Remember the days when GPS satellite navigation apps were one of the most expensive categories of mobile apps? Some still have premium prices: apps from TomTom, Garmin, CoPilot and Navigon still sell for between £29.99 and £39.99, although these companies have experimented with lower prices too.They're facing competition from a new breed of free navigation apps with an emphasis on social features and crowdsourced data. One of them,Waze, has just raised $30m (£19.1m) to launch its popular app in China and develop new features for its seven million users. Another,Skobbler, has seen its GPS Navigation 2 app downloaded more than one million times in its first week of release.Waze is an interesting company, headquartered in Israel but with a key office in the US too. The $30m funding round came from Hong Kong investor Li Ka Shing and venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, whose partner (and technology maven) Mary Meeker will be joining as a strategic advisor and board observer as part of the funding.Waze draws data on roads and traffic by analysing collective data from its users, while also enabling them to actively submit reports on accidents, police traps and other blockages. The company has shown off its crowdsourced data with YouTube videos like this one for Los Angeles:It says that it's big in the US, France, Italy and Israel, but has also seen strong growth in Spain, Malaysia, Mexico and Brazil in recent months. The company now has seven million users across its iOS and Android apps.Skobbler isn't quite at that level yet, but GPS Navigation 2 has roared up App Store charts around the world since its release in early October, with the one million downloads building on the company's 1.5 million-strong user base for its first satnav app.The app draws on the OpenStreetMap project for regular updates to its maps, as does another of the most popular free satnav apps: Navfree. Navfree's parent companyNavmiiannounced in mid-September that it had more than 3.2 million users, with 1.5 million of those using the Navfree UK application alone.Both stress the fact that as they attract more users, so the quality of the data for their maps improves, to the point where it's good enough to make people think twice about buying one of the more expensive competitors.The rise of these apps has certainly posed questions for the traditional satellite navigation companies, who have themselves been making the transition from in-car devices to smartphone apps. The business model for the crowdsourced and/or social apps remains fluid, though:potentiallyads,potentiallyin-app purchases of premium features, but... well, it's mainly still potential.The big threat for these companies, though, is if navigation evolves into a standard feature in smartphones provided by the handset maker and/or software provider.Google Maps Navigation already offers formidable competition on Android, and few people would bet against Apple bringing navigation in-house for iOS at some point – perhaps as part of a bigger revamp for its mapping features in iOS 6.
Samsung and Google are to launch the Galaxy Nexus phone to showcase the latest version of the Android mobile operating system, "Ice Cream Sandwich", in Hong Kong late on Tuesday night.The phone is expected to be released in the UK within the next four weeks, in time for Christmas.The launch had been scheduled for Monday last week, but Google and Samsungpostponed it following the death of Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder and former chief executive.As a flagship device, the phone will run the standard version of the new Android update, rather than having Samsung's Touch-Wiz system running on top of it. Engadget suggests that it will have a high-definition display, dual-core 1.5GHz processor and a screen size of up to 4.6in.Like the Nexus S, the Samsung device which showcased Android 2.3 "Gingerbread", the previous major phone version, there won't be physical buttons for key on-screen functions.Samsung and Apple are neck and neck, having both supplanted Finland's Nokia to ship more than 20m smartphone handsets per quarter in the three months to June. Analysts are still waiting for third-quarter figures from Samsung; Apple will announce figures at its quarterly results on Tuesday night.Samsung is expected to have supplanted Nokia as the largest mobile company in terms of handset shipments when it finalises its third-quarter results through its sales of "feature phones" which don't have third-party app capabilities.The Google chief executive, Larry Page, said at the company's earnings call last week that 190m Android devices have been activated since its inception. He also said that the mobile business was on an equivalent run rate to being a $2.5bn business.However, he did not specify how much of that comes through mobile advertising and app sales on Android; testimony given by a Google executive to the US Congress that two-thirds of mobile search comes from devices running Apple's iOS software.Ice Cream Sandwich, which is version 4.0 of Android, is intended to be a cross-platform offering that unites the 2.0 branch, devised for mobile phones, and the 3.0 branch for tablets which was first released earlier this year on Motorola's showcase Xoom tablet. That should mean that app developers can target all sizes of screen in a single package.Samsung's UK press office did not have any information about the timing of the launch or any other details at the time of publication.Android Central says it has the specifications. Notable points include 1GB of RAM, Bluetooth 3.0, and the following:• Display: AMOLED HD: 4.65 inches Resolution 720 x1280) Maximum number of simultaneous colors• Main Display: 16,777,216 color touch screen: capacitive (multi-touch),• Main camera: 5 megapixel CMOS camera with LED flash• Video recording 1080pHD (1920 * 1080)• Front camera: 1.3 million pixels CMOS• GPS• NFC• Micro USB 2.0For the full list, see the site.
In 2004 Activision released the best Spider-Man game ever made. Developed by Treyarch (the team now responsible for every other annual Call of Duty title), Spider-Man 2 featured an open-world representation of Manhattan, and some clever web-slinging physics, as well as a game structure that supported both a main story and lots of discoverable side-quests. It was effectively GTA with spider senses.In some ways the title was indebted to Neversoft's 2000 effort, Spider-Man, which cleverly used the Tony Hawks Pro Skater engine to ramp up the character's athleticism, but essentially Treyarch's minor classic was a high point in the history of games based on the Marvel favourite. More recently, things haven't been going too well, with Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions and Spider-Man: Edge of Time attracting mostly mediocre reviews.So fans of the web slinger were no doubt ecstatic to hear that, at New York's Comic Con earlier this week, Activision announced a new open-world Spider-Man title, set to launch alongside next year's Amazing Spider-Man movie. Apparently the game won't follow the same plot as the film, and it has already been in development for a year, thanks to a covert team at Beenox, the Canadian studio responsible for the last two Spidey titles.According to Kotaku, Gerard Lehinay, the studio's creative director, told Comic Con audiences, "We brought back the city into Spider-Man games [...] For us it is important to be able to web-swing in the city. So that's one of the major things that we've been working on."Of course, we all understand the motivation here. Activision has leered across at Rocksteady's Batman titles and noticed that they're doing quite well – it has also noted that they offer deeper more expansive environments and narratives. While Shattered Dimensions was an interesting venture, it was pretty brief and didn't make the most of the varied worlds we wanted to explore.But can Spider-Man really compete with Batman in the modern gaming universe? I'm not sure. One of the reasons for Batman's success both as a game and a comic book character is, of course, his lack of unworldly powers – he's an entirely self-made phenomenon, relying on strength, cunning and cash to operate as a super hero. Not only does this make him more relatable as a character (despite his immense wealth and barely concealed psychotic tendencies), it also makes him more operational as a game lead. Batman can interact with the game world as we would, as all human characters do, through jumps, through weapons, and through real-world accessories.Spider-Man, on the other hand, has that difficult web-slinging ability, which is tough to control, and which has little basis in physical reality. Also, being able to stick to walls means game designers are unable to restrict the playing area, and this presents a wealth of game structure problems. Heroes with more 'grounded' powers have tended to work better in games – X-Men Origins: Wolverine was pretty good, relying on the eponymous character's mostly melee combat and physical endurance; The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, meanwhile, married Hulks habit of breaking stuff with a destructible environment, to decent effect.Fundamentally, the heroes that game designers build and require are not the same as those imagined by comic book writers. Take Cole MacGrath from inFamous, for example. He awakens after a massive explosion to find he has super powers – but these powers are tightly themed around electricity and give him abilities that operate logically and controllably in a game context. I also loved Freedom Force from Irrational Games, which brilliantly parodied superhero culture by forcing a variety of characters with outlandish powers to serve a tactical role-playing game structure.Often, the most successful comic book conversions have been those in which the designers have been forced to accept the visual conventions of the comic book artist - i.e. they've been 2D, with scenes largely framed within clear, rigid, boundaries. Hence, the brilliant Capcom vs Marvel titles and memorable arcade brawlers like the X-Men and Punisher titles. And of course, Scott Adams designed a compelling series of Super Hero adventures back in the early eighties by relying on text and still images.The open world in Batman: Arkham City works because the Dark Knight relies on conventional video game equipment to get around. His armoury is the armoury of Solid Snake or Captain John Price. Treyarch worked wonders with the web-slinging physics, but almost a decade later, with much richer, larger and more interactive environments to work with, will Beenox be able to pull us in as convincingly? The teaser shown at Comic Con suggests the potential is there (there's a wonky recording of ithere) – but say the world itself works – what about Spider-Man's very different roster of enemies? That is a whole new issue...
Steve Jobs famously criticised Microsoft for having no taste and no culture. Windows Phone 7.5, the latest version of Microsoft's operating system for mobile phones, is a revolutionary product for its parent company because it has both in spades. The worry is that Microsoft has delivered this lovely creation a little too late.As a piece of visual design, the operating system also known as Mango makes the iPhone's bubble-inspired home screen graphics look tired and out of date. The style is pared back, letting the content, drawn in from the myriad of online sources that now figure in our daily lives, do the talking. Applications each inhabit a simple red square, or "live tile" on a black screen. When customised they earn their name and truly come to life, which is where the culture comes in.The level to which a select group of the best social media platforms – Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn – have been woven into the functions on Mango goes well beyond what was available on its predecessor (Windows Phone 7), and arguably well beyond what Apple's iPhone and Google's Android can offer.Punch in your Facebook and Twitter coordinates, and the software merges them with your address book to create a profile for each contact, with their latest photos, status updates and tweets. Pin that person's tile to your home screen, and each update feeds into the little square.The most recent photos taken on your phone are also displayed in their own double sized tile. And the home screen can, unlike many other operating systems, display multiple tiles from a single application – one for each item you are bidding for on Ebay, or the weather in a handful of cities.The messaging has caught up with iPhone. A conversation that might begin on Facebook chat but then moves to text messaging or Windows Live Messenger – the Microsoft instant messaging service – now appears on screen in a single thread.Where the operating system does fail to impress is with voice recognition. Mango incorporates it, for example to compose an email. But "Want you meet camera" is not a very usable approximation of "Want to meet tomorrow".Voice commands are not just a diverting new trick. They are the future for smartphones. Using virtual keypads on a tiny touch screen is life sapping, and impossible to do while walking. But the trusty buttons of a qwerty keyboard are just not sexy enough to be added to the iPhone. So Apple is doing its level best to get us using Siri, its own voice service, which has surprised users with its accuracy. Microsoft has some catching up to do here.And it will make every effort to catch up. The software behemoth is not just fighting for a nice sideline, it is fighting for control of the mass market computer. As mobile connected devices become cleverer and are touched by millions more fingers than have ever typed on a PC keyboard, the importance of the laptop or desktop computer will fade and with it Microsoft's influence.There is a long battle ahead. Research firm IDC says Windows operating systems were on just 2% of phones sold worldwide in the first half of this year, down from 13% in 2008. Back then, Android's share was 0%. In three years it has become the best seller, with 42%. BlackBerry is still significant, and Apple's iOS is at 19%.The first Nokia handsets to use Windows will be unveiled in London next week. Nokia still sells more "feature" phones than anyone else, but it sold just 15% of smartphones in the summer, down from 33% in 2010. Its decision to abandon Symbian left it unable to compete for most of this year. The alliance with Microsoft is clearly make or break, and their target as they attempt to rise up the ranks will be Android.Research In Motion, maker of BlackBerry, will continue to chase its corporate market. Apple will remain the premium brand for now. Which will leave Microsoft and Google slugging it out for dominance of the cheaper, mass market handsets.Where Google may have the edge is control over handset design. It is buying Motorola, possibly just for the patents needed to protect Android against litigation, or possibly to create better phones. Nokia and Microsoft are merely in an alliance, but they have size, marketing firepower, relationships with networks and experience on their side. Nokia won its battle for dominance of the mass market against Motorola at the end of the 1990s, and still sells more basic feature phones than anyone else. Microsoft knows a lot more about selling operating systems than Google, albeit on PCs. Its creator may be a fading force, but Mango shows Microsoft still has the taste for success.
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDiscombobulated: Guardian iPad: Product challengesReview: HTC Radar &gt;&gt; WinRumors"HTC's new sleek Radar device is the second Windows Phone 7.5 available from the company this year. The Radar features moderate specs and an improved 5-megapixel camera alongside the latest forward facing camera support in Microsoft's new and improved "Mango" operating system. The look and feel of the Radar is very similar to HTC's original Trophy Windows Phone. Is it worth the upgrade?" Er - upgrade? Anyway, we also hope to have a Windows Phone review later today.Free iPhone games making plenty of money on Apple's UK App Store &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"Half of the 100 top-grossing iPhone games in the UK are free-to-play titles, indicating that while freemium games are proving lucrative for their developers and publishers, paid titles continue to have a strong role in the App Store ecosystem." Would not have guessed that.Apple's iMessage cannibalizes SMS but is no threat to operators &gt;&gt; if connectedIan Fogg's analysis is broad and insightful. There isn't a short version, but equally, it isn't long.How To Price Software Without Just Rolling The DiceThe insights are from a new book ("Don't Just Roll The Dice") and begin with: "1. Your product is more than just your product. You might think that your software product is just the bits and bytes that your customers download (or access online), but you'd be wrong. What customers are actually paying you for is the entire experience of doing business with you Everything from how you market and sell the product, to how you help people use it and how you maintain it going forward. All of it. Your pricing should be based on this reality. "2. There's a difference between perceived and objective value. It doesn't matter how much "real" (objective) value you have baked into your product if your customers don't perceive that value, they are not going to pay as much for it. Hopefully, their perceived value is a function, to some degree, of the objective value. If not, you're screwing something up." Plenty more where those came from.FixMyTransport: fix the ticket barriers at Paddington"I'm writing to you and not Network Rail as they have told me that First Great Western manage the operations of ticket gates at Paddington. "Every time I try to put my ticket in the ticket barrier to exit at Paddington, the 'seek assistance' message is displayed and I need to join a queue to be let out." Have you done anything on FixMyTransport lately? Why not?USB holds steady as 'most successful interface ever' &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Although HDMI is exploding as one of the default connectivity options in electronics, USB is still the strongest standard for the near future. "A new report from market research firm In-Stat asserts that USB-enabled device shipments will approach six billion in 2015. Currently, more than 3.5 billion devices with USB onboard are shipping worldwide in the PC and PC peripheral, consumer electronic, communications, and automotive product sectors, making it the 'most successful interface ever'."Four months with Android: reflections, grievances and some tenuous metaphors bundled up into a weighty tome &gt;&gt; My Dinner With AndroidThoughtful piece by someone who spent four months on an Android Nexus S, comparing it to iOS. Worth reading, especially for the points where - as he explains - Android is streets ahead of iOS, and vice-versa.Google's Honeycomb offensive musters just 3.4m tablets &gt;&gt; SlashGear"Apple's iPad may still be sitting pretty at the top of the consumer tablet charts, but questions still remain over whether Android 3.x Honeycomb really has been a sales failure so far. Google and its manufacturer partners are yet to announce official sales figures for tablets running Android, leaving us dependent on supply chain rumors and guesstimates. Android developer Al Sutton reminded us, though, that with a little math we could get an estimate of quite how many Honeycomb slates are in the wild. The number? Roughly 3.4m." Based on the 190m Android devices activated, and data from the Android Developer site. As has been pointed out by commenters here, this doesn't tell us about tablets running 2.2 or 2.3. But pretty much every tablet released in the West since January has been running Honeycomb.Windows Phone Mango users reporting disappearing keyboards &gt;&gt; ZDNet"The @WindowsPhoneSupport account on Twitter noted on October 14 that Microsoft Support is aware of the disappearing keyboard issue. I asked Microsoft officials for information on how and when Microsoft plans to fix this -- or at least what they're advising users who are affected to do to alleviate the issue." Peculiar bug; possibly linked to using (some) third-party apps; people using the basic build of Mango haven't seen it in any reports we've seen.iPhone 4S vs. the smartphone elite: Galaxy S II, Bionic and Titan &gt; EngadgetIf you simply can't make a choice without seeing hardware stats including whether the screen is pentile-matrix or Super AMOLED, you're in luck. (Thanks @undersinged for the link.)iPhone 4S preliminary benchmarks: ~800MHz A5, slightly slower GPU than iPad 2, still very fastIf you love to see bars where sometimes being longer is better, and sometimes being shorter is better, here's your comparison of the iPhone 4S with lots of other phones, including Android phones. (Thanks @OneHandWavingFree).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A selection of 9 apps for you today:Pirates of the Caribbean: Master of the SeasDisney has released a new iOS game for its Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, blending 3D shipfighting with social features, so players can invite friends to join their crew. It's a free game with in-app payments generating the booty for Disney.iPhone / iPadCrayola Paint &amp; CreateGriffin Technologies' second Crayola-branded iPad app also ties in with its iMarker peripheral: a giant crayon-shaped stylus to draw on the touchscreen. This app promises 40 activities for kids, including games, puzzles, mazes, dot-to-dots and colour-by-numbers. The iMarker isn't required to use it: fingers are fine too.iPadAdobe ReaderAn iOS app for reading PDF documents? Can't every iPhone and iPad do that already as part of its native software? Yes, but Adobe is hoping extra features, such as the ability to open and view password-protected files and search through PDFs, will still appeal.iPhone / iPadChime.inSocial company Ubermedia has been rumoured to be working on a rival to Twitter for some time. Chime.in is it, although it's being pitched as an "interest network, where people share, connect with others, and build communities around their favorite topics". Like divvying up Twitter into specific topics, in other words. Would be more social if it was available outside North America.iPhoneBoots Treat StreetUK retailer Boots has launched an iPhone and Android game called Treat Street Trolley Dash, tying into its online store. The casual game sees players riding a trolley while grabbing various treats from around them.iPhone / AndroidWorms Crazy GolfTeam17 made its name with the Worms games, and continues to find new ways to spin the characters – perhaps an example for Angry Birds maker Rovio to follow in the future. Worms Crazy Golf offers solo and local multiplayer action. The link above is for iPhone, but there's also a separate iPad version.iPhone / iPadTiny Token Empires HDWell-regarded iOS developer Bulkypix's latest iPad game is Tiny Token Empires HD, which it says is a mixture of match-three puzzling and turn-based strategy, played across a map of the Mediterranean Basin.iPadMyndThere was a rush of apps to discover other apps on iPhone a couple of years ago, but few became widely popular. Mynd is having another crack at the challenge, letting people rate and share their favourite entertainment apps – games, books, film, music and TV apps – while also offering "Curator Scores" and charts of trending apps.iPhoneBack to ActioniPhone app Back to Action has been designed for people diagnosed with Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS), offering a programme of exercises for people with AS. It's been commissioned by charity NASS, which works with people who suffer from inflammatory arthritis.iPhone
How is this Tuesday working out for you so far?
An alleged member of the clandestine hacking group LulzSec pleaded not guilty on Monday to charges of taking part in an extensive computer breach of the Sony Pictures Entertainment film studio's European systems.Cody Kretsinger, 23, entered not guilty pleas to one count each of conspiracy and unauthorized impairment of a protected computer during a brief hearing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles.US Magistrate Judge Victor Kenton set a trial date of 13 December for Kretsinger, who spoke only in response to questions from the judge.Kenton also ordered that Kretsinger be represented by a court-appointed public defender.Kretsinger faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison if convicted. He declined to comment to the Reuters after the hearing.A nine-page federal grand jury indictment unsealed in September charges Kretsinger with obtaining confidential information from Sony Pictures' computer systems using anSQL injection attackagainst its website, a technique commonly used by hackers to steal information.The indictment asserts that Kretsinger, who it is claimed went by the online handle "recursion", helped post information he and his co-conspirators stole from Sony on LulzSec's website and announced the intrusion viathe hacking group's Twitter account.LulzSec, an underground group also known as Lulz Security, at the time published the names, birth dates, addresses, e-mails, phone numbers and passwords of thousands of people who had entered contests promoted by Sony."From a single injection we accessed EVERYTHING," the hacking group said in a statement at the time. "Why do you put such faith in a company that allows itself to become open to these simple attacks."A number of Britons have been charged with offences relating to LulzSec's activities; they are not due to come to trial until early in 2012.The de facto leader of LulzSec, who goes by the handle Sabu, recentlyresponded to a string of questions on the Reddit websiteand suggested that he was "effectively on the run" - although he is not believed to have moved from his location, believed to be in New York.Hackers previously hadaccessed personal information on 77 million Sony PlayStation Network and Qriocity accounts, the vast majority of which were users in North America and Europe, in what was then the biggest such security breach in history. Nobody and no group has ever directly claimed responsibility, and Sony has never released any details about how the attack was carried out. At one point it did suggest that members of the loose hacking collective Anonymous may have been responsible, but that has never been confirmed by either side.
Apple has sold more than 4m ofits new iPhone 4S smartphonesin just three days since its launch, with handsets snapped up at a speed that is likely to set the record for the world's fastest selling consumer electronics gadget.The previous record was set by the iPad 2, which sold at least 156,000 units per day during its first 80 days, outstripping Microsoft's Kinect gaming system – at 100,000 per day in its first 60 days. The 4S, which went on sale on Friday, sold more than 1m units per day on its opening week-end."We eagerly await an official announcement from Apple on sales figures," said Damian Field, a spokesman for the Guinness World of Records. "If the 4S exceeds 156k per day sell-through rate, and this can be independently verified, the 4S will take the record."When chief executive Tim Cook announces Apple's full year financial results on Tuesday night, they are expected to show that its worldwide revenues have risen 67%, from $65bn (£41bn) in 2010 to $109bn to the end of September. Revenues in the last quarter are expected to reach $29.2bn, demonstrating the increasingly mass appeal of Apple's phones and tablet computers, and the continuing expansion of its foreign sales.Analysts at Jefferies Co are forecasting Apple will have sold nearly 29m iPhones in the final quarter of its financial year, along with 17m iPads. Despite rumours that Apple has cancelled an HD version of the iPad 2 and is planning to bring forward the iPad 3 launch date to late January 2012, Jefferies believes the company will nonetheless have sold 29m tablets in the second half of the financial year, twice as much as in the first six months.Cook is likely to face questions about what Apple intends to do with its $76bn cash pile, with a number of analysts having speculated that the company could buy a mobile network operator in order to exert greater control over the user experience. Others think this is unlikely, given the company runs a lean operation, outsourcing all its manufacturing.However, Morgan Stanley Analyst Katy Huberty predicted last month that Apple's cash pile would reach $136bn by the end of 2012. Cook is likely to come under pressure for a dividend – Apple does not pay one - or stock buyback.Apple said that it already has 25 million customers using the new version of its mobile operating system, iOS 5, despite launching the software only last Wednesday. Ignoring iPhone 4S buyers, who would have it pre-installed, that would mean that 21 million people upgraded their phones or iPads in the past five days. Apple also said that 20 million people have signed up for its iCloud service, which provides wireless synchronisation of photos, music, apps and other data.The figures demonstrate Apple's growing power in the mass market: the iPhone 4S is presently only available in the US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and UK, but the company will push it to 22 more countries from 28 October and to a total of 70 countries by the end of the year.Fred Huet, MD of international telecoms consultancy Greenwich Consulting, said: "Although when it was announced the iPhone 4S was met withsome disappointment, these sales figures demonstrate the power Apple holds over the market. Apple has once again broken records, outpacing sales of the iPhone 4. With each device that the Cupertino company launches, the queues are guaranteed to grow – along with its share price."Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, said that the phone had made a "great start" and that sales were double those of the iPhone 4 launch in summer 2010.
Apple has sold more than 4m of its new iPhone 4S smartphones in just three days after its launch, getting the device off to a rocketing start that might challenge Microsoft's Kinect gaming system – which sold 8m in 60 days – as the fastest-selling gadget of all time.The company said it already has 25 million customers using the new version of its mobile operating system, iOS 5, despite it only being launched last Wednesday. Ignoring iPhone 4S buyers, who would have it installed, that would mean that 21 million people upgraded their phones or iPads in the past five days. Apple also said that 20 million people have signed up for its iCloud service, which provides wireless synchronisation of photos, music, apps and other data.The figures demonstrate Apple's growing power in the mass market: the iPhone 4S is currently only available in the US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and UK, but the company will push it to 22 more countries from 28 October and to a total of 70 countries by the end of the year.Although pundits and analysts were underwhelmed by the iPhone 4S's features – with some expecting greater changes from the iPhone 4 form – users have adopted it eagerly, notably for its "Siri" functionality which allows natural language interaction.The company will announce its quarterly figures on Tuesday after the US market closes, though the sales of the new phone will not figure, as it only covers the period to the end of September. Even so, the expectations are that it will announce revenues of $33bn, with more than 22m iPhones sold, and more than 13m iPads sold.Fred Huet, MD of international telecoms consultancy Greenwich Consulting, commented: "Although when it was announced the iPhone 4S was met with some disappointment, these sales figures demonstrate the power Apple holds over the market. Apple has once again broken records, outpacing sales of the iPhone 4. The company has a solid user base and with wide distribution across all three of the major US operators, as well as Vodafone, Everything Everywhere, Three and O2 in the UK, more people are being drawn to the lure of the simple, intuitive design that Steve Jobs made so famous. While features on the new device aren't exactly groundbreaking – Siri was acquired by Apple in 2010 and existed as a third party app for some time – the huge sales are proof that Apple is still dominating the smartphone market. With each device that the Cupertino company launches, the queues are guaranteed to grow – along with its share price."Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, said the phone had made a "great start" and that sales were double those of the iPhone 4 launch in summer 2010.
Half of the 100 top-grossing iPhone games in the UK are free-to-play titles, indicating that while freemium games are proving lucrative for their developers and publishers, paid titles continue to have a strong role in the App Store ecosystem.That said, use of Apple's in-app payments (IAP) system is having an impact beyond the freemium games. Of the 50 paid games in the 100 Top Grossing chart, 20 are using IAP on top of the initial download fee, meaning that only 30% of the chart is accounted for by pure paid titles – although that includes the two top games, Warner Bros' Scribblenauts Remix and EA's FIFA 12.The Guardian's analysis of the chart - carried out in the afternoon of 17 October for a snapshot of trends in Apple's rankings – reveals that 30 of the 50 paid games cost £0.69, although 14 of those use IAP as a top-up. Six titles cost £1.49-£1.99, 11 cost £2.99, one costs £3.99 and just one has an initial download price of more than £4: Sega's £6.99 Football Manager Handheld.These figures may be skewed by EA Mobile's decision to drop a swathe of its catalogue to £0.69 for the launch of Apple's iPhone 4S: eight of its 10 games in the 100 Top Grossing chart are on sale for that price.Some considerable sums are being spent within the freemium games on the chart, however. 23 of the 50 free-to-play games have a £69.99 item listed as one of their 10 most popular in-app purchases in their App Store listings.These top-tier options are attracting buyers, too: more people buy the £69.99 wagon of Smurfberries in Capcom's Smurfs' Village than buy the £20.99 barrel option, for example. 1,000 cash for £69.99 in Crowdstar's Top Girl is proving more popular than 480 cash for £34.99. And in Storm8's World War game, £69.99 for 1,700 honour points is the fourth most popular IAP, ahead of 60 honour points for £2.49 and 140 for £5.49.The App Store remains a fragmented environment in terms of the number of different developers and publishers finding success with their games. 58 different companies were represented in the 100 Top Grossing chart at the time of The Guardian's analysis, although that's 55 if you roll EA's acquisitions Chillingo, PopCap Games and Firemint into its total.Beyond EA, TeamLava has five games in the Top 100, while Zynga has four – all free-to-play in both cases. Capcom also has four titles, of which three are freemium. Games industry veteran Sega has three titles in the list, the same total as freemium startups Addmired, Glu Mobile, Pocket Gems and TinyCo.There appears to be plenty of scope for further consolidation of the free-to-play iOS space, with 30 different companies supplying the 50 freemium games in the list.Zynga has the highest-grossing free-to-play title with Zynga Poker, but it's notable that there are another 21 freemium games making more money than its next highest-ranked game CityVille Hometown: it may be the biggest beast in the Facebook social gaming world, but has yet to impose itself on iOS at a similar scale.One further data point from the analysis: the average App Store review score for the 50 paid games on the chart is 4.19, versus 3.79 for the free-to-play games. The gap is closer if you just consider the 20 top grossing games in either category: 4.38 and 4.18 respectively.In other words, whatever their detractors might say, the most successful free iPhone games cannot be characterised as low-quality titles conning money out of their players via IAP.The freemium-to-paid ratio holds true throughout the 100 Top Grossing chart too. Six of the top 10 games are free-to-play, 11 of the top 20, and 24 of the top 50.All this data is from one country (the UK), one platform (iOS) and one device (the iPhone), but it's illustrative of wider trends within the mobile games market, as publishers explore freemium and paid+IAP business models. Watch this space for analysis of other platforms like Android, to see if these figures are reflected on Google's store too.
UK video games top 20, week ending 14 October 2011PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (40)Wii (3)33 (–)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (8)14 (2)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (36)25 (–)Pro Evolution Soccer 2012(3+)PS3 (70)Xbox 360 (28)PC (2)16 (4)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)47 (3)Dark Souls(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)28 (6)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)299 (5)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (46)PC (2)410 (–)Jonah Lomu Rugby Challenge(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)111 (8)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (40)PC (7)812 (–)Ace Combat: Assault Horizon(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)113 (9)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)DS (27)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (14)2314 (–)Dead Rising 2: Off The Record(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (30)PC (3)115 (7)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (2)616 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Xbox 360 (44)Wii (26)PS3 (23)3DS (7)117 (10)Resistance 3(18+)PS3 (100)618 (11)Driver: San Francisco(12+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (4)719 (–)Mario Kart Wii(3+)Wii (100)11120 (14)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)8UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
As Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3looms on the horizon, gamers can prime themselves for at least one news story (it's bound to happen) about how much money employers are set to lose due to fans taking a week off work to play it. With that in mind, it's almost a good thing that Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim is operating under the radar of mainstream news, otherwise it may be blamed for potentially triggering a double-dip recession.Bethesda Game Studio's follow-up to Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is massive in nearly every single aspect. The game's environment is gargantuan, the number of NPC (non-player characters) populating it legion and the volume of quests on hand look set to consume hundreds of hours of the player's life. Not only that, the depth of the control system, the individual playing paths and the open-ended way in which players can tackle Skyrim promise a game that boasts a ton of replay value. Players can clock in a substantial amount of time on character creation, such is the level of customisation on offer here. Even though we were only allowed three hours at the controls of it, it's evident that Skyrim is a beast of a game. This is a title set to swallow a fair portion of your life.Still, in spite of its size and complexity, Skyrim is easy and unintimidating to play, and this is largely down to the fantastic interface that Bethesda has created for its game. Players can switch between first and third person view by clicking the right stick. They can also customise the third-person perspective to a degree; by holding in the right stick, they can use the left to zoom in and out on their character. Combat is mapped to the trigger; tapping the right trigger puts the character in a fighting stance, and then the left and right trigger allow the player to use whatever weapons, defensive items or magical attacks they've assigned.The Y Button is jump, X returns the player to passive stance and B brings up the game's four-option menu, allowing players to level up, scan the map, or examine their inventory and magical attacks. The menus in Skyrim deserve a nod – even though it sounds a little strange to say so. Players can cycle through their items easily, pull triggers to assign them, and even highlight favourites so they can access them quickly through the D-Pad.Players level up by accessing a series of talent trees, represented in the game as constellations in the sky. Every activity the player engages in adds towards the different skill sets their character has, and the skills they use the most will naturally rise faster. Once they reach a certain level, players can light different stars in the different constellations, which unlock new abilities. So, for example, a player who spends a lot of the game wielding a two-handed broadsword and wearing iron armour, will find that new abilities in those fields will open up faster. In this way, in spite of the smorgasbord of abilities on offer, Skyrim allows players to tackle the game in exactly the manner they choose – and even rewards them for it. However, there's enough variety on offer within the talent trees to ensure that players are encouraged to try out new weapons and abilities.And Lord knows they'll have ample opportunity to do so in the land of Skyrim. During the time we spent at the game's controls, we passed through the small town of Riverwood, where we used a smithy to craft a couple of weapons, aided the wronged party in a love triangle, and picked up a quest, which sent us into the snow-capped hills surrounding the settlement. Some bandits had made off with a golden artefact owned by the local storekeeper and with the aid of a new found ally – a Wood Elf archer – we ventured into Black Falls Sanctum to find them.As it turned out, the bandits were horribly out of their depth; the leader of the gang had seized the artefact in the knowledge that it unlocked secret areas of the sanctum, and had taken it to Black Falls in search of treasure. What the artefact unlocked, however, was a tomb populated by sword-wielding skeletons and a giant Frostbite Spider. By the end of the quest, we had also uncovered some runes which, as Dorahkiin – the Dragon Born – our character could note down for use as a later date.In just three hours, we had battled monsters, solved puzzles, sorted out relationships, traded items, fashioned weapons and armour and traversed acres of Skyrim's magical expanse. In that time, we also know that we barely scratched the surface of the game. A quick look at the relatively small area of the map we'd been gallivanting through was evidence enough to back up the developers' claims that Skyrim offers around 300 hours worth of playing time, if every nook and cranny of it is explored, and every quest is taken up.And fortunately for any player interested in doing so, the world Bethesda has created is as inviting as it is massive. The presentation of the game is absolutely stunning; the lands to the north of Tamriel are a beautiful expanse of woodland, rolling hills and snow-covered mountains. The soundtrack is note-perfect, from the winds rustling through the trees to the sounds of the rushing rivers that snake through the landscape, and everything is complimented by the hauntingly beautiful score.On the evidence here, all players need to lose themselves in Skyrim is a willingness to explore … and perhaps a couple of weeks off work.•The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim will be released on 11 November for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
The awesome power of RSS delivered to me this morning a link to a new blog post by Robert X Cringeley. The post,The second coming of Javagot me thinking.Someone is wrong on the internetBob knows what he's doing. Should we geeks ever choose to formalise our hitherto ad hoc world domination plans and elect a Council of Elders, I for one would welcome Bob playing a prominent role. As a chronicler of our land of geekdom and a soothsayer, he's a kind of rockstar. I for one give him much more credence than just some bloke on the Internet with a blog.This latest article of his though…? Whilst clearly not asomeone is wrong on the internetmoment, I read it, accepted the points, waited ten seconds thought "hang on" and tweeted it out. A good number of people also came back with a similar sense of "something's wrong here" and, well, it seemed like there was a story in it.Bob's argument is that, as the title of his article implies, Java will return to a point of domination when it comes to building web-based applications. His argument starts by going way, way back to the mid-90s when the only way to build web application was to use Perl and/or C or C++. This, frankly, is a time before I used to build web applications, firmly welded as I was in this period to writing client/server apps in native Win32. But his central point is valid - namely that Perl became a popular way to build web applications because it was less painful than doing the same in C/C++.Fast forward to 1999, and my world has got Classic ASP in it and I'm expected to build web applications in thing called"Windows DNA". This was Microsoft marketing-speak for back-end business logic baked into COM objects typically put together using Visual Basic. Windows DNA was a sufficiently short-lived initiative that most people have never heard of it, even people who were building applications based on it. Ultimately Classic ASP and Windows DNA were superseded with ASP.NET.Where this ties into the beginning of Bob's argument is that the easier the toolset is to use, the more developers will use it. I call this "utility". Even if it were true that Classic ASP could create pages that ran an order of magnitude quicker, developers would rather use ASP.NET, because developers - what's a kind way to put this - want to try and structure their days so that their lives are not inordinately difficult, as opposed to caring too much about whether things are running in as optimal a fashion as they could be.ASP.NET, then, has as higherutility, much as per Bob's point which runs that Perl has a higher utility than C++.InterpretationBob's article talks about Java rather than ASP.NET for web development and he states that since 2007 there has been a move "away from Java and .NET for web development and back to interpreted dynamic languages like Ruby". His article talks about Ruby, but I would say the most important language for web development is actually PHP. This doesn't matter though - Bob's argument runs that Ruby and other interpreted languages, including PHP, have a higher level of utility but a massive performance disadvantage compared to the compiled bytecode of Java and .NET's MSIL and an even greater performance disadvantage compared to natively-compiled C/C++. The number he quotes is that Ruby runs seven times slower than Java.But it's now that things get a little strange. Bob's argument runs that most of the execution time given over to a page relates to database access. This I think would gel with all of our experiences - if you have an optimisation problem its always because you're going out to that bad boy too often and that the disk I/O is slowing you down. Bob goes on to say that a "modern disk seek is around five milliseconds", and that every non-cached database access will do "several seeks". This feels about right, as does the idea that half a second will be taken up just doing disk I/O related to your page.The final thrust of Bob's argument is that if you strip away all disk I/O (and he cites the move to SSD persistent storage), we'll shift away from interpreted languages such as Ruby and PHP and back to Java. Whilst that sounds a little mad at first blush, the argument runs thus: "the statement 'Ruby is incredibly slow but I don't care because my database is slower' will no longer be true. At that point Ruby (Python, Groovy, you name it) becomes the bottleneck". OK, and so this makes sense, right? Facebook, a huge user of PHP, according tothis articlecompiles their PHP using an in-house (and now open source) tool called HipHop for PHP just to get around the performance drift between the interpreted and compiled world. For them, it's easier to try and make PHP really fly than it is to migrate over to a compiled platform.DatabasesRegardless of whether your favourite database is MySQL, SQL Server or Oracle (is anyone'sfavouritedatabase Oracle? Apart from Larry Ellison?) the problem you face is that you have to store data in a database that is not the same as the format you want it on the screen. At the core of it, all any web application does is shunt stuff out from a database, encode it as HTML and punt it out to a browser.Take my least favourite web 2.0 darling, Facebook. I look at it and all I see is amassivedatabase. There's nothing that those guys do programmatically that you couldn't do in one evening in your dorm room at college. (Wait - wasn't that how it started?) Admittedly, scaling up to the size it is takes some serious sysadmin chops, but underneath it all it's just a database.So wouldn't it be easier if we could go back, to the before time, to the long long ago of the 1970s when we could just give our users a manual on SQL and a logon to the SQL box? Wouldn't it be easier to allow Facebook users to "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM FRIENDS", or "INSERT INTO LIKES (PersonId, ContentId) VALUES …"?I'm joking of course, but that's all we're doing for the users now, no matter how prettily we dress it up with Ajax calls and the like. There's nothing inherently clever in the applications that we do that can't be replaced by having the user key in SQL statements all day. All we're doing is adding usability and reducing risk. (I do wonder if Facebook was just a console session into MySQL how many times per second people would run statements like "UPDATE PEOPLE SET FIRSTNAME=@profanityOfChoice".)I once went to buy a high end stereo and the salesman said to me that we needed to agree that what was on the disc was perfect and that everything we could put between that and our ears was just going to make the experience worse. Use a lousy cable between amp and speaker and we're just mucking up the sound. In our world of software engineering, the same is true of speed. Anything we have to do in our code to transform the data in the persistent store to being "screen ready" is just adding time. (Incidentally, I never did buy the stereo, as the utility of having my music with me wherever I was turned out to be more important.)Bob's point about the distance between the persistent backing store and main memory is crucial in all this. If you miss the cache and have to drag data in from disk, you've lost the game. This is the equivalent in my example of buying crappy speaker cable. But what I think Bob has missed in this is that how likely is it that database access times will ever get to zero.You can now buy a 16GB Windows Server 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2008 box from a top-tier provider for around £640+VAT/month. If you don't want to use Windows and SQL Server that same box will cost you around £500+VAT/month. The logic of 16GB of main memory is that you can load the entire database into it. The sorts of figures that we are talking about there are within the budget of anyone who has a 16GB database backing their web application. Although I'm in danger of massively oversimplifying the world of database administration, common sense suggests that if we have enough main memory to fit the database in, and the database vendor knows that disk I/O is a bottleneck, it's logical to conclude that the database management system will obligingly load as much of the entire database as possible into super-fast main memory for us.More importantly, this is Mickey Mouse stuff. If you've got real money to spend on this stuff,there are companies that will happily oblige. But most of us don't have real money to spend - most of us would like to host our customer's solutions for around a grand a month. At the sort of prices we're talking about there you can have a nice 16GB back-end server, two front-end servers and a managed load balancer for our magic figure of a grand a month.But wait - what's this about back-end and front-end servers? Well, this is think is a big hole in Bob's argument. Best practice as it stands tells us that for security, fault-tolerance and scalability we should have a chunky database server that provides a network-centric service to other application servers in our farm. In this case, our front-end servers are web servers.The natural way to link to this together is Ethernet, but Bob himself admits that performance "gets worse, much worse, if seeks across the network are involved" (although I think he's overstating this a little).Magical future worldSo at this point we are able to load the entire database into memory relatively inexpensively and we can minimise disk I/O on the database. Let's imagine we keep that there and that we have some far future technology that keeps our database fault-tolerant and secure but that we have our application's data in main memory on the server. We now have no disk I/O and no local network I/O. The data is as close as it can possibly be to the application that needs it. Our network seek times are as close to zero as they can ever be.Bob's argument now runs that if you do not have to wait for the database to do its stuff you could have one site running an interpreted language and a competing and comparable site running a compiled language. The compiled one would execute requests at an order of magnitude faster than the interpreted one. In order for Bob's argument to make sense the answer to the question "do we care?" has to be "yes".One way of looking at it is that we know we can make any page on any application we build run in one second using today's technology, and we'll assume PHP as this is the most commonly used language. (Ignoring long running pages, generally this is a good target average. This also ignores any user experience wins you can get with ajax by making requests "feel" shorter.) We're now saying we can take the database out and our target average is therefore 0.5 seconds for our interpreted page. Our compiled page will run that in 0.05 seconds. Our network speed from server to client will not change however, and thus it's likely the end user's perception of the page will remain roughly around the 0.5 second mark regardless of compilation or interpretation of code. Developers at this point are likely to continue using higher utility as user complaints are not dramatically increasing. (User complaints being one important way to motivate a developer.)But there is an argument here for scalability. If we can get the processing portion of the request out of our network in one-tenth of the time we can use ten times less application level servers to do the work. That could be a win - but I'm fairly sure last time I checked sysadmins didn't drive innovation in developer tools.What about future platforms?One thing that's really appealing about Bob's article is the cyclical nature of it. Our industry is full of these cycles - a nice example in this context being the shift from centralised mini-computer to PC client server to centralised web server. From that perspective Java to scripting to Java sounds good.From my perspective, this ignores the innovation push that I believe turns the cycle back into a line. Things like PHP and Ruby on Rails come up and get traction because smart developers have smart ideas and other developers pick them up and run with them. (Conversely, imposed solutions likeGoogle Dartare unlikely to get much traction.)Java's only going to become the web development toolset of choice if there's something in there that developers love to use and that continues to promise them a higher level of utility than they have right now. Maybe the next cool thing will need to run inside the world of Java. Who knows.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
In the late-eighties the British games scene was dominated by a stratum of regional publisher-developers, often operating out of computer shops or remote business parks, with a handful of staff. Ocean, Gremlin, Psygnosis,  Codemasters... names etched into the memory banks of veteran gamers; most of them gone now.Based in West Yorkshire and formed in 1990,Team17is still here, and still thriving. The company spent the early part of the decade belting out stylish Amiga shooters like Alien Breed and Project-X, before meeting a young wannabe programmer Andy Davidson at the European Computer Trade Show in 1994. Andy had a demo for an artillery-style game named Total Wormage, originally developed for a magazine competition. He hadn't won, but Team17 saw the potential of the title – its mix of compelling multiplayer combat and Python-esque humour – and signed the title on the spot.A rare screenshot of Total Wormage, Andy Davidson's original Worms prototype.17 years later, Worms has been released on at least 25 different platforms, from the Amiga, through the SNES, Jaguar and every iteration of the PlayStation, as well as Java-based mobiles and the latest smartphones. The ingredients have remained consistent – teams of worms must battle to the last annelid in turn-based combat, using a variety of ridiculous weapons. There have been graphical tweaks, notably several titles in 3D, and various new additions to the armoury, but in essence, everyone knows what they're getting from a Worms title. In this sense, it is very much Northern Britain's answer to Tetris. And with its emphasis on physics-based projectile firing, it is also a precursor to Angry Birds.So how has Team17 survived when many of its contemporaries faded away? And what has its major series got left to offer? WithWorms Ultimate Mayhemjust released on PC and XBLA, andWorms Crazy Golfabout to hit PSN, iOS and Steam, we spoke to the studio's managing director, Debbie Bestwick...Worms Ultimate MayhemWhat's your publishing model at the moment?Our publishing model is pretty straight forward. We self-publish and finance our titles on as many suitable platforms as possible, with the exception of the partnership that we have with EA on certain mobile devices. This will continue to be the way for the foreseeable future. We want to own our product and control the way it goes to market. It's not always the quickest way onto a new platform but having control over your products is a must going forward as an independent studio in our opinion. We've also just moved into the whole merchandise space and it will be interesting to see how that goes. Around a dozen deals are already in place and you should start to see Worms posters, plushes, T-shirts and toys, etc, hitting stores this side of Christmas.You switched to a digital-only business a couple of years ago. What prompted that decision and how has it worked out?We first started digitally distributing some of our PC games around a decade ago through various online sites, but a few years ago we really moved into digital distribution on consoles. It actually happened more by accident than plan. We'd pitched Worms for Xbox Live Arcade at our then publishing partner THQ and it was turned down by them, so we decided to go it alone.Microsoft was fantastic in supporting us and thankfully it paid off, because Worms is the second best-selling game to date on Xbox Live Arcade. Following on from the XBLA launch, we've gone on to launch Worms onto PlayStation Network and Steam, again topping the charts on both. We also released a version of Worms on the Apple App Store in 2009 and have seen good results there too, as Worms hit number one in over 40 countries and top five in over 70.I've also just been told Worms has just hit number one on the 'paid' Android Marketplace – that's with our partners EA Mobile and its EA's first number one so that's incredibly rewarding. I'd say it's worked well for us and hopefully by the end of next year, we'll have everywhere we want to be covered digitally. That is not to say that we have 100% turned our back on the retail business; we have had some success recently with retail releases and have some in our plans for the future too.So what do you think has been the enduring appeal of the game? Is there one element you can point to?While there have been many artillery-style games, Worms certainly has some sort of 'X-Factor' that makes people want to play it. I think there's the fact that it's easy to learn but hard to master, so it offers real depth that belies the look of the game. It's also the visuals – the main characters are cute and silly; it's the surreal and fun weapons; it's the great social multiplayer element. These, together with the quirky sense of humour, have all been key parts of the enduring appeal.How has the Worms dev team evolved since 1995? Are there members who've been there all the way through?There has been a lot of consistency within the development team, and to be honest there are a fair few of the original team still here and working on current and future titles. I think that's one of the magic ingredients.Does being an independent publisher these days have any similarities with operating in the nineties? Some people compare today's digital market place with the games scene of the late-eighties – lots of indie studios working alone to produce interesting titles. Do you see those comparisons?Yes and no to be honest. I actually think there are far more opportunities these days overall. If we were only talking about PSN, XBLA and Steam I'd tend to agree, but with the whole mobile and browser side thrown in, it's bigger and better than the late '80s. Digital distribution has removed manufacturing and physical distribution costs; hence the entry point is so much lower these days than back then. If anything, the App Store reminds me more of the whole shareware scene in the '80s, just shaken up and organised, and it is a great place to be.Worms Crazy GolfWhat do you think of the UK dev scene at the moment? What are the biggest challenges?I think it's as mixed as ever. There are a few developers having a wonderful time and doing very well, a few making a decent living and others fighting to keep their heads above water and survive.So many good studios have closed over the last 12 months and that's upsetting. Quite a few of them were owned by major publishers who, for whatever reason, didn't want to invest time in them by either changing or broadening the skillsets at the studios – instead, they chose to close them, writing off the millions spent acquiring them a few years ago. It's simply unthinkable. Ironically, a lot of the guys they have let go are now in the digital/social areas, doing exactly what their ex-owners are trying to buy in other studios.Are you at all optimistic about the future of games development in the UK?I'm personally quite optimistic, because right now we've got more platforms, bigger audiences, more direct to consumer sales channels and lower entry costs than ever before for all indie developers. However I do fear for studios without valuable IP or strong financing – getting a new IP noticed in social and mobile is incredibly expensive and very hard to do, not impossible but it's a long shot. Work-for-hire on the traditional platforms is so aggressive, not only due to the lack of tax breaks in this country that don't allow us to compete on a level playing field, but also the competition from lower cost countries who have just as good skill sets also.One of the key challenges that any indie studios face will be their ability to adapt to change, broadening their skillsets without seriously increasing over-heads. Our traditional market has changed forever with the introduction of smartphones, social gaming and digital store fronts. It is changing so fast. We have a 24/36 month road map at any one time, but in terms of business plans, you are looking at three months ahead on certain platforms, and that means having personnel who are not only flexible skill-wise but who can adapt swiftly.The original version of Worms from 1995.Let's get back to Worms. What do you think have been some of the favourite weapons through the last 15 years?The most iconic weapons would be the bazooka, the grenade, the baseball bat and the Holy Hand Grenade – our tribute of the brilliant silliness of Monty Python and the Holy Grail!.How on Earth do you come up with some of the more obscure options?The infamous Concrete Donkey is a very destructive weapon that falls out of the sky, smashing its way through the landscape and crushing all worms beneath it. The origin of this is that Andy Davidson's mother actually had a concrete donkey in their family garden, and it used to give him nightmares so he put it in the game! The Inflatable Scouser in Worms Ultimate Mayhem is our homage to Harry Enfield's 'Scouser' characters, whilst the Fatkins Strike is a fat bloke bomb inspired by the Atkins Diet...Are you still thinking up new weapons and environments for the games? How do you go about it?Weapon and environment ideas come from a number of sources. We get sent quite a lot of weapon concepts from fans of the game, but the majority of them are, "this weapon completely destroys the enemy"; these may be fun to look at, but they don't do the game any strategic favours. When a game's in development, you often realise that there's a particular problem that could be solved with just the right weapon – that's a great way of devising new weapons that are true to the gameplay experience itself.Have you got a personal favourite?I think it's probably the Super Banana Bomb. I like the pause before all the clusters explode: that little bit of anticipation that makes it funnier when it goes off with a bang. That and the fact that it's an exploding banana. What's not to like about that?Are there any interesting weapons that have been proposed over the years that haven't been included for balancing – or taste?We haven't really ever had to remove weapons on the grounds of taste – well one or two but we can't put what they were in print I'm afraid. We have had topical weapons that appeared in games that didn't feature in later titles as they were no longer relevant. For example, the Mail Strike was a weapon that released a slowly drifting flurry of letters above the landscape. It initially appeared after a recent strike by the postal service, but obviously that story was only newsworthy for a short amount of time.But amid all this lunacy, has the physics at the centre of the game remained pretty consistent throughout? Do you re-use the same algorithm for each title?We really try and keep the physics consistent, but sometimes it isn't possible, and on rare occasions we consciously change it. Whenever you re-write a game from scratch, the physics are always slightly different, and so each new generation of the game has a slightly different feel.Worms: Open Warfare on PSP was a good example. As the game was written from scratch, there were some small and quite subtle differences with the physics, particularly in the way the worms slid around the landscape or were blown into the air by explosions. It didn't hurt the gameplay, but it did feel a little different to the older versions of the game. Over the course of development we looked closely at the differences and for the sequel Worms: Open Warfare 2 managed to replicate the physics from the old 2D games far better.Sometimes the platform we're developing for or the audience we're aiming the game at will dictate that we change the physics. An example of this is Worms: A Space Oddity on Wii. We felt we were aiming the game at a far more casual demographic than we would normally. As a consequence, we introduced some changes to the physics such as making the explosions larger and the force with which the explosions catapult worms around more powerful. We did this intentionally to make the game more approachable, easier to play and increasing the likelihood of the player's actions having a positive effect.I think the first Worms 3D title was 2003. Was that a challenging transition? For me, the accuracy of the game relied on 2D visuals and I never really got into the 3D versions – how does the dev team feel about them?Taking the game into 3D back in 2003 was a massive challenge. There were many hurdles to overcome, the largest of which was probably being able to create a completely deformable 3D landscape. It hadn't been done before, and without it the concept of Worms in 3D kind of falls down. Once we had a technical solution for that, there was still a whole lot of work to do in making the game play well.The creation of the single-player content was also massively different. Aside from all the landscapes needing to be created in our own in-house landscape editor – due to the nature of the deformable 3D landscape – the fact that the game has a third dimension and was powered by a highly flexible scripting system meant we could do some really different things that we really couldn't do in 2D with 2D worms and 2D landscapes. For example, you may find your worms having to re-wire a computer, search graves for treasure or hold strong-points until reinforcements arrive. The single-player is pretty diverse, far more so than in the 2D versions of the game! We are obviously proud of what we create, however we do understand the mixed feedback from the 3D series. It is a bit like Marmite, people either absolutely love it or hate it.Worms ArmageddonAre there favourite instalments of Worms among the team?Worms World Party on Dreamcast was the start of online gaming semi-properly through a console – that was a major achievement. Worms Armageddon is seen by many as the pinnacle title, but the additions to the game in Worms 2 also set the standards for the brand which are still hugely popular now: the cartoony visuals, the surreal weapons and the vast array of customisable options in the game. More recently, we are especially proud of Worms Reloaded, which we consider the most balanced and complete 2D Worms game.How about social gaming - have you looked into Facebook as a platform yet? It seems like a logical step...We certainly agree that Worms could be ideally suited to Facebook and other social platforms and we are busy looking into this at the moment. We cannot reveal many other details at the moment, but it is a very good fit. The games industry can learn a lot from this sector about consumer behaviour, payment models and analytics.And are you looking into exploiting the increasing social connectivity of XBLA and PSN a bit more? Will there be a sort of Battlelog for future Worms titles?The developments of social connectivity on both platforms are indeed very interesting, and we have some great ideas for future titles taking this into account. It's a logical step for us but it's too early to discuss.What's the future for game development in the UK? What's going to shape things in the years to come?Tricky question. Most studios will have different needs and requirements to grow/survive going forward. In my opinion, developers are going to need to be better prepared, mind-sets will need to change, everyone will need to be more efficient, flexible and work smart to compete on a global basis.HTML5 is probably the thing I'm most excited about right now and how it will shape the future. Many think it will grow significantly quicker than the app marketplace. As a developer, we want more open systems and that will happen. The beauty of HTML5 is that you can develop a game, and it works on all devices iPhone, PC, TV. Imagine a Worms game that lives in the Cloud and you can connect to it from anywhere...What else is Team 17 up to in terms of game development?We are very busy at the moment. We have some really exciting plans that will take us into the social and browser space, as well as delivering fantastic new Worms content on the digital platforms. Going forward, with regards to social games and browser games, you'll certainly see us enter into these areas, and we admit that we are a little late on this, but we needed to get it right and make sure that the right gaming experience is delivered to suit the more casual consumers on these platforms, as well as satisfy our current fan base. It's a fine line but I'm confident we'll do it right. We've got just over 700,000 people on our Worms fan page on Facebook and I expect that to grow greatly. Worms really is a perfect social game.I also love the idea of free-to-play as it opens up whole new regions and demographics, so we'll also be moving into this area at some point on various platforms. We also want to start playing around with some new IP and look at some older Team17-owned IP. With direct distribution across most platforms now in place, timing-wise it works well and we are looking forward to these too.Worms Ultimate Mayhem is out now on PC and Xbox 360. Worms Crazy Golf is out on 19 October on PSN, iOS and PC.
Millions of people whose BlackBerry smartphones were affected bylast week's outageswill be compensated with $100 (£63) worth of apps from the company's app store.BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) said yesterday that each of the affected customers would be able to download the apps – including the games The Sims 3 and Bejeweled – from Wednesday, as the company attempts to restore its damaged reputation.Millions of BlackBerry owners from the Middle East to the US were unable to send emails, browse the web or use BlackBerry Messenger last week aftera problem at RIM's network centrein Slough sent a ripple effect worldwide.Those affected will be able to download the premium apps from the BlackBerry App World until 31 December as "an expression of appreciation for their patience", RIM said.Mike Lazaridis, co-chief executive of RIM, said: "We are grateful to our loyal BlackBerry customers for their patience. We have apologised to our customers and we will work tirelessly to restore their confidence."We are taking immediate and aggressive steps to help prevent something like this from happening again."RIM will also offer customers a one-month extension to technical support contracts. Enterprise customers and those who do not have a technical support contract will be offered a month's free helpline support.The form of compensation may go some way to winning over customers who vented their anger at the Canada-based phone-maker last week. Comments on the BlackBerry blog CrackBerryappeared to welcome the offer. "Finally! They listened to us, thanks RIM! And thanks to CrackBerry for accommodating our complaint," said kelom.The compensation package is likely to be costly for RIM if millions of customers take advantage of the offer. But those who download more apps may be more likely to stay with the platform – an important step as RIM tries to stave off defections to Google's Android, Apple's iPhone and the expected Windows Phone devices from Nokia. It has been losing customers in the US – and while it has grown its customer base, those are precisely the areas that were worst affected by the outage.Analysts had previously forecast that RIM could be in line for a $100m payout to up to 70 million customers worldwide, based on a $5-a-month fee for the BlackBerry services."The total amount RIM should pay to refund its customers would be about $12m a day," Malik Saadi, an analyst at Informa,calculated last week. "This amount does not take into account liability fees for loss of data or any related legal issues. This could mean RIM paying over $100m, and this amount could escalate for every subsequent day the service is out of action."
Microsoft always wanted its Forza Motorsport franchise to be its answer to Sony's revered Gran Turismo but, while its technological prowess has always been conspicuous, it always seemed a bit, well, corporate in comparison. It had the cars, the tracks and the graphics, but somehow lacked the indefinable spark required to generate a fanatical following. Such thoughts were clearly uppermost in the mind of developer Turn 10 Studios when it set out to make Forza Motorsport 4 because, this time around, it goes to great lengths to connect with one's inner petrol-head.In that regard, it begins promisingly: the first voice you hear is that of Jeremy Clarkson, and a tie-up with Top Gear – whose Dunsfold track features prominently – is in evidence throughout the game, even though it was developed in America. Structurally, its single-player mode has undergone a clever shift in emphasis which rewards any loyalty you show to particular car manufacturers. As you complete races, you earn Experience points (XP), as expected, but also Affinity points, which bump up your relationship with the manufacturer of whatever car you're driving. As you level that up, you get all manner of bonuses, most notably free parts, encouraging you to upgrade your machinery.This mechanic, along with being able to pick a new car every time your XP levels up (which happens frequently) makes great sense, bringing you a vast stable of desirable cars in double-quick time. The game also sends you on tours of the world's finest racetracks, often letting you pick the type of race (you can go drifting, participate in autocross, which involves driving cleanly through gates, or even indulge in novelties like knocking down bowling pins on the Top Gear track). It all adds up to a seriously meaty single-player experience, and feels much more seat-of-the-pants than Forza Motorsport 4's over-clinical predecessors.Graphics-wise, it's absolutely stunning, thanks to a clever new lighting model, and the cars' handling is also impossible to fault, feeling much more involving and less like you were floating above the tarmac than it did in previous iterations. There are a couple of annoyances, though. It starts you off with all the driver aids turned, without giving you the option to get rid of them – and they include the perfidious stability control, which brakes individual wheels mid-corner and is kryptonite for any true racer. At least the game's traction control is much less obtrusive than that of Gran Turismo.It also lets you rewind time, which will offend the purists but please the tyros, and annoyingly suggests you might want to do so every time you put a wheel on the grass. Its roster of cars, though, is huge, ranging from gutless tin commuter boxes to full-on endurance racers, via a stunningly comprehensive lineup of late-60s to mid-70s American muscle cars. Up to 16 people can race online, and the ability to set up car clubs with your mates should go down really well, as it offers a means of avoiding those semi-pro online racers who delight in making everyone else's online driving experience as miserable as possible.Microsoft, as is its wont, has made much of Forza Motorsport 4's support for Kinect, in an attempt to convince us that Kinect can bring something to a proper hardcore game. It doesn't, of course – it feels tacked on and gimmicky. You can get it to track your head so you can look round corners, which is a recipe for motion sickness and downright annoying if, say, someone talks to you when you're playing. Then there's Autovista, which lets you walk around your cars by waving your hands at Kinect (or, with much less fuss, using the joypad). Despite the incredible level of detail on offer, this is a feature for which the word "meh" could well have been invented.You could spend half your life in the game's virtual car auctions or customisation sections if you were so inclined, but in the end, Forza Motorsport 4 is about the racing, and it certainly delivers that in a much more realistic, convincing and enjoyable manner than any of its predecessors. And – crucially for Xbox 360 owners engaged in battles over bragging rights with PS3-owning mates – there is no single respect in which it is demonstrably inferior to Gran Turismo 5. Despite the superfluous elements (which, to be fair, are also plentiful in GT5), it's a deeply impressive tour de force.Forza Motorsport 4 was reviewed on Xbox 360
Last week's announcement of a national scheme to "block adult content at the point of subscription" (as the BBC's website had it) was a moment of mass credulity on the part of the nation's media, and an example of how complex technical questions and hot-button save-the-children political pandering are a marriage made in hell when it comes to critical analysis in the press.Under No 10's proposal, the UK's major ISPs – BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin – will invite new subscribers to opt in or out of an "adult content filter." But for all the splashy reporting on this that dominated the news cycle, no one seemed to be asking exactly what "adult content" is, and how the filters' operators will be able to find and block it.Adult content covers a lot of ground. While the media of the day kept mentioning pornography in this context, existing "adult" filters often block gambling sites and dating sites (both subjects that are generally considered "adult" but aren't anything like pornography), while others block information about reproductive health and counselling services aimed at GBLT teens (gay, bisexual, lesbian and transgender).Then there's the problem of sites that have a wide variety of content, such as the venerable LiveJournal, which contains millions of personal and shared diaries. Some of these have material that children – especially small children – shouldn't see, but others don't. Is LiveJournal an adult site? It is, at least according to some filters.Back in 2003, the US-based Electronic Frontier Foundation took the sites most relevant to each major keyword in the US national educational curriculum and checked to see how many of them were blocked by adult content filters that federal law mandates for libraries and schools that receive federal funding. A whopping 78%-85% of material was miscategorised, and tens of thousand of pages that kidsshouldbe looking at as part of their education were blocked by the system.The web is vast, and adult content is a term that is so broad as to be meaningless. Even if we could all agree on what adult content was, there simply aren't enough bluenoses and pecksniffs to examine and correctly classify even a large fraction of the web, let alone all of it (despite the Radio 4 newsreader's repeated assertion that the new filter would "block all adult content".)What that means is that parents who opt their families into the scheme are in for a nasty shock: first, when their kids (inevitably) discover the vast quantities of actual, no-fooling pornography that the filter misses; and second, when they themselves discover that their internet is now substantially broken, with equally vast swathes of legitimate material blocked.Presenting a parent who is trying to keep their children safe with the question: "Would you like to block all adult content on your internet connection?" is terribly misleading, designed to play on parental fears and bypass critical judgement. Better to ask: "Would you like us to block some pornography (but not all of it), and a lot of other stuff, according to secret blacklists composed by anonymous third-party contractors who have been known to proudly classify photos of Michaelangelo's David as 'nudity?'"It's simplistic to say that governments should abide by the principle "do no harm", but it's perfectly reasonable to demand that policies should at least do some good. When our national information policy is turned over to anonymous, unaccountable censorware vendors, we fail to deliver a safe online environment for our childrenandwe undermine our own free access to information. It's a lose-lose proposition.As a parent, I worry about what my kid finds on the net. At three and a half, my daughter is already old enough to drive a little tablet and check out cartoons on YouTube. Just the other day, I heard some odd dialogue emerging from across the sofa, and I had a peek at my daughter's screen. To my surprise, I found that she had discovered a little interlinked pocket of aggressive, kid-targeted Barbie adverts, uploaded by the official Mattel account, masterfully wrought pester-power timebombs designed to convert my kid into a nagging doll-acquisition machine. What's more, my kid had heretofore only watched ripped DVDs, YouTube cartoons, and CBeebies and had literally never seen a video advert before.It was a well-timed reminder to me that kids need close supervision when they use networked devices, even ones that access "kid-safe" content (YouTube screens its users' videos for pornography, and offers a crude parental filter). There are plenty of subject areas that require close guidance and supervision when our kids first see them, and there simply isn't any way a parent can rely on Britain's ISPs to stand in for their personal attention and their work to help kids acquire the only filter thatcanwork: common sense and good judgment.
ChatONThere are lots of group messaging apps fighting for attention on the app stores, but now Samsung wants in on the action. Its ChatON app has just gone live for Android, offering chat and group chat, photo and video sharing and location features, as well as touchscreen-drawn animated messages.AndroidKurt Cobain: The Graphic NovelMemories of Nirvana are being stirred this year by the 20th anniversary of the band's breakthrough album Nevermind. Now there's a graphic novel on the iPad for that, based on the life of Kurt Cobain. It's based on a 2003 print edition.iPadScientology Online Courses HDThe Church of Scientology has turned app publisher for an iPad app touting its online courses, claiming it "provides an exact technology with step-by-step procedures you can use to handle problems and better your life and the lives of those around you". We suspect the app's approval by Apple could lead to some flak from anti-Scientology campaigners in the days ahead.iPadRoyal Manuscripts: The Genius of Illumination HDThe British Library's latest iPad app focuses on 58 illuminated medieval and Renaissance manuscripts from its Royal Manuscripts exhibition. That means 500 images, with videos of experts and text. There's aseparate iPhone versionavailable too.iPadJust Dance 3 AutodanceUbisoft has turned app publisher again, releasing an iPhone and Android Autodance app to promote its new console game Just Dance 3. The app gets you to record friends "doing stuff" and then syncs their movements to various dance tracks. YouTube and Facebook uploading offers a social spin on the fun. Agency CP+B developed the app.iPhone / AndroidSound+Vision BackStage: Concert CalendarSongkick has won plenty of fans on iPhone with its gig-tracking app, but now Bonnier has released something along similar lines for iPad. The app scans your music library to see which artists you like and then lets you know when they're playing near you, but also includes a music search engine to find videos, albums and artist biographies. Social features are also included.iPadrad.io for AndroidRadio app rad.io is now available for Android, with a collection of 4,000+ international radio stations, podcasts and internet radio services sorted by genre, topic, city, country and language. Social features and a Top 100 help you find the best stations.AndroidLove Me, Love Me Not... Couples"Conflicts within couples are inevitable. The problem lies in how poorly the conflicts are handled," explains the App Store listing for this relationship-counselling iPhone app, promising tips based on "psychology, popular culture and negotiation insights".iPhoneBFI London Film Festival 2011Just in time for this year's London Film Festival, the BFI has teamed up with American Express for an Android app offering a programme, trailers and ticketing features. It joins the existingiPhone version.AndroidQuick&amp;TastyNeed some new and exciting potato recipes? Who better to turn to than the Potato Council? It's just released an iPhone app with more than 100 recipes, from cottage pie to potato tapas. A "What's in my Cupboard?" feature helps narrow them down by the ingredients you have available.iPhoneSotheby's CatalogueAuction house Sotheby's has launched an iPad app that offers the catalogue for November's Important Russian Art sale, with information on items, essays and pinch'n'zoom images. The company says it's a preview for another "dynamic new catalogue app" to come.iPadBeam ReaderWith Flipboard, Pulse, News360, Taptu and others, Apple's iPad is well-stocked for news aggregation apps. RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook has some catching up to do. Beam Reader is one of the first to bring the visual RSS idea to the PlayBook, suggesting feeds based on keywords.BlackBerry PlayBookSak's Fifth Avenue for iPadUS retailer Sak's Fifth Avenue has an official iPad app, enabling shoppers to browse its online catalogue, create wishlists, watch videos and check out the company's calendar of in-store events.iPadRestaurant Story: HalloweenMobile social games developer TeamLava has launched a new episode for its popular Restaurant Story game, with a topically spooky theme in time for Halloween.iPhone / iPad
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBranded notebook vendors cutting orders by 5-10% for 4Q11 &gt;&gt; Digitimes"With the exception of Apple and Lenovo, other branded notebook vendors are reportedly cutting their orders to ODMs [Original Device Manufacturers, who build the notebooks] by 5-10% for the fourth quarter of 2011 after combined shipments from ODMs posted a 6% sequential growth in the third quarter, according to industry sources."Previously, most ODMs enjoyed an over 20% sequential growth in notebook shipments in the third quarter, the sources noted."No reason given. Lenovo and Apple both saw very large growth in notebook shipments in the third quarter.A fall sweep &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"We aspire to build great products that really change people's lives, products they use two or three times a day. To succeed you need real focus and thought—thought about what you work on and, just as important, what you don't work on. It's why we recently decided to shut down some products, and turn others into features of existing products."Goodbye unlamented Google Buzz, slightly lamented Jaiku (the Twitter that never was), the lamented Code Search and the unknown University Research Program for Google Search (API access for a small number of university researchers).Steve Jobs: visionary, inventor, and very challenging photo subject &gt;&gt; PDNPulseHe won't be mourned by those who had to photograph him. "'In all those years, Steve only screamed at me at the top of his lungs once,' Menuez recalls. It was in 1988, when Fortune hired Menuez to shoot a portrait of Jobs for the cover of the magazine. Menuez wanted to photograph him in the NeXT offices, on a staircase that Jobs had commissioned architect I.M Pei to design. Jobs arrived for the shoot, looked at what Menuez had in mind, 'then [he] leaned in and says, 'This is the stupidest fucking idea that I've ever seen.' Right in my face, like  5 or 6 inches away," Menuez says. "I felt like I was 10 years old. He went off on a tirade. He said, 'You just want to sell magazines. 'And I said, 'And you want to sell computers.' And at that he said, 'OK,' and sat down."Menuez concludes, 'I've been in war zones, but I like to say that I became a man learning how to stand my ground with Steve.'"Intel CEO talks up Windows 8, claims the "evolution of the PC has been retarded" &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Speaking at Dell World 2011, Otellini told an audience of industry executives that Intel loves PCs. 'I suspect Steve Ballmer said the same thing this morning and I know that our partner Dell absolutely loves PCs,' said Otellini. He continued to say that Intel and Microsoft have built a "wonderful industry" and that he believes PCs are now being taken for granted because they're so useful. 'To some extent the evolution of the PC has been retarded I think in the last few years so as we look forward in terms of where the PC has to continue to grow…it has to get more and more consumer friendly.' Intel plans to solve the problem with Ultrabooks. 'We want to make sure that these devices are portable, user friendly, but also have the capability to do the high capacity creative work that all of our workers do day in day out,' said Otellini."Ultrabooks, eh?Word clouds considered harmful &gt;&gt; Nieman Journalism LabJacob Harris of the New York Times doesn't like word clouds: "When looking at the word cloud of the War Logs, does the equal sizing of the words "car" and "blast" indicate a large number of reports about car bombs or just many reports about cars or explosions? How do I compare the relative frequency of lesser-used words? Also, doesn't focusing on the occurrence of specific words instead of concepts or themes miss the fact that different reports about truck bombs might be use the words "truck," "vehicle," or even "bongo" (since the Kia Bongo is very popular in Iraq)?"Of course, the biggest problem with word clouds is that they are often applied to situations where textual analysis is not appropriate. One could argue that word clouds make sense when the point is to specifically analyze word usage (though I'd still suggest alternatives), but it's ludicrous to make sense of a complex topic like the Iraq War by looking only at the words used to describe the events."Steve Jobs and the actually usable computer &gt;&gt; W3C Blog"At a sad time at which the world has just lost Steve Jobs, it is well to reflect on some of the things which he, his passion, and his creations have given us, as now the technical community should take many of these upon its collective shoulders."A big thing Steve Jobs did for the world was to insist that computers could be usable rather than totally infuriating!"The NeXT was brilliant. The NeXT had (arguably too) many things introduced at once -- removable optical storage, Objective C, DSP for sound and movies, Mach kernel, unix for a PC, display Postscript, InterfaceBuilder and so on. Yes, they never got the price down and the optical disks proved unreliable. But Steve and NeXTStep ended up saving Apple, and there must be a lesson that it is worth hanging on to cool things: you never know when they will in fact become mainstream."Acer Aspire S3 Ultrabook review &gt;&gt; This is my next...Fascinating review, because the only part where it is complimentary is on the boot and resume times. On everything else - keyboard quality, build quality, performance, battery life (they couldn't get it above three and a half hours) - it's not as good as rivals, especially Samsung.Notice how Samsung is the name that keeps getting complimentary comments: it is beginning to look like the only company that can properly challenge Apple in both PCs and phones. It even has its own mobile OS.WikipediaVision (beta)See people anonymously editing Wikipedia entries almost in real time. (Via @realouisewener who is.. the real Louise Wener).How much does an Apple store cost? &gt;&gt; Asymco"Over the time period illustrated, Apple opened 220 stores and spent $1.9 billion in fitting them out. That's about $8.5 million per store. It's been increasing so it's probably closer to $10 million lately."That's an interesting figure by itself, evidence of how profitable they must be. But I turn the question again to competitiveness and the lack of response in kind."The data shows that if a company wanted to duplicate this effort they would need to commit to spending at least $2 billion. And that's just for "fixing up" the sites. This figure does not include the lease itself, the cost to operate (including the tens of thousands of employees) or the inventory within. It also does not include the value of choosing the right locations (though maybe a follower could simply choose to locate in the near proximity to an Apple store.)"Microsoft used to be obsessed a few years ago about matching Apple's retail presence. Less so now.siri-big.jpg (960×540)Ha, ha, ha. Remind us of the "Format C colon!" shoutouts that used to go on at speech recognition demonstrations.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
