ANielsen Onlinereport says two thirds of us now use what it calls "Member Communities," which includes both social networks and blogs. MCs now make up "the fourth most popular category online – ahead of personal email," says Nielsen Online. The others are search, portals, and PC software.Nielsen Online says:Facebook - the world's most popular social network - is visited monthly by three in every 10 people online across the nine markets in which Nielsen tracks social networking use. Facebook has its greatest reach in the UK market (47%). Orkut in Brazil has the largest domestic online reach (70%) of any social network in these markets.The use of MCs grew by more than 10% in the UK last year, but Brazil has the highest penetration (see chart). Nielsen Online says:Among the markets Nielsen measured, penetration of visits to social networks and blogs was highest in Brazil, where 80% of the online audience visits such sites. The share of overall Internet time for which social networks and blogs account is also highest in Brazil, where nearly one in four (23%) of minutes spent online is spent on these sites. Following Brazil was the UK, where over one in six minutes (17%) is spent on these sites.It's easy enough to understand the shift towards social networking from email. Email has a huge spam problem, and efforts to stop spam frequently block legitimate messages. It's quicker to use Twitter, Facebook or an instant messaging service and there's less chance your message will be lost or blocked.But how far Member Communities can go to replace portals and search engines is still to be determined. Facebook is certainly going to have a go, as is Microsoft with its Live Wave 3 profile pages. Also, my experience on Twitter is that I now find more interesting stuff from other users than from most news sources, though it's nowhere near replacing Google as my home page.However, as Nielsen Online points out, the move to using MCs goes along with an increase in mobile phone usage. It says:Mobile is playing an increasingly important role in social networking. Nielsen found UK mobile Web users have the greatest propensity to visit a social network through their handset, with 23% (2 million people) doing so, compared to 19% in the US (10.6 million people). These numbers are a big increase over last year – 249% in the UK and 156% in the US.It isn't a surprise when the use of a different device leads to a preference for a different type of site or service.
A British physicist has revealed his plan to launch a new internet search engine so powerful that one expert has suggested it "could be as important as Google".London-born scientist Stephen Wolfram says that his company, Wolfram Research, is preparing to unveil the system in two months' time.Known as Wolfram Alpha, the site is an attempt to address some of the deficiencies of current web search by understanding people's questions and answering them directly."Fifty years ago, when computers were young, people assumed that they'd quickly be able to handle all these kinds of things … and that one would be able to ask a computer any factual question and have it compute the answer,"he wrote on the Wolfram Research website."But it didn't work out that way … I'd always thought, though, that eventually it should be possible. And a few years ago, I realised that I was finally in a position to try and do it."According to its creator, the system understands questions that users input and then calculates the answers based on its extensive mathematical and scientific engine.Natural language processing – the ability to determine – has long been a holy grail for computer scientists, who believe for interacting with machines in an instinctive way. And that, says Wolfram, is part of the code that Alpha has cracked."The way humans normally communicate is through natural language – and when one's dealing with the whole spectrum of knowledge, I think that's the only realistic option for communicating with computers too," he wrote."Of course, getting computers to deal with natural language has turned out to be incredibly difficult. And, for example, we're still very far away from having computers systematically understand large volumes of natural language text on the web."Other search engines, such as Google, compare search terms against billions of documents stored on its servers, before pointing to the pages on which the correct answer is probably kept.Although this method has proved phenomenally successful, many computer scientists have continued trying to create a system that can understand human language.One of the most recent to claim a breakthrough was Powerset, which raised $12.5m (£8.9m) in funding and was under development for several years – but only released a limited search engine for Wikipedia before being bought by Microsoft for $100m last year.According to Nova Spivack, the founder of another intelligent web service, Twine, Alpha is far more impressive than what has gone before."Wolfram Alpha is like plugging into a vast electronic brain,"he wrote. "It provides extremely impressive and thorough questions asked in many different ways, and it computes answers – it doesn't merely look them up in a big database."The plan is already gaining media attention, but the 49-year-old is used to getting noticed for his exploits. After studying at Eton and Oxford, Wolfram went on to receive his PhD in theoretical physics from the California Institute of Technology at the age of 20 .As a result he was awarded a Macarthur genius grant in 1981, and later generated a mixture of applause and opprobrium with his famous book, A New Kind of Science. In it, he suggested that simple algorithms, rather than complex rules and structures, could be at the root of all science.Reaction to the idea – which Wolfram said could boil down to a computer program consisting of just "three or four lines of code" – was mixed.Some critics felt that Wolfram unfairly refused to submit his theories to peer review in the decade that he worked on the book, while others claimed he courted publicity by building up the image of a reclusive genius.Whatever the outcome of Wolfram's audacious claims, however, his track record is strong. One of his previous creations, the computer programMathematica, is now used by many scientists to help them with their work.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Anyone who has worked in game retail will be used to the situation of parents buying 16 or 18 rated games for their children. It could be down to ignorance – the notion that it is "only" a game is still surprisingly prevalent – but if New Zealand government chief censor Bill Hastingsgets his waythen these parents could be prosecuted. Ouch.They might think the offence is silly, but it ain't... That's what the law says, but... you're not going to have police officers in every bedroom... There would certainly be some shock value to prosecuting a parent who gives their under-18 child access to a restricted game. It would send out a message that the enforcement agency means business.Fine, but not very practical. Where Hastings does a have a serious point is when he talks about the digital divide between parents and their kids.I think the word 'game' can mislead people for sure. It's not checkers. For the first time in history, kids are more savvy with technology than parents... parents need to get up to speed on the digital divide. They need to look at what their kids are playing and doing...It's hard to argue with that. Longer term I can see the divide narrowing. Many new-ish parents in their 30s are among the first generation to really grow up with gaming – C64, ZX Spectrum etc – and are unlikely to be as out of touch as their parents were. The mainstream acceptance of the Wii will help too.So yes, clearly parents need to look at what their kids are playing and doing. But prosecution? Really? It would be practically unenforceable but even then surely other media would need to be covered. After all, I'd argue that letting your 11 year old play the 18-rated GTA IV, or whatever, is not as "bad" as sitting them in front of a Hostel or Saw DVD.  Anyway, what do you think?
Yes you will – at least according to Japanese researchers.Engineers at Osaka University have developed a new system for controlling electronic devices that could enable people to navigate through the tracks on their MP3 player simply with a wink or smile.The device - which has been nicknamed the "Mimi Switch" – consists of a small earbud that is capable of measuring movements in the wearer's temple. Different actions or facial expressions result in a variety of actions, depending on how the system is programmed."An iPod can start or stop music when the wearer sticks his tongue, like in the famous Einstein picture," suggested lead researcher Kazuhiro Taniguchi. "If he opens his eyes wide, the machine skips to the next tune. A wink with the right eye makes it go back."The team behind the system suggest that it could easily be integrated into headphones or glasses – and used to control a variety of other electronic devices, like home lighting or even washing machines.The research paper detailing the Mimi Switch, which was actually published last year in theJournal of Robotics and Mechatronics, has suddenly resurfaced after being picked up online – but it is far from being the only invention of its kind.Across the world, researchers in the field of human computer interaction have been testing out new ways of working alongside machines that seem more instinctive than the current mouse-and-keyboard norm.I remember seeing one predictive text system –Dasher, from the physics department at Cambridge - that enabled you to type simply bybreathing.Meanwhile another innovative interface we've discussed in the past –the gestural system from 3DV– has been getting a lot of attention.3DV's ZCam, which allows you to control what's happening on your computer screen simply by moving your hands, has reportedly been eyed up by Microsoft in a$35m deal. If you want to get an idea of how it works,here's a video of me messing about with itat last year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
The Daily Telegraph's web site has been compromised using an SQL injection attack, according toHackersBlog. It says:"Latest news, business, sport, comment, lifestyle and culture plus content from the Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph newspapers and video from Telegraph" and an SQLi that allows full acces to ALL the databases of this famous newspaper.Unfortunately, this has compromised "hundreds of thousands of subscriber email addresses and more worryingly, passwords in clear text," according to Rik Ferguson onTrend Micro's security blog. If that means you, you should change your password on that and perhaps other sites. His post adds:Recently published research showed that 61% of people use the same password for multiple sites, so this kind of compromise represents real risk for many people.The story was picked up bySoftPedia, which says:The several SQL injection flaw affecting one of the website's sections was discovered by a Romanian self-confessed ethical hacker going by the online handle of "unu" (someone). "Unu" is a member of HackersBlog and has recently disclosed similar vulnerabilities in popular websites belonging to The International Herald, UK's National Lottery, Kaspersky Labs, Bitdefender Antivirus, or Symantec.I can't see any warnings on the Telegraph's web site. Can you?
Aaron Greenspan had no problems with Google until 11am on 9 December 2008. Then, as he writes inThe Huffington Post:With a single click, a faceless Google employee decided that Think Computer Corporation's membership in the AdSense program "posed a significant risk to our AdWords advertisers," and the account was disabled with no warning.He then got a run-around, where Google didn't reply to emails, and he wasn't able to contact anyone with any power:Google's overachieving receptionists were not even permitted to transfer my phone call to AdSense customer service. There was no AdSense customer service. Even if there had been, it would not have mattered much. I also couldn't be transferred to any of the engineers who worked on AdSense. Or product managers. Or executives. It made no difference that I was also a paying AdWords customer.When he does eventually talk to someone, it just becomes more like a Kafka novel:After pointing out that in the United States of America, the accused are generally given the right to know both the crimes they are being accused of, and the identities of their accusers, Mr. C. responded by saying that such thinking did not apply to Google's terms of service. Effectively, Google's position was that it was above the law, and if not any law in particular, then at least the spirit of the law.Greenspan finally paid $40 in fees and "filed a civil small claims lawsuit for $721.00 --the amount Google owed Think when it disabled the account -- using form SC-100."Surprisingly, Google actually sent "Stephanie Milani, a Litigation Paralegal," to argue the case. However, Google hadn't told her why Think has been blocked either. Her argument is: "Google can terminate your account for any reason."Go to The Huffington Post for the details, but the result is that the judge tells Google to pay the $721."But it's not fair!" Google's paralegal protested. "What if everyone whose account was canceled sued Google?""It's a valid question," says Greenspan. "Maybe everyone whose account was canceled, should."Iwrote about an unrelated casein 2006, after a reader wrote toAsk Jack to say his sprayonmud.com site had vanishedfrom Google's index: could he do anything about it?Sorry to say, the general answer is no. You're not told what you did wrong, and as I said: "Google acts as its own policeman, as prosecutor, and as judge and jury. It has absolute power. In so far as there is a court of appeal, that's also controlled by Google, and the whole operation runs in complete secrecy."This wouldn't matter if Google was just an ordinary company. Because it has a monopoly market share of the search engine market in the UK and the USA, however, perhaps it does.
Jack Straw last night scrapped controversial government proposals that could have allowed patients' medical and DNA records to be shared with police, foreign governments and other bodies.In a victory for civil liberties campaigners, the justice secretary bowed to public pressure over the data-sharing provisions in the forthcoming coroners' bill, which would have allowed public bodies to exchange data without the knowledge or consent of individuals involved. Doctors and the Bar Council had joined privacy campaigners in warning of the potential risks to public trust.The move will be seen as an olive branch to Labour MPs concerned about what they see as the erosion of civil liberties, and will raise eyebrows at Westminster where Straw  is viewed as a potential future leadership contender."Absolutely no part of the purpose of this legislation was to extend a Big Brother society - quite the reverse - but I understand people's anxiety," Straw told the Observer. "I have never had a piece of legislation that was not improved by public debate during its passage through parliament."He will now launch a fresh public consultation on how to implement more limited proposals from a review chaired by the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, which would allow government bodies to share information where there is clear benefit - for example, to ensure that bereaved families do not have to contact a string of official agencies to tell them someone has died.The U-turn follows the Scottish government's decision late last week to withdraw support.
Waving bearsThis has to be the most disturbingly anthropomorphic video to surface this year - gawp at humans gawping at bears behaving just like humans.140pediaSpawned from the unholy union of Twitter and Wikipedia, this site is as saucy as you'd expect. And I bet the OED can't tell you what "fubar" means.How Benjamin Button got his faceVisual effects expert Ed Ulrich gives an applause-drenched presentation detailing the wizardry behind "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button".Creative groomingA series of images soon to reach "online phenomenon" status: some jaw-droppingly preposterous poodle designs.TracksGrizzly Bear, While You WaitFree streamhereThis lovely, sylvan single pre-empts one of 2009's most hotly anticipated album releases from the ultimate Brooklyn buzz-band.Marina and the Diamonds, ObsessionsiTunes 79pMarina's steel-strong vocal and a lilting piano refrain carry this deceptively simple ballad about a misjudged love affair from the queen of maverick pop.Phoenix 1901Free download atwearephoenix.com/French electro-pop all neatly packaged up in handsome boy band form: Phoenix are number one on the blogs this week with this irrepressibly catchy track.VideoT.I. (featuring Justin Timberlake), Dead and GoneSparse, rueful hip-hop with those inimitable Timberlake vocals and plenty of spaces between the beats for T.I. to reminisce.
Bentley Continental GT&pound;132,500Miles per gallon:20CO2 per km:16.5 gramsGood for:gamblersBad for:grumblersErrol, a relentlessly upbeat man who spends his days rounding up supermarket trolleys, grins at me: "The boss away is he?" I look blank. He nods at the gleaming Bentley I've clambered out of and I suddenly see what he means - Sunday morning, scruffy bloke, family shop, &pound;132,500 6-litre convertible. It doesn't add up. "Yes," I say, and then bafflingly, "even we chauffeurs have to shop." And I hurry inside.To be fair, if you were a back-seat CEO who relished the crunch of a leather brogue on a gravel drive and a white-gloved hand on the steering wheel, then the Continental GT would not be the car for you. It is a four-seater, but the back row is aimed at a brace of size-00 trophy mistresses. In fact, the "Conti GT" is a bit of a trophy mistress itself. It's the smallest Bentley - and the cheapest. Incredibly, this 2-tonne tourer is referred to as the "Baby Bentley". And compared to its siblings, the Arnage, the Azure and the &pound;230,000 Brooklands, the Conti, which starts at &pound;117,500, is very much the runt of the litter. And is very much aimed at bleary 43-year-old family men in ill-fitting tracksuit bottoms...The muscular two-door coup&eacute; was launched in 2006, four years after the legendary marque was bought by Volkswagen for &pound;430m - and has had a few nips and tucks since to keep it looking fresh. But the tweaks are nothing compared to the bling-tastic body makeovers the car has had at the whim of some of America's more exuberant entrepreneurs who snapped up 40% of the 10,014 cars sold last year. Over here, Wayne Rooney bought a baby blue one for Coleen - apparently picking it up while wearing only socks. But while grey-haired men in Pringle jumpers will see the Continental as an unwelcome dilution of the exclusivity of the brand, Mr Walter O Bentley, a twentysomething engineer obsessed with performance who started the company in 1919, would have been thrilled. The 20s were known as the marque's golden decade, thanks mostly to "a group of wealthy British automobile aficionados" known as the Bentley Boys (which, allowing for cultural inflation, can be read as "a bunch of lairy speed louts") who pulled off stunts such as racing a train from Cannes to London.So what do you get in an entry-level Bentley? In a word, everything. It's blunt looks grew on me over the week, though there was never any arguing over its presence, even in gun-metal grey. Inside, the car is a paean to luxury. The vast seats are the size of dentists' chairs and can be moved in as many ways. The dashboard is highly polished walnut, the fittings are heavy-duty chrome, with the ancient (the organ-stop air-vent controls) in total harmony with the modern (the music/navigation/aircon screen). And everywhere there are surprise-and-delight features: the finger-touch boot opener, the Breitling clock, the tiny B logos on the wheels' hubcaps... But nothing surprises or delights more than its performance. The 6-litre, W12 engine will take you from zero to 62mph in an astonishing 4.8 seconds and will do 195mph, yet the car feels composed and unruffled at all times. As my neighbour observed after a spin round the block: "There's nothing wrong with this car." But then, he didn't have to fill it up.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The new Renault M&eacute;gane Coup&eacute; is slightly odd-looking, a squat wedge shape with a bum bag of a boot. Not unattractive, but not a head-turner. The idea that its design is so radical that it will cause strangers to seek out the owner is not borne out by experience.Time and again, as I walked up to the car, all but waving the remote key in the air, members of the public did not ask, "Is that your car?" I gave them every opportunity, loitering next to the driver's door, or needlessly putting something in the boot and removing it, but not a word, no inquiries, nothing.It may be a cynical conclusion to reach, but this seemed to suggest that advertising campaigns are not always an accurate reflection of life. With that sobering thought in mind, I set about the more mundane task of actually driving the car.The key thing about updates, of course, is that they should make their predecessors look dated. The M&eacute;gane has never been the most adventurous of vehicles, but the earlier incarnations, though successful, now appear lumpenly bland.This new model, with its nose pointing downwards, seems like an animal impatient to charge off into the future. But to satisfy that impatience you must first locate the press-button ignition. One of the charms of modern car design is its reluctance to submit to the convenience of convention.After you've tried programming a few different satnavs, or working out where the release is for the fuel tank plug in several makes of car, or had to wonder at the whereabouts of various switches to wind down windows, you appreciate the effort that goes into avoiding the obvious.So it is with the ignition button, which turns up on the passenger's side of the gear stick. The ignition finally engaged, the impatience is soon felt in the gear changes. Get your revs slightly wrong and there are some jumpy shifts at low speed. The taut suspension adds to the sense in an urban setting of a machine straining at the leash. Mm, you think, this is going to be fun.However, there are notably diminishing returns as you speed up. On the motorway the sixth gear turns out to be less the batmobile hyperdrive option that it usually represents in such cars, and more a strict necessity. In short, the M&eacute;gane Coup&eacute; accelerates towards comfortable normality.Perhaps the adverts are right after all and it's best experienced at rest. In any case, when I arrived at my hotel, a porter asked me if it was my car. I nodded with what I hoped was blas&eacute; pride. "Could you move it away from the fire gate?" he said. Well, at least he noticed.Renault M&eacute;gane Coup&eacute; TCE 180Price£18,644Top speed143mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.8 secondsAverage consumption37.2mpgCO2 emissions178g/kmEco rating6.5At the wheelPaul McCannBound forCheshireIn a wordCurious
New Play Control! Pikmin - Nintendo WiiPart of Nintendo's "New Play Control!" series - which sees welcome plunder of the GameCube's back catalogue mildly retooled for use with the Wii-remote - comes the return of those charming extraterrestrial plant creatures, the Pikmin. In case you missed it first time round, this is a typically Nintendo take on the real-time strategy genre, relocating it to a tranquil garden setting and replacing military units with 2cm-tall "sprouts". Hurling them wholesale at enemies and obstacles, you overcome problems with crowds of appropriately skilled Pikmin, whose cries of pain as they die in the churning jaws of various hungry indigenous beasts is enough to melt the stoniest heart. Its graphics, music and sound effects hail from a simpler time, but retain every ounce of their childlike charm, and while the Wii-remote isn't quite as finely tuned to Pikmin control as the old GameCube joypad was, this is still a minor classic.• Nintendo, &pound;29.99F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin - PC, PS3 (reviewed), Xbox 360Starting just before the nuclear explosion that brought the original F.E.A.R. to a close, Project Origin sees spooky psychic girl Alma's reign of terror continue as you go back in with another ill-fated special forces team to fight spectres with good old conventional munitions. The upshot is a great deal of highly atmospheric corridor wandering, interspersed with weird hallucinations and intense firefights that can only be won by using the game's brief slow-motion ability to line up tricky shots before nipping back into cover before anyone shoots you back. The elegance of its level design and exquisitely metered atmosphere set this apart from more pedestrian efforts, but there's nothing here you'd mistake for innovation. Not that it matters - as a meeting point of J-horror chills and explosively kinetic gun battles, this is an unashamed, non-stop adrenaline express train.• Warner Bros, &#163;34.99 - &#163;39.99Wild West Guns - iPhoneMaking games that you can play between bus stops requires a fundamentally different set of priorities from big budget console releases, not least because controlling things using a touch screen with no tactile feedback means iPhone can't handle the complexity your Xbox 360 or PSP take for granted. If you want to see how badly wrong things can go, try the woefully over-engineered Brothers In Arms, which tries to cram a full blown first person shooter into a system with no buttons. Far better is Wild West Guns, where you tap the screen to shoot processions of moving targets, flying sombreros and banditos in neatly bite-sized Western-themed levels. Simple, instantly rewarding and perfect for 10-minute sessions, you can finish it in an hour, which, for less than the price of a pint, is just the sort of throwaway entertainment you need on the way to work.• Gameloft, &#163;2.99
The world'smost pointless escalator is in JapanWhich rockstar waitresses secretly call Twat WaffleHollywood and helmetscan make you coolRonald McDonaldis frighteningThe secretlife of StormtroopersHow todo the Migraine SkankIn hindsightthose Greek Gods were a bit over the topBear plustranquillizer gun plus trampoline equals comedyIt's anice day for a goth wedding
BLDG BLOG"Urban speculation, landscape futures" and mind-blowing drawings of space-age constructions.Entschwindet Und VergehtReporting from the Negative Equity Ghetto of Thamesmead, location of A Clockwork OrangeArchitecturelistBlogging on the latest super structures from China and Dubai, plus Russia's plans for the 2014 Winter Olympics.Archi LookCollecting architecture themed YouTube clips.PrunedEclectic mix covering New York tunnels, desert golf courses and Manchester Bury &amp; Bolton canal.ArchidoseDaily dose of architectural brain food.
Space Invader nostalgia is all over the web at the moment, and none finer than the video for Happy Up Here by the electro duo from Troms&oslash;, Norway, which finds an excellent use for lightbulbs and shows the 1980s arcade game acted out in reality. This and other promos are housed at this minimal abode, which is primed for the realease of their next album, Junior. Torbj&ouml;rn and Svein take an active interest in their site, not least to impress us with a series of lists: top five animals, top five male eyes and top five villain names in movies (Emperor Ming, Thulsa Doom, Xander Drax, Hector Savage, Francisco Scaramanga). "This is a name that truly inspires fear amongst fellow human beings," they write of the latter.
The cavernous lair in the 1968 movie Danger Diabolik - complete with revolving bed, hidden giant clam-shell entrance into which you drive your E-Type Jag and honeycomb lounges - wins the prize here for best Spy Vibe film set. The fact that the film's spy had to wear a suit that looks as if he's about to pull crazy shapes on Hole In The Wall is a small price to pay. Also here are secret agent gadgets, rare interview footage of Patrick McGoohan, reproductions from the Man From U.N.C.L.E. comics, a tribute to Michael Caine and links to other retro spy enthusiasts.
What is your favorite piece of technology, and why?Oh jeez. My BlackBerry. It saved my emotional life while i was in India for seven-and-a-half months this past year. I was able to be in touch with my daughter, my boyfriend and my friends. No matter where i was – from the jungles of Kerala to the streets of Mumbai – I was never far from home.How has it improved your life?I look like a grown-up when I use it. Or a president. See above answer for additional reasons.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About 20 seconds ago, to tell my father congratulations on his beautiful wedding last night.What additional features would you add if you could?A built in appetite suppressant and an ATM.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I intend to be around to find out.What one tip would you give to non-BlackBerry users?Get one.Do you consider yourself a luddite or a nerd?I am proudly both – modern but stone-aged.What is the most expensive piece of technology you have ever owned?A hand-me-down Bang and Olufsen stereo.Mac or PC?MAC MAC MAC MAC MACWhat song is at the top of your ipod's top 25 most-played list?Ghosts, by the Red Sun bandWill robots rule the world?I say no. My youngest brother, Riley, says YES.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A home theatre, fully loaded.•Jennifer Lynch's new film,Surveillance, goes on general release across the UK today
This isn't the column I was supposed to write this week.The column I was supposed to write this week was a jealousy-filled pseudo-rant about my friends Alex and Josh and the amazing entrepreneurs ski trip to Verbier they organised, and which, at the last minute, I couldn't attend.The "column I was supposed to write" went on to say that, despite following the Twitter updates and the various other social media reports coming from the mountain, it could never be a substitute for actuallybeingthere; something that the makers of Second Life and any other "virtual meeting technology" would do well to realise.That column – the column I was supposed to write – was nearly finished. I was just waiting for the attendees – many of whom I've spent happy times travelling the world with – to get home so I could wrap the whole thing up with an amusing quote or two about what a ball they'd all had. Certainly, judging by their Twitter streams, it has been a brilliant trip.And then, late on Monday afternoon, the updates coming out of Verbier changed dramatically. Tom Boardman, co-founder of Firebox and one of the entrepreneurs on the trip, posted a series of messages saying that the weather on the mountain had taken a turn for the worst. Apparently, he'd only just managed to make it safe back to his chalet in total white-out conditions. He was worried, though, because Rob Williams and Jason Tavaria – the two founders of Dolphin Music – were still lost out in the blizzard.As time went on, the updates from Tom and the rest of the group became more and more frantic. As has now been widely reported, contact was eventually made with Jason and, using GPS coordinates from his iPhone, he was able to be rescued by the Verbier mountain rescue service. Rob was still missing but everyone seemed confident that he couldn't have strayed far from where he and Jason lost contact. Josh tweeted that he was ordering hot pizza ahead of their safe return.And then came the hideous silence. Abruptly the updates from the mountain stopped and Twittered requests for news went unanswered. Those of us who were in phone or text contact with the group were asked to keep the horrific news to ourselves until Rob's family had been contacted, but it didn't take a genius to figure out what the silence meant.Since confirmation of Rob's death was made public, numerous news outlets – includingthe Mail,the Telegraph,Sky News,the BBCandthe Guardian– have reported the story. The Mail, curiously, chose to lead with the fact that "Apprentice winner" Michelle Dewberry was part of the group, as if a celebrity's horror at the events was somehow more important that that of all of his other friends on the trip, or somehow made the death of a 29-year-old man more newsworthy.But there was one key element of the story that all outlets could agree on: this was a very modern story about how "micro–blogging service" Twitter was used to trigger a dramatic mountain rescue.Nonsense.Twitter may be popular and it may be sexy and it may have news editors salivating at the chance to name-check it on their front pages, but it had nothing whatsoever to do with the rescue of Jason. GPS, his iPhone, some quick thinking by other members of the group, and the skill and professionalism of the Verbier mountain rescue service take all of the credit there.Likewise, with the exception of trying to track down Rob's mobile number (eventually found on his website), social networking played no part in "triggering" the attempt to rescue him. If any technology deserves credit here, then it's the myriad electronic tools the mountain rescue service had at their disposal. No – at its core, Rob's tragic – and tragically young – death is a human story, not a digital one.And yet, that's not to say that the role of Twitter doesn't deserve examination, and credit. It deserves both – but in their enthusiasm to somehow cram the latest techno-news fad into their stories, most journalists failed to realize why.Horrible accidents happen every day around the world. So much so that, as humans, we've learned to filter out the emotions we're supposed to feel about them, unless we are somehow directly involved. In our heads, we know a plane crash in Africa is tragic, but unless we knew anyone on board, we find it hard to actually feel empathy in our hearts for the victims. It's this same need for a personal connection that has made Jade Goody the country's most famous cancer patient –we all feel like we know her so her plight feels real to us – and it's the same need that lead the Mail, to their shame, to focus on Michelle's presence in Verbier.  Most Mail readers didn't know Rob, but they feel like they know Michelle – so they decide to run a photograph of her, and not him.I didn't know Rob either, but the fact that his accident so directly affected so many of my friends made the events feel horribly real from the outset. What was remarkable though is how many other people – people with absolutely no real connection whatsoever to members of the group – became emotionally involved in the search, simply because they followed Alex, or Josh, or Tom or Michelle or any of the others on Twitter. Countless people "retweeted" the updates from the mountain, others expressed real concern when things went quiet, and many, many more expressed their heart-felt sorrow when the worst was confirmed.It's easy to argue, as one friend did yesterday, that there was an element of voyeurism involved, like a real life episode of "999" being played out with social media. There certainly was – but that's only half of it.Like Facebook, and to a lesser extent MySpace, Twitter encourages users to use their real names and photos when registering and to post real updates about they are really doing at any given time. As a result, even if we have never met many of the people we "follow", we feel engaged, on some level, with their lives. These people become almost micro-micro celebrities to us, with even their most mundane activities – buying bread, going skiing – becoming utterly fascinating, if only for 15 seconds.As we cast our online social net wider and wider, so the odds increase that when a tragic event occurs, we'll have a connection – no matter how small – to someone involved. And, as was made clear this week, these increased connections with our fellow human beings bring an increased sense of empathy when bad things happen to them. A small example: I Twittered a slightly tasteless joke about Leah Betts the other day and immediately felt horrible about it – not because I know anyone who knew her, but because, thanks to technology, I feel like Icoulddo.  She wasn't just a face in a newspaper, she was a real human being – and that changes the rules.A bigger example: this time last year, at the SXSW festival in Austin, Mark Zuckerberg was mocked for saying that, by bringing together Israelis and Palestinian teenagers, Facebook could contribute to bringing peace to the Middle East. "Oh, please," we all groaned. But, you know what, I'm starting to think he had a point. When you connect with people, and start to understand them, it's much, much harder to feel blind hatred.Social media may not have averted tragedy this week, and I can't imagine amount of well wishing from strangers can take away the sense of loss that Rob's family and friends must be feeling now. But hopefully they can take some comfort in the fact that, thanks to Twitter, those well wishes aren't the usual platitudes expressed by strangers but a genuinely felt sense of shock and sympathy over a good and inspiringly successful man's life, cut so tragically short.Twitter is making us all care just a little bit more – and a little bit more genuinely – about strangers, and that can only be a good thing.After all, there but for the grace of God goes any one of us.Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Police officials in Chicago are seeking to ban "erotic services" advertising on the online classifieds site Craiglist, and have filed a $100,000 federal lawsuit accusing it of being "the single largest source of prostitution" in the US.Thomas Dart, the sheriff of Cook County, Illinois, yesterday announced that he was asking judges to ban postings to the category, and force the reimbursement of the police department for the cost of its investigations."They have crafted their site to accommodate people," Dart told reporters. "None of the ads require any imagination. There's no mystery at all. We all know what's going on here."Craigslist, based in San Francisco, is one of the world's most popular websites and brings in an estimated $80m of revenues annually for the privately-held company. Its profits are not disclosed. Although it is free to advertise on most of the site, the company charges for listings in certain categories – such as job and apartment listings.It also charges a flat rate of $5 for each advert listed in its "erotic services" category, although it donates the proceeds to charity.Dart said that an FBI study had found Craigslist carried more than 2,800 child prostitution adverts, with Chicago one of the top ten cities for underage prostitution."Missing children, runaways, abused women and women trafficked in from foreign countries are routinely forced to have sex with strangers because they're being pimped on craigslist," he asserted. The lawsuit is to recover the costs to his department that it has spent pursuing its investigation over the past year.But Dart indicated mounting frustration with progress. "I could make arrests [of advertisers] off Craiglist 24 hours a day, but to what end?" he said at a news conference. "I'm trying to go up the ladder."In a statement, Craigslist spokeswoman Susan Best said that advertising illegal activities broke the site's terms and conditions and was "not tolerated"."While we have not yet seen the complaint filed by the Cook County sheriff, misuse of Craiglist to facilitate criminal activity is completely unacceptable, and we continue to work diligently to prevent it," she told the Guardian.The site requires detailed and verification from anybody advertising erotic services, including credit card details and telephone contact numbers. According to Best, these records have provided valuable information to police forces around the US in previous investigations."Craigslist is an extremely unwise choice for those intent on committing crimes, since criminals inevitably leave an electronic trail to themselves that law enforcement officers will follow" she said.Indeed, officers in Cook County – which is home to Chicago and boasts a population of more than 5m people – have conducted a number of long-running investigations based on information gathered from the site.That includes a four-month sting last year that was focused on individuals who had listed their services on the site. That operation, which involved undercover officers posing as potential clients, resulted in the arrest of 76 people last summer.Meanwhile a three-month investigation in 2007 ended with four men being charged for running a prostitution ring.However, Dart said that he wanted reimbursement for those investigations, and made reference to an FBI investigation last year which resulted in five people being arrested over the running of a child prostitution ring that advertised itself on the site."This is horrific stuff, folks … yet we have this website that facilitates this," he said. "Since when have we felt good about a legitimate business that facilitates an illegal act?"Best responded by saying that the website – which was founded in 1995 as an email newsletter by computer programmer Craig Newmark – was happy to help the police whenever it could."Craigslist has a long history of cooperation with law enforcement," Best said. "On a daily basis, we are being of direct assistance to police departments and federal authorities nationwide."
Probably not... unless you're drummer Lars Ulrich, anyway.Over the years the heavy metal stalwarts have been one of the most vociferous opponents of online filesharing – indeed, their lawsuit was one of the spurs behind the case that brought down the site that started the peer-to-peer movement, Napster.But in recent years the band's attitude appears to have shifted – to the point where are even downloading their own albums for nothing from filesharing services.Talking to VH1, Ulrich revealed that he had illegally downloaded the band's latest album as a test."I sat there myself and downloaded Death Magnetic from the internet just to try it," he said. "I was like, 'Wow, this is how it works'. I figured if there is anybody that has a right to download Death Magnetic for free, it's me.""I sat there one night at my house with about six of my friends and a bottle of wine," he said. "We found it… I was like 'You know what? I've got to try this.'"That might come as a surprise like the Recording Industry Association of America, which has championed a number of filesharing lawsuits and equated peer-to-peer downloading with shoplifting.The comments were certainly lapped up on pro-filesharing websites, which lined up to comment.Metallica are hypocrites, wrote Blorge.net, while smirkedTorrentfreak.com"Welcome to the 21st century."Still, despite being a high-profile musician for nearly 30 years, Ulrich clearly still retains a perfect sense of timing: his comments could hardly have come at a more finely-balanced moment for filesharers.Thetrial of Swedish website The Pirate Bay– which is used by millions of people to find copyright-busting downloads of movies, music and TV shows – has been in full swing over recent weeks. Lawyers on both sides have now closed their arguments, and a judgment is due next month.Quite what caused Ulrich's position to soften is fuzzy. Possibly it's the result of the group therapy sessions the band famously underwent the early 2000s, documented in their Spinal Tap-esque movie Some Kind of Monster."We didn't know enough about the kind of grassroots thing, and what had been going on the last couple months in the country as this whole new phenomenon was going on," Ulrich said of Napster. "We were just so stuck in our controlling ways of wanting to control everything that had to do with Metallica."(ends)
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
If, like me, you are still ploughing through the pile of games released in Oct and Nov last year then you've probably come across Mirror's Edge and Dead Space. Published by EA the new games - both new IP – were released in the middle of the pre-Christmas rush and suffered accordingly. Neither metsales expectations.But EA's Games Europe Senior VP Patrick Söderlund thinks both games will eventually be seen as a success:I think if you analyze games like Dead Space and Mirror's Edge for their lifetime performance, I bet you'll find them to be seen as successfulBut Söderlund admits that releasing new potential franchises towards the end of the year was not the best timing.They're both new IPs; it's hard to break new ground with new IPs, especially in that Q3 window, when you have games like Gears of War 2, Call of Duty 5, and a bunch of other really strong products with a 2, or 3, or 4, or 5 on it. So, I think that we could have done a better job as far as ship timing on, probably, both of those.And who can argue? Both Dead Space and Mirror's Edge would have almost certainly fared better in – say – June when competition for both shelf space and media coverage was far weaker.Talking about Mirror's Edge specifically Söderlund admits the first game wasn't perfect but "future versions" will fix issues.What I'm saying is that I think that as long as you learn from your previous product, and you learn from what worked and what didn't work, you're ultimately going to be okay.So, did you play/buy Mirror's Edge or Dead Space? If not would you have been more tempted if they had been released at a quieter time of the year like last summer or last month?
Despite the remarkable use of technology during the Obama campaign, the White House has beendragging its heelsin a number of important appointments to hi-tech posts.Well, at least one step forward was made today when the White House officially namedVivek Kundra, the CTO of Washington, DC, to the job of America's chief information officer.What does that mean? A lot of it is about making the federal government's use of technology smarter and more effective, according to theWhite House press release:The Federal Chief Information Officer directs the policy and strategic planning of federal information technology investments and is responsible for oversight of federal technology spending.  The Federal CIO establishes and oversees enterprise architecture to ensure system interoperability and information sharing and ensure information security and privacy across the federal government.  The CIO will also work closely with the Chief Technology Officer to advance the President's technology agenda.Tim O'Reilly, the publisher, calls Kundra a "rock star" and pointed out that he's a fan of government transparency and believes that thegovernment can release data that can create new industries. Sounds like he'd appreciate the goal of the Guardian'sFree Our Data campaign.But there's still a big empty gap in there: there isstillno chief technology officer.I've written before about this job - which was an important part of Obama's campaign rhetoric (at least as far as helping woo Silicon Valley and the technology industry). And I've asked a number of leading people what they think about it,including Vint Cerf.The job hasn't disappeared - note the says the CIO will work closely with the CTO (implying that there will be a CTO in the end). But right now, fully four months since winning the election, the new administration has still not named somebody to that job. Will they ever get there?
In Los Angeles, a 27-year-old Mahalo employee has been sentenced to four years in prison for his part in infecting up to 250,000 computers with malware. John Schiefer, a security consultant, was arrested following the FBI's Operation Bot Roast II investigation and pleaded guilty last year. He also has to pay back $19,000 to PayPal and other firms.Basically, the crime-ring collected log-on names and passwords and used them to make purchases. Schiefer also installed adware on a Dutch company's computers.If this sounds familiar, it's because we covered it in November 2007, inBotnet creator pleads guilty, faces jail: 250K PCs safe again (we hope), when Charles Arthur wrote: "he faces up to 60 years in prison and (and?) a $1.75m (£850,000) fine."What makes the story interesting now is thatJason Calacanis has spoken up for him on his blog. It turns out thatMahalohired Schiefer without knowing about his crimes -- someone forgot to use Google -- and thinks he's worth a second chance. He could have fired him, of course, but:The other option was to keep John on and deal with the potential firestorm of criticism that we're now facing.I chose to put my job and reputation on the line and keep John employed.At this moment, I'm honestly glad we didn't know about what John did when we hired him and I'm happy we've kept him on board. It's taught me a lot about society, computer crime and rehabilitation.Calacanis points out that "Almost all talented developers push the envelope when they're young. Anyone in technology knows this dark, dirty little secret," and he gives some examples. But, he says:I'm hoping that the time he's spent being a productive member of the Mahalo team inspires him to keep his head down in jail. When he comes out, I hope to be able to offer him a job and that we can work together again. Life is short, we all make mistakes and I'm glad we've been given the opportunity to work with someone who needs the help and guidance.Props to Calacanis for his stand. Let's hope it all works out.
Someinteresting articlesabout MMO gold farming in the paper/online today. Rowenna Davis investigates the world of "playbourers" who make their living farming gold in World of Warcraft. One of the "farmers" Li Hua describes the working conditions:The working conditions are hard. We don't get weekends off and I only have one day free a month. But compared to other jobs it is good. I have no other skills and I enjoy playing sometimes.Do gamers who buy this gold care about these conditions? The one interviewed for the featuredidn't seem bothered.I don't think about the workers. I think about the product. Do you think about factory workers when you put on your socks?Perhaps unsurprisingly given the popularity of the game the USseems to bethe biggest market for gold farming.Most of our customers are from America but they are all kinds of people – students, old, young – people of all ages and careers.I've played WoW on and off since launch and have not yet been tempted to buy virtual gold. But then I'm not trying to keep up with hardcore players who have time to burn. If I was then the temptation would be there and clearly the market is a real and viable.What do you think then? Any WoW players here been tempted to splash out for virtual riches? And if so, why?
They're back. Chris Redfield, viral psychopaths, herbs, shotguns, mutating monsters, fractured sci-fi plotlines… I'm two hours into Resident Evil 5 and for someone who's played every title it's like coming home – it just happens to be a terrifying home filled with monsters, gore and death.I reviewed Resi 4 for Official PlayStation Magazine, completing it in one mammoth sitting, emerging shaky and terrorised from the games room. Now here's Resident Evil 5, and almost immediately it is familiar – it even starts just like number four did, a slow descent into an unnerving village, then a frenzied attack, followed by chaos.But does this mannered series make sense anymore? I'm two hours in. And yes, right now, yes it does…To get one thing straight; those expecting the wholesale transmogrification of Resi 5 into a modern action title will be very quickly disappointed. For a start, the control system is only a slightly tuned version of Resi 4's – there's still no hot-swapping between weapons, and although you don't have to suffer a separate inventory screen anymore (you get a pop-up menu these days), you'll still find yourself grappling with buttons and swearing loudly as you clumsily switch from handgun to machine pistol – often with a monster lurching at you.This isn't the only old skool trapping. Like its predecessors Resident Evil 5 presents a world of linearity and context-sensitive actions. You can't just leap from a roof, you have to wait til you're in the right position for the Leap command to appear on screen. Similarly, during moments of close-combat, you can't just kick or punch an enemy, you have to wait for a kick or punch option to become available, often providing just milliseconds for you to follow the button-press command. In short, this is Resident Evil of old – every experience is directed and controlled, the player merely stumbling and grappling to maintain some semblance of jurisdiction.In some ways, this is probably comforting news for the purists. Resident Evil is still a horror game; it's not Call of Duty Modern Combat. It's patently not Gears of War. You can't dive for cover and blind spray at baddies with a Mac-10. You stutter, you shoot, you back away, you hit obstacles, you struggle to remember which shoulder button aims your gun and which shifts to the knife. You get better, but you die in the process.At times, the traditionalism of Resi 5 is positively quaint. Near the end of chapter one, you run into a dock area and see a half-sunken craft out at sea; but it's a 2D image seemingly painted onto the scene, like a backdrop in a Victorian theatre. Having to search cupboards only to be told 'there's nothing of interest here' is pure retro pointlessness. And the herb system is just so anachronistic in an age where medi-paks have been largely replaced by automatically recovering health gauges.But, fear not, this is also Resident Evil at it's best. It is Resident Evil tidily and ruthlessly updated to make the most of – but not bow down to – modern technology. The atmosphere is amazingly well-crafted and sustained. The detail is staggering. Kijuju is a mass of hovels and huts, lurking under rusting corrugated roofs. Flies buzz about your face, chickens scuttle by, rats lurk in the dank low tunnels and basements. In a butcher's shop, hanging animal carcases mix and mingle with piles of human entrails. You can almost smell flesh rotting under the beating sun.And the dev team have used sunshine, as co-producer Masachika Kawata said they would – as a brilliant horror device. The heat is palpable, there is a woozy, feverish feel to everything. It seems as though the whole place is over-ripe and fit to burst. Enemies, meanwhile, lurk in the shade, and often the first you know of impending trouble is the shadow of a contorted figure cast across a wall. Oh yeah, killer dogs are back. Mad dogs, rabid and frothing and coming at you in packs.Meanwhile the story picks up the strands of Resident Evil 4. Umbrella is gone, but the corporation's legacy is a mass of bio-weaponry released onto the terrorist market. Chris Redfield is part of a crack squad hitting terror blackspots, making sure no-one gets the chance to drop a vial full of T-Virus in a crowded street. But in Kijuju, it's already happened. There's something like the Resi 4 plagas on the loose, turning locals into rampaging maniacs. But it's different. The enemies seem smarter. They attack in organised groups. They're relentless.Early on, you realise that - once again - it's all about evasion rather than confrontation; there's loads of ammo hidden about, but nowhere near enough to get you through each set-piece. The early stages feature Chris chased through labyrinthine back alleys chased by hordes of locals – you think you can get away by jumping from rooftop to rooftop, but they leap after you. Later, you can buy and upgrade more powerful weapons (plus there are various grenades and armour options), but really, there's no substitute for using the environment, blocking doors and windows, climbing ladders. Getting away.There are puzzles, there is panic, there are people mutating into jittering beasts as you shoot them. There is camp macho dialogue, there are whole squads of soldiers chopped to pieces by boss monsters. So far this is survival horror as it should be. It is mesmerising, compulsive and eerie. And as a co-op experience (I've only played it with an AI Sheva, who proves reasonably helpful and unobtrusive) it will provide incredibly good, jumpy fun.I can't wait to get back in there.
Primate Labs has run its Geekbench processor/memory benchmarks on some of the new Macs (below) andposted the results on its blog. The results are not particularly exciting, and AppleInsider's headline summed them up:Benchmarks of 2009 iMacs, Mac minis show negligible speed-upsWhere the clock speeds are the same, the results are pretty much the same, which is what you'd expect. A new iMac that has increased the clock speed by 4.64% from 2.8GHz to  2.93GHz iMac similarly offers roughly a 5%  improvement. However, the new 3.06GHz iMac was not tested.The Mac Mini shows the biggest increase but "still only gains about 7% despite leaping two generations ahead in processor technology at 2GHz," says AppleInsider. But again, the new 2.26GHz version was not tested: it should be 13% faster, though that's still not much to write home about.Some test results will be added later.Primate Labs concludes:Processor performance hasn't increased substantially in the latest hardware; the performance increase seems to scale with processor speed. This isn't surprising, since neither the iMac nor the Mac mini moved to a new processor architecture.You might want to keep this in mind if you're looking for a new Mac; you might be better off getting a discontinued (or refurbished) previous-generation Mac rather than one of the new Mac models.That might be worth considering in the UK, given that the new models have increased in price. However, it completely overlooks the benefits of the improved nVidia graphics, which were especially needed on the old Mac Mini.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
I work for a company with 20 employees across five offices, and we're wondering if we can get network-style functionality - automated backups, data sharing, shared diary and contact database systems - at a cut price using "cloud computing".Lee Corless"Cloud computing" involves doing things using remote servers on the web, rather than servers that you install and own yourself. Assuming you all have fast, reliable internet connections, then the smaller and more spread out the company, the more sense cloud computing makes. Your company sounds a good candidate. However, there are drawbacks. It's essential that your company keeps its own copies of all data, because online services can be unavailable (Gmail was recently down for hours, and "hangs" often). Users can be locked out by network and password problems, and suppliers have been known to accidentally delete records, or go bust. If you don't have control of your own data, then you are betting the company on someone who has little or no interest in your survival. Thus, moving to the cloud solves some problems, but it introduces others that may be hazardous to your corporate health.There are other drawbacks. Online services are slower and generally much less powerful than desktop alternatives. You may not need all the features, but slower operation comes at a significant cost in staff time. It therefore makes sense to do things locally if you do them a lot, and in the cloud if only infrequently. Another problem is that you can end up using online applications from many different sources, so you have a confusing mixture of user interfaces and grab-bags of poorly integrated data. Finally, there may be regulatory and privacy issues when sensitive data is not under your exclusive control.Google Apps is an obvious choice for a cloud service but, although we use them at the Guardian, they're somewhat primitive and better suited to amateur and very small business use.Zoho's Office Suiteis far more comprehensive, more powerful (especially the spreadsheet), and much more like a real application suite. General Electric is one company that is dumping Google Apps to try Zoho. The most likely rival to Zoho is Microsoft'sBusiness Productivity Online Suite(BPOS), which has just been launched in the UK. BPOS is just getting off the ground, but if you use Microsoft software such as Office, Exchange and SBS, the Small Business Suite, it should make the move to cloud computing easier.
I've been told thate2everyone.comwill be the new Facebook, only better. I suspect this is phishing, a scam or a virus.Grahame StevensIt doesn't look like any of those, but it does look like a pyramid scheme. People who join get free shares, and they get more free shares for signing up their friends, for recommending improvements and other actions. Members can keep their shares or sell them to other people, so they are, in effect, a form of currency. The idea is that the site will have more than 100 million members by 2012, at which point the free shares should be worth real money. Whether they will be worth more than a few pence per million is another matter. I really don't believe the 3,000 bonus shares that your friend will get for converting you will be worth £1,740 in 2012. Whether the people behind e2everyone.com have other plans for making money remains to be seen, but I wouldn't give them my main email address.
I want to copy a 13GB file to my USB-connected external hard drive, but Windows XP refuses to do so. My computer shows there is 45GB free.David ConnollyUsually the problem is that external hard drives are shipped using the old FAT (File Allocation Table) format, which cannot handle files larger than 4GB. Right-click the drive in Windows Explorer and select Properties to find out. You will need to change the formatting to NTFS (New Technology File System). Seehttp://support.microsoft.com/kb/307881
Meeting Asus last week, I had a look at a scaled-up Asus S101 – the gorgeous one with the discreet Swarovski crystals –with a 12in screen instead of the 10in version. Wasn't the S121 pushing it for a netbook, I wondered? "People want to buy bigger screens," replied Asus's Hailuen Ling.Asus gets credit for starting the netbook market in 2007 with the Eee PC 700, which had a 7in screen and was initially targeted at the schools market. RMintroduced it to the UK as the MiniBook, running Linux. The idea was that it would be a consumer appliance, like a CD player or TV set: no support would be needed, beyond a reset to factory condition.This sort of netbook was clearly different from a notebook PC. It saved money by having a small screen, no hard drive, and no Microsoft Windows — though at the time, RM said Windows and hard drives would be offered in later models. Since then, netbook screens have grown through 8.9in and 10.2in versions to the latest 12in models, and hard drives have gone from 40GB through 80GB to 160GB. Also, most netbooks now run Windows XP, thanks partly to a cut-price deal from Microsoft.So in most respects, the only real difference between a netbook and a notebook is the use of an Intel Atom processor. This is smaller, cheaper and a lot less powerful than a Celeron, Pentium or Core chip, but it also runs cooler and provides much better battery life. There are some PCs with Atom chips that the suppliers say are not netbooks — examples include the Asus N10 and Sony's pocketable Vaio P-Series — but generally the distinction holds.Another difference is that netbooks leave out the CD/DVD drive, encouraging users to download applications or use web-based alternatives. However, there have been plenty of notebook PCs without CD/DVD drives, going back more than a decade. Examples include Toshiba's Libretto and Portégé ranges, and IBM's ThinkPad X series. But still, as the hardware specifications improve, netbooks are getting bigger and more expensive — more like notebook PCs, in fact.There will be some differentiation when Windows 7 arrives. Netbook suppliers will have the option of loading the cheapest Starter version, which is limited to running three applications at a time. As it's an image-based installation, users to will able to buy an in-place upgrade to a more powerful version of the operating system, if they want one.Also, netbooks are still 32-bit systems, whereas notebooks are moving to 64-bit version of Windows. (Microsoft says giant US retailer Best Buy has already switched.) Netbooks will typically have 2GB of memory whereas 64-bit notebooks will have 4GB, 8GB, 16GB or more. The question is, how competitive will Intel make the Atom? Will it promote cheap 64-bit multi-core designs? The Atom's very power-efficient Bonnell architecture was developed to help get Intel into new markets for what it calls MIDs (mobile internet devices), and when the Sodaville "system on a chip" version arrives, consumer electronics products. It's intended to slow the advance of ARM-based chips such as the Cortex A8 and A9, which are also aimed at the MIDs/netbook market.But the way things are going, Atom chips look like displacing sales of more expensive Core 2 processors. This could hit Intel's revenue and, perhaps, its profits. When faced with a similar challenge, Microsoft opted to sell cheap copies of XP rather than expensive copies of Vista. It hurt, but it helped stop Linux from taking over the netbook market. Will Intel take a similar line?
What does your job entail?You need to repeatedly kill monsters and creatures in-game and run instances [generate copies of events or situations] in-game. It is like working in a factory and the only difference is that this is a virtual world. There are many ways to farm gold on World of Warcraft. In the south, the middle edge of the Badlands zone and nestled in small valleys, you can farm normal rock elements. We also pick up loot by killing other players in the game. People seem to drop a lot of grey loot, which vendors for 50 silver to 1.5 WoW gold, and they drop it at every kill.What are your wages?I earn 800 to 1,200 yuan [£80 to £120] per month according to ability. I work 10 hours a day and I do day and night shifts. The working conditions are hard. We don't get weekends off, and I only have one day free a month. However, if we have something important we can ask the boss for a day off.Are food and accommodation included?Yes.What are the conditions like?The food is ordinary – two vegetable plus one meat plus rice. There are eight people in the room I stay in, with four bunk beds.Can you support yourself and your family on this wage?I can only support myself here, not my family.How does this job compare to other work you could get in China?Compared to other jobs, it is good for me to work in the game world while I have no other skills.How did you find out about this job?Through my friends in the area.Do you have any qualifications?I have no qualifications yet. I only have a high school graduation certificate.How do you feel about your job? Is it well respected?I feel good about my job. We get respect from colleagues in the game world.Do you think this job offers you career prospects?This job cannot offer me good development in my career. I have no idea about my future yet.How are the working conditions?The working conditions are hard for me.Are you monitored while you work?No.What is the best part about your job?The best part is that I can enjoy myself in the game sometimes. The worst part is that I only came here recently.This interview was facilitated by Anthony Gilmore, an independent film maker who is currently investigating Chinese gold farms as part of his new film, Play Money, due to be released at the end of this year. For more information visitplaymoneyfilm.com
The online music serviceSpotifyhas been dealt a blow after revealing that thousands of users' personal details may have been stolen by hackers.According to an announcement by the service, which has more than 1 million users, a group of individuals found a loophole in the program that gave them access to some users' passwords.Although the passwords are encrypted, Spotify confirmed that they were still potentially vulnerable to a so-called "brute force" attack to try to guess them."Along with passwords, registration information such as your email address, birth date, gender, postal code and billing receipt details were potentially exposed," Spotify said. "Credit card numbers are not stored by us and were not at risk."It said that the bug in the system was noticed and fixed shortly before Christmas, meaning that only users who signed up before 19 December could be affected. It is not clear how many users were using the service at that time, since Spotify was still an invitation-only service.It is a troubling moment for the business, based in Sweden and London, which has been hailed by some as the future of online music. The service has grown rapidly and has an estimated 250,000 users in the UK alone. It allows registered users instant access to a huge catalogue of music, picking any track they choose to stream directly over the internet to their computer.Unlike rival services such as Apple's iTunes, Spotify does not require music to be bought and downloaded. The system's users can either sign up and listen to music for free with advertising - just like commercial radio - or pay up to &pound;10 a month for ad-free access.The company plans to expand its offering to include applications that could run on mobile phones or even the iPod, allowing subscribers to access low-cost music over the internet from anywhere.
Fibre timeThe article about the rates levied on fibre-optic networks (Dark days for fibre startups, 26 February) illustrates how the rating system penalises innovation.Rateable property consists of two elements – natural capital, eg land; and man-made capital, eg buildings or, in this case, fibre-optic networks. There is, of course, a lot of other man-made capital not related to land. Why should the former be taxed, while the latter is not?Land itself is different. It is by definition not man-made but a gift of nature. Morally its value should belong to the community as a whole. Rates should be reformed so that they become a rent payable to the community for the use of the site, but not an arbitrary tax on man-made improvements.John SimpkinsFarnborough• Just wanted to say: good article. It demonstrates one of the more fundamental problems in the economy, which is the government itself.Miles Rostonby email• BT are reportedly paying a lot less tax on their fibre than Sohonet. This is ironic, when you consider that the latter was set up to provide a service the former could not offer at the time.thebroaderissue.comPay to playIn the Technology section today (GTA IV review, 26 February) the download GTA IV: The Lost &amp; The Damned is priced at £14 (equal to 1200 Microsoft Points). The price is closer to £10 based on a 2100 MS points card being officially priced at £17.99. As I purchased my 2100 MS points card at £15 I will be paying even less (£8.50).Mark Prestly,BirminghamNo LatitudeJemima Kiss (Can Google Latitude get my stolen phone back?, 26 February)seems to have omitted my favourite app for Windows Mobile: Wimp or rather,Where Is My Phone. This neat little app installs, then you can set it to be completely invisible, including uninstall files and system files. If a thief steals your phone and puts in a new sim card, Wimp starts up the inbuilt GPS and texts your predefined friend with the new number as well as its GPS location. Further updates of the GPS location are obtained by texting the phone with a code (which never reaches the phone's inbox), which promptly texts you back with an updated GPS location and a handy Google Maps link. This really is innovation, especially as GPS phones usually cost a pretty penny so peace of mind is well worth the price. Thankfully, without the need for an app store on Windows Mobile, I'm sure some enterprising people will make a free version soon. That being said, I was so impressed with the application, I am glad to give them money as a "thank you for being innovative" … Now I kind of want my phone stolen, just so I can see the look on the thief's face when I and a few accomplices stroll up to his house to reclaim it ...Guy HandelmanDublinKeeping piracy at bayWhatever you think about "illegal" downloading, trying to stop piracy by suing websites is like trying to mop up a puddle of water by stomping on it (Pirate Bay trial is the collision of "can I?" and "should I?" cultures, 26 February).chamberfour.comHolographic holesI'm afraid Victor Keegan is guilty of gushing a little at the speed of Musion's "ultra-fast fibre-optic infrastructure" (Holograms: coming to your front room, 26 February). The lack of latency (lag as he called it) was because his interviewee was in the same building, not far from him. Had he been in Tokyo, for example, there would inevitably have been some lag. No one, and no technology we can conceive of yet, can outstrip the speed of light. Also, what he witnessed, however impressive, was not a hologram but an optical illusion based on entirely different technology, known among illusionists as Pepper's Ghost (as was pointed out in a comment to his blog). This is Technology Guardian – we can handle the details.Colin HallDundee• I am intrigued by the use of the term "hologram" to refer to the Musion projection system. My understanding is that the system consists of a high-definition image from a projector that is bounced off a screen and is finally displayed on a virtually transparent plastic film. This is fundamentally the same as the Pepper's Ghost effect first demonstrated in the mid 19th century. Whilst the effect is undoubtedly impressive, it is no more a hologram than is the reflection of a television screen in a window.Kit Lane,DerbyGames revivalContrary to Alexander Gambotto-Burke's piece, it's really not that rare for characters to revive instantly after dying in games (Everyone's a winner in games' open world, 26 February). Many use a "checkpoint" system or depend on your ability to hit the quicksave button before a difficult point. I can't remember a single game which would force you to start from the beginning again after dying after about 1998. There are a few games that offer "hardcore" modes to challenge advanced players, but this is the exception, rather than the rule.Christian Sharpby emailFirefox v IELouis Malinowski (Ask Jack, 26 February) asks if Firefox is any better than Internet Explorer. I think the reason many sites do not display properly with Firefox is that they are designed to work with IE, and also if you try Firefox after using IE you may have to install such things as Flash player manually. The thing about Firefox (and Opera) is that they are W3 compliant and will render the test page found atwebstandards.org/action/acid2correctly whereas IE6 mangles it. I have managed to create XHTML1.0 Strict validated pages that Firefox/Opera rendered correctly but IE6/7 failed to draw borders round table cells, see a &lt;small&gt; tag and render text across a cell spanning four others correctly.John GreavesLondonEmail us attech@guardian.co.uk
Open source actionThe UK minister for digital engagement, Tom Watson, has announced an action plan for open source in public sector IT projects.Tiny Atoms for TaiwanTSMC (Taiwan Semiconductor) has signed a deal to make Intel Atom chips for consumer electronics products and industrial devices.Listen with Marcus du SautoyOxford University has launched Inside Oxford Science, a series of weekly podcasts.Boots upBoots and John Lewis are the top performers in a Webcredible study, looking at the accessibility of UK retailers' websites.Detach, revert, flip, holdAlways Innovating has previewed Touch Book, an ARM-powered netbook with a detachable keyboard.Aldi's better AkoyaMedion says it has increased the specification of its £279.99 Akoya Mini E1210 XP-based netbook, now on sale at Aldi.On the slideThe Electric Works development on Sheffield's Digital Campus will have a 26-metre, three-storey helter-skelter to get to the ground floor.AOL adds adsAOL.co.ukhas launched a site to provide free classified ads, in partnership with Oodle.
Last week I was invited on to the BBC World Service arts programme The Strand to talk about GTA IV: The Lost and Damned, the recently released, downloadable addition to Rockstar's successful gangland adventure. The presenter, Mark Coles, asked me about the key cinematic influences on GTA IV, a reasonable question considering the games industry has spent the past decade hanging on to the coat-tails of Hollywood. I pointed out, however, that the game's writer, Dan Houser, has claimed the game has no cinematic inspiration - in an interview with Variety last year he said: "We were consciously trying [not to imitate films] ... If videogames are going to develop into the next stage, then the thing isn't to try and do a loving tribute."This was more than just hubris; the videogame industry genuinely is in the process of transcending cinematic notions of narrative and structure. Games such as GTA IV and Fallout 3, and the forthcoming Prototype and inFamous, feature huge open worlds in which players have the power to roam as they please. The challenge facing developers is how to provide a cogent story while allowing players the freedom they crave. This is sometimes achieved through the use of AI (in Far Cry 2, when you encounter a computer-controlled character, they know where you are in the story and act accordingly) and by ordering scripts and stories into interchangeable chunks, which can self-assemble in real time: a kind of narrative Bittorrent.There is also talk of narratives in which each player in effect constructs their own stories through interactions with the game environment. The Sims is the most obvious example of this, though action games are having a go. The zombie shocker Left 4 Dead features a narrative system that alters the type of the attacks based on the style and abilities of each player. Other studios are making more modest advances - Ken Levine, the designer of BioShock, talks about creating stories that don't push plot points at the player but allow the player to "pull" information from the game world: to discover artefacts; glimpse key narrative moments; and work at uncovering stuff for themselves.The growing availability of downloadable levels and stories also means narratives can now be replayed from different perspectives. The Lost and Damned shows Liberty City not through the hopeful eyes of GTA IV's lead character, Niko Belli, but from the standpoint of an ageing, bored biker. These days, no videogame story need ever be static: developers can provide fresh twists or allow the player to construct their own tales from the material. In the near future, games won't be like films at all and the best game writers may be us.
Because the law was badly drafted, and internet service providers (ISPs), telecoms companies and copyright holders did not have a voluntary code for its use. That's what John Key, New Zealand's prime minister, said as he told a media conference that plans to introduce a law that would in part oblige ISPs to cut off "repeat copyright infringers" would be delayed until 27 March - and that if rights holders and ISPs couldn't agree on a code of practice, that part of the new law would be suspended indefinitely.But to online activists, the reason was much simpler: it was because of a campaign that encouraged people to black out their avatars on Facebook, Bebo, Twitter and other social media sites. Brenda Wallace, a developer who was instrumental in the campaign, said the inspiration was "an unsuccessful marketing campaign on Facebook for the NZ rugby team, the All Blacks, that asked people to change their avatars to a silver fern". Wallace suggested a similar strategy to Matthew Holloway, of the artists' lobby group Creative Freedom Foundation (CFF). The campaign started on Monday 16 February, with the aim of lasting a week. Stephen Fry - who had recently been in New Zealand filming his new BBC2 series, Last Chance to See - was asked if he would spread the word about the web blackout. Fry, with more than 250,000 followers on Twitter, agreed, and blacked out his avatar. Many fans followed his example.The cause was the modernisation of New Zealand's copyright legislation, enacted in November 2008. This included a controversial clause - section 92A - requiring ISPs to implement a "reasonable" policy to disconnect "repeat copyright infringers". It was initially removed by the parliamentary select committee on officials' advice, but then re-inserted by the former New Zealand Labour associate minister of commerce, Judith Tizard, who is the architect of the amended copyright law. However, its loose wording saw it suspended until 28 February, while ISPs and rights holders tried to hammer out a code.Rights holders such as the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand and the Australasian Performing Rights Association insisted that ISPs' customers they deemed to be infringing copyright three times or more should be disconnected on their notices alone. ISPs didn't agree. Key denied though that the internet campaign had anything to do with the delay of section 92A's implementation. "Until there is a voluntary code in place, it was inappropriate for the section to go ahead," he said.But Bronwyn Holloway-Smith, director of New Zealand's CFF, thinks the internet did have an effect. "Having Stephen Fry come on board so early on in the campaign was really helpful for drawing mainstream society attention but it was a real community effort with hard work by everyone - and it paid off," she said.&#183;This article was amended on Thursday March 5 2009. We gave the wrong first name for Ms Holloway-Smith - she is Bronwyn, not Brenda. This has been corrected.
"Ainsley. Babcock. Bland. Carthorse. Dint. Ellsworth-Beast Major. Ellsworth-Beast Minor." For some of us, Rowan Atkinson's monologue of a schoolmaster taking the register conjures up the essence of school life. Not at St Neots Community College in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, however, where traditional methods are being abandoned in favour of hi-tech facial recognition technology.The school has 130 sixth-formers, 128 of whom are taking part in a pilot programme that began in January and will run until July. Students register their details by standing in front of a camera, part of a unit that also includes a processor and a keypad. The camera takes a photograph and establishes a "reference point" for the face, which is the mid-point between the eyes. From that, it takes measurements relating to the nose, upper lip and cheeks, and converts those numbers to a unique biometric, which it then encrypts.When students check in or out of school, they enter a pin on to the keypad and look at the camera. The measurements from the photograph are matched against the student's biometric identifier, and the time of arrival (or departure) is stored in the unit's internal computer. The whole process takes less than two seconds.But why? After all, the low-tech method of calling the register has worked very well for generations. Scott Preston, deputy principal at St Neots, says the system offers an easy way of gathering accurate data about sixth-form attendance, so students can claim the Educational Maintenance Allowance (EMA) - a government grant for poorer students in post-16 education.Science lessonThe construction industry has used facial recognition systems for years to prevent employees fraudulently clocking in for colleagues, but the technology has only recently become accurate enough to justify wider use. The key innovation made by Aurora, which supplies the St Neots system, is the use of infrared light when taking the pictures, which means accuracy is unaffected by lighting conditions. "Because it splashes a consistent light over the face, it doesn't matter whether it's pitch black or bright sunlight," says Hugh Carr Archer, Aurora's chief executive.While facial recognition doesn't yet match the accuracy rates of iris recognition (which has a failure rate of one in several million), Carr Archer believes it does far better than most biometric technologies currently on the market. It makes no difference if the subject is wearing glasses or has grown a beard. He claims the technology can even cope with the changing bone structure of growing children, though this has not yet been fully put to the test.Biometrics technologies are now widespread in schools: an estimated 1 million children have had their fingerprints taken for activities as mundane as borrowing library books or paying for school dinners. This rapid growth is down to the efforts of "enterprising small companies", according to Simon Fance, project officer at the United Kingdom Biometrics Institute.Because biometrics are a useful way of controlling access, they are being adopted by other organisations, such as nurseries. At UK borders, passport officials are being replaced by cameras that check travellers' faces against the image held in their passports. One of the concerns for civil liberties campaigners is the blurry line between access control and surveillance: in Newham, east London, face recognition has been used in conjunction with CCTV as a means of identifying criminals in a crowd.The dystopia envisaged by campaigners is one where the state holds increasing amounts of data on its citizens, which can then be easily matched to unique biometric identifiers. David Clouter, a parent activist from the pressure group Leave Them Kids Alone, regards the use of biometrics in schools as "a disproportionate response to a nonexistent problem" and believes it is a "giant softening-up exercise for the next generation to accept biometric identity in some form". Children will get so used to offering their fingerprints or staring into a camera that they won't challenge it when the state asks them to do it: "Every traffic warden, every minor official, will go round fingerprinting everybody. And people won't see it as out of the ordinary, which it most certainly is."Vital statisticsThe other issue worrying Clouter is that schools hold large quantities of data on children - not only names, addresses and dates of birth, but information on attendance, library-borrowing habits and attainment, raising the possibility that a single biometric could be used to access huge amounts of personal data held on different systems, including ones held by other authorities: "The more biometric information floating around in insecure places like schools, the more chance there is of it being left on memory sticks or sent somewhere on a CD and lost," he says.Carr Archer argues that security concerns are misplaced when it comes to the system used by St Neots. Even if the encryption were to be broken, he says, Aurora's method of taking measurements is proprietary, so the data couldn't be used elsewhere (although that could of course change if the Aurora technology becomes widely adopted). Preston is equally confident: "The box is a one-stop shop. There is a network connection that enables you to produce reports, but in terms of getting into the data and misusing it, you'd have to take the box off the wall."If the St Neots pilot is successful, Aurora will market it to other schools, though they have yet to decide a pricing model. Currently, the units cost a hefty &pound;4,000 each (though St Neots isn't being charged anything). In the meantime, schools' enthusiasm for biometric technologies shows no sign of abating. Clouter and his colleagues can expect to be busy for some time yet.
Li Hua makes a living playing computer games. Working from a cramped office in the heart of Changsha, China, he slays dragons and loots virtual gold in 10-hour shifts. Next to him, rows of other young workers do the same. "It is just like working in a factory, the only difference is that this is the virtual world," says Li. "The working conditions are hard. We don't get weekends off and I only have one day free a month. But compared to other jobs it is good. I have no other skills and I enjoy playing sometimes."Li is just one of more than 100 workers employed by Wow7gold, an internet-based company that makes more than &pound;1m a year selling in-game advantages to World of Warcraft (WoW) players. Customers may ask for their avatar's skill level to be increased ("power levelling"), or for a virtual magic sword or precious ore to be obtained. As one player put it: "Where there's a demand, China will supply it."Division of playbourFor thousands of Chinese workers such as Li, "gold farming" is a way of life. Workers can expect to earn between &pound;80-&pound;120 a month which, given the long hours and night shifts, can amount to as little as 30p an hour. After completing his shift, Li is given a basic meal of rice, meat and vegetables and falls into a bunk bed in a room that eight other gold farmers share. His wages may be low, but food and accommodation are included.These virtual industries sound surreal, but they are fast entering the mainstream. According to a report by Richard Heeks at Manchester University, an estimated 400,000 Asian workers are now employed in gold farming in a trade worth up to &pound;700m a year. With so many gamers now online, these industries are estimated to have a consumer base of five million to 10 million, and numbers are expected to grow with widening internet access.These figures mean big business. The gold farming industry may be about playing games, but these companies take their work seriously. At Wow7gold, a sophisticated division of labour splits workers into different departments, including production, sales, advertising and research. What's interesting about this "virtual division of labour" is that traditional concepts of "men's work" and "women's work" still apply. While young, largely unskilled "playbourers" such as Li spend their days toiling in the virtual field, highly skilled female graduates receive higher salaries working as customer service operators.Eva Yuan is one such operator. A 26-year-old graduate who speaks three languages, she has been working in the white-collar departments of Wow7gold for more than a year. Each day she helps more than 100 customers, placing orders and answering queries. "Most of our customers are from America but they are people of all ages and careers," she says. "The biggest transaction I have seen was one person who bought 100,000 gold, which costs &pound;2,000 to &pound;3,000. For me this is a lot of money but for them it is not."After leaving university, Yuan was unable to find employment in the "real" economy. Now, the &pound;250 she makes every month at Wow7gold allows her - with a bit of help from her parents - to support her one-year-old son."We face unemployment in some areas and China has a large population so the challenge is severe," she says. "These firms provide the employee with a place to live and money to earn. When I came there were just 100 employees, now there are over 130. This is a new and innovating area for the economy". I ask Yuan whether she thinks her job is worthwhile. "Everything that appeals to some people in the world needs some people to produce it. We are allowing people to buy what they want, and we care about that."Precious lawLast year, the Chinese government acknowledged the rising significance of gold farming by introducing a 20% tax on the industry. But regulations on working hours, salaries, holidays and medical fees have not been extended with it. Yuan may be proud of her job, but she admits the long, unregulated hours are taking their toll. "The government should lay down the law. I would consider staying if conditions improved, but the game world is not a real career for me," she says.With no regulatory oversight, the working conditions in gold farms vary massively. Yuan is one of the lucky ones. Anthony Gilmore, an independent filmmaker, has been investigating the industry as part of a documentary he is making, Play Money, which he hopes to release by the end of the year (playmoneyfilm.com). He has collected footage of firms in the middle of nowhere, where bunk beds sprawl alongside computers in the middle of freezing and dirty offices.Thousands of miles away, western consumers are driving these industries, pumping hard-earned cash into products and services that exist only in fantasy lands. I ask Jamie el-Banna, a 24-year-old gamer from the UK, what makes him spend his money on these sites."The reason people buy gold is the same reason they pay people to wash their car - they would rather spend money than do it themselves" he says."You could spend time farming gold, say, 20 real-life hours. Or you could go to work for two hours and earn the money to buy the gold. If I'm playing I want to play, not do boring tasks. Go back some years, and a job involving a computer was a skilled job. Nowadays, keyboards and mice are the new ploughs and shears."But does he ever consider the conditions of the workers supplying these services?"I don't think about the workers. I think about the product. I'm sure the wage that gold farmers are paid is low. Manual labourers in third-world countries probably earn a similar amount, but I doubt you would ask someone this kind of question if you saw them drinking a cup of coffee."At present, the vast majority of gold farming takes place in developing countries, with four-fifths of production estimated to take place in China. The jury is still out on whether this industry is spawning a new generation of "virtual sweatshops" or whether it is a massive opportunity for countries seeking to develop through the hi-tech economy.Heeks, an avid gamer himself, believes that "development agencies and governments need to wake up to gold farming"."It's big business - hundreds of thousands of Asian workers; hundreds of millions of dollars - that has been flying under the radar," he said. "We need to start paying attention to these opportunities."Gold diggersThere are worries that gold farming will be hit by the financial crisis, but Heeks believes that the industry is likely to grow with rising numbers of online game players. World of Warcraft's subscriptions alone went from 10m to more than 11m during 2008, and Wow7gold saw an increase in profits during the same period. Far from seeing a decrease in the downturn, gold farms may profit as the less well-off turn to the virtual world for escapism and a cheaper alternative to going out."Gold farming appears to be anything but a here today, gone tomorrow blip," says Heeks. "In fact, gold farming may be a glimpse into a much larger future of international, network-based development where life, work and commerce become ever more immersed in cyberspace. We could be seeing, in short, the emergence of 'development 2.0'."
The cost of creating a national list of addresses for the next census has risen to £12m, the government has admitted. The figure – £2m up on previous estimates – is the latest revelation of the true cost of "unfree" data across the economy.As we reported in December (ONS to spend £10m on single-use database), the Office for National Statistics (ONS) has to build its own address database for the 2011 census in England and Wales (Scotland has its own parallel exercise) because none of the three existing, state-owned address databases is comprehensive enough. Without that, any hope of a high response rate to the census – already threatened by mounting public scepticism – is doomed.Attempts to create a unified list have failed because of arguments about intellectual property. The three list-owners – local authorities, Ordnance Survey and Royal Mail – all treat address lists as their commercial assets.In response to aquestion by the Conservative MP Eric Pickleslast month, Karen Dunnell, the ONS's chief executive, explained to parliament that the additional estimated cost "is due to a decision following successful piloting to match fully the two key national address lists – the Royal Mail's Postal Address File and local government's National Land and Property Gazetteer". This address register will contain a list of "household and communal establishment addresses" for each geographic area used for the census.However, this list, which could be of value to emergency and other public services, will be used only once. After the census is carried out, the keepers of the nation's addresses will continue to market their rival wares.The sorry saga of the owners of postal address lists behaving like jealous children playing at shops is one of the longest running of the Free Our Data campaign. However, there is hope. In its draft report, the ministerial taskforce set up to promote the government's adoption of web 2.0 ideas calls for the creation of "a freely available single, definitive address and postcode database for the UK … maintained by the Ordnance Survey, Royal Mail and local government". However, in the current climate of suspicion about ID cards, citizens may not be enthusiastic about the proposal. Like so many problems in life, the creation of a sensible, reusable list of addresses would have been best tackled when policy-­makers first thought of it – not when they were driven into a corner.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
How do you respond to people who ask: "Don't you have better things to spend your money on?"Warcraft is a hobby. People spend a whole lot more on books, art, cars and other hobbies.But what do you get out of it?The reason people buy gold is the same reason people pay people to wash their car – they're lazy, and would rather spend money than doing it themselves.You could spend time farming gold to use in the game, let's say, 20 real-life hours. Or, you could go to work for two hours and earn the money to buy the gold. You save yourself a hell of a lot of time. If I'm playing I want to play, not do monotonous, boring tasks. It just makes sense.Have you ever made money from gold farming?I was never a gold farmer myself, but I was involved in the business. Gold farmers are the people who do the grunt work – they're the labourers, the ones toiling in the virtual field. The people making the money are the peoplerunning the show. The people I know were all traders. It's what I used to do as well. Look for good deals, then sell on at profit.I even did import/export across servers for Ultima Online players. Travel to an Asian server, where they value things differently, get some awesome stuff dirt cheap, travel back to a European or American server, and sell those things for a huge profit. One good trip could easily net you a few hundred pounds, and that was in a time of economic hardship.Do many of your friends spend money on these virtual services?Some do, some don't. It depends on their real-life situation. Gaming is no longer the redheaded stepchild of hobbies. It's not limited to nerds and teenagers. People with careers and well-paying jobs are more likely to use these services than kids. It really depends on the money/time balance. Those with money and no time are more likely to buy gold. Kids and students are more likely to just farm for it themselves.Did you consider gold farming as a way of cheating the game?Nope.How do you make these purchases?I used a website a friend recommended. There are plenty of big-name sites that can provide such services at low risk.What do you think about the people who supply these services?Supply and demand. It's the cornerstone of western economy. Gold farming is nothing new. Take a look at older games such a§s EverQuest and Ultima Online and you will see that their in-game economies have in turn affected the real world. But WoW brought this subculture into the spotlight with its huge subscribers.Have you ever been cheated by gold-farming companies?If you use a popular site the chances of getting cheated is very low. It simply doesn't make sense to cheat someone out of a small amount of cash and lose future business.Do you think about the conditions of the workers who are supplying these virtual services?I don't think about the workers. I think about the product. Do you think about factory workers when you put on your socks? I'm sure the wage gold farmers are paid is low. Manual labourers in third world countries probably earn a similar amount, but I doubt you would ask someone this kind of question if you saw them drinking some coffee. I think times are changing. Going back some years, a job involving a computer was a skilled job. Nowadays, keyboards and mice are the new ploughs and shears.
Can you describe your working routine?We work for six days at a time and we have a night shift. There are three weeks per shift, so that means three weeks of nights and three weeks of days. The night shifts run from 8:30pm to 8am. The day shifts are eight hours. Our department is in Changsha, which is far away from my home, and at night there are no buses so it is hard to get back. We are paid a little more for night shifts. We have one day free a week.Can you describe a typical day?It's very busy. I answer questions from customers and take orders from the website about our online market. We confirm the orders that are placed by customers. We call the customer to get them to come online to receive the gold or the power-levelling services that they have ordered. I talk to more than 100 customers a day. We send in-game emails or mail to customers' accounts. I also talk to them through MSN and live chat. I can talk to them through online chat if they are in the game.How many customers do you serve?Every day we have many customers, old and new. We have more than 100 employees in this company and a big number of customers, although I don't know how many exactly. Most of our customers are from America but they are all kinds of people – students, old, young – people of all ages and careers.We get to meet people from all over the world, such as Spain and Germany. We have customers from China, but most of these are studying or working abroad. Maybe less than 5% of our customers are actually in China.How much do you get paid?The gold farmers are paid more than 1,500 yuan (£150) per monthhere. I am paid 2,500 yuan (£250) per month. If you create more value you gain more from the company.Can you support your family on this?I support my one-year-old son, but my parents also help.How much are your productsworth?Every year we make more than 10m yuan (£1m). The company is growing fast – it's better than when I started in December 2007. There were less than 100 workers when I came and there are 130 now.I think this is a fast-growing and developing industry in China – I know lots of others like us, and our main competitor is bigger than us. This company is owned by Chinese people and people from the famous universities in China are involved in it.How will the financial crisis affect you?All people are worried about the financial crisis. It's a hard question for us now – people are losing jobs and cutting salaries, there are many challenges. But it's fine at our company – things are better than before. When people get depressed they enter the game world because they have lost their jobs and have nothing to do.How does the company work?The company grows day by day. We have many departments such as production, sales, trade, programming, advertising and so on. We have good organisation and a specific working area for each employee. This is a new and innovating area for the economy. Our working conditions are good. The only difficulty is that we have to work a night shift.Are most of your customers male or female?Most are male but some are really rich women. One woman from America bought $2,000 gold in one transaction. The biggest transaction I have seen was one person who bought 100,000 gold, which cost $3,000 to $4,000 [£2,000 to £3,000]. For me this is a lot of money but for them it is not. Most people buy small amounts, such as 1,000 gold, which costs $25.What about the employees – are they mostly male or female?Most of the gold farmers and power-levellers are male, but most people in my department – customer services – are female. We once had a male in our department but he left.How many languages do you speak?I speak Chinese, English and a little German. My major was English at university – I like it very much. In our company we need to speak English.What's the bestthing about your job?The best bit of my job is that I get to talk to Americans and I get to know something about their culture. I get to speak another language and earn some money.Do you get to talk to customers about their lives?In some departments they talk to us about their lives, especially old customers. You get to know about cultural differences – one of our salespeople was talking to a female American buyer about marriage. The customer got angry – Americans think that we shouldn't talk about that. We are two different cultures.What's the worst thing about your job?I don't know if the company is good or bad – there are no laws to consider whether the company is good or not. I am thinking about whether to continue or whether to quit. The night shifts make me tired.Where did you grow up?I grew up in the countryside in Hunan province. I have studied since I was four years old. I went to university and graduated when I was 22.How did you get into this mode of employment?I tried to find a foreign sales job in Changsha but the inner city does not have so many opportunities in this field, so I applied for customer service in this game company, Wow7gold. I have a curiosity for the game world and I like communicating with people all over the world, so I chose this job.Do many Chinese graduates have problems finding jobs after university?After I graduated I found it difficult to get a good job. In the inner city it's hard to find a good foreign sales job with a big company. But in the city we can find more jobs than in the countryside.How does your company's pay compare to other salaries in China?In some departments where it's really high technology or you have to speak English you get high pay; in other departments, it's normal.Does your company provide you with holiday or sick pay?If we're sick we get no pay, but in the spring festival or national holidays such as Labour Day we get paid. We get more than two weeks off a year.Do other firms treat their workers so well?All companies like ours are good to their workers. The bosses and their workers are so young – they are all around 20 years old. This is very young compared to workers in "real" factories and companies.Is gold farmingan opportunity or a threat for countriessuch as China?These firms provide the employee with a place to live and money to earn. This is a way of living for some people. We face unemployment in some areas and China has a large population so the challenge is more severe. This is a new kind of economy in the world due to the new global connection. However, it is a competitive world, there are many companies like ours in many countries. The other thing I am worried about is the specific law for this gold-farming economy. It is not so clear yet.Is your company taxed at present?The Chinese government wants to put tariffs on the industry but I'm not sure how that will work. The company pays something to the government now but I'm not sure how much.What should the government be doing?The government should lay down the law on what makes a good and bad gold-­farming company, like in other industries. If they want to tax the industry they should make laws for it like they have for shops in the real world. There are no specific laws for this industry – work hours, salary, holiday, pension and medical fees. Other companies have laws on that.Do you think your job is meaningful?It is meaningful. Everything that appeals to some people in the world needs some people working to produce it. Our products are just like real products that have a distinct value. We are allowing people to buy what they want, and we care about that. The buyers are happy, and we are happy – we both have good feelings from the game world.Would you rather be doing something else?If I could find another way to make this money I would do it. I want to work in foreign sales for a real company. I would also get better paid and probably get better conditions. I've studied languages and foreign sales. The game world is not a real career for me. But I would consider staying if conditions improved.What do you say to people who argue that buying your services is cheating?The rule for the game world is that buying is cheating, but people can't stop this kind of thing because the demand is so strong. Most want to have gold but they don't have time to find it, or they don't want to repeat a quest to do it. Buying gold is quicker – it just saves time. It's just like services that are provided in the real world.This interview was facilitated by Anthony Gilmore, an independent film maker who is currently investigating Chinese gold farms as part of his new film, Play Money, due to be released at the end of this year. For more information visitplaymoneyfilm.com
Wouldn't it be handy if everything we needed to build the next generation of portable devices and robots were available on a microchip? You could just plug in a navigation system, a radar sensor, cryogenic cooling system, or even a miniature power unit. For laboratory applications, there would be micro versions of everything from mass spectrometers to magnetic sensors. The Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), the Pentagon's extreme science wing, aims to provide all this, and more, in handy "matchbook size" electronic packages.Forty years ago, Gordon Moore, the co-founder of Intel, accurately predicted that the cost of processing power would halve every two years. We have come to expect devices to get smaller, cheaper and more powerful over time. Now the revolution is spreading to other types of device. The development of mems (microelectromechanical systems) has already paved the way for "lab-on-a-chip" chemical analysis. Such breakthroughs tend to come from the military rather than industry."Darpa was instrumental in helping support much of the initial development of lab-on-a-chip in the early 90s," says Jon Cooper, Wolfson chair of bioengineering at the University of Glasgow. "The technologies enabled a number of US startup companies to develop miniaturised chips for faster biological analysis, giving them the necessary long-term support to grow."Cool runningsNow Darpa is miniaturising many new devices. Some electronics require very low temperatures, such as superconducting circuits and infra-red sensors, and the entire component is chilled by a bulky cooling system. The low-power micro-cryogenic cooler program will cool only the exact spot needed.The key element is a "micro-machined thermal isolation structure", a tiny deep-freeze made of bismuth telluride. This cools by the thermoelectric effect when a current is applied. The micro-cooler will chill a space of about four cubic centimetres down to 200 degrees below zero, using just 0.1 watts.Lab-on-a-chip devices already use pumps to move gas or liquid. But these pumps are not able to maintain the "hard" vacuum required for devices such as mass detectors for analysing airborne chemicals and bolometers to measure irradiation. The chip-scale vacuum micropumps program aims to produce pumps capable of producing a pressure of one millionth of an atmosphere.Some items are for specific applications. Microsensors for imaging will deliver an infrared video camera on a chip weighing just 10g; this is specifically for uncrewed aircraft and night-vision goggles. But most of the technology will simply be made available to industry for use in future military electronics. Other programs include an atomic clock on a chip, radar on a chip, gas analysers and other sensors, radio-frequency and photonic devices. Some would have multiple uses, such as the chip-scale atomic sensors program. These tiny, high-resolution sensors can be reconfigured instantly to measure temperature, pressure, magnetic fields or other environmental factors. It's an ambitious program, but the US defence sector has a record of getting the microtechnology it needs.In recent years, the possibility of bioterrorism prompted Darpa to provide chip-based analytical tools for homeland security. Cooper cites several developments, including advances in rapid polymerase chain reaction (PCR) used to analyse DNA. This technology now has a much wider use in diagnosing infectious diseases. However, chip-based doesn't always mean portable."The concept of lab-on-a-chip is of an analytical system which benefits from its reduced size, although many instruments are chips-in-a-lab, rather than labs-on-a-chip," says Cooper. "Often the instrument needs to be plugged into the mains.""Truly handheld lab-on-a-chip technology is still elusive," agrees Matt Mowlem of the National Oceanography Centre at Southampton. "Building stand-alone systems requires integrated systems and solutions to the problematic engineering issues surrounding system design, interconnects between the chips and off-chip systems, packaging and support systems, etc."But Darpa wants it all to be self-contained, enthusing in budget documents about "matchbook-size, highly integrated device and micro-system architectures", including "low-power, small-volume, lightweight microsensors, microrobots and microcommunication systems". Much of the effort is to integrate different components so that "electronic, mechanical, fluidic, photonic and radio/microwave technologies" all work together on the same chip.Socket to 'emThen there is the need to plug into that wall socket. Darpa is addressing the need for mobile power with tiny heat engines and devices that scavenge energy from the environment. Being military, it also walks where others fear to tread. The micro isotope power source is a tiny atomic battery, occupying less than a cubic centimetre and generating 35 milliwatts.Industrial funding is limited. Darpa, which is not looking for profit, can sink money into unlikely schemes."As with all blue-sky research there is a high risk of failure," says Mowlem, "but a small chance of a world-changing discovery." Darpa is not afraid of failure, and has its eye on world-changing success. After all, it did invent the internet.
Does Sarah Palin use it, though?Jon Stewart and The Daily Show get their claws - long, scratchy ones - into Twitter. Which means that its place in popular culture is assured. So now it really needs a business model.Yo, Omar's iPhone comin'!Possibly dreamt up after watching too many episodes of The Wire, this application plays real gun noises on your iPhone or iPod Touch. The perfect gift for the fake stick-up man in your life.And next, with a meteor strikeA second-by-second recreation of Flight 1549's bird-struck trip to the Hudson river, with its astonishingly calm pilot.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Computing in the cloudsI work for a company with 20 employees across five offices, and we're wondering if we can get network-style functionality - automated backups, data sharing, shared diary and contact database systems - at a cut price using "cloud computing".Lee CorlessJS:"Cloud computing" involves doing things using remote servers on the web, rather than servers that you install and own yourself. Assuming you all have fast, reliable internet connections, then the smaller and more spread out the company, the more sense cloud computing makes. Your company sounds a good candidate. However, there are drawbacks. It's essential that your company keeps its own copies of all data, because online services can be unavailable (Gmail was recently down for hours, and "hangs" often). Users can be locked out by network and password problems, and suppliers have been known to accidentally delete records, or go bust. If you don't have control of your own data, then you are betting the company on someone who has little or no interest in your survival. Thus, moving to the cloud solves some problems, but it introduces others that may be hazardous to your corporate health.There are other drawbacks. Online services are slower and generally much less powerful than desktop alternatives. You may not need all the features, but slower operation comes at a significant cost in staff time. It therefore makes sense to do things locally if you do them a lot, and in the cloud if only infrequently. Another problem is that you can end up using online applications from many different sources, so you have a confusing mixture of user interfaces and grab-bags of poorly integrated data. Finally, there may be regulatory and privacy issues when sensitive data is not under your exclusive control.Google Apps is an obvious choice for a cloud service but, although we use them at the Guardian, they're somewhat primitive and better suited to amateur and very small business use.Zoho's Office Suiteis far more comprehensive, more powerful (especially the spreadsheet), and much more like a real application suite. General Electric is one company that is dumping Google Apps to tryZoho. The most likely rival to Zoho is Microsoft's Business Productivity Online Suite (BPOS), which has just been launched in the UK. BPOS is just getting off the ground, but if you use Microsoft software such as Office, Exchange and SBS, the Small Business Suite, it should make the move to cloud computing easier.Everyone's a pyramidI've been told thate2everyone.comwill be the new Facebook, only better. I suspect this is phishing, a scam or a virus.Grahame StevensJS:It doesn't look like any of those, but it does look like a pyramid scheme. People who join get free shares, and they get more free shares for signing up their friends, for recommending improvements and other actions. Members can keep their shares or sell them to other people, so they are, in effect, a form of currency. The idea is that the site will have more than 100 million members by 2012, at which point the free shares should be worth real money. Whether they will be worth more than a few pence per million is another matter. I really don't believe the 3,000 bonus shares that your friend will get for converting you will be worth &pound;1,740 in 2012. Whether the people behinde2everyone.comhave other plans for making money remains to be seen, but I wouldn't give them my main email address.FAT problem?I want to copy a 13GB file to my USB-connected external hard drive, but Windows XP refuses to do so. My computer shows there is 45GB free.David ConnollyJS:Usually the problem is that external hard drives are shipped using the old FAT (File Allocation Table) format, which cannot handle files larger than 4GB. Right-click the drive in Windows Explorer and select Properties to find out. You will need to change the formatting toNTFS(New Technology File System).Backchat• Louis Malinowski complained about Firefox not displaying some websites properly. My original answer included a reference to IE Tab, which shows sites using Internet Explorer in a Firefox tab, but this did not appear in the printed version.• Alison Lowton wanted to escape AOL but was reluctant to give up her email address. Tim Gorman and others said AOL offers a free email address so she can keep it even if she does not use AOL as her ISP. Steve Gorwits pointed to ablog postwith comments about connecting directly to what is now Talk Talk, in the UK, without using the AOL software.• P Hill's son could not get his Huawei E160G mobile broadband dongle by 3 to work with his Eee PC 900 running Linux. Colville Wemyss says it worked with his Eee PC 701 after he installed Eeebuntu 2.0.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Vinay Gupta is a Scottish-Indian engineer who designs low-cost homes for poor parts of the world or disaster zones, and then makes them freely available on the internet so others can do the building. His flagship is theHexayurtshelter system, which costs around $200 (&pound;142). It uses common building materials, including insulation boards - which, he claims, are a third of the cost of a tent. The business plan is to cut the price of essential goods and services to the point where the poor can afford them. Gupta is just one example of a global movement that offers an alternative to the scandalous tales of banking avarice that have saturated the world's media.We are often told that the best things in life are free, but few have ever tried to build it into a business model. Yet it is curious that while financial capitalism is in global meltdown, a completely different kind of entrepreneurial activity - call it commune-ism - is rising, from an admittedly low base. This is the act of doing things for the common good, for nothing - either from altruistic motives or because you expect to get compensated by using the product of someone else's free endeavours. Until recently, this kind of activity - known generically as "open source" - has been confined to software through such brilliant communal projects as Wikipedia, the Firefox browser (which now has 21.5% of the global market) or the Linux operating system. Interestingly, such products don't appear in the figures for gross domestic product (GDP) - at least, not until they are used in something that can be bought, such as a low-cost Linux computer. It is unrecorded wealth and if the movement grows we will have to look afresh at how we measure the wealth of nations.Open source was given a boost last week when the UK government dropped its hitherto shameful neglect to give an endorsement for public services to use open source rather than proprietary software where it delivers best value for money. Whether this is just an empty gesture to take the wind out of the sails of the Conservatives - who have made capital out of claims that &pound;600m could be saved by using open source in public projects - remains to be seen, but it is a step in the right direction. Open source is on a roll and the interesting thing is that it is now expanding into hardware. The global recession, coinciding with an unprecedented expansion of social networks ought to give it a big boost and turn the new model into a global force. If you fancy an open source mobile phone tryOpenmoko.com. Want to be part of an open source project building a different kind of car? Look at theoscarproject.org. Other interesting initiatives include openfarmtech.org where they are developing open source ecology including building eco-villages or akvo.org, specialising in sanitation.Wired magazinerecently reported on the progress of Arduino, the Italian firm that makes a successful open source circuit board. There was a plan for an open source house via theFlickr photo sitebut there hasn't been much activity recently.Open source hardware doesn't have the same power as software if only because the final product, as opposed to the designs, can't be replicated for no extra cost as software can. It has a different kind of potential as it can use networks to liberate the creative energies of frustrated employees or jobless people all over the world in order to build products people actually want that reflect local realities, including availability of materials. It is a paradigm that fits a networked age in which the actual manufacture of goods is outsourced. If governments of the world are worried about where new products and jobs will come from when the recession eventually ends, then they could do a lot worse than to encourage the building of products by the people for the people.victorkeegan.com
One of the perennial debates about Wiki­pedia is "inclusionism" versus "deletionism", which revolves around what topics should be covered. Inclusionistsassert"Wiki is not paper. Wikipedia is not a paper encyclopedia, and thus has few size limits", while deletionistscontend"Wikipedia is not a junkyard" and "Wikipedia is not toilet paper".One common simplistic argument is as follows: a hard disk with large capacity can be bought for a low price. An average article consumes a tiny amount of disk space. Divide that small number by the overall capacity, multiply by the price, and it appears each article has an utterly trivial cost. So open the floodgates. However, this reasoning is mistaken on several levels. It's a little like estimating the bill for a meal based on the price of a bag of rice, and then wondering why anyone ever goes hungry.Fundamentally, many individual small items can add up to a large result. Then, when calculating costs, it's very misleading to consider in isolation one of the cheapest components of an overall information system – disk space. Disks are in servers, located in data centres, attached to networks levying bandwidth charges, which are all maintained by relatively skilled humans. So that collection adds up to far more than what is paid for a single home-grade hardware part. Furthermore, every article imposes a less visible maintenance requirement of being defended from spam and vandalism. Structurally, by trading off quality for ease of production, Wikipedia shifts these labour costs on to a cult of unpaid workers. But such burdens still exist, even if they aren't immediately apparent via a budget line for an editing department. Then there are the unexpected effects of scaling up. The full Wikipedia database, including historical revisions and discussions, is now so large that the process to portably export the data for possible public reuse has been overwhelmed. There have been complaints, and anongoing discussionabout re-­engineering it.So, like the Monty Python scene where Mr Creosote gorges on an excessive meal, then consumes just a wafer-thin mint, and explodes, there need to be some limits regarding what's taken on. But basic constraints still leave much room for interpretation. The game of "wikigroaning" demonstrates this, by contrasting various highbrow and lowbrow topics, with the latter often receivingfar more Wikipedia attentionthan the former. There is also a deep appeal to a certain mentality to act as a gatekeeper and tell others they can't get into the club – which sometimes clashes with the desire of another type of mindset to promote a favorite hobby. The point where snobbery, fanatic devotion, and resource restrictions often collide is on popular culture. The real Wikipedia way is in practice to have de facto article owners drawn from the most fervid people with the largest amount of time to spend. This works poorly for scholarly subjects, but is excellent for entertainment material with a legion of fans. These conflicts were illustrated by a strong adverse reaction when Wikipedia'sco-founderJimmy Wales mused that he once favoured having an article about every episode of the TV show The Simpsons, butnow would favour deleting them. One administrator, "the wub",asked: "What has changed since your original proclamation to make you reconsider? The cynical side of me says it's the for-profit Wikia you launched which would love said articles and their traffic … but I hope it's wrong."And "Durova", who had contributed much featured mat­erial,said: "Jimbo, so you'd seriously delete articles that the community has decided to feature? ... There are five volunteers who worked very hard for many months to earn a spot [in an honour roll] ... To them your post has got to be a punch in the gut.". Partially at issue here were the tensions created by Wikia (a venture capital-funded startup also co-founded by Wales) which has no major financial connection to Wikipedia but has beendescribed by Trader Daily magazineas an "effort to take the success – and, indeed, the underlying philosophy – of Wikipedia and commercialise the hell out of it".Between the relative prestige of Wikipedia, and being digital sharecroppers on an electronic plantation of user-generated advertising revenues, it's no surprise many fans worry about exploitation. In sum, even the most seemingly rarefied intellectual disputes can end up coming down to money.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Ultrasone is swimming against the tide. The German headphone manufacturer has just brought an expanded range of headphones to the UK, headed by the £229.99 HFI-2200. And any hi-fi buff will be able to tell you're wearing them. They have a retro look that could be described as ugly: they're very dark brown, with thick orange padding around the earpieces – a good match for a brown Zune.They are also novel in having off-centre drivers. The blurb says that with S-Logic headphones, "the sound does not go directly down your ear canal as with conventional headphones, but instead filters off the outer ear as you listen. By doing this, your perception of distance, depth and instrument placement are greatly enhanced."This goes against the prevailing trend towards closed-canal in-ear phones such as the Etymotic models, which basically work like active earplugs. Both types of design are sold to musicians and audio­philes with the claim that they help protect your hearing, but tastes vary. I find in-ear phones uncomfortable, and like having giant pillows that enclose the whole ear. You may prefer the opposite.So, how do they sound? That's a tricky one. I started out disliking them. Vocals sounded thin and seem to recede, and there wasn't the sort of punchy bass a rock fan would want. I also found the Ultrasones pretty merciless when the material wasn't up to scratch. Eric Clapton's vocals don't sound good because he can't really sing. My "blues originals" were unlistenable because the old recordings are rubbish. Large orchestral works could sound muddy.But with the right material, the Ultrasones can be wonderful. They sound good with acoustic guitarists, pianists, cellists and violin players, bringing out all that midrange detail, and they provide excellent separation between instruments. They work well with good live recordings – jazz trios and string quartets, for example – and they're great for electronica from early Kraftwerk through Isao Tomita to Boards of Canada. They also worked well with my Sony NWZ-A818, which is the best-sounding MP3 player I've found. However, the 3m cord is far too long for mobile use, and while they come with a bag, the Ultrasones are bulky to carry around. They also leak a lot of sound, which is likely to annoy anyone nearby.In the end, I enjoyed the HFI-2200 headphones: they are comfortable and provide late-night listening at reasonable volumes when you can't use real speakers. What they do, they do well. But they don't really do enough to be worth the price to most people.Pros:Comfortable; detailed; sound great with a good source and the right material.Cons:Old-fashioned appearance; can be unforgiving with the wrong material; leak sound; too expensive.ultrasone.com
