It is not easy to make money from the internet. It's even more difficult for an internet business to make a profit - unless, that is, you are in the porn business. The news last week that unseated dot.com employees were falling over themselves to get jobs in the porn industry was more than just a sign of the times. Disillusioned dot.commers, hacked off with constantly being bounced around from one failed outfit to the next, reasoned that the only fail-safe solution was pornography.It wasn't such a big surprise. Porn is one of the few profitable industries on the internet, and "sex" has long been the most popular online search term, closely followed by "porn", "nude", "XXX", "Playboy" and "erotic stories".While the rest of the net is reeling from crumbling ad revenues, the sex industry has not even taken a hit because its main revenue stream is subscriptions, not advertising. It's that old adage again: Sex always sells. No amount of economic downturn will affect this phenomenally successful industry that is becoming increasingly acceptable, especially among young professionals.Yet companies such asYahoo!are opting out of the porn industry. Given the demand, the big business and the job security,this seems like a mad decision. Why?It all boils down to a public outcry, and a feeling that one of the biggest and arguably one of the most influential internet companies in the world shouldn't be dealing in the business of porn. 
Despite the fact that Yahoo! has sold X-rated products for more than two years, when the Los Angeles Times ran a piece suggesting it was expanding its collection a month ago, a huge debate ensued. A few days later, Yahoo! backed down and said it would cease selling adult products, stop accepting banner ads from porn sites, cut out classifieds and auction adult-type items, and pledged it would clamp down on sex-related message boards and clubs. The misconception, however, is that it will outlaw porn on its site, which it insists is not the case. A search still throws up 671 sites for "porn" and if Yahoo! users want to buy porn videos, they are redirected to an external site.To make the changes Yahoo! is currently introducing what has been described as "pretty extensive filtering software" but teething problems are expected. The reduction of porn on Yahoo.com won't spell the death of Yahoo!, but it could derail its profit projections. 
Despite the new porn exclusion software, though, the company is still making its mind up. Last week, faced with a barrage of criticism from web users, it came back and said no decisions had been taken on whether the changes to its adult porn section would be permanent. "It's the internet, so lots of things are possible," said Yahoo! spokesman Jackson Holtz, insisting it was just a re-evaluation of adult content across the network.Clearly, Yahoo! is playing it by ear. It doesn't want to alienate users or conservative forces, nor does it want to rule out forever a guaranteed moneyspinner. Yahoo! has been put in a glaringly uncomfortable spotlight. It has now publicly back-peddled on a plan to expand its adult materials and caused a flap among other big internet portals, concerned about public approval. 
Terra Lycos, which operates a number of Lycos portals around the world, has now chipped in and announced it is re-evaluating its own porn policy, whileMSNhas reaffirmed that it has a strict policy on porn.Of all the bigger players in the portal market,AltaVistais one of the few that seems to offer no-holds-barred access to pornographic material. A quick search using the term "porn" brings up an array of hardcore images, video clips and links to sites that are advertised using very explicit language.MSN has already gone the whole hog and removed any evidence of adult-related merchandise. It moderates chatrooms and has a tough policy on links to porn. In fact, after entering the term "porn" in the search engine, the user is immediately warned: "You have entered a search term that is likely to return adult content." There are no adult videos to be found on the site, but if users want that kind of material, they are sent out of MSN confines into the unrestrained web where technically they are no longer the responsibility of MSN.Therein lies the great irony. A significant proportion of web users want access to porn and to this end will locate porn and buy it, with or without the help of Yahoo!. Censorship of this kind doesn't work. If Yahoo!, the second biggest website in the world, doesn't take a piece of this action,  it will lose out. Pundits and users alike believe Yahoo! has got itself into unnecessarily uncomfortable territory because of its willingness to purge itself of adult materials, instead of forcing families to install filter software on their computers.Yahoo! members spoke out last week, saying they felt betrayed and were planning to petition the portal after it quietly reconfigured its adult-themed clubs, message boards and chatrooms. Yahoo! has now made these areas much more difficult to find and even disabled some search links so that in order to find a club, users have to know the correct internet address and type it in directly. List members argue angrily that this tactic will ultimately lead to them disappearing altogether.Ken Bradman, a 23-year-old web developer in Phoenix, has spoken out on the issue and is organising a protest club. "If they completely eliminate adult material from the site, they're going to lose a lot of members who are interested in that. I can guarantee you it's going to be a huge chunk of Yahoo!'s user base," he proclaimed last week.Already some club members have reposted links to their clubs in different sections of the site to show they won't be silenced.Yahoo! refuses to comment further on the porn issue, but the UK office is happy to point out its tight policy. "We have a different position to the US. We've already taken steps to reduce adult content on the site &#91;last year&#93; and we've tightened up chatroom controls," says a spokesman.The UK office of MSN says much the same: "MSN.co.ukhas a zero tolerance policy toward retailers on the shopping channel distributing pornographic material from its site.  Since 'top shelf pornography' is not illegal for consenting adults over the age of 18 material of this nature is categorised in communities as 'adult' on the MSN site. Users searching under adult terms on MSN Search will be asked to confirm that they are wanting to access adult material and if they answer positively will be diverted on to a separate site - Nightsurf."The issue has become much more than the removal of pornographic videos, the blocking of under 18s, and links to child porn sites; it has opened up a whole can of worms about freedom of speech on the internet. For a harassed Yahoo! though, it is damned whatever it does. This one could run and run.
What are your favourite websites?Alastair Campbell and me share a passion, and it's not Tony Blair. It's the Burnley FC website (claretflag.com), where I spend half my time insulting Blackburn Rovers fans. All my favourite websites are football related, which is quite sad, but I also likeMediaGuardian.co.ukso I can keep track of the impending demise of the Express newspaper.What was your last online purchase?A book by James Ellroy fromamazon.com. I work in a very rough part of Manchester, so the less time I spend shopping outside the better.Ever been in a chatroom?Yes, but only on a professional basis through work. I find that people aren't educated enough to enthral me in a chatroom. In any case, I crave peace and quiet, not chat.What was your last technological faux pas?I ordered a &#163;5,000 water feature for the reception area of my office, but it had to be destroyed because water was leaking out of it and nearly blew up our computer system.What news source do you use on the web?I'm more of a Teletext man. Most news websites aren't organised enough for me.What is the most useful website?ananova.comwhich puts a lot of Press Association material out, which in turn gives me ideas of what to put in the paper, or not. Generally we like pictures of topless women and football results. Too much news puts the readers off.What kind of website is least likely to succeed?Anything without sex or gambling.What is the least useful site?purple.comwhich is just a purple page for people who like purple.Do you use a screensaver?Yes, the Burnley Football club badge.What do you find the most irritating thing about the net?The time it takes to look at anything. Ultimately that's the problem so I'd just rather watch television. Simple as that.Do you still use old media?All the time, but I don't get a lot of pleasure from newspapers because I'm in the business and most of them bore me to tears. There's not enough invention. The Sun is so dull and predictable - if I had half their promotional budget, I'd be selling millions! Nowadays, if newspapers were musicians, they'd be Elton John and Cliff Richard. I'm waiting for punk to arrive.&#149; Tony Livesey is managing director of Sport Newspapers Ltd which recently launchedstripnews.co.ukInterview by Nicola Norton
The editor of the Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, and I do not agree on everything. But we do agree on one big thing: that talking about your libel actions is only one social step up from talking about your chilblains, your charity work, or your children's prowess on the recorder.Both of us have fought difficult cases. But, as Rusbridger told readers of the Times last week, most of our fellow journalists see libel cases as some unfortunate disease, one which any of us might catch at any time but which the sensible suffer in silence.For many reasons the case of the Times v Loutchansky, now on its way to the court of appeal, demands more than the usual media inattention. It is the story of a Russian whom Time magazine once referred to as ... well, I won't give the quote because as a result of our case it would have to worry the Guardian lawyers ... and a newspaper that published what a senior Interpol source said about him.Under new procedures, the journalistic procedures of the Times were vindicated in front of a high court jury. But a judge rejected the newspaper's claim that it had "qualified privilege", a form of immunity from libel actions, which we were claiming under House of Lords guidelines on the story's public importance and professional handling set out in 1998. Various issues of journalists' rights and duties, including how we publish stories based on security sources who cannot come to the witness box, are now set to be decided by higher courts.But the case has also raised issues of an immediately practical kind. These affect every newspaper with an internet edition. The archive section of a newspaper's website could now be open to libel actions forever, with no defence being available.In December 1999, Loutchansky sued the Times over two articles published in print the previous September and October. But a year later he also sued over the continued availability of the articles in the archive of the online edition of the Times. His lawyer argued that, since we had no witnesses able to testify to the truth of the disputed stories, we were not entitled to keep them on the internet edition once we had failed to mount a justification defence.The first question was a technical matter. A claimant suing on the "hard copy" does not need to prove that anyone read or saw the defamatory material. The action must, however, be brought within the limitation period of one year from the date of original publication. What about internet archive material? Would publication   of such material be similarly treated? Could the publisher be sued years after the material was first posted?The Times argued that the courts in this country should adopt the American "single publication" rule. This says that publication takes place on the day the material is posted on the website. Thereafter, if it remains untouched by the hand of the publisher, there is no subsequent "publication". Thus the limitation period would run out a year after the date on which the material was first posted.Mr Justice Gray, relying on Duke of Brunswick v Harmer (1849), ruled that the single publication rule could not be introduced in this country. He went on to rule that, provided the claimant could show that someone had read the article, he could bring an action for years to come, regardless of when the original article was posted.Can even defences that were available on the original day of publication be relied on later? If the original publication enjoyed qualified privilege, should subsequent publications on the internet be protected as well? The judge in our case said no. On each publication the defendants had to show that it had immunity. He rejected our contention that the archive was automatically entitled to have the original privilege. He held that the defence of qualified privilege would have to be made on each occasion that the article was read online.Thus, even had we won our qualified privilege, we would have lost. This decision places publishers which maintain an archive in an impossible position. If a newspaper, defending a "hard copy" action, failed to justify an article, or if its qualified privilege defence failed, no one would suggest it had to cut out the article from all library copies of the newspaper. But, internet archives would be censored in this manner - unless the defendants could prove the truth of what they published, or a continuing duty on their part to publish and a continuing interest on the part of the public to read the articles. This could mean redefending the allegations years later.A clearly better course for the law, rather than altering the first draft of history, would be to link any corrections to the relevant web pages. The only other alternative, short of internet publishers employing armies of lawyers to reconsider daily if they are justified in continuing to publish every single item on their websites, is for publishers to stop publishing their full newspaper on the net. The law has taken an enormous backward step.
High street computer retailers and software giant Microsoft are to join forces with the British police and children's charities in an unprecedented crackdown on child porn on the internet.For the first time, PC World, Tiny and Time have agreed that they have a responsibility for child protection when they sell computers to families. All computers are to be fitted with software to filter out child pornography and 'kite marks' for child-friendly chatrooms will be introduced. The big three, which dominate the home PC market, will develop packages to block websites with adult content and access to chatrooms which paedophiles use.Internet service providers and software manufacturers have also agreed to tighten up controls on paedophile 'newsgroups' where subscribers can exchange images and pornography about children.It is illegal to download images of children from the internet, but not to set up a paedophile chatroom or exchange sexual fantasies involving children.The industry was shocked into action by the 'Wonderland' case this year, in which more than a hundred paedophiles around the world were arrested and tens of thousands of images seized in an international operation led by British police.The proposals will be announced later this week at the launch of the Government's new Internet Task Force on Child Protection, chaired by Home Office Minister Lord Bassam. The task force includes members of the industry, seven children's charities, senior police officers and Home Office officials.Other measures being considered by the task force include tougher legislation on internet 'grooming', in which children are lured into sexual relationships with paedophiles. Actress Emily Watson, star of the film Angela's Ashes, will tomorrow launch a campaign on behalf of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children warning parents to be vigilant about the dangers of the Internet. The NSPCC is particularly concerned about paedophiles who persuade children to meet them after striking up an online relationship.Meanwhile, internet company V21 has responded to the huge demand for 'safe surfing' by adapting Microsoft's Internet Explorer software to block off all unsuitable sites and claims to have created the first-ever completely safe environment for children.However, civil rights groups last night expressed concern that measures brought in to protect children from paedophiles could be used to snoop on other kinds of internet activity and censor sites that unintentionally attracted paedophiles. Caspar Bowden of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, an internet policy think tank said: 'There is a danger that child protection concerns, fuelled by tabloid witch hunts, might develop into calls for general surveillance of private internet communications.'The giant electrical retail Dixons group, which includes Currys and PC World, has already begun discussions with the Internet Watch Foundation, the industry's internal regulator, to develop parental guidelines for all customers of their family machines..Dixons' corporate and public affairs director Lesley Smith said retailers recognised they had a key role in child protection. But she said: 'It is clearly in the interests of parents that we do this and we believe it is in our interests too.' She admitted that said it was difficult to develop entirely foolproof technology.The task force is thought to favour a film-style rating system developed by the Internet Content Rating Association. Mainstream websites now label their websites according to how child-friendly they are and any adult-oriented sites can be quickly filtered out by new software.Internet Watch Foundation spokeswoman Ruth Dixon said: 'We welcome this move. The UK is ahead of the game in bringing all the stakeholders together to protect children.'
Among the many myths that encrust the Bill Gates legend is a story of how, during a university visit, a student asked him to autograph his Windows 95 installation disk. Gates declined.'Why won't you sign my disk?' asked the student.'Because it's not yours,' replied Bill.It's probably apocryphal, but it gets straight to the nub of the matter, namely that when you pay your tithe to Microsoft all you are getting for your money is a licence to use its software under certain restrictive conditions.These conditions include quite reasonable prohibitions against, for example, unauthorised copying of the software. But they also forbid you to make any changes to the software for any reason whatsoever. Even if you found a horrendous bug which was threatening the financial viability of your business, you would be breaking the terms of the licence to fix the bug - and laying yourself open to the risk of being sued by   Microsoft for violating the terms of your 'agreement' with them.At the same time, you would find that the 'click-through' agreement you accepted at installation time, also stipulated that Microsoft carried no liability whatsoever for consequential damage caused by bugs in its product. So it can sue you for attempting to remedy the defect, but you cannot sue it for issuing the defective product in the first place.And just so you don't think I've just got it in for Microsoft, every other major proprietary software company pulls the same trick. I've just installed an Adobe product, for example, and the user licence makes my remaining hair stand on end.Now I am sure that Gates   and his counterparts at Adobe and elsewhere do their best, but no software is bug-free, and some bugs are very destructive. Because of my other jobs, for example, I am obliged to use Microsoft software at times.When I was running Windows 95, my machine crashed up to four times a day - often losing data in the process - and never ran for more than 24 hours without degrading into a more or less unusable paperweight. I now run Windows 2000, which is better but still freezes several times a week, sometimes with really unpleasant consequences for work in progress.Hundreds of millions of people all over the world are in the same boat, relying on buggy software which they are forbidden to fix (even if they could), and having signed away their right to seek legal redress for consequential damage caused by program defects.It's a crazy, quasi-feudal system, but that, in essence, is the world we have allowed software companies such as   Microsoft to create. The strangest thing of all though is not that millions of computer users have allowed themselves to become Microserfs (after all, what choice do most of them have in a world dominated by Windows software?) but that governments and public authorities seem to have walked in to the same trap. This is weird, given that they are supposed to be rigorous when spending public money on software.Here in the UK, for example, the Government's main website (www.open.gov.uk) used to run under Linux and Apache - free software that comes with the source code and a licence allowing users to change it to suit their requirements. The site won several awards for its widespread adoption of non-proprietary standards (W3C and multiple browser support).But now there are rumours that the new version ofwww.ukonline.gov.uk(designed, hosted and supported by the e-envoy's office) will run under Microsoft software. And already the much-hyped 'Government Gateway' sitewww.gateway.gov.ukis running on Gates's products under the same restrictive terms that afflict the rest of us.One for the National Audit Office, perhaps?John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Chinese and American hackers have been escalating an online battle to deface each other's websites by replacing existing content with anti-US or anti-China rhetoric.In the wake of the American spy plane incident, Chinese hackers vowed to attack US sites, which led hackers in the US to retaliate.The US spy plane made an emergency landing on Chinese soil on April 1 after colliding with a Chinese fighter jet over the South China sea. The Chinese pilot was killed.According to UK computer security firm Mi2g, the Honkers Union of China hacking group has defaced more than 80 web sites in the past month, while the Americans or their allies have attacked more than 100 sites.Most of the attacks have been minor defacements. The website for China's remote sensing satellite ground station was overwritten with a picture of a mushroom cloud. Meanwhile the White House historical association site was plastered in Chinese flags.US websites falling victim to the vandals included the National Institutes of Health, the navy, the department of labour, and the Californian department of energy, as well as many corporate sites.A US hackers collective dubbed Project China left a message on one Chinese site reading: "Get ready to meet a strike force with strength the world has never seen before! We are going for all-out cyber warfare on your gov.cn boxes and every other box that you fucks haven't secured!"Mi2g notes that this is not the first time we have seen a bitter 'cyberwar' between opposing national groups; Israelis and Palestinians also engage in defacement battles against each other's sites.Useful linksMi2gA US hacker's log of defaced Chinese sitesChina Computer Network Emergency CentreChina remote sensing satellite ground station
Hundreds of employees at internet company SurfControl are being given the option to cash in worthless share options and replace them with fewer, cheaper options which might stand a chance of showing a profit.SurfControl, whose products monitor workplace web surfing, issued 4.2m share options to 350 workers and almost all of them are under water. The shares have fallen from &#163;38.62 last year to 725p now.The options are designed to motivate and retain staff.SurfControl said staff could surrender their options and they would be reissued with an exercise price 20% above today's middle market closing price. Employees would receive 20% fewer new options."The people within SurfControl and the business as a whole have consistently exceeded expectations, but the worldwide decline in valuations of technology stocks has resulted in almost 85% of the options issued to employees having an exercise price significantly above the current market price," said Steve Purdham, chief executive officer.Analysts welcomed the move, which was agreed with shareholders and will include existing performance targets."The company has exceeded every forecast but has suffered due to a derating of the sector. The scheme seems fair for shareholders and employees," one analyst said.Last month the Cheshire-based company reported better than expected third quarter results.SurfControl.com
A security loophole at online finance site moneyextra has left the financial details of its users open for public viewing.The flaw in moneyextra's site exposes a user's log in name and password. It means that if a moneyextra customer accesses the service on a shared computer - at work or at an internet café or library - anyone who subsequently sits down at that computer would have access to their entire financial portfolio.Moneyextra user Geoff Bowen discovered the flaw while checking his online portfolio."I was shocked that such a big company is enabling potential hackers to easily access users' personal details by simply looking at their history," he said.Mr Bowen, the managing director of internet services company X-line, said that passing on a user's log in details through a URL, or internet address, is one of the most common security flaws around."They really should have known better," he added.The areas of the site accessible by the password include a file which, depending on how a user has set it up, could display credit card, banking, mortgage and share details.Even if users choose the high security option - which forces customers to enter a username and password every time the site is accessed - the username and password would be visible in the web browser's history.The details are clearly identifiable, in plain text, in the address field of Internet Explorer browsers.The flaw does not appear to affect users of Netscape.Moneyextra acknowledged that user profiles should not be visible in this way."It was on high security? Bloody hell," said the deputy web producer, Damian Vincent. "It's because we are doing the URL in http rather than in secure https. Http is standard level security, but https is encrypted and secure."Andy Pratt, the programme and IT director at moneyextra, said the problem would be corrected within two weeks with the launch of a new portfolio service. He added that all transactional services on moneyextra, such as online share dealing, already operate under a separate and encrypted security system.Useful linksmoneyextraAn explanation of Https
Here are more poems from the hot hundred that didn't make the cut. This competition had no rules. Poets could do anything     within the160 character maximum of a text message.      This meant that terse versers had to risk whether the judges would understand their shorthand.YinguncoveredI can still smellmy wet haireven in the dark.EadstandI lookat the cleargreensky above.Stars,like daisies,glinting all around.Just like in Romewhere yi walk down streetswhere the colessiumblinks at yiin slow shutter speed,here in Gorgie,the fitba' stadiumdoes much the same.Pleasuresundayand the feelof new jeans pulled up, crisp,shop smelling new,your waking smile,with difficult to open eyes. All innocent.TodayYour eyes are the blueof the deep end of the poolthe worldhas been put through the rinse cycleand dries in the sunand i am happyMiaouw!I've a habitof making the endof my poemsmore importantthan the start.My inabilityis always obvious.It fills mewith a sadness blacker than death.Two riversOn London bridgemy phone rang.You'd just got in,going for a coffeeover the clyde.Five hours agoyou'd said thanks lovewhen i brought you tea.This is my HaikuIf you don't like it, fuck you!It obeys the rules.They phone you up your mum &amp; dad.Dad is Caribbean,mam is a tyke,do I sit on the fence?Do I take sides?Sing for Lara,cheer for Gough,chew on jerk chicken,take scollops andchips, I am me.BurglaryI noticed/mud on the stairs/then/a space/where the plastic bags/of christmas presents/were./Now i feel/dirty/and trodden on.First lightdawn has never broken -it melts the nightand pours the morning open.Chips,99's&amp;7ups,snoggingxthe c.That was luv 1963.Romancexemail,sexxtext,luv aint much fun in 2001.Haiku #1she's not what she seems; she's summer 3 years ago and tuesday night dreams.Come quicklyThe bath is over-flowing.The candles are burning down.I have cut a peach in half.Don't make me eat it aloneTo my MP*I put my cross*in your box*and I was right*all along*you were the wrong*answerChoosing1 love me2 hate me3 miss me4 need me5 adore me6 like me7 feel me8 wana hug me9 wana kiss me10 wana kill mesend ur best 3 answersSorry i stole &amp; burned-out your car &amp; found your phone &amp; am texting myself on it
The Guardian's pioneering text poetry competition attracted nearly 7,500 entries from 4,700 mobile phones. A key part of the exercise, done with Consult Hyperion, was the interactive element. The entries were winnowed down to 100 and given to our judges, Justine Jordan, books editor of Guardian Unlimited, U A Fanthorpe and Peter Sansom. They chose a short list of seven, below, each of which was texted to all participating phones over seven days. Most winners, and entrants, had never written a poem before. This met the main aim - to turn text messaging into a creative force. Sorry for the glitches and thanks to everyone who joined in the fun.Victor Keegan, editor, OnlineThe winnersFIRSTtxtin iz messin,mi headn'me englis,try2rite essays,they all come out txtis.gran not plsed w/letters shes getn,swears i wrote betterb4 comin2uni.&amp;she's africanHetty HughesSECONDSheffieldSun on maisonette windowssends speed-camera flashes tinting through tram cablesstartling driversdragging rain-waterfalls in their wheelsI drive onSteve KilgallonTHIRDPls, stop sendg msgs2thsno, i am not linda,I hv not slept w/yr sis,+i wd nvr call any1's ma a slag.Gd luk w/viag.Luv, yr wrong no. xxxCharlotte FortuneFOURTHReunionSlough Reading Didcot Parkwaymy face flashesbetween telegraph poles,solemn as the passport photographno one recognisesCarole BromleyFIFTHWatch dogWatch me,or i'll be prowling my wayround your house of a body:licking at windows,stealing through doors,trying beds out for size.Melissa TerrasRUNNERS UPMovebed, u have seen some action,doors, some slam.Landlord, u may removeevery chip, scuff, stain: who knowswhat reflectionsold mirrors project in the darkMelissa Terrasi w8 fr yr mesg the beep yr wrds of rude luv.U mke me blush wThe curve of yr letters u tch me thru my palms, my eyesLucy Sweetman&#149;  Special prize of &#163;250 for the most creative use of SMS 'shorthand' in a poem.   Courtesy of the Media Centre, Huddersfield and the Arts Council of England14: a txt msg pom.his is r bunsn brnr bl%,his hair lyk fe filingsW/ac/dc going thru.I sit by him in kemistry,it splits my @omswen he :-)s @ me.Julia Bird30, Poetry Book SocietyTranslation:14: a text message poemhis eyes are bunsen burner blue,his hair like iron filingswith ac/dc going through.I sit by him in chemistry,it splits my atomswhen he smiles at mePeter Sansom's commentsIt was a pleasure, not work at all, doing this, and easily the most enjoyable competition I've judged. It's partly because poems are an effort, usually, through sheer length and density, and in competitions - as in magazine editing, actually, the effort is rarely repaid. But you have to put the work in, because, as the saying is, a poem is only as good as its reader. The beauty   of this job was that you could get the measure of the whole piece in one go, even if as with a surprising number of them you were far from exhausting the poem in one or two reads. This was true of even the shortest of the long shortlist: "They phone you up, your mum and dad." It didn't reach the final seven, but it's already a catchphrase in our house. What's more, it is postmodern (though admittedly it isn't bollocks), because of its self-referentiality, recasting (and therefore commenting on) a famous line of poetry while at the same time talking about mobiles, or at any rate about a generation independent but always because of the phone in shouting distance. Also, this poem made us laugh out loud.Still, "They phone you up" didn't make the cut because it depends too much on the Larkin line it parodies. Others though not as short were   just as concise and presented stories or traded insights or humour often with texture of language and rhythmical purpose (as we say in the trade). "Ying", for instance, another spoof we were sorry to let go, has the oriental or rather new age whiff of a manx haiku: 'uncovered, I can/ still smell my wet hair/even in the dark.'As you might expect, a number of the entries were haikus. In Chinese, haikus are real poems because, so I'm told, neighbouring words alter each other's meanings, allowing the texts to open in the mind like paper flowers in a tumbler of water. Whereas in English, they tend to be short, up-their-own-arse poems made by grown men in brown cords walking up and down counting. I said as much once, the inspiration as it turned out for this: 'Peter Sansom says/Not to bother with haiku./Well, he can fuck off.'Which is to say one of the   joys of the competition was how much grainy real-life could be got into 160 characters, though there was room for delicate watercolour too. The most interesting aspect, and which may actually be quite radical, is how having to scroll down the screen makes the reading experience entirely linear, giving real suspense to each line break, making us attend to every word and to guess ahead before the new line comes up. You can't help glancing down the page in ordinary poems for clues, for orientation; but with a text poem you stay focussed as it were in the now of each arriving line.This gives extra force, for instance, to punch lines, and indeed makes it seem an urgent business, reading a text poem, like the pools score teleprinter used to be, or how it was when Ezra Pound said poetry was news that stays news.UA Fanthorpe's commentsThere is a quality of jokiness about English poetry, and the Guardian's terse verse contest encouraged that. So did its text message format, which has affinities with the resourceful stratagems of the old telegram. I like a poem that starts "Pls, stop sendg msgs2ths". The reader is being tested, as with a crossword puzzle or a Shakespeare play.Poetry has always enjoyed   fiddling around with the shapes of words and numbers of words or number of syllables: haiku, cinquain, englyn, and so on, and I have to admit to writing a poem about a road sign, in road sign language, which consists partly of words with their vowels extracted and partly of shorthand versions of place names. So in a way, the newest thing about the Guardian's competition was not the text message style, but the precise number of characters available.It was interesting to see how inventive the competitors were. Some wrote fairly normal poems (as far as style is concerned); some wrote with as much technical resourcefulness as possible. The results were disappointing in some ways, in that the subjects tended to be rather predictable - the usual subjects, in fact: love/sex predominated, along with "special moments".I've recently been judging   another (more familiar) poetry competition, where the range of subjects was infinitely more surprising. But it is, of course, difficult to get far with such a small word count; you have, on the whole, to be sure that the reader understands what you're writing about from the start. And limitation of form means that it's difficult to achieve very much complexity of feeling.I was looking for wit and technical inventiveness in the more technologically adventurous poems, and for imagination, density and the magical quality of take-off in the others. On the whole, the less technical did better - partly because the more technical had struggles with layout, and characteristically became unstuck with the last line, which is always where a poem either works or doesn't.There were some poems which I shall remember with delight, but which didn't   achieve the Final Seven because there wasn't enough substance to them: I treasure particularly two."They phone you up, your mum and dad.""Basildon: imagine a carpark."It was surprising how many competitors used rhyme, I suspect as a substitute for imagery. The form allowed only exceptionally gifted writers to develop an image to any extent, whereas the inevitable brevity made it quite easy to make something of a rhyme, if not exactly a rhyme-scheme. I was moved and amazed at how much feeling could be introduced in so small a space: there was great tenderness, spirit, imagination in the best entries.On the other hand, it was sad to see how some, faced with such a small canvas, squandered words when they could have used the possibilities more fruitfully.
Police were today continuing their search for a schoolgirl who is believed to have disappeared with a man she met through an internet chatroom.Kelly Marie Reid, 16, left her home in Merthyr Tydfil, south Wales, last Thursday.The teenager, due to take her GCSE examinations this summer, is believed to be with 20-year-old Robert Percy, a supermarket worker from Exeter, who she met online last October.Detective Inspector Keith Bowman of south Wales police said yesterday that they could not state yet whether or not there were any suspicious circumstances behind her disappearance.However, he added that he was particularly worried because the pair had met over the internet.He said: "It looks like she has gone with him willingly but it doesn't mean she wants to stay. Meeting over the internet means you don't really know who they are dealing with."Mr Percy had visited Ms Reid, who left home with a rucksack of clothes and around £100 in cash, only twice since they began communicating online.Mr Percy has not been seen at his work or by his family since the time of Ms Reid's disappearance. They are believed to be in the south east of England travelling in a blue-black Rover car.Useful linksSouth Wales police appeal for Kelly Marie ReidNCH internet guidelines for parentsGet net wiseChat dangerInternet watch foundation
Nokia juniorNokia is once again aiming for the youth market with a budget mobile phone that goes on sale this week.The dual band Nokia 3300 has interchangeable covers, a Wap browser and games. The 3300 also sees the debut of a new game - Bumper. Other game packs and animated screen savers can be downloaded via the Club Nokia web and Wap sites.Other facilities include voice dialing and a ring first then vibrate option. Talk time is rated at 4.5 hours, standby at 260 hours.www.nokia.comTiny viewIt might connect to a TV and look like a large silver VCR, but there is far more to Tiny Computer's Takami than just video recording. It is a stripped   down version of a PC that turns a TV into a digital home entertainment centre. Among its many features are music and movie playback, video recording, game playing via CD-Rom, and internet and email access.Its headline feature is its hard disk video recorder that enables time-shifters to store programmes on its 40gigabyte hard disk. The unit will also pause live TV. The hard disk can be used to store music as MP3 files. These can either be ripped from its CD player or downloaded from the net.The unit's home cinema facilities include a Dolby digital surround sound decoder and a DVD player.The basic Takami, which is accompanied by a remote control, wireless keyboard and stereo speakers, is on sale now for &#163;999. Tiny is also    offering the unit with a 15inch LCD screen for &#163;1,500. Seewww.tiny.comSmile and clickKodak has unveiled a system that it claims takes the hassle out of connecting a digital camera to a PC.EasyShare, which debuts on the company's just launched DX3500 model, pictured below, is based around an innovative docking station which not only connects the camera to the PC, but also automatically recharges its batteries.Once the software has been installed, users open up the software and transfer the image from the camera to the computer at a press of a button.With a couple of further button and mouse clicks, the user can email the images, print or edit them.Images are stored on an internal 8MB of memory. Further memory can be added with the addition of a CompactFlash card.The DX3500 has an image resolution of 2.2 megapixels and features a 3x digital zoom. It goes on sale later this month. In July it will be joined by the DDX3600    which adds a 2x optical zoom and digital video to the specification of its sibling model. Both models are also Mac compatible.www.kodak.co.ukCut-price IntelIntel has slashed the price of 1.5GHz and 1.4GHz Pentium 4 processors following the introduction of the 1.7GHz version. The faster version has been launched at an unexpectedly low price: $352 compared with $519 for the 1.5GHz chip. On Monday Intel halved the price of the slower chips, with the 1.5GHz falling from $519 to $256, and the 1.4GHz falling from $375 to $193. However, Intel did not cut the price of Pentium III processors, and at $225, a 1GHz PIII now costs more than a faster P4. The 1.5GHz P4 has had its price cut three times in the past two months: earlier this year, it cost more than $800. Intel wants to move the PC market as rapidly as possible from the PIII to the P4, and is also under competitive pressure from AMD's Athlon and Duron processors, which can use cheaper memory chips.
WorldCom yesterday confirmed that about 832 employees would be made redundant by the end of the month.The internet service provider employs 11,000 people across Europe - including part-time and contract staff - 5,500 of whom are based in Britain.The redundancies will affect staff across the continent, although sources say the lion's share will be at the Cambridge and London offices.A spokesman forWorldComsaid: "The figure &#91;of 832 redundancies&#93; is pretty accurate, but it's not a final number - we expect to make a concrete announcement by the end of the month."At present we are consulting with employees to work out where best to make the cuts."The redundancies are part of a restructuring programme at the company which aims to absorb the operations of its subsidiary UUNet into WorldCom and dispense with the facade of UUNet brand completely."Once the restructuring plan is complete the UUNet brand will no longer exist," said Richard Woods, director of public relations at UUNet.The news of the redundan cies confirms speculation that began in March when WorldCom laid off 6,000 employees at its US operations - equivalent to around 7% of the company's global workforce.Insiders say that employees have expected the cuts since January and the long wait has driven some to jump ship.The spokesman said no union representatives operated in the company, but employees were being consulted individually to break the news where necessary."We want to be the first to tell them," the spokesman said.Last week WorldCom reported net income for the first quarter of the year had fallen by 49% in comparison with the same period last year, from $1.2bn (&#163;839m) in March 2000 to $610m.Next week the company plans to sell an estimated $8bn worth of bonds to raise much-needed capital for investment and debt clearing.Analysts expect a portion will be offered in euros and possibly sterling, the first time the company has raised such funds in Europe. Executives are touring the continent to raise investor interest.Analysts said that WorldCom was likely to use part of the money to pay off debts of $3.1bn due for settlement this November.
Following Robin Cook's hailing of chicken tikka masala as the national dish, it seems fitting that an internet entrepreneur
   should attempt to launch a national online curry service.Based in Reading, where the service is being piloted, the company's managing director, Sanjeev Joshi, is plotting to make
   everything from chicken korma to popadoms available at the click of your mouse button. Determined to introduce a variety
   of spicy tastes to the palates of web surfers, he plans to open 350 kitchens across the country over the next five years.It is a highly ambitious project that requires tough deadlines being met every day and night. Known as Joshi's Kitchen, the
   web-based curry service aims to deliver curries within 40 minutes of an order being placed. They will be biked to customers'
   homes on mopeds. To make sure they arrive piping hot, the moped riders are going to be given about 12 minutes per
   delivery. Last orders will be taken online at about 1.20am.Joshi is unfazed by the scale of the task. He says he has carried out extensive research and points out that orders arriving
   at the kitchens in Reading are climbing. There is also a backup to the web service. "We have a call-handling operation as
   well. You can phone a dedicated number and people will take your order in real time and contact our kitchens in real time."Much thought has gone into the website, too. To make ordering easier, everything is contained on the home page. As soon as
   you arrive at the site you can place your order. Research into the latest shopping habits of web consumers has convincedJoshi's Kitchenthat if it introduces too many different pages, potential orders will not be made.All orders - whether placed electronically or by phone - are sent over the web directly to the kitchens. They are prioritised
   according to the time they were placed. 
   "Our aim is to deliver a quality product," Joshi explains. He and his wife have spent a long time on recipes because the taste
   will be crucial to their success."I always find at a lot of curry houses that the taste is quite flat. It comes at you all in one
   go, rather than getting different flavours at different times." 
   Analysts are sceptical about the success of this latest online venture and point to the experience of unsuccessful food
   delivery services such as US-owned Urban Fetch, which could not generate sufficient revenues from individual orders to
   make their e-business viable."It sounds like an interesting idea but I would worry about the eco nomics," says Mike Honor, a
   retail analyst for Forrester Research. "The curries have got to be out within 40 minutes, which means you're going to be up
   against the clock. I cannot imagine making vast amounts of money out of it." 
   To supplement income, Joshi's Kitchen will also be selling alcohol and has plans to introduce an online gift shop. To protect
   its margins, customers have to make a minimum order of £8.99, which Joshi does not believe is an issue for most curry
   buyers. His main target market is office workers, who he believes will order curries from their desks at lunchtime or if they
   are working late.To ensure that orders are fulfilled efficiently, Joshi has been carefully selecting his suppliers to make sure the supply chain
   is reliable. The company owns two kitchens in Reading, where the curries are cooked and delivered from. By owning the
   kitchens, Joshi believes he is in a stronger position to control standards. 
   Another likely threat will be supermarkets, which already offer curry meals for customers to microwave. But Joshi believes
   he can compete on quality of taste which, he argues, is often compromised by large industrial cooking processes.While the website looks refreshingly simple, Majestic, a Yorkshire-based design company, says it will be an enormously
   complex operation to manage orders and re-route them to available kitchens as the service grows. At the moment if you
   put in a post code outside the Reading area your order will not be processed. As more kitchens become available and more
   post codes are covered, managing the systems will become more of a headache 
   Jeremy Gidlow, the design project manager, is already feeling the pressure. "It has got to be real time every day of the
   week throughout the night."He says it has been challenging to synchronise the times on all the various interlinked
   computers to make sure that orders arrive with the right time stamps. 
   Domino's Pizza runs an online pizza service that covers about one-third of households in the UK. A spokeswoman welcomed
   the entry of the online curry service on the grounds that it could help expand the market. She explained that one of the
   main benefits of web-based food services is that customers can browse menus online. "Mailed menus can arrive with a
   plethora of others and be thrown away."Despite the potential pitfalls, Joshi believes that his recipes will carry the service forward. Not only are they battling
   against sceptical analysts but they are also engaged in a fight against the blandness of curry tastes. At the moment, as
   you would expect, life is hectic for him. Getting hold of Joshi is not easy. When I asked him a few days ago how it was going,
   he replied: "We've had an awful lot of orders for chicken tikka masala." So clearly the fledgling e-business is doing
   something right.
What is the most played electronic game in the world? Gran Turismo? Quake? Tetris? Pok&eacute;mon Gold? Guess again. The answer, according to educated guesswork, is probably Snake. A simple black and white puzzler played on a mobile phone.It is hard to prove this, of course. But consider the facts: it took Nintendo 10 years to sell 100m Game Boys whereas Nokia sold 128m handsets last year alone. And then look around the train carriage and see for yourself how many fingers are twiddling across phones that are otherwise not in use.The amazing rise of the handset as a gaming device has got the video games industry in a flap. As recently as 1998 the notion of gaming on a phone had never occurred. By last week it was a big enough deal to warrant its own exhibition and conference.Mobile Entertainment 2001, in Paris, was a fascinating showcase for this embryonic industry. The first thing   that struck, however, was just how different it is from the "conventional" games business. There was no razzmatazz here. It is hard to justify pole dancers and Ferraris when your roster of games includes draughts and hangman.But it is the simplicity of the "products" that has got everyone so excited. They appeal to everyone. Around 40m people in the UK now own a mobile and that means women, the over 40s, teenage girls - all those groups that conventional video games cannot reach.At present the size, grey colours and graphical resolution of handsets, limit what can be done technically. But there are social restrictions to bear in mind, too. A good mobile game should be dipped into for five minutes at a time. It should also have a community element.Chris Wright, business development manager of the Scottish mobile games company Digital Bridges, sums it up: "Wireless games should be competing with the crossword, not Quake. People will   never sit for hours playing a game on a phone," he says.Which is why the games on demonstration at Mobile Entertainment 2001 included simple golf simulations, football management, parlour games and quizzes. The latter proved the most interesting with Finland's Codeonline, one of many Nordic developers attending, previewing Who Wants To Be A Million aire? and Trivial Pursuit. Millionaire? has already been launched in Finland and will appear on a small screen near you later in the year.It is easy to see why these major brands would want to hijack the handset. It gives fans a chance to buy into the phenomenon, form communities around them and thereby prolong their appeal. Indeed Riot-E, another   Nordic studio, has already signed the mobile rights to Marvel and even Bridget Jones's Diary.The community element in these games is critical. Crushed by 3G debt, the phone companies know that handset entertainment will only make them money if it involves sending data. Solo Snake does not earn anyone cash. Playing two-player hangman or post ing Millionaire high scores in an SMS does.The French developer In Fusio is already bagging healthy sums this way. It embedded simple puzzle games on France Telecom handsets and invited users to play them offline and then compete for prizes by posting their progress in an SMS competition that costs 10p. Hundreds of thousands regularly do.More typically, however, the networks simply host games (if you have a Wap connection, go to games on the screen menu) and tempt users to play them online. And as technologies such as general packet radio service (GPRS) improve data transfer rates, the hope is that games will move on to full colour action.In the meantime, we can look forward to the first Star Trek game on a mobile. Star Trek First Duty will be launched later in the summer, an important release even if it does show that this new market can't quite shake off its nerdy roots. There has already been a request to translate the game into Klingon.
The view out my window might be of a railway line in central Swindon on a damp weekday afternoon, but the sounds coming out my speakers are from a different world.I'm listening to the early-morning sounds of KBSU AM, a radio station based in the American mid-west. A smooth voice reminds listeners, between records, that this is the only station to bring jazz 24-hours a day to northern Nevada and surrounding areas. She doesn't mention they serve the world too, via the internet, but then the locals would only be jealous if they knew. Thanks to a new cable modem connection, I'm hearing KBSU - an AM station - with near FM clarity, more clearly than the locals.How is all this possible? Thanks to the wonders of streaming audio, an internet technology that has been around for a few years now, but which is reaching a level of maturity that makes it of much more interest to the mainstream net user.With streaming audio, a radio station's output is broken up into bits and compressed for transmission   across the net. At the user's end, software reassembles the bits and plays it back to you in "real time", as if it were a normal radio. There is only a few seconds' time lag.The company that has led the way for streaming - both in terms of technology and user numbers - has been Real Networks, which now has 170m registered users around the world. Its RealPlayer software, which has now reached its eighth generation, runs equally well on PCs and Apple Macs.Real has always supplied a free player to net users, but makes its money from selling enhanced players and the software that allows broadcasts to be made over the net.Because of its need to make some money, getting a free RealPlayer has been a tricky exercise for a few years. Real is keen - make that  very keen - for you to buy its top-end player, which, at the moment, is called RealPlayer   8 Plus. That costs $29.70 (around &#163;21) and - lest I be accused of being a cheapskate - is a perfectly fine piece of software. It is just that if you are new to the world of internet audio and video, and you have a 56k modem or perhaps even slower, the paid-for software is unnecessary. The paid-for version adds enhancements, including a graphic equaliser and some cosmetic improvements, but Real's more basic, free player is perfectly adequate. It is just a question of finding it.1Go towww.real.comand you will be confronted with countless advertisements for the Plus version. You need to scroll to the bottom of the page where you will see links to "top free downloads". Choose the top one, for RealPlayer 8 Basic.2You would think that would put you on the way. Not so. This link then takes you to another page dominated by a plug for the Plus version. You will spot a tiny link (depending on the size of your screen, you might have to scroll down a little to find it) saying, begrudgingly, "RealPlayer 8 is our basic player". Click on this, and a screen will appear asking you   a few details about who you are, what speed your connection to the internet is (this is the speed of your modem) and where you live.3After you have entered this, you will be asked to pick a download site - pick the one nearest you which, for readers in the UK, is London, and the software will download on to your hard disk.4Further straightforward instructions on what to do next, to complete installation on your PC or Mac, are also on this page.Tip: it's a good idea to print this page out, as the installer software you have just downloaded will want to close your internet browser during the installation process. That way, you will still have the instructions to hand.5After you choose a download site the software will, finally, appear on your machine - a 56k modem will take around 20 minutes to download it. Follow the instructions you just printed out to complete the (straightforward) installation process.After downloading:After you have successfully downloaded your software (and filled in a questionnaire that, annoyingly, repeats a lot of the questions asked online earlier), what next? It is time to go and explore the content available to you.There are thousands of online radio stations from which to choose - and a few methods to start listening to them. You could click on the radio tuner button on the RealPlayer itself, which will load a web page in your browser with links to listings of thousands of stations. You could also call the page up directly in your browser by going tohttp://realguide.real.com/tuner.Either way, you will be confronted with three highlighted stations of the day, and then it is a simple task to   choose the genre of music or programming you want. When you see a station you want to listen to, click on the station heading, and RealPlayer will load, take a few seconds to tune in and "buffer" the content (to smooth out any interference over the internet), and then start playing.You can also go directly to the station you are interested in. For instance, if you go towww.bbc.co.uk/radio1(replace the number for radios one to five) you will find a link to let you listen to the station "live".Net radio troubleshooterThe programme I'm listening to sounds terrible and/or keeps breaking up...Net radio needs a smooth, fast connection to work well. You really need at least a 56k modem for it to work, and even then a number of factors could hamper its performance.Your choice of ISP, the time of day and the quality of your telephone line could all determine the quality of your net connection. Check outhttp://webservices.cnet.com/bandwidthto test the speed of your connection (ignore the questions and just click on "go" to run the test). You need at least 40kbps for net audio to work properly, although the best results - including quite respectable sound - are reserved for those lucky enough to have a broadband cable or ADSL connection.I get an error message, or nothing happens, when I try to launch a new radio stationThere are other, less popular audio formats -Microsoft's Media Player) and Apple's QuickTime atwww.apple.com/quicktimeare two - which some stations use. Follow the links above to install their free players.
Only weeks ago, the so-called third generation mobile networks seemed like the romantic new frontier. Now, denouncing them has become the latest fashionable sport. All the critics seem to agree that mobile phone operators face a perilous financial future.Even before they start to earn money, mobile phone operators in Britain have indebted themselves to the tune of $40 billion for licences and other investments. This is roughly the same amount Nasa estimates it would cost to put a manned base on Mars. Not a few think that Nasa's plans stand a better chance of success.If you consider the wider   European market, the sums are staggering. In addition to &#163;120bn for the licences, mobile operators face another &#163;100bn of expenditure on infrastructure. European mobile operators now labour under about twice as much debt as Argentina.And it is still not clear how they intend to pay for it. Most industry observers cannot foresee how revenues - from advertising, sponsorship, subscriptions and so on - are going to generate enough money to pay for infrastructure and service the debt.According to Forrester Research, revenue per user - at present driven by voice and SMS - will fall by more than a third over the next four years. Clearly, the operators will have to come up with   some interesting new services that require third generation technology to generate cash.And the problem may get even worse. Many observers think 3G may constitute only a small part of the networked future, which envisions 4G mobile internet seamlessly interconnected with Bluetooth, 2G+ and other technologies. Moreover, not everybody is convinced that higher bandwidth will provide internet access and sell content to users. That is because content is not the answer to the 3G problem.Consider the Wap experience. Wireless application protocol was designed to deliver content to wireless devices, but early experiences have proved disappointing. But the short message service has been a runaway success. SMS provides a way to send short text messages ("g-mail") between users.In Norway, revenues   generated by g-mail already exceed web-based advertising revenues. In Switzerland, Swisscom alone handles 10 times as many g-mails as the banking system does retail card transactions. In the UK, traffic is heading toward a billion g-mails per month, and the British Repetitive Strain Injury Association is warning that usage poses "massive risks".We should not be so surprised. SMS provides connectivity, Wap provides content. As the history of interactive networks (eg, the telephone) shows, connectivity always wins. No wonder SMS is more popular than Wap: people value human beings more than third-party content.So if content isn't the killer application and new revenue sources won't make enough to balance the books, is 3G doomed? I don't think so.Firstly, operators will never have to face the entire cost of building 3G infrastructure, choosing to share costs instead. New mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs), like Virgin Mobile in the UK, will increase the range and variety of services built on top of that infrastructure.Secondly, the old way of making money - through voice and data traffic - will grow more than many anticipate when the ability to exchange multimedia gets added into the voice and g-mail mix. Imagine, for example, SMS being superceded by some sort of extra-large message service - let's call it the BEMS, for bloody enormous message service - that would send maps to my car, video clips from my kids to my mum, and MP3 tracks to me while I am sitting bored on a train.Third, mobile phones will inevitably become transactional devices, used to pay bills. It makes perfect sense. After all, everybody has a phone, everybody carries it with them all the time, and all phones have a tamper-resistant computer chip inside them - the perfect place to store personal data. Identity, authentication and payments   will become central to 3G and other mobile propositions.This trend towards mobile phones as mobile transactors is already visible in Asia, where mobile penetration far outstrips the internet and credit cards. Japan's i-mode system already collects money via subscribers' bills and passes it on (minus a healthy commission) to mobile content providers. This service is about to be extended to vending machines.Similar services are just getting off the ground in Europe. In Spain, Movilpago is launching a service where shoppers can pay by punching in their phone number. In Finland, Sonera has been offering payments via mobile phone at vending machines, car washes and other outlets for some time. In Sweden you can pay for car parking with your mobile phone. Back in the UK, the ticket machines at Woking don't even take &#163;20 notes.I think it would be fun if BT, Orange, Hutchison and the rest would band together to fund the Mars base. But assuming that's not going to happen, it's still too early to declare that 3G is dead.
Extra iceThe Titanic Deckchair Rearrangement Corporation (TDCRC) has launched a new corporate website atwww.tdcrc.com, which means Chris Locke has another book to flog. In this case it is Gonzo Marketing: Winning Through Worst Practices, which is due out in October. However, for those who missedThe Cluetrain Manifestoor are too humour-challenged to    readEntropy Gradient Reversals, the first chapter is available online athttp://205.178.173.189/gonzomarkets.com.Plane riskyWhat are your chances of surviving your next flight? Every air traveller wants to know the odds, and nobody is willing or able to say. However, you can get a good idea from the UK-based website atwww.amigoingdown.com. Its calculations are based on published information such as the airline, the type of plane, the time of the flight, and so on. Since the odds are very small, the site can even be recommended to fearful flyers.Webbies featWell done, the BBC. The nominations for the fifth annual Webby Awards have just been announced, and BBC websites have been nominated in two categories: News (http://news.bbc.co.uk) and Radio (www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice).Other notable nominees includeFucked Company,Gamasutraand a lot of familiar old favourites.Unfortunately, thanks to a bizarre bit of bloated programming, the web addresses for the various contenders do not link to their sites, only to the Webbies pagewww.webbyawards.com/nominees.Nominations for two more categories, arts and technical achievement, will be announced on June 20, and the awards will be presented on July 18. Voting for the People's Voice winners should be open now.SwampedWhich new website attracted more than 26m visitors in its first 54 hours online - and might have had many more if it had not been swamped? It was nothing pornographic, political or even pontifical. It was, in fact, the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation's site. Ellis Island has the arrival records of 22m immigrants who entered the port of New York between 1892 and 1924. If your ancestors came or went that way, the site atwww.ellisislandrecords.orgshould have the details.Brain powerIn the early 80s, an outliner or "ideas processor" called Brainstorm attracted some attention. Now it has returned in a free trial version for Microsoft Windows, which can be downloaded fromwww.brainstormsw.com. In between, the program has been "Tebbo's mysterious hobby", David Tebbutt having been one of the people who helped popularise microcomputing in the UK. He says: "Apart from its original purpose, which was to   enable high-speed thinking, planning and organising, it can now be used to publish 3D web pages of your thoughts and to blend the work of teams together."Sight testPoliticians are notorious for their inability to understand or use the internet. The Stationery Office and a bunch of thinktanks hope to change that with a new website, Vox Politicswww.voxpolitics.com). However, it is hard to say if it will have any impact, because a large proportion of its potential audience may well find it unreadable.For CurlersCurl is a new computer language and CurlSurge a browser plug in that is going    to revolutionise the web. "Curl technology is the next step in the evolution of our communication," according to Curl's founder, David Kranz. Yes, it may be just the usual rubbish. On the other hand, Curl has been bubbling away at MIT since 1995. The initial funding came from America's Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency, which started what became the internet, and the technology team includes the web's founder, Tim Berners-Lee. The first finished version of CurlSurge can now be downloaded fromwww.curl.com.New &amp; noted&#149;  Master origami the Yamaha way:www.yamaha-motor.co.jp/eng/papercraft&#149; Teaching food safety in primary schools:www.nutrition.org.uk/eufoodsafety.htm&#149; A long-term degree project that is getting there:www.confluence.org&#149; And so are the beans:www.geocities.com/beansaroundtheworld&#149; Don't miss this:http://members.aol.com/fdipiazza/stickybaby.htmSix of the bestChessKasparov Chesswww.kasparovchess.comWeekly newswww.chesscenter.com/twic/twic.htmlRatingswww.fide.comAbout guidehttp://chess.about.comPlay onlinehttp://w3.chess.netwww.chesslab.comLinkswww.clark.net/pub/pribut/chess.html
Game timeThe British computer industry will soon be packing its bags and jetting off to sunny Los Angeles for E3, the games trade exhibition and conference, which opens on May 16. Publishers will be showing off hundreds of games in progress - Sony is expected    to show more than 100 titles for the PlayStation 2 - but insiders will be looking at Microsoft's Xbox console in particular. Microsoft will be under pressure to tell the trade when it will ship its forthcoming console, how much it will cost, and how many games will be finished in time. As usual, developments will be covered in E3 Show Daily atwww.e3daily.com/v21/index.cvnPenguin alertIn Japan, Sony is releasing a version of the GNU/Linux operating system for its PlayStation 2 games console (seewww.jp.playstation.com/linux/). The system, based on Red Hat Linux, includes a 40 giga byte hard drive that connects via the PC Card slot, a keyboard and a mouse. Sony plans to release a thousand units in June, to gauge demand. However, the system is not compatible with European versions of the Play- Station 2, and at the moment there are no plans to market it in the US or the UK.Linux is not new to the PlayStation 2, however: it is used in Sony's software development kit.SurvivorTelevision shows seem to be hot properties in the games business at the moment. Eidos Interactive has made a fortune out of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? Activision is    hard at work on a videogame version of The Weakest Link. Now Infogrames is getting excited because it has signed a    licensing deal with CBS to produce a series of games based on the huge US hit, Survivor. The first title will be   based on the current series, which is set in the Australian outback, and should be out by the end of the year.In seasonPlayStation 2 owners will eventually get a football management game, but they will have to wait until next year. Codemasters is developing a version of its popular Play-Station title, LMA 2002, for the PS2. (LMA is the League Managers Association.) PS2 owners are promised "a much improved match section with heightened Artificial Intelligence, detailed animations, action replays and after-match analysis".
When I accept an invitation to a dinner party, my host's response is not usually one of unadulterated joy. It is not that I dribble, or talk incessantly about Ikea, it is just that I am vegan. Vegans do not eat animal products - that is no eggs, dairy, meat or fish.By this stage my host has swallowed hard and is wondering how to disinvite me and this is when I usually have to say that no, ha, ha, ha, Iam not from the planet Vega, I and other vegans do not look like Kate Moss (if being skinny were that easy we would all be vegan), and yes, I would like more than a lettuce leaf and a sultana.Thanks to CJD and foot and mouth, I feel that maybe, just maybe, people will not think I am quite so weird. After all, that something is seriously wrong with the farming industry is a belief long held by vegans and vegetarians. What most people do not understand is why anyone should want to be a vegan - vegetarianism is quite enough halo-polishing for one mortal. The reason it is not obvious is to do with the way in which food production has been removed from our everyday lives. The simple    fact is that if you believe killing animals is wrong, then vegetarians are hypocritical - for instance, to get milk from a cow, she has to have a calf a year. This involves lots of hormones and arguably a bit of cruelty, but the point is, those baby cows then end up as veal. Even if they were kept and used as dairy cows themselves (which is unlikely in a non-organic farm), half will be males and they are just no use. They do not have udders and you only need one bull around. Most vegan sites have the lowdown on what is wrong with eating meat (and cheese, and eggs, and milk) - seewww.vegansociety.com/info/infohome.html.I do not talk about my diet much, but I do like cooking for people (but then get annoyed when they accuse me of slipping cheese in the tofu "cheesecake"). The point of cooking for others (apart from fun and the challenge of making Nigel Slater's recipes vegan) is that, contrary to popular opinion, not only can you buy substitutes for nearly everything (from mayonnaise to yogurt to ice cream) which taste as good as the real thing and are twice as healthy (lower in fat and cholesterol and higher in protein), it is possible to cook nice food that is cruelty free. Honest. The    Vegan Chef site has a huge range of recipes; some even sound vaguely normal, such as fettucine and peas Alfredo. But where they really go to town is on the desserts, which range from baklava to bourbon, pumpkin and spiced pecan tart atwww.veganchef.com.Usually in restaurants you have to sweet talk the chef into leaving out butter and Parmesan, but in San Francisco they have opened a gourmet vegan restaurant. Fortunately for us, there is a book and recipes online, such as Thai green curry eggplant stack - vegetables saut&eacute;ed in green curry with layers of crunchy, herb encrusted aubergine (www.millenniumrestaurant.com). Other gourmet recipes can be found at theVegetarian Society's Cordon Vert sitewhich I am glad to say tells us loud and clear how wonderful tofu is - you can make it into a steak or cheesecake, it only has 90 calories per 100g and more protein than meat. I was not sold on all the recipes though - tofu and peaches in brandy sounded delicious until I realised you also needed an onion and some stock to complete the meal.For all those people out there faced with the scary prospect of dating a vegan (as one man said to me, "What no meat or ham?") there is Veganism for theMeat Eater. It does not cater to gourmets, but does have recipes that will make the average junk food meat eater feel at home - shepherd's pie, pizza, chicken fajitas and chocolate peanut-butter pie.The official macrobiotic site features recipes from a book atwww.montsebradford.com/recipes.htmthat even I would blanche at - lemon mousse (from Cooking with Sea Vegetables) and pasta with beetroot sauce (from the Oh No, I've Ruined My Shirt School of Cooking) but I guess Madonna finds it appetising.For the uninitiated, finding food you can eat can be trying, attempting to find anything else can be a real pain, even if you have been vegan long enough to know all the labels in Sainsbury's by heart -www.veganvillage.co.ukhas information on vegan restaurants, travel, health and where to shop for cruelty-free cosmetics, and vegan shoes.Now any good cook (or guest going to a dinner party) will have thought about drinks and this is where being vegan can frankly be annoying. Wine and beer are clarified after fermentation with a whole range of nasty substances - milk and egg proteins, dried blood, bones, swim bladders from fish - some sugar is even whitened using animal bones.http://sbvdesigns.comadvises on which wines and beers are vegan, as well as providing information on other products. Did you know how many E numbers are made of sperm? Gin and champagne are fine, though, so here is to peach Bellinis and being a normal dinner party guest.
Sony PlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99 Swing/Virgin	***Sometimes playing games can get a bit too serious. Whether it is fretting over your creature in Black and White, gathering resources in Command and Conquer or losing a last-minute goal in Championship Manager, there are times when your patience will be stretched to the limit.Thankfully there are two new releases that rely on reflexes, weapon upgrades and sheer adrenaline. Gungriffon Blaze and Silpheed are the two latest titles to replace plot, strategy and forward planning with old-fashioned blasting.Gungriffon Blaze is a typically Japanese take on the future, with giant mech-robots battling it out in a war-torn environment. As you would expect from the PS2,   the graphics are decent but you will barely notice as you get straight into the action.Your task is to destroy all enemies and installations while gathering up the goodies left behind. The controls are initially tricky, with beginners likely to spend much of the time shooting the ground. But persevere and you will be strafing and flying like an anime legend. Radio crackle and realistic smoke effects add to the experience, making Gungriffon a pleasant, if short-term, destroyer.However, if even this sounds like too much hard work then another Japanese shoot-em-up may appeal. Silpheed offers a reminder of   simpler days. The backdrops are pretty (as you'd expect on PS2) but this a 2D blaster that, graphics aside, could have been produced anytime since the early 1980s.Controlling a spacecraft your aim is to shoot everything. There are no intricate plots or subtle nuances - this is pure finger-on-fire-button blasting. Which makes it marvellous stress relief, and a welcome change from strategy and 100 page manuals.Neither game will last forever - perhaps a week or two for both - but they are a reminder that gaming does not have to be hard work.  (GH)Virtual KasparovSony PlayStation 	&#163;19.99 Titus/Virgin	***Absolute beginners can start with the tutorials, learn the moves and, within a couple of hours, be thrashing this program at chess. It is not that the tutorials, though reasonably well done, have any magical qualities.Nor has Garry Kasparov, the world's best chess player for the past two decades, lost his touch. It is simply that the program kindly starts you off at beginner's level 1, where it does not seem to know much more than the moves itself.Players with just a smidgeon of talent or commitment should then be able to make rapid progress. There are 23 levels in all, and it is not until you get to the champions section, which starts at level 18, that the game becomes hard to beat. At the highest level, it is certainly far too good for every one who is likely to play chess on a PlayStation, apart, perhaps, from the odd child prodigy.As usual there is a huge selection of virtual chess sets, most of them unusable, and a 3D graphics option that you would have to be mad to use. But a couple of the 2D sets are very good indeed.Virtual Kasparov also has sections on chess history and famous chess champions,   with nine commented games, plus a section on Kasparov with more than 50 of his best games.In fact, Virtual Kasparov has just about everything you would expect from a good PC program, the unusual thing being that it is running on a PlayStation.And by both PlayStation and PC standards, it comes at an attractive price.  (JS)
Googled outUnfortunately SA Mathieson's description of Google's UK site is unintentionally, but seriously, misleading (Online, April 26). Google implies that by selecting "Pages from the UK" it is listing only those pages originating from UK sites and weeding out all those from abroad.All that happens is that clicking UK pages removes from the list all pages which do not have UK as part of their URL. So authors who have chosen to show that their sites are not-for-profit and internationally relevant by choosing .org as a domain, are excluded.My own site is the only one dealing comprehensively with the history of the Victorian Turkish bath, and lists the few which remain open. Many of its hits are from the US and the Commonwealth.On Google.com it rates first from 712 sites under "Victorian Turkish baths", and first from 12,700 sites under "Turkish baths". In "Pages from the UK" it does not appear at all. A friend from Sussex University runs thespasdirectory.com and his top relevance rating on Google.com is similarly replaced by absence from the UK pages.In fact, Google, which has always been the best for relevance in information searches, has, at a stroke, thrown away the benefit of its unique rating system. It is important that searchers should realise that "Pages from the UK" actually means  some pages.Malcolm Shifrinmalcolm@victorianturkishbath.orgGender freeAs a mum of three and like many women of my age, I have become computer literate after a stage of panic and sweat at the mere sight of a computer. I regularly use the internet and I found it so interesting that I taught myself and set up a website calledwww.welfed.com.We started from scratch and now, after six months and a tiny investment - which helped buy the computers - we have totalled 220,000 hits, we have been visited by 30,000 people and we get lots of letters from women and from men who like the site because it is quick, easy to navigate, full of information and there is no talk about nappies or make-up.I found Deborah Bee's article patronising (Online, April 19). There are many sites for women, as well as for men, that offer a virtual space for chat and gossip; some people enjoy spaces like that. There are many sites, for women and for men, which are design rich and very slow to download; some people like them too. On the other hand there are many sites, like ours, that offer quick access to the information needed, help and a sense of sharing.The internet is a wonderful tool but as with everything else it needs practice and it becomes easier to search and find what you are looking for once you know how - it makes no difference if you are a man, a woman or a mum.Cristina Adamscristina@welfed.comMore PogoI was delighted to read Bill Rivers's letter (Feedback, April 26). In particular, the fact that Mr Rivers concurs with our view that "&#91;Pogo&#93; could definitely become the handset of choice compared to Wap over GSM". This is most encouraging.Nevertheless, the letter raised an issue regarding one aspect of our approach which requires a response. Mr Rivers refers to "images" as our "Achilles heel" and suggests that to provide access to the internet over the restricted bandwidth of GSM, Pogo must surely process web content into "slimmed-down versions" without JPEG image files.Mr Rivers is absolutely correct that images and graphics are a key part of the web but his scepticism of our ability to deliver images at usable speeds is misfounded. It is exactly this ability to deliver full web pages to mobile users as they would expect to see them that we believe differentiates the Pogo product.Our compression system does transmit JPEGS - approximately 3.5 times faster using our technology than without - and we have patents filed to protect the   way that we do this. Our business is founded on the belief that effective use of compression in an affordable handset provides the mobile industry with a very real step towards 3G.The key word is "effective", as compression in itself is not the answer. It is what you do with it that counts, and for all our technological innovation, our focus has always been to provide mobile users with usable, affordable access to the real internet and to web-based services which add value to their daily lives. Anything short of this will risk disappointing an expectant and eager marketplace.Tim CritchleyPogo Technology Ltdtim.critchley@pogo-tech.comFilm headYes, William Gibson got in before Neal Stephenson, and plainly The Matrix is a retread of themes he did first (Online, April 26). But Gibson has (just) inspired more than one movie. Johnny Mnemonic and New Rose Hotel were both full-length features adapted from short stories in Burning Chrome, while a third, The Gernsback Continuum, was filmed as a short, and shown with Johnny Mnemonic in Britain.David Roydavid.roy@computerchannel.comLavatorialThe Tyneside word for toilet is netty, so, is Netiquette (Online April 19) the correct way to behave in the toilet?Bob Davenportbob.davenport@lineone.net
Apple has unveiled a "thinner, lighter and cheaper" version of the iBook, the portable aimed at education and home users.The new laptop bears little resemblance to its colourful but bulky predecessor. The old iBook's rounded corners and rubberised edges have gone, to be replaced by an all-white case which bears a closer resemblance to Apple's new Titanium PowerBook laptops, launched earlier this year.The iBook, previously criticised for its weight and size, feels different too - two pounds lighter at 4.9 pounds, and thinner, at 1.35 inches.The machines sport a 500MHz PowerPC G3 processor, with 10GB hard drive as standard. Buyers will have the option of versions with a CD-Rom drive, DVD-Rom drive, CD-RW (for creating music CDs) or a combo drive that has CD-RW and DVD playback capability.Reflecting Apple's drive into multimedia, all models will have a FireWire port to connect to devices such as digital video cameras, two USB ports, a video output port to attach external displays and an AV port to output to TVs.The bottom-end CD-Rom version will have only 64MB of memory as standard, which means it will not be able to run the new OSX operating system without extra memory, but all other versions will have 128MB included in the price.The new iBooks will start at $1,299 in the US. As Online went to press, details of UK availability and pricing were not known.
Is the UK holding its own in terms of technology and innovation?Teaching kids about invention should be part of the national curriculum. I went to Hoover years ago and suggested they place an ioniser in the back of a vacuum cleaner but they did not even pay me the courtesy of a reply. This made me realise how many inventors are facing that same indifference. Before, if I said I was an inventor, people would look at me like I had a disease, yet artists and designers are never questioned. Design is the thing that sells the concept of the invention but it is invention that it is all about. If we manage to establish an Inventors Academy we could teach how necessary a prototype is and, more importantly, explain intellectual property, patents and design registration. We have to make sure that the venture capitalists do not keep ripping off inventors in this country.What was your first encounter with computers?It was aBBC B. I was intrigued because you could play snakes and ladders on it, but not much else. It was extremely useful as a word processor. At present we have an Acer and a Compaq linked in holy matrimony and we are having an ADSL line put in because I do so many radio interviews.Any plans for a clockwork PC?When I was in Botswana there was aneMateon the Apple stand next to me. We took power from one of my radios and managed to get about 14 minutes of play time from the computer. As time passes the energy requirements of these gizmos is coming right down - 10 years ago you needed a car battery to run a mobile phone and now they are the size of a smart card. As we accelerate the performance of the output of these little generators there is no doubt that computers will come into the frame. At home I have a pulley with a bucket on a rope over a tree. When it is released it drives a gearbox and dynamo, which powers my radio. When people say, "How long does the radio run?" I say, "How tall is the tree?"Are there any gadgets you wish you'd helped invent?My house is known as the graveyard of a thousand domestic appliances. I would love the facilities to doCadam designwhere you can produce holograms on a screen then reproduce them in a vat of some kind. A lot of colleges have amazingrapid prototyping machines, which fuse your holographic image into plastic. It would be rather nice to have your idea on the screen then be able to see your dream 20 minutes later.Any favourite websites?I use theAOLsite for keeping up on internet matters. I use PowerPoint for presentations, so the net is useful for researching those.Visit:www.freeplay.net
We all love our gadgets, but you can have too much of a good thing. Once you are packing a mobile phone, an electronic organiser, an MP3 music player and a digital tape recorder, it is hard to find pockets or purse-room for the electronic book, the Game Boy, the digital camera, the portable radio, the pocket calculator, the satellite positioning system and the handy translator that lets you type in an English word and look up the Russian equivalent.Do not worry, the consumer electronics giants have a solution: combine half a dozen gadgets into a single device. This idea is seen as the salvation of the mobile phone industry, which is suffering from a slump in handset sales. (Ericsson and Motorola are closing factories, while Siemens is shedding staff.)It is also seen as prime territory by computer industry giants such as Compaq and Hewlett-Packard, which are looking for new markets as growth slows in the PC sector.Adding extra functions could give many people the incentive to buy a new mobile phone or handheld computer. And the ultimate PDA (personal digital assistant) will do just about anything. It will handle both voice and data calls, send SMS text messages, and access the internet to collect email and faxes and surf the web. It will have a built-in electronic book reader, an MP3 player and it will play games. It will keep track of where you are, using location services and on-screen street maps.In the future, you may well use it not just to keep track of your spending, but to pay for things via its "electronic wallet" facility. And if your PDA-phone on steroids does not have a built-in camera, you will be able to plug one in, either to take snapshots or to use for videoconferencing.We are not there yet, but we are getting close. Mark Squires, Nokia's business development manager, says his new Nokia 9210 Communicator phone can already do most of those things, "and I haven't even started to load software on it yet".The Compaq iPaq and HP Jornada palmtop computers are also being sold as multifunction devices. The built-in software includes pocket versions of Microsoft Word, Excel, Internet Explorer and Money, and users who buy Microsoft's Autoroute package can load Pocket Streets.These PocketPCs also include an electronic book reader, a voice recording facility and a Windows Media Audio player as standard. What they do not have is built-in mobile phone communications, but that is the sort of thing that could be added via a plug-in module. The VisorPhone, which plugs into a Handspring palmtop running Palm OS, is one example.The resulting competition should be good for consumers: all sorts of gizmos   will be competing for the space in your pocket, and the pound in your pocket. (More likely several hundred pounds.) But it may also create a lot of confusion.Of course, everyone agrees the future will be mobile and wireless. However, there are broad battle lines being drawn between two camps. On one side are the voice-centric products, such as mobile phones. On the other are data-centric devices, such as PDAs. But both will have similar functions, and may well use the same software. The leading candidates include Palm OS, Symbian's version of Epoc, spun out of Psion, and Microsoft's PocketPC. Some suppliers are also expected to use mobile versions of GNU/Linux, the free "open source" clone of the Unix operating system.Ultimately, many people expect the market to "shake down", as Squires puts it, to a small number of devices. The biggest, heaviest and probably the most expensive will be "clamshell" devices with built-in keyboards and screens, such as the Psion-based Nokia 9210 Communicator and Hewlett-Packard Jornada 720, which runs Microsoft Windows CE (originally, Consumer Electronics). Screen resolution should be about 640 by 240 pixels: half a PC's standard VGA screen.These devices appeal to people who really need to enter data on the move, not just look up information downloaded from a PC or the web.The next class will be multimedia devices that replace the keyboard with handwrit ing recognition on a touch-sensitive screen, which should be at least quarter-VGA (320 by 240 pixels). You will not hold these devices up to your ear to make phone calls - that makes it hard to see the screen - but use an earpiece instead. So far, this category is populated mostly by "concept phones" and reference devices such as Symbian's Quartz. However, PocketPC-based phones such as the Sagem and Trium Mondo, and the Handspring VisorPhone, come close.The third category is the "smart phone". This is basically a smaller and lighter version of the multimedia device but in the shape of a conventional mobile phone. The screen will be about half the size (and less than half the price), but could have the same resolution. The smart phone uses a numeric keypad instead of handwriting recognition. Examples include the Ericsson R520, and a string of forthcoming devices based on Microsoft's Stinger reference phone, such as the Sendo 100.The smallest, lightest and cheapest device is the ordinary mobile phone, but it will become increasingly less ordinary.Steve Walker, Ericsson's marketing and new business director for consumer products, says: "There will always be an entry level segment, but what's included in that will increase as the cost of implementation falls."Walker points out that most phones can now handle Wap (wireless application protocol) for limited internet access, as well as text messaging. In the future, he thinks they will also include Blue tooth networking, so they can connect wirelessly to other devices such as notebook computers.Of course, not everyone will want a device that does everything, and Squires, from Nokia, points out that different products have different usage patterns. The PDA you might want to carry in a briefcase or use in the car may not be what you want to slip into your pocket when you nip down to the pub.Walker agrees that "one size definitely does not fit all", and adds that putting everything into a single device makes it hard to upgrade one element without changing the others.Stacey Wu, a senior analyst with Mobile Insights in Mountain View, California, thinks the people who are most likely to buy a "convergence device" - one that combines a palmtop computer with a mobile phone - will be the ones who already use PDAs."I think there will be a desire to have everything in one device, but maybe after trying it, some people will want to back down and have two or more," says Wu. "Right now, multifunction devices take a lot of power and you may need to recharge them every day or every other day." She thinks that "technology-savvy" types will like multifunction devices but most people don't want the   bother involved in using them.Wu also thinks the different markets may develop differently. In Europe, for example, we have more people who use clamshell devices such as the Psion handhelds. In Japan, where the i-mode data service is dominant, they are much keener on phones with big screens, whereas in the US, Palm handhelds are popular.There is also evidence that, to an extent, different types of product are being adopted in different markets. Many big companies, for example, are buying PocketPC systems, especially Compaq's iPaq, because it is expandable and   programmable and fits into their IT systems. Smaller organisations are using cheaper Palm and Palm-compatible handhelds, which are often bought by individuals and claimed back "on expenses". People who don't need devices to handle business data tend to go for smart phones.However, there is no doubt that both the handset manufacturers and network operators would like us to upgrade to more powerful devices. If we don't, we won't be able to make full use of the new 2.5G and 3G data services that the networks want to sell us. Some analysts expect these enhanced data services,   including music and games, to generate half their total income by 2004-5.Mark Edwards, sales and marketing director at Symbian, which is developing "converged" Psion-based software for mobile phones, says the networks are watching their ARPUs, or average revenue per unit.Originally, the operators were under pressure to sign up as many subscribers as possible, he says, "but now they are starting to ask themselves 'which customers do we want?' " The answer is the smaller number of big spenders who are most likely to use data services.So it is not just a question   of delivering features simply by building them into phones. The networks also have to deliver services that people will use in preference to the alternatives. And as Wap has shown, that may not be as easy as it sounds.As Walker observes laconically: "We've had clocks built into mobile phones for a long time, but I haven't seen too many people who've given up their watches."
Hetty Hughes was on a bus travelling from Leeds to Bradford on Monday night - a replacement for a train that wasn't running - when her mobile phone rang. "Oh my God, how wonderful," she replied on being told that her submission had won first prize (&#163;1,000) in the Guardian's text message poetry competition - from almost 7,500 entries.Hetty, 22, who was on her way back from the Nelson Mandela concert in Leeds, is a second-year undergraduate doing a degree in peace studies. She said that she liked reading poetry but had never actually written a poem since she was young.How did it happen? She remembers the moment. She had read about the competition in Online and was sitting in her bedroom trying to come to grips with an essay on the role of the United Nations as the major collective security organisation in the 21st century.Her eyes strayed to a photograph of her grandmother. Suddenly she started thinking about essays and texting. Ten minutes later her poem was finished. She will count herself fortunate if she earns so much money so quickly again.Hetty's favourite poet is Alice Walker, but she also likes Maya Angelou. Among her other interests are music, reading and development studies. She sheepishly admitted she had given her entry 10 out of 10 when it was texted back to her as part of the interactive side of the competition, but added that she had marked the other six on the short list fairly generously from 6.5 to 9.0.The second prize of &#163;500 went to Steve Kilgallon, aged 22, who was promoted last week to be the sports editor of the Wigan Observer. A graduate of St Anne's College, Oxford ,where he   read English and modern history, he is writing a history of rugby league at Oxford and Cambridge. He played rugby league while at Oxford and was watching a league game when told he had won second prize.Kilgallon was born in Leeds and now lives in Manchester. He says the idea for the poem occurred to him the day before he learned about the competition while driving in Sheffield on his way back from Leeds. He doesn't write poems and only sent in one entry.There were three third prizes of &#163;100. One goes to Charlotte Fortune, a 26-year-old former archaeology student at Liverpool university, who now works part-time in bars. The second goes to Melissa Terras, of Christchurch College, Oxford, who, amazingly, managed to get two of her three poems on to our shortlist of seven. Marissa is doing a doctorate in engineering and classics, part of which involves using computers to read old documents. She already has an MSc in computing and humanities in addition to two other degrees.The final prize of &#163;100 goes to Carole Bromley of York, a teacher doing an M Phil in writing at the University of Glamorgan. She is the only regular poet among the winners and was runner-up in this year's BT Stay in Touch competition, part of the Poetry Society's annual competition.She said that doing the text competition had been "the most exciting thing", adding: "It was such a different medium watching all the numbers coming down. I didn't write any of my poems. They just went straight into the ether." Her entry, Reunion, was triggered when emailing a friend about an imminent reunion of university friends.
A new service enabling people to access all their online financial information in one place has gone live in Britain for the first time.The "accountunity" service was introduced this week and is the result of a partnership betweenSilkmoth, a Manchester-based software company, and an Australian technology firm. It pulls together information about all the different accounts an individual runs online and presents it on a single web page.This one-click access to a person's entire online account information has been dubbed "aggregation". More than a million people in the United States are believed to be using such services to view and monitor their current accounts, investments, mortgages or credit cards, plus see emails and any bills they pay over the internet.Alex Grinberg, chief executive of the Australian account aggregation company eWise, said the free service gave users access to a growing list of more than 25 online accounts including those offered by banks, such as HSBC and Egg, stockbrokers, loyalty programmes such as Air Miles and phone companies such as BT.Some of the US services have caused controversy because of the requirement that people disclose to the aggregator company their user names and passwords for all the accounts they wish to add to their personal page. But Mr Grinberg said that, with accountunity, customers' private details were stored in encrypted form on their own PCs, and no third party could see or gain access to this information.To start taking advantage of the service, users download an application from the accountunity websitewww.accountunity.comThis effectively enables the PC to enter the various account websites on an individual's behalf, call up the latest information and transmit it back to the page.EWise is already running an aggregation service in Australia, claiming to provide "easy and secure access" to more than 80 online accounts including banks, credit cards, phone companies, email and share trading.Accountunity is likely to face competition from banks such as Barclays and others thought to be planning British services.
MagicButton.net, a London based e-commerce technology provider, has become the 212th dot.com company to close its doors since the beginning of the year.MagicButton, which was opened in 1999 and has offices in London and Germany, was forced into liquidation late last week.The company's website was   running as usual yesterday but, according to reports on netimperative.com, George Burdon, MagicButton's chief executive officer, said the firm had been forced into liquidation owing to "matters which we are unable to disclose".No one at MagicButton was available to comment.The news comes as webmergers.com, a San Francisco company, released a survey estimating at least 435 internet   companies had folded since the beginning of last year. Nearly half of all the shutdowns from January 2000 have taken place in the last four months and the rate of companies failing accelerated last month, the company said.At least 55 internet companies folded in April, making it the second "deadliest" month since January 200. In February there were 58 casualties, while in April last year "only one   substantial dot.com folded", webmergers said.The business-to-consumer sector was hardest hit, with 64% of closures coming from that area. That is slightly healthier than last year when 75% of dot.com failures were business-to-consumer companies.E-commerce companies were most liable to failure in the past four months, accounting for 48% of the total,   but the report also found internet access providers, online content sites and dot.com consultancies increasingly affected by the new-economy crash. Content sites made up 28% of casualties and access providers accounted for 10%.The number and cost of mergers in the sector also fell: buyers spent almost $2.6bn to acquire 115 internet companies in April, compared with 143 acquisitions for $5bn in March.
A disability rights activist who ran a website criticising a leading charity has relinquished the domain name www.leonard-cheshire.com, after a ruling by the World Intellectual Property Organisation (Wipo).After lengthy investigation of a complaint by charity Leonard Cheshire, a Wipo panel - appointed by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers - has come down in the charity's favour. The panel says the site is confusingly similar to the organisation's trademark; that the activist, Paul Darke, has no right or legitimate interest in the domain name; and that it has been registered and used by him in bad faith.The site, which opens with the slogan "Say No to Leonard Cheshire", was described by Darke in his written response to the panel as "a work of political interventionist art" and an act of political freedom of expression. He argued that the site was "clearly anti-Leonard Cheshire", stating that he used the name "as a valid way to draw attention to criticisms of the organisation".Darke, who has spina bifida and uses a wheelchair, is a conceptual artist who did a PhD on the stereotyping of disability on celluloid. In a recent work, Health, he shows three wheelchairs nailed to three crosses. He founded www.outside-centre.com,  which shows work by disabled artists.He registered the contested domain name last autumn, shortly before the end of a two-year contract as the charity's national advocacy officer. He also served on the charity's public affairs committee, from which he resigned. He subsequently   offered to sell the name to the charity for &#163;40,000 to fund a holocaust memorial to disabled people.Darke advocates for disabled people who want to secure funding to live independently and not in institutions. He claims Leonard Cheshire institutionalises those with disabilities. He admitted to the panel that his site was intended to damage the charity, disrupt its interests and raise questions about funds it received from the national lottery. The site has had 51,000 "hits" since launching last October."The site is about the Leonard Cheshire Foundation, and all that it represents socially, politically and economically in the lives of disabled people," he said. "Thus, the domain name... As for damaging Leonard Cheshire Foundation, that is the aim of the site as an act of political art in a free society."A spokeswoman for the charity says: "Leonard Cheshire respects Dr Darke's right to criticise the organisation and offered to pay the administration charge for him to move the site to another address. Sadly, he would not agree and we have challenged that registration by submitting a complaint to an arbitration centre. We were forced to take action as the site was becoming more misleading, inaccurate and increasingly unpleasant towards individuals."The address leonard-cheshire.com will now house the site of the Friends of Leonard Cheshire in Washington, US, which works on behalf of disabled people throughout the Americas.
Lord Hollick's United Business Media will today take another step away from consumer focused internet activities by selling its popular Megastar.co.uk website to Sports.com.United began its retreat from consumer publishing by selling its Express Newspaper group to Richard Desmond's Northern &amp; Shell in November last year. Megastar, pictured right, was the website for the Daily Star, one of a portfolio of papers bought by Mr Desmond, although the site's ownership remained with United.Sports.com is thought to be paying less than &#163;100,000 for a site that attracts 15m page views a month, and has 500,000 unique users - showing the decline in the value of consumer orientated websites.The new buyer hopes to attract the site's customers - mainly young men in search of photos of glamorous women - to sports and betting too."The demographics of 18- to 45-year-old UK males is ideal for us and very attractive to advertisers," said Sports.com finance director Gavin Chit. Showbiz and entertainment news will be sourced from the Press Association, while photos will be bought from a celebrity news agency.Sports.com claims to be Europe's biggest sports news and data site. It is backed by $62.5m(&#163;43.6m) in venture funds from investors including CBS's Sportsline, Mark McCormack's IMG, Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan.International golfing supremo Tiger Woods and US basketball star Michael Jordan are also shareholders. The venture plans to move into profit by the end of the second quarter next year.United Business Media is also looking for buyers of its dotmusic.com site. Ministry of Sound and Emap are rumoured to have expressed an interest.Sports.comMegastar.co.uk
Online retailer Gameplay yesterday offered investors a glimmer of hope by announcing that it had received offers for all or part of the group. Shares in the loss-making firm jumped 2.25p to 16.75p, but remain 98% below last year's high of &#163;11.There is no certainty that the conditional offers made by the unnamed third parties will be satisfactory, however. Interim results, which were to be announced yesterday and would have revealed the amount of cash Gameplay has in the bank, have been delayed until after the outcome of the offer talks.Earlier this month Commerzbank Securities was appointed to carry out a strategic review of the group's activities. Gameplay is split into two divisions: one focuses on its technology, which enables consumers to play the games and buy them over the internet; and the other handles its mail order boxed games interests.Management teams from some of the boxed game division businesses are said to have made buy-out offers.Shares in Gameplay soared last year as investors eagerly backed its plan to build a pan-European business selling games over the internet to PC, digital television and mobile phone users.However, the shake-out in the valuation of dot.com companies and the slower than expected roll-out of the faster internet connections, needed to play games on the web, have hit the company's share price hard.In February the company cut 275 jobs and closed its high street stores, in response to pressure from investors who wanted to see a reduction of losses. It failed to stop the decline in the company's share price, and when partnership talks with US networking firm Cisco were abandoned after details were leaked to the press, Gameplay had little option but to put itself up for sale.Analysts say it is unclear who would be interested in buying the business at a time when e-commerce is firmly out of favour.Gameplay.com
Ebookers.com, the online travel agency, yesterday showed evidence of surviving the dot.com meltdown as it announced first quarter sales up 35% on the previous quarter - and double those of a year ago.Shares in the company, which recently listed on the London stock exchange at 99.5p, rose up 23.5p to 150p.Dinesh Dhamija, the chief executive,said: "Our main priority is going to be cost control. We are going to focus on profitability. Growth comes second."Ebookers would have positive cash flow in the fourth quarter of this year or by early 2002, and profitability would follow shortly after. The com pany, which raised $45m (&#163;31m) from European institutional investors last July, has $43.8m cash in the bank.The firm reported a pretax loss of $11.9m for the period, compared to a $10m loss last year, and sales of $48.7m. Site traffic also rose, to 10.1m this quarter from 7.6m in the fourth quarter of last year."We will continue to remain highly focused on reducing expenditure while maintaining cost-effective growth, with cash burn falling to under $1.5m per month in the second half," Mr Dhamija said.The company is looking to move its administrative base to India to reduce costs, though without job losses, and plans to extend its services to business travellers.Ebookers.com
Dan Wagner, the outspoken chief executive of Bright Station, yesterday confirmed that he plans to quit the board after seven tempestuous years.The decision is likely to lead to the break-up of a technology company that has never quite persuaded the City of its merits.Details of the plan, disclosed last week by the Guardian, were accompanied by figures showing that Bright Station has just &#163;7.4m left in the bank and needs to raise further funds.Shares in Bright Station, which have fallen by 95% over the past year, slipped a further 5.5p to 15.25p, valuing the firm at &#163;26.4m. The fall places in danger a plan for Credit Suisse First Boston to issue a convertible bond to fund the group. The investment bank says it will provide the money only if Bright Station's market capitalisation is &#163;30m or more.Mr Wagner, 36, has quit the board after failing to persuade the City to share his bullish evaluation of the group he floated on the stock market and amid unease within the firm that the baggage his reputation brings with him is holding back business.The fast-talking former salesman has not been afraid to go against the grain. Last year he snapped up 44 software programmers from Boo.com at a time when the collapsed e-tailer was a dirty word in the technology world.But his belligerence won him many critics in the City. When Bright Station was still called Dialog, its faltering finances won it the nickname "dial-a-dog".His image has not recovered from the ill-fated &#163;260m acquisition of the debt-laden Knight Ridder information business which he was forced to sell on for a &#163;90m loss. Name changes from Maid to Dialog to Bright Station have failed to erase damage.In an illustration of his continued faith in Bright Station's non-core assets of Sparza and Office Shopper, however, Mr Wagner is in talks about making an offer to take them private.If successful, it would leave Smartlogik, a knowledge management software product and the core of the group, as a "pure play" listed technology company.Last year Steve Hill, the highly rated founder of US software group Inktomi, was recruited to run Smartlogik in preparation for a stock market listing of its own. But market conditions turned against a spin-off, leaving Mr Wagner with little choice but to restructure the group in a way that makes Mr Hill's team its focus.Smartlogik insiders believe it has the potential to become as big as Autonomy, the market-leading intelligent software firm, but funding restrictions are said to have held it back. Bright Station will be renamed Smartlogik if the talks with Mr Wagner are concluded.He will only offer a minimal sum for the businesses because the likely alternative is to close them and that would incur added costs.Efforts have already been made to reduce costs by laying off about a quarter of the staff.Analysts say that the performance of Bright Station's share price over the next few weeks will play a crucial part in enabling the group to secure new funds and warn that if the market capitalisation remains below &#163;30m Mr Wagner could be forced to renegotiate less favourable terms with CSFB or another backer.Bright Station
Red Herring Communications, publisher of Red Herring magazine, one of the first newsletters of the dot.com community, could be looking for a buyer.The San Francisco-based owner of the magazine, a website, a conference business and a research unit, according to the Wall Street Journal, recently approached AOL Time Warner's magazine division and Ziff Davis Media, a US-based internet magazine publisher, about selling part or all of the company.Ross Settles, senior vice-president for marketing, refused to be more specific but said the firm recently secured funding and did not need to sell. It is thought AOL Time Warner and Ziff Davis Media may not be interested in completing a deal with Red Herring.A company spokeswoman said: "We do not need to sell the business, we just finished a strategic round of financing to grow the business and we are looking to expand internationally."The reports come weeks after the demise of the European arm of internet business magazine Industry Standard. Red Herring, which was at the centre of the dot.com boom, is the latest in a series of internet publications to suffer as the demand for technology and new economy magazines has waned.Magazine publisher Future Network announced last week the closure of all the European editions of its new economy title, Business 2.0. There has been speculation over the possible sale of the US edition during the past couple of months, with some estimating it to be valued at $50m (&#163;35m).Red Herring is one of the more established internet magazines - it was founded in 1993 - and describes itself on its website as providing "timely market information, strategic insight and access to growing entrepreneurial communities".The company expanded last year and doubled the magazine's publishing frequency at the height of the technology sector boom. Red Herring has, however, seen advertising revenues fall and has had two rounds of staff cuts. In December the companycut 32 workers - 9% of its employees - two months after announcing the loss of 22 jobs.The Wall Street Journal report said the number of pages of advertising in Red Herring fell 28% in the first quarter of 2001 as dot.com firms ran out of cash. It is thought to be more financially secure than some of its competitors because it has a relatively large circulation - 325,000, according to the company.Red Herring's chairman, Tony Perkins, last month was said to have considered selling the company to help fund a campaign to run for governor of California.Ziff Davis Media yesterday refused to comment and AOL Time Warner and Red Herring were unavailable.Red Herring magazine
How much time do you give to your garden each week (and I don't mean sitting in it, enjoying the view)? Most of us want to enjoy the outdoors, but have less and less time to do the work. We want plants that look good with the minimum of care, that cover ground quickly without cutting back on quality or quantity. We want restful, guilt-free places. Is that too much to ask for?Work it outTo achieve this you'll need self-control, commitment, and you'll need to plan. Every plant you select should have a realistic purpose. But before you plant anything, take a long, hard look at what you've got. Check what soil type you have. Peeking at your neighbour's garden may give you some indication, but a soil-testing kit is far more reliable. What's the aspect of your garden? Split it into areas of shade and sun, and then consider how many plants you'll need to fill each area. Generally, shrubs take up a square metre, and herbaceous perennials swell into 60cm rounds. Leave space for things to grow. Cram things too tightly and you'll be constantly pruning, splitting and re-planting. Knowledge is everything in a garden. Know its limitations, and you'll easily find plants that will thrive.Eager evergreensNo plant is perfect, but try to choose ones with the least flaws. Avoid, or get rid of, any high-maintenance plant: ones that catch diseases or need a lot of feeding. Give a wide berth to plants with messy fruits, pods or huge leaf drops. Damage limitation is the key with low-maintenance gardening. Aucuba is an obliging evergreen, and seems to grow almost anywhere. The leathery green, voluptuous A. 'Rozannie', with its light, reflecting foliage, is perfect for lifting dark patches. Other undemanding evergreen shrubs to structure your space include Mexican orange blossom (aromatic with clusters of orange-scented flowers), Photinia ¥ fraseri 'Red Robin' (brilliantly scarlet spring leaves), and Viburnum tinus 'Eve Price' (more compact than other varieties, with vibrantly pink flowerbuds). Yet the secret of any 
garden is variety through the year. For this you'll need some deciduous shrubs and herbaceous perennials.Buoyantly deciduousThe smoke bush is the perfect undemanding deciduous shrub. Cotinus coggygria has grey-green young leaves that unfurl to a mid-green mass; but it comes into its own in autumn, with vivid orange-yellows and reds, and puffs of flowers that turn a smoky grey. You'll find more drama in the claret foliage and purple-pink blooms of C. coggygria 'Royal Purple', while 
C. coggygria 'Flame' morphs into a great fireball of red in autumn. This shrub will develop into a small tree, but cutting it to the ground in spring keeps it in check and encourages larger leaves. No garden is complete without at least one lilac. Syringa meyeri var. spontanea 'Palibin' grows in any soil; it is almost pest and disease free, and reaches a height and spread of about 1.5m. Lilac pink, scented blooms arrive in profusion in May, after which it can be cut back hard to save on space.Helpful herbaceousBare soil is every gardener's enemy: brown, empty patches of earth are both unsightly and a portal for weeds. Weed-proof membranes and mulches help the fight, but nothing beats a smothering cloak of ground-covering plants. Send in weed-stomping troops of Geranium ¥ oxonianum 'Claridge Druce', a vigorous grey-green leaved plant with rose-pink flowers, which will hold its own among the most pernicious of weeds. Sturdy and semi-evergreen,  G. macrorrhizum 'Album' not only colours up in autumn to shades of russet and red, but will glimmer with white blooms in the driest, shadiest spots. Other carpeting plants include Symphytum grandiflorum, Vinca minor (I hear Christopher Lloyd cuts his back every three years), Euphorbia amygdaloides var. robbiae and Lysimachia punctata.Swelling numbersDon't forget plants that will produce more of the same for free. Salix alba is an undemanding plant that'll blow you away come winter. S. alba 'Britzensis' has coral-red stems, while S. alba 'Vitellina' has strong limbs in glowing acid-yellow. Cut them back hard each spring for an abundance of young, coloured growths, then use castoffs to produce more plants for perking up your evergreens. Layer shrubs and climbers to stretch plants on walls and in borders without breaking the bank. Jasminum nudiflorum, Akebia quinata, hops, some honeysuckles and most passionflowers can easily be increased by bending flexible limbs to the ground and pegging them in place with a hairpin or wire; they'll root and spread to form dense, bushy masses.Reap what you growWhatever you grow, make sure you plant things properly. I'm amazed how many plants are  bunged in without concern for their health.Dig planting holes shallow and wide (most new root growth is concentrated in the first 15cm of soil), mix compost and fertiliser, then firm the plant in at the same level as it was 
in its pot. Use at least 5cm of mulch around it to keep water in and weeds out (organic mulch rots into and improves the soil). With forward planning such as this, you'll have a full, easy-maintenance garden for years.
The mobile phone industry brushed aside fears about indebtedness yesterday with a confident prediction that internet-enabled handsets will generate revenue of $1 trillion (&#163;700bn) globally by 2010.The figure was calculated by the UMTS Forum, which represents phone manufacturers, operators and regulators worldwide.Its research suggests that third-generation phones will be slow to catch on, but will accelerate sharply in popularity from 2005.Bernd Eylert, chairman of the UMTS Forum, urged investors to be patient: "Everything that has hands and feet needs nine months to be born. Rome was not built in a day - these things take time."Mr Eylert, a Deutsche Telekom executive, insisted that network operators' decisions to lay out billions on third-generation licences would be vindicated.However, he hinted that the UMTS Forum was negotiating with regulators, including the European commission, for short-term help for indebted operators."We are in talks with our members, including regulators, about the whole issue," he said.The forum's forecasts are based on an analysis of all the recent independent research on third-generation phones. By 2010, the organisation predicted, the average subscriber will spend $30 a month on data services and $12 a month on voice calls. Some 28% of callers will be using third-generation phones.Paola Tonelli of Vodafone, who compiled the study, said: "This study represents the consensus view of over 200 companies in the industry. It's based on a very rigorous methodology and very conservative assumptions."Within a decade, annual revenue from 3G phones will reach $300bn, the forum predicted. It expects cumulative revenue by 2010 to exceed $1 trillion.The study expects Europe and Asia to be more promising markets for "infotainment" services such as video clips, online banking and ticket booking. US consumers are more likely to use their phones for surfing the internet and for local information.The figures aroused scepticism in some quarters - telecoms shares have plunged over the last year since operators spent &#163;22.5bn obtaining licences from the government to operate third-generation networks.This has been a crucial factor behind BT's problems - culminating in the resignation of chairman Sir Iain Vallance yesterday.Caroline Sceats, an analyst at Forrester Research, said: "Over the next five years to a decade, we anticipate seeing some real pain over whether operators will make the revenue they expect, particularly in European markets."Forrester predicts that the operators' average revenue per phone user will drop 15% by 2005, forcing many companies out of business.Ms Sceats said: "By 2008, we're only expecting about five operators to be left across Europe."The first third-generation network is likely to be on the Isle of Man, with operations to begin by the end of May.Manx Telecom, a subsidiary of BT, is pioneering the technology.By 2010, the UMTS Forum expects 65% of 3G phone revenue to be from private customers, with the remainder from business users.Handset crisis costs Siemens 3,500 jobsThe crisis in Europe's mobile phone handset business yesterday took a further toll as Siemens announced 3,500 job cuts to staunch steep losses, and issued an effective profits warning.The new job cuts in Siemens' international communication networks division, announced by chief executive Heinrich von Pierer in Budapest, come on top of 2,600 al ready under way at its IC Mobile unit.It is unclear how much impact the latest jobs cull will have in the UK but Siemens officials said 60% of the redundancies would be outside Germany.Siemens' drastic action is the latest by a spate of manufacturers, including Sweden's Ericsson, which is axing up to 12,000 posts, to counteract a dramatic fall-off in demand for handsets and falling US demand for telecoms networks.French telecoms group Alcatel underlined this trend by abandoning sales growth targets of up to 25% for just 5-15% and saying it would outsource handset production.But, unlike Siemens whose handset division lost &euro;147m (&#163;92m) in the second quarter and whose chief ex ecutive abandoned a financial forecast for the full year, Alcatel said operating profit rose 4% in its first quarter and promised faster earnings growth. This optimism came despite a warning from the chief financial officer, Jean-Pierre Halbron, who said: "The mobile handset market is in crisis in Europe. This has cost us something like &euro;150m in the first quarter."Siemens, which reported net first-half profits up 10% at &euro;1.36bn, expects to save &euro;600m through its cost-cuts. The company sold 6.9m mobile handsets in the quarter, overtaking Ericsson to become the world's third largest producer.
The internet has quickly become the biggest source of instant knowledge the world has ever known. It sometimes seems, as we type in requests to a search engine, that the whole world of learning and entertainment is at the tips of our fingers. But we haven't seen the half of it yet.The store of knowledge on the internet is like a rapidly expanding iceberg in which most of the mass remains stubbornly invisible. Some estimates suggest that the "invisible"or "deep" web of impenetrable databases could be up to 500 times larger than the current web search engines are able to penetrate. In terms of exploration, we are still in the pre-Columbus era.But they are working on it. One of this year's Big Things will be the emergence of a family of new and improved search engines, with minds of their own, aiming to get at the parts of the web today's engines can't reach.Where is all this data hiding? A lot of it is on our own hard disks. Most of us have forgotten exactly what we have stored there and the rest of the world hasn't got a clue. But all that is changing as the peer-to peer (P2P) revolution (enabling data to be exchanged from hard disk to hard disk without going through a central server) gathers pace. Napster started it with the exchange of music files online - but made the   mistake of channelling all requests through a central server (ie a huge computer serving lots of individual ones) thereby attracting the attention of teams of lawyers from the record companies.But the dozens of other P2P companies inspired by Napster don't need to go through a central node. The P2P revolution turns home and corporate computers - including personal digital assistants (PDAs) into servers themselves. Suddenly, the hard disks of all participants will become a huge addition to the information sources of the web. And it won't just be music on tap. Users can exchange personal files, spreadsheets, poetry, operating systems, audio files - almost anything that can be digitised.This includes full-length movies as well. Check outDivXa compression technology for film which is tipped to become the video sister of MP3. Jordan Greenhall, chief executive officer ofProject Mayo)claims the technology is spreading faster than MP3 did at an equivalent stage in its development. DivX claims to be able to compress a 4GB DVD disc into only 650MB (small enough to fit on a CD-rom).Another part of the treasure trove of the web ripe for mining is the labyrinth of chat rooms. Predictably, demand from corporations is leading the way. Moreover.com, the news monitoring company from Clerkenwell that is building up a worldwidereputation, is in the forefront. It searches financial chat rooms where comments - true or false - are made that could affect a company's share price. Moreover can search these rooms every 15 minutes and sell the information it gleans about what potential punters has a ready outlet with marketing departments and small    companies prepared to to sign up for a deal. Nick Denton, founder of Moreover, says he advises companies not to get too "heavy handed" with people making adverse comments about their activities - but there are obvious privacy issues here. They could become explosive if search engines start to comb private chat rooms or secretly monitor employees searching the web for illicit reasons during working hours. PA'swww.ewatch.commonitors news sites commenting on companies as well and also keeps an eye on which writers are covering particular industries.The most profitable part of the submerged web is hidden in the bowels of corporate databases where up to 85% of information is said to be "unstructured". That makes it ripe for tackling by the new army of intelligent search engines including Britain'sAutonomy. Others includewww.purpleyogi.comwhich claims to connect information from multiple sources to a user based on their interests and what they are currently reading on the screen. In the consumer sector,www.mysimon.comsearches 2,500 shopping sites to glean product prices for cost-conscious consumers.A new generation search facility attracting much attention iswww.groove.com. Groove is a P2P application that enables groups within an organisation to share files and do different activities at the same time. It has been sold to a number of corporations including GlaxoSmithKline, which took out 10,000 licences. It will enable the company's scientists to coordinate research projects internally and in collaboration with other companies and universities. Groove claims its software, which doesn't go through a central server, is "undiscoverable". Another new age search engine offering access to content that ordinary engines miss iswww.brightplanet.com. It believes that traditional search engines only have access to 1% of what exists on the web.That, in turn, raises the bigger question of all the knowledge that isn't on the web but should be. One obvious example is theBritish Librarywhich, despite putting unique material on its web site, such as the Gutenberg bible, is only scratching the surface of its potential. Well under 1% of its riches are accessible through the web. If the invisible web represents all the material on the web below the surface that can't easily be seen, then the BL and other storers of knowledge represent everything underneath the iceberg. The land grab on the web is just beginning.
New seekersDespite so many dot.com's falling out of the sky, it is getting no easier to find your way around the ever-sprawling web. Traditional methods of finding what you want are simply straining to cope. Once-trusted search engines such as AltaVista and Northern Light have long been clogged-up with links to bookshops. Of course there is alwaysGoogleto rely on, but recently two new sites, both built at home with virtually no budget, have come up with useful additions to the search and hope method.Diana McK, a librarian based in Hong Kong, has had the bright idea of assembling a library of websites according to the Dewey Decimal System (DDC).First published in 1876, the DDC is the system used by libraries throughout the world to categorise books. Although the project isn't fin  ished, the list atwww.geocities.com/deweyhk/is already quite extensive and growing by the week.Another good reference site, this time for history, can be found athttp://members.aol.com/historyresearch. Information is arranged either by continent or by topic, but the really clever part is that the site only links to other link pages. It is an effective reference tool, and a must for most undergraduates or anyone with an interest in history.ToasterStudents at Brunel University have invented a net-enabled toaster that displays the weather forecast by browning an icon on your bread. Soon, no proper e-home will be without one. Details can be found atwww.brunel.ac.uk/.Urban linksThe ugly confrontations at Monday's Mayday demonstrations have already started dominating the headlines, but it's worth remembering that for many people, Mayday is much more about a serious political movement that is being fostered on the net.Dozens of groups claim to be laying siege to the forces of capitalism, and there are far too many to list here. However, the underground e-zine Urban 75 has an exhaustive set of links atwww.urban75.org/mayday01/links.htmlArt for allThe Beeb's recently relaunched arts site has added a little online gallery featuring digital artworks from a number of well-known artists.What's nice is that the Beeb hasn't gone for the usual suspects but has commissioned a number of artists from other disciplines instead. Works from the likes of Bob and Roberta Smith, Janette Parish and a beautiful screen saver from Michael Craig-Martin are already there.Expect works from Gilbert and George, Matt Collishaw and Julian Opie in the coming weeks, say the online curators.The site welcomes contributions from less famous digital artists, too. Send your masterpieces towww.bbc.co.uk/arts/digitalBT changesMore BT number changes come into force on Saturday affecting mobile, pager and premium rate numbers.    All mobile and pagers will now begin with the prefix 07, special rate numbers will continue to begin with 08 and have expanded to include    internet services, and premium rate numbers will begin with either 090 or 091. Seewww.numberchange.bt.comfor more details.Census dayThe census is issued on Monday, and although you can't fill it out online, there is help with the form, and a decent set of FAQs (answers to Frequently Asked Questions) atwww.statistics.gov.ukCancer cureScientists at Oxford University are working with Intel to search for a cure for cancer using the internet. Inspired by theSeti@home projectthat links computers to search for extraterrestrial life, the project uses similar technology to network computers in order to process the vast amounts of data.A network of PCs pool their processing power, which gives the scientists the power of a supercomputer at a fraction of the cost. Seti@home has attracted almost 3m users since its launch in 1999. Seewww.intel.com/curePay or elseOne of the UK's internet industry news services,Netimperative.com, says that unless its users volunteer to switch to a subscription model by next Tuesday, then it's curtains for its mix of daily bulletins and weekly analysis.  At the moment membership is free, but Net Imperative want to charge &#163;50 a year.Six degreesStudents at the department of computer science at Virginia University have updated the modern parlour game, Six degrees of Kevin Bacon. Taking its cue from John Guare's play, Six Degrees of Separation, the object of the game is to link any well-known actor to another using only six steps.     Two people are said to be linked if they star in a film together. Seewww.cs.virginia.edu/oracle/star_links.htmlNew and noted&#149;  Tomato, a British design collective, has participated in    a pan-European art project atwww.absolut.com/lights&#149;  A stylish city guide for the capital can be found atwww.viewlondon.co.uk&#149;  There is a witty spoof of The Weakest Link atwww.supanet.com/missinglink&#149;  The founder member of Faithless goes around the world with digital camera. Check out his progress atwww.1giantleap.tvSix of the bestGetting awayCommunity ledwww.traveldonkey.comBag a bargainwww.cheapflights.co.ukForeign office advicewww.fco.gov.uk/travelGo greenwww.greentourism.org.ukWrite about itwww.travelintelligence.netNot forgettingwww.guardian.co.uk/travel
The Screen Actors' Guild, the US union to which most film stars belong, is poised to go on strike in June. But one summer release may be pioneering the way to make future thespian walkouts an irrelevance.Final Fantasy, due to reach UK screens in August, uses state-of-the-art virtual actors - sometimes known as vactors, or synthespians. The film, a science-fiction thriller set in 2065, has been entirely computer-generated by animation specialist Square. Flesh and blood actors contribute just basic movement data, and voicing.But anyone hoping to be convinced by the female lead, Aki Ross, is likely to be disappointed. A preview last week in London showed that "she" may look more human than most characters of software born, but there's still something wrong. Her skin and eyes look lifeless, and when she runs, her movements are somehow too smooth.Some of these problems also affect Eve Solal, a computer-generated character produced by Parisian animator Attitude Studio. In stills - such as "her" recent cover shoot for women's magazine Madame Figaro - Solal looks disconcertingly real. But in a short video interview, available on her website, she doesn't quite convince.This is because, when computer animators try to simulate human life, they are trying to trick one of our brain's most reliable   processes. "There is a disproportionate amount of mental capacity used for dealing with faces," says Dr Donald Laming, lecturer in experimental psychology at Cambridge University. "If the face isn't quite right, it's not going to work."The brains behind Solal and Ross know they aren't quite there - yet. "Her face is a bit plastic, and her eyes move a little bit too much," says R&eacute;my Brun, motion capture director at Attitude, of Solal.Jun Aida, producer of Final Fantasy and president of Hawaiian-based studio Square, agrees. "Our goal was not to create photo-real characters. I don't think technically it's possible with animation. In still photos, we can." He sees his film as creating a new category of high-quality animation, rather than as a challenge to live-action movies.Virtual actors are not even a cheap alternative to the real thing. Aida says the 60,000 hairs on Ross's head took a fifth of Square's graphic rendering capacity to produce. "She ended up costing us millions of dollars," he says. "We should have given her shorter   hair." The resulting hairdo, although one of the more realistic things about Ross, does tend to make her look as if she's just stepped out of the salon even when cheating death - but perhaps that's a screen siren's prerogative.Despite the difficulty in creating faces, realistic body movements are at least as tricky. In Final Fantasy, producers used a technique called motion capture. This involves real people performing the required actions, such as running or walking, while wearing sensors spread around their bodies. Cameras track the sensors, then map them on to the virtual actor.But using this process to create convincing movement is fiendishly difficult, according to Chris Ford, senior product manager for Alias Wavefront's Maya, the software used by many firms to handle three-dimensional models. "Motion capture is true to life, but it is sampled data," says Ford. "It's a bit like digital versus analogue &#91;sound&#93;." Motion-captured movements often look odd as a result of poor sampling.With Solal, Attitude has got closer than most to convincing human movement, by basing almost all her actions on those of an actress of a similar build; Final Fantasy's   animators, by contrast, have used actors only to model action sequences. "We chose the actress as we would for theatre or cinema," says Brun. "Often, people use their friends, but acting is 50% of the movement." Brun uses 12 cameras running Vicon, a system from UK firm Oxford Metrics, and his eight years of experience in the field, which he describes as "very high-tech puppetry".Some animators are experimenting with virtual animals. Although in some respects more difficult - fur or hair is notoriously hard to get right - our eyes are less attuned to any imperfections, and also, the results will often   be impossible to obtain in real life. Viewers of the latest surreal Guinness television ad may have noticed the appearance of a group of squirrels, who talk and quaff glasses of the black stuff. They are computer-generated.Sally Goldberg is head of creature animation for Computer Film Company, one of several Soho firms working in this area. She is also virtual mother of the Guinness squirrels. "We built them from scratch," she says. This is unusual, as three-dimensional characters are often designed from a template, such as with the firm's work on Eyes Wide Shut (see box).Goldberg filmed squirrels from an animal rescue centre, and then translated their movements into the three-dimensional models used in the ad. "When he sat there and held a nut, he looked just like he was drinking beer," she says, of the squirrel she based the main character on.It is already possible to fill the screen with computer-generated humans and convince the eye - if you're using thousands of virtual actors, rather than one close up. Mill Film, a few hundred yards south of Computer Film Company, last month won an Oscar for its work on Gladiator, which included a 50,000-strong virtual Roman crowd - an obvious moneysaver for the production company.It is partly financial concerns that hold back use of virtual actors as leads. "If money's no object, it's possible now," claims Dave Throssell, a head of computer animation at Mill.   "But I'd ask, 'are you sure?' You want a real person, then there's thousands of them outside this window." He adds that computer generating an actor for a whole film would be expensive even compared to a star demanding $20m.And then there's the Lara Croft effect. Virtual characters to date have been not so much Final Fantasy as Unrealistic Male Fantasy. The somewhat top-heavy star of the Tomb Raider games has recently been joined by two similarly shaped virtual pop stars, TMmy and T-Babe, created by Glaswegian animators. "Most people who sit in front of computers tend to be male, and that's what they think about 24 hours a day," Throssell points out.Attitude's Brun says Eve Solal was deliberately designed to break this stereotype. "She's 1.62 metres &#91;5ft4in&#93;, which is quite short, so she's not a top model. She's good-looking in a way, but she's not Pamela Anderson, or Lara Croft," Brun says.The French studio is, however, trying to perfect elements such as Solal's skin, in its quest to make the character more convincing. But it may be a long task. "In the history of painting, it took several hundred years for artists to learn how to paint in three dimensions, and to draw the human figure and face," says Cambridge's Dr Laming, adding that science doesn't yet fully understand how we read each others' body language. "It's as if computer animators are in the position of those early artists."Final Fantasy previewwww.finalfantasy-themovie.co.ukAttitude Studio's virtual creationwww.evesolal.comGuiness site, includes stills from the new ad &lt;A HREF="http://www.guinness.ie/"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.guinness.ieComputer Film Company's home page &lt;A HREF="http://www.cfc.co.uk/"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.cfc.co.ukVew the basic models used by experts &lt;A HREF="http://www.viewpoint.com/"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.viewpoint.comMill Film's sitewww.mill.co.uk/Virtual pop-singer T-Babe...  &lt;A HREF="http://www.glasgowrecords.com/tbabe.htm"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.glasgowrecords.com/tbabe.htm...and fellow Scot Tmmywww.tmmy.co.uk
Little Johnny England. Sounds like a football hooligan? Wrong, it's a collision of rock music and English traditional song. Intrigued? Visitwww.littlejohnnyengland.co.ukand all will become clear, as it did for me on one of my ambles around the more arcane reaches of the web. Exploring musical cyberspace earns me a few quid - I write about music - but most people do it for love.Nothing short of love could have driven the folk enthusiast Martin Nail to compilehis pageof hotlinks to working folk musicians with websites - more than 120 soloists and nearly 100 bands. These range from well-known names such as Ralph McTell, Fairport Convention and Pentangle (who can all be found throughwww.folkcorp.co.ukto the most obscure newcomer. However, if by "folk music" you mean the really traditional sort as espoused by Vaughan Williams, go to the extensive and informative site run by theEnglish Folk Dance and Song Society.From folk to family funk. My son Will plays bass guitar and spends hours flitting around manufacturers -www.fender.com,www.warwickbass.comand so on - or keeping an eye on secondhand vendors such aswww.musical-exchanges.co.ukandwww.guitars2ndhand.com. Taxiing Will to his gigs has also introduced me to a number of young local bands, most of whom devote loving hours to their DIY websites such aswww.autonomy1.comorwww.mycoolband.co.uk.If you're not buying, try selling. Wondering if I could turn my surplus old vinyl into cash, I looked at several of the hundreds of internet barterers. My starting points wereRecord Buyer magazine's siteandVIP Events: both listed record fairs across the UK, had links to traders, and included small ads.Fancying a natter about rock and pop, I triedMicrosoft Network's music chat listings. Weed Smokers Lounge sounded promising - at least I'd find silliness and laughter. Well, no, as it turned out: Eminem16: "I luv Marshall"Beggar: "f off em he a gobshite he sux"HevvyKid: "yah death to MM cos Bizkit rock"Eminem16: "r u a prat or wot"SlipGirl: "em16 u wanker"After a few minutes of this, I gathered that nu-metal kids are a trifle hostile to whitetrash hip hop and left them to bicker into infinity.Yahoo!boasts a wider selection of chatrooms, its banners advertising interactive discussions on music. The day's "featured room" was called Groovespace but, predictably perhaps, housed a populace of sub-teen Nirvana dweebs. After 30 seconds of RudeTart, Slutino, Poogrrl (sic) and their pals, I felt extremely old. The rooms devoted to country and western, R&amp;B, jazz, and soul were so dull I began to lose the will to breathe. Surely Yahoo!'s classical music chat would prove more intellectually stimulating? Nope - except to anyone fascinated by a Nebraska 24-Hour Bach Telethon. Mind you, there was some lively debate about the weather around the USA. It's cold in Nebraska. And there was me thinking weather-whingeing was a British foible.Yahoo!'s Geocitiesproved much more interesting. Be warned - you can get lost in here for hours! For example, follow the menus to "song lyrics" and you get no fewer than 875 collections ranging from nu-metal to old musicals. Or try the arts and entertainment category atAskJeeves, again narrowing the selection through "music" to "lyrics" to "rock and pop". The Big Index atwww.myths.comcaught my eye with its proclamation: "Words to songs which I like". This bizarrely eclectic one-man listing also offered links to "real websites chock full of lyrics with search engines and all that stuff" but I dallied. After comparing Layla with Lola (take away the music and the former is revealed as embarrassing schmaltz while the latter remains a witty take on transvestites) and brushing up on Talking Heads' Life During Wartime, up popped US meteorology again... "Oklahoma!... where the wind comes sweeping down the plain." Cold there too, then.Of course, there's also plenty of mainstream stuff online. I check out the album and singles charts atwww.totp.beeb.com/charts/album1or atwww.nme.comeach week, and usually catch up on the day's pop news atwww.music365.com.I also visitwww.allmusic.comfrequently. This resource for pop and rock fans offers an extraordinarily comprehensive guide to popular music. Just enter the name of your favourite singer, band or whatever and - bingo! - an essay, photos, biography, discography and links.Effective searching is the key to exploiting the web but search engines can be blunt instruments. I learnt the basics from http://home. sprintmail.com/~debflanagan/ engines.html and later stumbled acrosswww.searchenginewatch.com. The layout may be turgid but the content is fascinating and useful.
The Guardian's pioneering text message poetry competition - with a first prize of &#163;1,000 - ends on Sunday, when participants will be sent the last of the shortlisted entries to their mobile phones for a mark out of 10.The winners will be published in next week's Online together with plenty of examples of poems that made the short list.They will be accompanied by comments from two of our expert panel of poets (U A Fanthorpe and Peter Sansom) who drew up the short list along with Justine Jordan, Guardian Unlimited's books editor.This week, participants who have expressed interest are being sent a poem a day which they are asked to grade on a scale   of 1 to 10 and then text the mark back to our computer from their mobile phones (see right for details of the technical side).Our interactive competition, which has attracted more than 7,000 poems, is believed to be the first of its kind to exploit the new medium of text messaging in such a creative way.A prize of &#163;1,000 will be given to the winning entry, &#163;500 for the second best and &#163;100 for each of the three runners-up.We apologise for some technical glitches this week which prevented some participants from receiving the batch of poems on time.For details seewww.guardian.co.uk/mobilepoems
An innovative scheme to stop large companies dumping computers and donate them instead to schools, was launched yesterday by London's mayor Ken Livingstone.Up to 1m young people in the capital are likely to benefit from a partnership between charity Tools for Schools and London First, a business organisation.The partnership, under the slogan "Access IT", is confident of installing up to 100,000 computers over the next three years.Many firms replace their PCs every two to three years and the old ones often end up in skips.But Tools for Schools, which was co-founded by the Guardian, will pick up the equipment and then refurbish it to a standard that at least   matches the requirements of the National Association of Advisers for Computers in Education. The schools pay &#163;65 per computer.Mr Livingstone said: "I said in my manifesto we needed to tackle the shortage of IT skills in London and Access IT is a practical way of doing this. I have one message for business - don't throw away your old PCs and don't sell them off cheap either; give them to Access IT and let school children benefit."Companies that already support the Tools for Schools initiative include eight banks and finance houses, including Abbey National, as well as media and oil companies.&#149;  Any organisation considering making a donation can call London First on 020-7665-1500.
X-friesMicrosoft has signed up with a fast food chain to promote the Xbox games console in the US and Canadian markets. The deal with Taco Bell is intended to reach Taco Bells 5m weekly customers at 6,800 restaurants. The chain appeals particularly to males aged 18 to 34, which is also the Xbox's target market. The only drawback is that Taco   Bell sells tacos, burritos and nachos rather than french fries, depriving the marketing men of a pun.However, it is not too late to find an appropriate partner for a similar deal in the UK, where the Xbox launch will be handled by the advertising agency, Bartle Bogle Hegarty.Red topThe Weakest Link quiz game should be out before Christmas to compete with the current blockbuster, Who Wants To Be A Millionaire. BBC Multimedia has licensed the rights to Activision, an American publisher, which will produce localised versions for the PC, Sony PlayStation and PS2.Versions for other formats should start to appear next year. Anne Robinson will be   involved in the production and marketing of the game. The TV programme is already showing in Australia and the US, with France, Italy, Holland, Germany, Belgium, Turkey, Israel, Portugal and India to follow.Late CubeNintendo has delayed the Japanese launch of the Gamecube, its next-generation console, until September 14, and the US launch may follow in November. This will put it behind Microsoft's Xbox in the US market, but the two systems may arrive in Europe around the same time: spring 2002.Croft originalLucozade is to be renamed Larazade next month, in a    special promotion linked to the launch of the Tomb Raider movie featuring Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft. Events will include a competition that leads to a two-day "Tomb Raider challenge at a   real life version of Lara's home, Croft Manor".Black &amp; whiteNext week, some of the world's best chess computers   will fight it out in Spain, in a competition organised by British grandmaster Raymond Keene. The prize is a match with current world chess champion Vladimir Kramnik, the Russian who beat Garry Kasparov last November. However, IBM's Deep Blue, which beat Kasparov in a rematch in 1997, will not be taking part, and may have been dismantled.Kasparov, still the world's best chess player, has also been playing with chess programs. Tomorrow, Virgin Interactive will launch Virtual Kasparov, described as the first serious chess program for the Sony PlayStation.Kasparov told Online the game does play like him: "Obviously it takes a very aggressive approach."
Skies of ArcadiaSega 	&#163;39.99 Dreamcast	****Typical isn't it? Just as the Dreamcast enters its death throes (Sega ceased production in March), the system is flooded with quality role playing games. Following on from Phantasy Star Online and Grandia 2 is Skies of Arcadia, a gorgeous epic that will thrill aficionados and newcomers alike.From the off it's clear that Skies isn't your run-of-the-mill fantasy romp. OK, hero Vyse and pigtailed chum Aika are horribly clich&eacute;d, but take to the air in your ship and you won't care.Yup, you get to command a pirate ship that flies, with most of the action taking place in the sky or on one of the numerous islands. This welcome blast of originality is heightened by a plot that   turns from "rescue girlie" into a full-blown political epic.Actually it is the sheer vastness of SoA that makes it so special; after 20 to 25 hours' play you will suddenly come across a whole new area.Unfortunately there is a problem with the game; random battles. While combat is   an integral part of the RPG - victory gives you the points that improve your character - the sheer onslaught here really detracts.Whether it's on your ship or on an island, your exploration will be regularly halted by a turn-based battle. Yes, there is strategy, especially   with team management, and welcome variety when fighting with the ship, but after the 900th encounter even the biggest devotee will flag. Amazingly, the sheer addiction and scope of the game soon entices you back in.Guiding an airborne galleon, battling other ships   and landing on dungeon-filled islands is as enjoyable as it sounds and when you throw in some of the best graphics this side of Shenmue you have an undoubted success. Skies of Arcadia is a fitting swansong to a criminally underrated machine. (GH)Time Crisis Project TitanSony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99 Namco/Sony	***Time Crisis is one of those series that is brilliant in the arcades, particularly with two players, and not quite as good on a TV set at home. This is certainly the case with Project Titan, essentially a continuation of Time Crisis II, and exclusive to the PlayStation. So, did Namco exploit that by targeting the home player?Sadly not - unless you count the omission of any kind of two-player mode, which removes almost half the fun. Still, the learning time is close to zero: plug in a G-Con gun, point the barrel at the screen, and begin.The gameplay has not changed much from earlier versions, nor have the colour-coded enemies, which you have to mow down by the score. (Watch out for the red ones. They shoot straight.) However, the pace is frenetic and there are some challenging bosses to add a bit of novelty. There is also a time trial mode, to give the game more longevity.Although presented as a 3-D action adventure, TCPT is basically a series of shooting galleries. The graphics are good, but not exceptional, given the game's static nature.However, there is a lot of action, with baddies somersaulting out of doorways or descending on ropes, before pausing for a split second while you aim to kill.On the whole, the result is somewhat disappointing. It's not that it's bad, it just doesn't take the series anywhere new. You might as well go for Point Blank 3, which is nothing more than a shooting gallery, but does have some humour.If you already play Time Crisis, this sequel provides another excuse to get the light gun plugged in. If not, it probably won't make you buy one.  (JS)Worms World PartyPC CD-rom/ Dreamcast 	&#163;19.99 Team 17 Software/ Titus SoftwareHQ	**Before anything is said in haste, let's get one thing straight: Worms is a classic. A hilarious, almost endlessly replayable orgy of wanton destruction.Even the original version, with its wan visuals and miserly weapon selection, still gets a deserved outing from time to time.Now for the nasty bit. What the hell were Team 17 thinking when they released Worms World Party? Here's a wild stab: "Money, money, money."Well, if there's any vestige of justice in this world, they won't get a penny from this barely rehashed dead horse, which has been not just flogged but shot, chopped up into dice-sized cubes and burned.Sure, there may be a couple of new weapons (the longbow, possibly, and maybe the petrol bomb). There may also be some new sound sets, the odd terrain, and a couple of new training missions: with all the incarnations this game has gone through, it's kind of difficult to keep track. On a more positive note, the multiplayer missions mode, whereby two teams compete to attain different goals, is definitely new; indeed, a lot more attention has been paid to the multiplayer experience generally, with competitive and cooperative missions, an online ranking system, and a sophisticated in-game chat facility.But in terms of value for your money, money, money, that's as far as it goes.The training levels are the same as those in Worms: Armageddon; the missions    are new, but on such familiar ground as to make no difference. The graphics are identical, the sound effects and voices are identical, the armoury, game options and   terrain editor all broadly the same.The PC version still won't let you customise your command keys; computer-controlled worms still haven't figured out how to use anything more complicated than bazookas and grenades.In short, Worms World Party cannot boast a single interesting development in interface, gameplay or tactics.If you really, truly, honestly don't own a Worms game in any shape or form (if so, what planet have you been living on for the past 10 years?), then I suppose - and you'll be hard pushed to find any supposing more reluctant than this - you might as well get Worms World Party as any other version. But the moral here is clear: there's a fine line between classic car and clapped-out old banger, and Team 17 have brazenly leapt over it.  (AB)
PanasonicPanasonic has announced a UK launch date and a price for its DVD-RAM video recorder. The DMR-E20 will reach the stores later this year and retail for around &#163;1,300. The model is the company's second DVD-RAM recorder. Its debut unit - the DMR-E10 - is already on sale in Japan and the US.The recorder stores MPEG2 standard video on 4.7Gigabyte DVD-RAM discs, which Panasonic translates as around two hours of high quality images or six hours of   low standard footage. Panasonic also intends to market double-sided DVD-RAM discs which can store up to 9.4Gigabytes of video.There are two key differences between the DMR-E20 and its predecessor. The first is that the new model can record on to write-once DVD-R format discs as well as re-writable DVD-RAM ones. Unlike DVD-RAM discs, DVD-R discs can be played back in most current DVD video players. However, Panasonic insists that from 2002 all its new DVD players will be DVD-RAM compatible.Panasonic is keeping its options open as to which form will replace the VHS VCR.   Just launched in Japan is a hard disk video recorder, the NV-HDR1000, that can record up to 25 hours of analogue TV footage on its 30Gigabyte hard drive.MP3 in JungleArtec is set to shake up the MP3 market with a tiny player that offers more storage than most of its larger rivals. The &#163;200 Jungle I is roughly the same size as a credit card, yet the makers have squeezed in 96Megabytes of embedded flash memory. Most similar units have only 32 or 64MB. The player is strictly MP3 only, although it can store around an hour and a half of CD-ish    quality tunes. It is only available via the net, fromwww.mp3players.co.ukONnetONdigital, which introduced the internet-through-your-TV system, ONnet, to subscribers last year is offering the system to anyone with a set. Available viawww.lastminute.com, the system comprises a decoder box and a wireless keyboard, below left. It offers five email accounts, which can send both voice and images as attachments. Courtesy of the system's picture-in-picture facility, users can read a web page while watching a TV programme.Would-be sofa surfers sign up for a 12-month period, paying &#163;4 a month for the first three months. The downside is that it rises to &#163;8 a month for the next nine. Users have to pay for the cost of the phone calls.
Only 8% of British companies are able to respond correctly to foreign language emails, and significant business is being lost as a result, according to a new survey.British companies performed much worse than French or German firms but better than American ones when 247 test emails were sent in different languages. Australian companies came bottom of the league with a zero score.More than 90% of the world's largest companies were unable to respond correctly to foreign language emails, according to the report published yesterday by Worldlingo, an online translation company.Companies fared particularly badly with Japanese, probably because their computer systems could not recognise Japanese characters.Many companies did not even realise they were receiving a foreign message and responded in English that the email was corrupted. Others asked for the email to be sent again in English and nearly 69% did not respond at all.Companies surveyed included Disney, which would answer only in English, AstraZeneca, Preussag Group and Kmart.The survey was used to publicise Worldlingo's new software system designed to translate emails into 10 languages.Worldlingo, which aims to be profitable by the end of 2001, boasts that it blends machine translation with human input.
MailbombsI've just had an unsolicited email with a 2 megabyte attachment hog my modem for 25 minutes as it was being downloaded into my Outlook 2000 mailbox. Is there any way I can see what mail my ISP has for me, and then delete any large attachment before downloading the rest?Dennis ThorleyDennis.Thorley@iclway.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Let's look at this problem for both Outlook 2000 and its more popular sibling, Outlook Express.The first thing is to stop large messages being downloaded. With Outlook 2000, go to the Tools menu, click Options, and then click the Mail Delivery tab. In the sec tion for Dial-up options, put a tick in the box next to "Don't download messages larger than", and enter a number. You could try 256K. Anything larger is unreasonable. Note: this entry will be ignored when you send messages over a local area network.In Outlook Express 5, you can deal with attachments using the message rules feature. Go to the Tools menu, select Message Rules, then Mail. In the first section (Select the Conditions), scroll down and put a tick in the box that says: "Where the message size is more than size." Then go to the third box, click on the word size, and type in a maximum value.Now you have to select an action. This is done in the middle section. Click the tick-box that says: "Do not download it from server." Click OK and you have created Rule #1.Click the New button and you can create some more rules. For example, you could create rules to "Reply with message" - so the sender is notified that their email is not acceptable - and delete the file. However, it is probably better to leave it on the server, then check it using a utility designed to help you clean up your mailbox and remove "stuck" mail. One example is MailMaint for Windows, a free mailbox maintenance utility byMagsoftin the UK. An alternative isGutmannsoft's Inbox Specialist 2001.Saving CIs there a straightforward way to put applications like   Internet Explorer and Outlook Express somewhere other than on drive C:, please? For various convoluted reasons, I have "only" a 1 gigabyte partition for my Windows Me system drive, but I have a larger (3.7GB partition) for applications.Ian Parki.d.c.park@ntlworld.comJS:Unfortunately Microsoft likes to have all its programs on C:, and leaving its programs in their default directories leads to an easier life. However, there are several things you can move to free space on the C: drive. These include the Windows swap file, IE's Temporary Internet Files folder, Outlook Express's mail and newsgroup storage files, and set-up files or cab files which may be in C:\Windows Update Setup Files or C:\Windows\ Options.You can move the swap file (C:\Windows\Win386.swp) by going to Start|Settings| Control Panel and double clicking the System icon. Click the Performance tab on the far right, then the button for Virtual Memory. Bear in mind that Windows is heavily dependent on swapping code to the hard drive, so the swap file should have at least twice as much space as your PC's memory.Also, if Windows falls over in an exceptionally untidy heap, it may sometimes forget where its new swap file is, and try to create another on C: where there is no longer room for it.If you want to change the folder where Outlook Express 5 stores messages, start by using Windows Explorer to   create a new one, such as My Mail, in My Documents. Start Outlook Express, go to the Tools menu and select Options. Click the Maintenance tab, and then the Store Folder button. Click the Change button, browse to your new folder, and click OK. The location will be changed when you close down and restart Outlook Express.Moving the Temporary Internet Files directory to a different drive is much the same. First create your new directory, such as D:\Temporary Internet Files. Start Internet Explorer 5, go to the Tools menu and select Internet Options. Under the general tab, click the Settings button. Click the Move Folder button, and browse to your new directory. For further information about IE3 and IE4, see the help file under New Folders or go tohttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q172/9/49.ASPHowever, rather than fighting what may ultimately be a losing battle for C: space, you could use, say, Partition Magic to expand the 1GB partition to 2GB. There are also some free programs that do the same thing, such as MikhailRanish's Partition Manager. This is a powerful program, but not known for its ease of use.A clean sheetI am trying to clear the History file which keeps a record of my web browsing. However, going to Tools|Internet Options and clicking on Clear History still leaves today's entries.   The only way I am able to achieve a cleared history sheet is to set the date forward. Is there an alternative to this cumbersome route to clearing away my debris?Leo Mercierpolgoda@dialin.netJS:This sounds like a bug, but I cannot reproduce it. On my PC, today's history is deleted. If not, the simple but brutal way to remove the website addresses is to go to C:\Windows\History, where they are stored, and delete them manually. However, this may still leave a list of (for example) typed addresses in the Windows Registry. You can check by going to Start|Run and typing regedit in the box. When the Registry opens, double-click your way down the tree from HKEY_CURRENT_USER to Software, Microsoft, Internet Explorer. Other programs, such as Reget, also store addresses in the Registry.Alternatively, a quick web search will find a number of "cover your tracks" utilities. For example, seewww.davecentral.com/10510.html: "Purge Cache, Cookies and Tracks for Internet Explorer aka PurgeIE is the Swiss Army Knife of Internet Explorer Cleanup and Management Tools."Not recyclingI use Windows Me, and I notice that my Recycle Bin is always empty, so when I try to recover erased files, there is nothing there. Any suggestions?Miguel Gimenezmigimenez@quista.netJS:Right-click on the Recycle Bin icon and select Properties. The first sheet in the tabbed dialogue box, Global, has a tick box that says: "Do not move files to the Recycle Bin. Remove files immediately when deleted." If this box is ticked, click to untick it and press OK.Also, the Recycle Bin does not work with files on removable media such as floppies and Zip disks. These files are always deleted straight away, so check that your hard drive has not been marked as being removable.To do this, go to Start| Settings, open the Control Panel, and double-click the System icon. Click the Device Manager tab on the dialogue box, then double-click on Disk Drives. Select your hard disk, then click the button marked Properties. The Settings tab should not have Removable checked. If it does, click it to change it. Restart your computer and your Recycle Bin should work again.Back buttonWhen you are in Internet Explorer, is there a key command (instead of a mouse click) that will take you back?Tony Nunntony.nunn@dial.pipex.coJS:Yes, Alt-left arrow does it, as does Alt-right arrow!
Barely a week goes by without a report of terrorists or paedophiles misusing the internet, adding to its image of a vast lawless forum. But police are now starting to see the benefits the net can bring.The upbeat chairman of the internet crime forum, detective chief superintendent Keith Akerman, believes it offers police as many opportunities as problems in the fight against crime. "The internet is a fantastic tool for police," he said. "The computer can't lie, it can tell you all sorts of things about what the user has been doing."DCS Akerman drew up the plans for a new squad of technology savvy cyber cops which was launched last week. The home secretary, Jack Straw, said the 40-strong national hi-tech crime unit (NHTCU) has a brief to clean up the internet, after a string of high-profile cases suggested it had become a haven for criminals.Officers are now monitoring suspected paedophiles as they trawl for victims in chatrooms, intercept emails and share intelligence with law enforcers around the world.These new partnerships are vital to tackle internet crime. Police tracking an international child porn ring which called itself the Wonderland Club had to coordinate raids across three continents.The investigation into the club's activities goes on, as police try to identify 1,200 images of victims. Interpol hosts a secure website, accessible by law enforcers worldwide, who can compare photographs sent by social services and parents against a database of pictures. Only 17 children have been identified so far.A whole range of sites and software have been created to crack down on internet crime. A secure website, Net-Enforce, has been developed by the University of Glasgow to allow child protection and law enforcement agencies in different countries to exchange secure information.DCS Akerman also praised the Whois database which   allows officers to track down people posting information by finding out who owns web addresses and Neotrace, which allows police to trace the route of an email.Definitive figures for online crime are hard to come by, but national criminal intelligence service spokeswoman, Fleur Strong, said the evidence indicates an alarming rise. She pointed to figures from Visa that 47% of fraud reported to it in the EU in 1999 involved internet transactions, although only 1% of its turnover came via the web.The international law enforcement agencyWeb Policealso reports an explosion in online crime, which corresponds with the boom in internet use. In 1993 they recorded 640 offences, but by 1998 that had rocketed to 47,000.Ms Strong said the evidence suggests the net has led to an increase in crime, particularly fraud. Career criminals have also moved their existing operations online, taking advantage of the ease with which money can be moved around to refine their laundering activities.The NCIS also recorded a huge rise in complaints of child porn, from 215 in 1997 to 1,128 in 1999 - a five-fold increase.But detective chief inspector Alex Wood, who helped smash the Wonderland Club, insists paedophiles will find no hiding place on the net. "The Wonderland operation destroys the myth that you can be anonymous on the internet."The European commission, meanwhile, produced a draft convention on cyber crime last year which stressed the need to balance investigative work   against privacy and human rights considerations.Police have powers to monitor emails and other forms of communications through the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. They can also demand the keys to encrypted data. This has led to concerns about civil liberties and the threat to whistleblowers.The director of Liberty, John Wadham, said: "People are   concerned about security on the internet but they are also concerned about access to their personal information by police. There has to be a balance."But the new head of the NHTCU, detective chief superintendent Len Hynds, said police do not intend to intercept random emails and lack the capability or legal power to do so. Rather, investigations are more likely to be hampered by privacy restrictions."The big issue for police is how long ISPs keep evidence. There is a conflict between what law enforcement wants and what the law says," DCS Akerman said. "The European directive says ISPs will only keep records for billing purposes and must delete data which identifies individuals as soon as practicable."Internet companies have    shown they are keen to help and ISPs have joined theinternet crime forumto discuss problems with the Home Office and police.The new national hi-tech crime unit also aims to work closely with computer professionals and police around the world to pool intelligence and learn from their techniques. Police forces across Britain are also training their own officers to investigate online crime, thanks to the government's &#163;25m funding boost.But the law is still lagging behind police efforts to pin down internet criminals and officers are pushing for changes. They hope online deception will be made illegal, to help stop paedophiles posing as youngsters to entice children from chatrooms.Factfile:There is a whole range of crimes committed on the net, as these recent cases show.Hacking: A disgruntled BT contractor in Bournemouth used his maintenance password to break into the company's computer centre at Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire. He effectively pulled the plug on links between BT's data system and computers, putting the billing system out of action for 12 hours. He was sentenced to 160 hours community service, but the damage cost BT over &#163;10m.Money laundering: The Italian police believe the Sicilian Mafia is laundering vast sums of money in cyberspace by its use of online trading and banking. Police in Palermo have discovered a &#163;330m fraud involving recycling tainted profits into legitimate assets such as shares, via a global network of companies and banks from Israel to New Zealand.Fraud: An email scam offered wealthy investors a quick profit if they helped a company move money out of Nigeria to avoid financial penalties. It was so convincing several UK investors fell for the con and passed on their bank account details. One UK victim lost &#163;2m and the national criminal intelligence service say other victims have been driven to suicide. The NCIS receives 150 emails a day relating to this and similar scams.Incitement to racial hatred: The Simon Wiesenthal Centre report an increase of hate sites, which promote hatred primarily on racial grounds, from 50 in 1995 to 1,426 in 1999.Terrorism: An extreme nationalist group, the Scottish National Liberation Army, has disrupted police and government networks by bombarding them with thousands of emails in denial of service attacks. Welsh nationalists and the Real IRA have also attempted this type of attack.
Former high-flyers of the internet revolution may have fallen to earth with a bump, but all the more reason to network.As companies announce job cuts with monotonous and depressing regularity, London is now chock-a-block with former twenty-something vice-presidents. Once, they proudly sported entrepreneur badges at networking events such as First Tuesday and Wap Wednesdays, swapping tales about stock options and exit strategies. Now they are out of work.Some of these casualties from the internet boom have taken matters into their own hands by forming a network group with a difference. Calling themselves EFF Club (every fucking Friday), they meet to commiserate with each other and trade job tips at venues in west London such as Caf&eacute; Med or the Liquid Lounge.EFF started off as a joke. Sabrina Geremia and Alex Congdon, freshly axed from Swedish wireless company Incirco, were reading the job ads, sipping cappucino and bemoaning the lack of a really effective networking event for down and out dot.commers. So they decided to set up EFF complete with the motto of "We may not have jobs but we still have our dignity".They jotted down some guiding principles for EFF: "Take the 'wanker' out of the   new economy; organise coffee afternoons to scour the Times and Guardian; and provide self-help advice and share success (and failure) stories of the job hunt.These are clearly not your normal down-and-outs. Despite being on the losing end of the internet boom, they remain fairly loaded and are relentlessly upbeat. Sandwiched between Congdon, 31, and Geremia, 28, one evening as their EFF event was gearing up was akin to having two megaphones blasting out positive messages. They are not kidding when they describe themselves as high achievers.For Congdon, who was a managing director, getting laid off was a novelty. "This is the first time I've been in this situation. In the past, I've always chosen the next move," he said. Putting a brave face on enforced leisure, he asserts that unemployment can be liberating for someone who has laboured in a high-pressure environment for so long.Geremia thinks this setback will be character building. "I think we will be better people because of this, we are challenging ourselves in a different situation and anyway, it's not the end of the world,"   she asserted. In between sessions with headhunters and sending out CVs, EFF members cheer themselves up with outings to the British Museum and to the cinema. Others have taken French lessons, cooking lessons, or swanned off to Guatemala for a couple of weeks.EFF has been going for two months now and membership has grown to about 30. As Congdon put it: "Unemployment can be a lonely thing so this makes it a bit more fun. We said 'let's help each other', and dispel the stigma of being out of work."He and Geremia say the issue of going for the same jobs does not really arise, as there is such a different mix of skills in the group. The networking element comes into its own when someone hears about particular jobs for which they are not qualified, that information is then passed on.The expats in EFF face particular dilemmas. Sabrina says those from the US are in a quandary, wondering whether to stick out in the UK or take their chances back in America. But the barrage of job cuts in America's IT sector, from hi-tech powerhouses such as Hewlett- Packard and Cisco, must make the case for staying in the UK pretty persuasive.EFF members are confident that the market will pick up again. Founder member Marshall Couper, 29, a former vice president at a venture capital firm, points out that venture capitalists now have more money than they know what to do with. "Some are going back," said Couper, a New Zealander, "and there are still quite a few looking for new startups."That confidence may not be misplaced. Couper has just started work as a business development manager at Virtual Village, an e-services company, while Geremia has found a new job as a marketing manager with askjeeves. co.uk, the internet search engine. But there is no question of disbanding EFF yet."The EFF club will certainly continue," she says. "We're all in it together until the bulk of us are sorted out, at which point we'll probably keep it up out of habit. Ex-EFF club, who knows?"You can contact EFF ateffclub@hotmail.com
How things have changed in just 12 months. This time last year, high flying directors of Boo.com were allegedly taking trips to New York on Concorde. Now we have no Concorde and no bright young net darlings with stacks of venture capital to blow. The days of putting on your most alluring smile, hitting the networking parties and trying to pull a million pound investment are over.Toby Stone runscityflatshare.co.uk, a website for people seeking and renting shared accommodation in London. He did the networking party-go-round, but arrived just too late to secure the big deal. He's slightly wistful: "Networking had an air of the Oscars about it. The investors swanned around like Hollywood producers, while we were the starlets."Sally Meecham, a director of travel community websitetraveldonkey.com, which launched just before the crash, was amazed by the speed with which the bubble burst: "We were a cause c&eacute;l&egrave;bre and then the scum of the earth in the space of about three months," she says. She was advised by a broker in February last year to seek &#163;5 million as first   round funding - by August she was sat in front of an investor asking for a fifth of that sum. He hadn't even bothered to look at their website before the meeting.Sally and Toby did secure some backing. Sally got a &#163;30,000 Small Business Loan from the DTI, while Toby turned to family members and his bank manager. But both are starting to feel the pinch now.Abandoning the networking scene, and approaching private investors directly secured &#163;127,000 for Andr&eacute; Edmunds and his two co-directors ateasy-jobs.co.uk- a recruitment website. "We started looking for funding at exactly the same time as the crash. We managed to attract backing from 16 private investors, ranging from the chief executive of a blue chip, to retired professionals and a student."The reality of the post- bubble world for all three entrepreneurs is that finding further funds is extremely tough, even though all have businesses that are up and running and on the verge of generating some money. Toby, Sally and Andr&eacute; are not for quitting though - they are finding alternative ways to make their businesses succeed. But it is hard work.Finding it increasingly difficult to assess risk in new media investments, investors are running shy of the internet networking scene, and many have taken refuge in angel networks. These investment organisations vet entrepreneurs' business plans before passing them onto the investors - for a fee. Toby and Andr&eacute; have both tried them but are unimpressed:"These agents charge &#163;100 to &#163;500 to look for investment. They're simply sharks, taking money without any guarantee of results," explains Andr&eacute;. "They still want to take a percentage of the funds raised if they secure a deal."Elsewhere, the government remains keen to help internet entrepreneurs, but while Sally and the traveldonkey team managed to get their DTI loan a year ago, she knows from others that attempts to get one now are often impossible if you are a dot.com business"The government is rather a waste of space," says Andr&eacute;. "They have virtually the same requirements for their DTI Small Firm Loan as the venture capital firms have - not taking the risk until there is no risk."Toby feels the government has forgotten the entrepreneurs themselves. "There are plenty of committees with businessmen, bankers, professors and accountants on them, but they forget to ask the grassroots entrepreneur what's happening on the   ground. They are setting up organisations to help us get funding, but these only seem to create more barriers between us and the investors."There is a limit to the time and effort anyone is prepared to put into knocking on doors and re-writing business plans. All three have concluded that it is pointless chasing big investment money for now: "Eventually," Sally says, "we said 'Sod it, let's be poor, put our heads down and create the best travel review product on the internet'."Andr&eacute; agrees: "We have decided to concentrate on building a foundation of loyal business, funding ourselves from our own revenue. We are wasting our time trying to chase after the investment."So for now it's a case of hang up the glad-rags, roll up your sleeves and get on with proving your big idea really works - developing and validating the business, potentially on a smaller scale than you'd previously intended. This is fine in principle, but there is still the problem of paying the mortgage and putting food on the table. Andr&eacute; has sold everything except his house, including his beloved Lotus Esprit. Toby's car is also on the market. All three are credit card jugglers, buying the groceries on the Selfridges storecard, running out of cash   to buy the milk. Personal debts in the region of &#163;50,000 are not unusual.Toby has started giving private English lessons to get some quick cash, while Andr&eacute; does short stints as a senior project manager. But this is not to admit defeat - it is being flexible.Indeed their experiences suggest that the true test of an entrepreneur's mettle comes after they've had the big idea. Long term success will come from short-term flexibility, harnessing creativity to find ways to solve the problems of funding.The easy-jobs team had a spark of extra originality in the business plan development phase: "The twist was that we were not giving away any equity. The investors receive a share of the actual revenue - not profit - according to how much they invested for a period of three years. This is a unique investment model," explains Andr&eacute;.For Sally and the traveldonkey team, the breakthrough has been strategic alliances. "In the past month our company has made an extremely important turn," she explains. "We now supply our content and community tools, white labelled, to other sites and portals. We've signed up seven partners including Lycos, Excite and Lineone. We will be producing our first invoices in about three weeks time."In the absence of financial   backing, Toby has remodelled his business plan, charging users to search the site much earlier than planned and using reciprocal banner advertising arrangements with other websites to help generate traffic.Working with others in the internet community is an increasing theme for all three entrepreneurs. Gone are the days when you did not mention your website's name, or the idea behind your business, for fear that someone would steal it."The way the investor world worked fragmented the entrepreneurs and set them against each other quite unnecessarily," says Toby. "Everyone appreciates the chance to share their experiences with the only other people who really understand." Sally and Andr&eacute; share this view. It is encouraging to know others are going through similar hardship - and deriving advantage from their knowledge and experience is immensely valuable.Toby runs a forum to encourage sharing ideas and experience. The desire is to involve DTI-backed matchmaking initiatives as well, and to get entrepreneurs and investors working together towards the common goal of creating successful businesses.Both Sally and Andr&eacute; see the value in collaboration: "It would put the 'professional' back with the word 'entrepreneur', something which has been lost in all the hype and crash," comments Andr&eacute;.For now, all three businesses are growing. By applying fresh creativity and knuckling down for the long run, today's more wise and wary internet entrepreneurs are shaping up to a future that they believe will be rosy, despite predictions of gloom."Investors need companies to invest in," says Andr&eacute;. "The rules need to change and entrepreneurs need to show investors that there are alternative ways of raising money, and that a good idea will succeed. If the investor decides not to invest, tough!"All three are coming to the point which has been the crunch for many dot.coms - generating revenue. International expansion is on the cards. That is if the cards they currently rely on for their milk and mortgage payments don't get trumped in the next few months.&#149;  The internet entrepreneurs' forum can be found atwww.wave2.org
