Apple stock fell down and stayed down Wednesday morning, as investors seemed disappointed by another set of record-breaking results and a lack of fireworks over Apple Watch sales figures. The stock was off by 5% before lunchtime.Analysts said Apple’s investors are frankly spoiled. “The sharp plunge in the stock price can partly be attributed to the company missing projections for iPhone shipments and revenue forecasts, but is largely due to the fact that investors had become accustomed to significant earnings beats by Apple,” wrote James Chen, senior market analyst to City Index.If there’s one thing Apple told investors clearly, it’s that the iPhone is still the cornerstone to the success of the Apple Empire. The company gave no solid sales figures on its latest product, the Apple Watch, although CEO Tim Cook suggested it was already a $1bn business and told analysts the possibilities for the watch were “enormous”.The tech behemoth reported strong sales of its signature phone in its third-quarter financial report – fully 47.5m iPhones, up more than a third year-over-year, for a net revenue of $31.4bn. Sales in China were particularly robust, doubling from last year. Mac sales reached 4.8m units, up 9%, and the company sold 10.9m iPads, down 18%. Gross margin came in at 39.7%.But, as expected, it didn’t break out the sales of its newest product (the watch) into a separate category for the first report since its 24 April launch, instead lumping them into the “other” section of the filing it created last quarter.Apple share price graphYear-over-year, “other” revenue doubled, when compared with the “accessories” category for the same period last year: $1.3bn in the third quarter of 2014 compared with $2.6bn this year. “Other” also now includes revenue from Apple’s acquisition of audio equipment maker Beats (which closed a month after the 2014 report), so Apple Watch sales do not account for all of the $1.3bn difference between the two numbers.However, Cook said: “It would not be an inaccurate thing to look at the sequential revenue, the year-over-year change and assume that was the total watch revenue.” That suggested Apple Watch accounted for most of the growth and is already a billion-dollar business.Apple comfortably beat Wall Street’s expectations: its earnings were four cents better than predicted, which still wasn’t enough to stave off investor disappointment. Shares dropped 7.48% in after-hours trading before rebounding slightly.“We beat our internal expectations” for the watch, chief financial officer Luca Maestri told the Associated Press, adding that the number of watches sold in the first nine weeks was greater than the number of iPhones or iPads that the company sold in a comparable period after those products launched. Maestri said sales of the other products in the “other” category had declined.Apple has previously said it sold 1m iPhones in the first 74 days, or more than 10 weeks, after sales began in 2007. Apple has said it sold 2m iPads in the first 60 days, with iPad sales hitting 3m in 80 days after the iPad was launched in 2010. With its official on-sale date of 24 April, the watch has been on the market for 64 days.Apple’s results came as Microsoft reported a $3.2bn quarterly net loss, attributable largely to charges related to its Nokia phone business and job cuts, and to weak demand for its Windows operating system. On Monday the company said the new (and“last”) edition of Windows would havemandatory updatesfor the next 10 years, citing user security.The company recorded impairment, integration and restructuring expenses of $8.4bn in the fourth quarter ended 30 June and Microsoft reported a net loss of 40 cents per share. Net income was $4.61bn, or 55 cents per share, the same time last year. Revenue fell 5% to $22.18bn.
On Monday,thousands of people were outedas members of a dating site catering to unfaithful spouses after the theft of a database containing personal details of millions of user accounts. Other panicked users of Ashley Madison have already started to pre-emptively admit to loved-ones that they were members in an effort to stave off relationship destruction if the full database is ever released.On Tuesday,hundreds of thousands of peoplewere told to update the software on their cars after two security researchers wirelessly took control of a Jeep, cutting the brakes or turning off the engine all with the click of a button. Fortunately, so far the damage has been limited to one terrified Wired reporter mashing an unresponsive break pedal in an unsuccessful attempt to stop his car rolling slowly into a ditch. The researchers are yet to reveal the technical details of the hack, but plan to in three weeks.On Wednesday,a German coder discovered a bugin the latest version of Mac OS X that can let anyone run software on one of Apple’s computers as though they are the administrator. The company apparently knew about the bug in June, when it issued a fix for the beta versions of its next operating system, El Capitan, but in doing so it revealed the existence of the gaping flaw to the world. At the same time as it said it wouldn’t be fixing consumers’ computers until September, leaving the hole open to attack for four months.What is going to happen on Thursday? And what can you do to stop it? The answer is:practically nothing.Welcome to 2015, where everything is terrifying.We’re used to hearing all kinds of advice intended to help us battle against the tide of technological mishaps (or at least, lessen the damage when they occur). We’re told we should have complex passwords which we don’t re-use or write down; we should always install security updates as soon as they’re available; we should keep backups of our data in case our laptop is stolen or our hard drive corrupts; and we should be careful about what we click on, download, or view online.This advice made us safer a decade ago, but the nature of the world we’re having to deal with has changed.“Always use long, unique, passwords”, for example, was plausible in an age where we had one internet-connected device, and accounts on a small number of websites. But today it is impossible. So we are advised to store passwords in password managers, or to enable two-factor authentication, or evento use weak passwordson sites that don’t matter, to make it easier to remember long passwords on sites that do.Installing security updates on your computer, meanwhile, has got easier as Apple and Microsoft have updated their operating systems to prioritise them. But at the same time, the number of devices in a typical house that can be hacked has risen enormously. You might be confident your computer is up to date – but do you know about your router, your set-top-box, or you smart thermostat? Do you even know whether the model of car you drive is capable of installing security updates?And the conflicting, impossible advice continues. When you diligently make backups of your photographs, or let Apple or Google do so for you as it’s easier that way, you’ve protected yourself from losing those to a hard drive crash or a broken PC, but you’ve opened up new vulnerabilities. If you’re storing them on a cloud-based service which later gets hacked,you could find your cheeky nudes spread across the internet. As one problem is solved, a new one occurs just as quickly.In 2015 much advice is moot, a hangover from an age when every technology report carried advice at the bottom of the story telling the reader what they should do with the news. Increasingly, the truth is that there is nothing you can do.Vulnerabilities now occur less because of what an individual does, like giving away bank details to a phishing email, and more because of a failure in the services we rely on. Spotting where the weaknesses will occur is impossible.No amount of judicious investigation could have revealed to a would-be adulterer that Ashley Madison was the dating site that would lose their details, and not OKCupid, Match.com or Tinder. No financial trader could have known that theNew York Stock Exchange was going to suffer its crippling outage in early July, and no holidaymaker is able to pick which airline is liable to ground its entire fleet due to a software error,which happened to United Airlines earlier this month.Of course, this unpredictability is a fact of life in the offline world.The human body has a long-running unpatched vulnerability which means that being hit by two tonnes of metal travelling at 35 miles per hour can cause a permanent loss of data.Until now it has been very difficult for a criminal, terrorist, or even just bad luck to exploit that vulnerability on hundreds or thousands of people at once. But as soon as you can remotely hack the brakes on all Jeeps, the scale of that vulnerability, and the ability to exploit it changes dramatically.University of North Carolina professor Zeynep Tufekci argues that the reason these kind of vulnerabilities seem to be becoming increasingly common is the scrappiness of software development. “Software engineers do what they can, as fast as they can. Essentially, there is a lot of equivalent of ‘duct-tape’ in the code, holding things together,”she wrote after the NYSE outage.But that’s worse, not better. “From our infrastructure to our privacy, our software suffers from ‘software sucks’ syndrome which doesn’t sound as important as a Big Mean Attack of Cyberterrorists. But it is probably worse in the danger it poses.”Not that increasing the amount of money we spend developing software could help. Any programmer will tell you about the “mythical man-hour”: the idea that if one coder can develop a program in 10 hours, then 10 coders can do the same work in one hour. Of course, the idea is bunk – but that’s never stopped managers from thinking that the bigger and more complex the development team, the better the result.Perhaps the answer is to cut as much software out as possible – or at least, not connect it to the wider internet. Marta Janus, a security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, says that the news of the Jeep’s weakness means just that. “We should definitely reconsider the concept of theinternet of things, and think carefully about which devices should be a connected to one another. Obviously, computers, smartphones and tablets would be next to useless without an internet connection, with their main purpose being to keep us connected in this digital world.“But,” she asks, “what is the real advantage of having a car with access to the internet?“In my opinion, transportation, together with industrial systems and other critical infrastructure, shouldn’t make use of public internet at all.”Face it: software sucks and so there will always be vulnerabilities for hackers, and we have to live with that. As a result, maybe it’s worth dialling back our reliance on it just a little bit, so the next time you’re complaining about something crashing for some unfathomable reason, you can console yourself that it’s your computer – and not your car.
One million minutes of historical video dating back to 1895 – from footage of a hover scooter floating on a cushion of air to Mussolini calling for world peace –have been uploaded onto YouTube.In what is the largest upload of historical news content on the video-sharing platform to date, theAssociated PressandBritish Movietoneare to host a collection of 550,000 video stories on two YouTube channels.The digitised archival footage includes coverage of political milestones and historical moments in sport, fashion, science and entertainment.The channels will be continually refreshed with up-to-date contemporary footage, according to AP, offering a “view-on-demand visual encyclopedia”.From grainy black-and-white newsreel clips of the San Francisco earthquake in 1906, to more modern high-definition video of Taylor Swift “shaking it off” at Madame Tussauds alongside her new waxwork, it could take around two years to watch all of the footage.Here is a tiny selection from the vast archive:(1) Nelson Mandela released after 27 years in prisonThe video shows Mandela taking his first steps as a free man after 27 years in prison in South Africa, and the crowds of wellwishers who were there to see him released.(2) Marilyn Monroe marries Joe Di Maggio, 1954The marriage of the film star and baseball hero DiMaggio drew a record crowd to a San Francisco court. Photographers took pictures of the happy couple and of Marilyn and Joe kissing, and as the groom drove their wedding car away.(3) A man stands in front of tank in Tiananmen Square, 1989Footage of the demonstrations in Beijing on 3 June 1989 includes the famous video of the man who stood in front of a tank in protest.(4) Report on the assassination of Martin Luther King, 1968The killing of King was a tragic blow to the US civil rights campaign. This Movietone package shows footage of the “American Gandhi” and recalls the summers of race rioting that he sought to quell.(5) Fancy Sunglasses, 1971The French always seem to be the first to come up with something bizarre in the fashion field, says the AP archive caption, “but when it comes to sunglasses – they really excel.” The designs include elephant glasses, nuts-and-bolts glasses, tennis glasses, bicycle glasses, pearl glasses and even brandy glasses. Très chic!(6) The two-faced cat, 2011Frank and Louie, from Worcester, Massachusetts, entered the record books when he became the longest-living cat with two faces, also known as a Janus cat.7) Aftermath of typhoon disaster, East Pakistan, 1970Harrowing pictures, including footage of dead bodies, show viewers the carnage wreaked by the Bhola cyclone in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). Despite the worldwide relief effort, many survivors, the report says, are still near to starvation. This was taken a year before the 1971 Bangladesh war of independence.(8) The Great Train Robbery – inside Durham prisonRare footage taken inside the maximum security wing of Durham prison, where three of the Great Train Robbers were held. The video shows a warden walking along a catwalk outside cells and prisoners sewing mailbags.(9) Dog-walking machines, 1937“Very often it’s the owner what leads a dog’s life,” says the voiceover, as he introduces a contraption to make the dogs think they are really running, “so the inventor of this little gadget deserves to be the benefactor of the human race.” The home exercises for Fido and Rover seem a bit of “all right”, while others seem to think they are going up the down escalator.(10) Footage of Mount Vesuvius erupting, 1938A report from 1938 shows Mount Vesuvius erupting, in which the title proclaims: “First pictures in sound of boiling lava within the crater of a volcano.”(11) The Berlin Wall comes down, 1989The video shows a bulldozer and demolition crane removing the top sections of the wall that divided Berlin between 1961 and 1989, while crowds cheer and shout.(12) Obama’s image features on one of Russia’s most famous souvenirs, 2009This footage shows a close-up of Barack Obama, then recently elected as US president, being painted on amatryoshkanested doll. It also includes interviews with Russians and their views on the new administration.(13) Iraq declares official holiday due to heatwave, 2015Modern footage from Iraq on the day that the country’s government announced there would be an official holiday due to a scorching heatwave. Temperatures that day had exceeded over 50C in some provinces.(14) President Kennedy’s ‘Ich bin ein Berliner’ speech, 1963Film of JFK delivered the famous lines “Two thousand years ago the proudest boast wasquivest romanius somum, today the proudest boast is Ich bin ein Berliner.”
To Wall Street, Apple is a company where the glass is constantly half-full. Itsquarterly results on Tuesday nightshowed revenues up 33% and operating profits up 37% to $49bn (£31bn) and $14.1bn respectively.However, there were disappointments for investors grown used to quarter after quarter of stellar figures. Unit sales of iPhones rose 35% to 47.5m in the three months ending June, about four times more than the broader smartphone market, but analysts had expected 50m or better.Revenues in China more than doubled; but thestock market there has been volatile recently, raising questions about the company’s ability to keep growing in a country that generates more than a quarter of sales. And forward guidance for the current quarter, of sequentially flatrevenues, was given a lacklustre reception.Related:Apple financial report: Cook hints at strong watch sales after shares sinkThen there was theApple Watch: while Tim Cook, the chief executive, gave no numbers, to avoid giving competitors useful data, analysts poring over the results reckon it generated about $1bn, or perhaps 2.5m units sold. That would make Apple the largest and most valuable seller of wearables in the world from a standing start in a single quarter – but shouldn’t it have sold more, at higher prices?Apple share price graphThe company is also expanding, perhaps Napoleonically, on multiple fronts. It has launched Apple Music, an ambitious paid-for streaming service that aims to win over customers from services such as Spotify; introduced the contactless Apple Pay payments system to the UK before Google’s Android Pay scheme; and is expected to try to breathe new life into the fading iPad line, which has seen six successive quarters of year-on-year shrinking sales, with a larger model in the autumn.So what’s the truth about Apple? Is it washed up or tearing ahead?For industry analysts, the best way to view it is in comparison to rivals. As Cook was warming up, Microsoft was also announcing its own results, which contained its own version of Napoleon’s retreat from Moscow in the form of a $7.5bn writeoff of its 2013acquisition of Nokia’s mobile handset business.Apple boss Tim Cook launches the Apple Watch in March in San Francisco.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APIt spent only $7.3bn there, but seen no benefit as its Windows Phone business obstinately refuses to grow (it sold 8.4m phones in the past quarter) and increasingly loses money. Its other efforts in hardware, with the Surface tablet line, haven’t taken off either: despite revenues of $888m (and unknown, if any, profits). The iPad, with 10.9m units and $4.5bn in revenues in the latest quarter, still outsells it easily.Instead Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella, is taking the company back to its knitting, focussing on software and services by making its most lucrative apps, such as Office, available on every software platform, including Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android.It is also about to launch Windows 10 by providing it free to any of the world’s 1.5bn PC users, rather than charging for it as in the past 30-odd years. And this is taking place against the backdrop of a PC market where sales are dwindling by about 10% annually. But the market seems satisfied with that, pushing Microsoft’s stock near to its five-year high.Similarly Google, where a new cost-cutting regime has improved the bottom line,delighted the markets last week. Analyst consensus is for 22% year-on-year growth in this quarter. Noticeably, that figure is near identical to Apple’s. Yet one company is seen as taking off, and the other as mired.Carl Howe, formerly of the analyst business Yankee Group,remarked on Twitterthat Apple is now heading for $200bn revenues in its current fiscal year: “Wall Street seems to have no clue that 21% year-over-year growth for a $200bn company is unprecedented.”But as ever with Wall Street, it’s the promise of growth, not its realisation, that gets it excited. That feeling was summed up by Colin Gills, of BGC Partners,who told Reuters of his foreboding at Apple’s growing successmarried to its reliance on China: “Where are you going to find growth in the world?” he said. “You’ve done an amazing job sucking all the smartphone profits into your balance sheet, but smartphone sales are slowing. What’s going to happen when the industry matures, just like PCs did?”To that, there’s no immediate answer from Cook and Apple. There is only the implied promise of an expanding user base to whom to sell new or replacement phones, watches and music services.Speaking to analysts in the earnings call, Cook was firm: “I think everybody’s going to own a smartphone, and I think we’ve proven that we can compete for a fair number of those … We think the phone has a lot of legs to it. I mean, many, many, many years. There’s tons of innovation left at the phone. I think we’re in the early innings of it, not in the late innings, and I think the market rate of growth over the long haul will also be impressive.”Horace Dediu, a former Nokia executive who now works at the Clayton Christensen Institute at Harvard Business School, likes to say that Apple is like an object in orbit: the maths suggests it is constantly falling, yet it never hits the earth. For Cook, considering another drubbing by the analysts, that might have to do.
Across the village green, the small country pub looks inviting – especially when bathed in the orangey light of this warm summer evening.It has taken a short walk to get here, along a quiet country road, then through the picturesque village of Yaughton, with its quaint cottages and bulging hedgerows. The only sound is birdsong and a quiet electrical buzz, perhaps coming from an overhead power line somewhere. No one is around – nor will there ever be again. Everyone in the village is probably dead and whatever happened here may have happened all over the world. This is a particularly English vision of the apocalypse – bucolic, refined and charming. But it is the apocalypse nonetheless.It’s been three years since The Chinese Room, a tiny studio currently working out of a modest office building in Brighton, started work on Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture. Back then, co-founder Dan Pinchbeck had the idea of creating a game about the end of the world, but from a very different perspective than titles like Fallout and Last of Us, with their grand visions of ruined American cities. Influenced by science fiction writers John Wyndham and John Christopher, he and his team became interested in the idea of what Brian Aldiss once called the “cosy catastrophe” – a resolutely British idea of the apocalypse, containing very little violence or explosive trauma, experienced by small communities rather than mass populations.“We talked about it, and we said, well, what is the important thing about the end of the world?” says Pinchbeck. “It’s not about cities being consumed in fire. Take the movie 2012 – the whole of California vanishes and you don’t feel a thing, it’s just ridiculous. The apocalypse is about people, and the connections between them. What’s really touching is parents waiting for their kids to come home - and what they’re worried about is that the buses aren’t running, not that the world is ending. It’s the little moments that get you.”The game presents a fictitious Shropshire village named Yaughton which is rendered in quite staggering physical detail, using Crytek’s Cryengine technology.Photograph: The Chinese RoomEverybody’s Gone to the Rapture, then, takes place in a small valley in Shropshire in the summer of 1984. Viewed from the first-person perspective, the player is simply dropped at the outskirts of the village, with no instructions and no idea about what’s happened. From here, you are free to explore the environment, investigating empty houses, shops and barns, looking for clues. There are notes to read, radio recordings to listen to and computer screens to study. The first thing you interact with is a Commodore 64, its flickering monitor showing weird footage and repeating some sort of code, like a numbers station.It is, in some ways, a natural evolution of the sub-genre that Chinese Room helped found with its debut game Dear Esther, a hugely atmospheric mystery set on a remote Hebridean island. The style came to prominence in 2013 with the title Gone Home, about a woman returning to her family home and finding it deserted. Often termed “notgames” or “walking simulators”, these narrative adventures eschew familiar ludic elements like fighting and level progression, instead providing a single location and a set of environmental clues with which to uncover the story.The genre has proved weirdly controversial, prompting angry dismissals from some gamers, who even question whether titles like Gone Home and Dear Esther are games at all. The Chinese Room team aren’t worried. “There’s a long tradition in games, of sections where not much happens. I think the best part of the whole Dead Space trilogy is the return to the Ishimura where you spend 45 minutes just thinking: ‘OK, when’s it going to happen?’. That’s the scariest part.“When the player is not getting these constant calls to action, from the mechanics or resource management, or whatever, it lets the atmosphere grow. That’s not new, that’sclassicgame design. Our question with Dear Esther was: what happens if we let that grow to become the whole thing? We thought, let’s just make that the whole experience. So we built it as a Half-Life 2 mod and it worked – we had 100,000 downloads in less than a year, and a lot of serious FPS players liked it.”Players get to explore the entire environment looking for clues, though there are regular maps and signposts that lead the way toward a mysterious observatory.Photograph: The Chinese RoomHowever, whereas Dear Esther was an entirely linear experience, Rapture is totally open. You can wander around the village and explore interiors, then head out into the woods and beyond. The environment is rendered in incredible detail, from the cracked roads and sludgy woodland pathways, to the cottages filled with bric-a-brac and the washing lines, loaded with sheets flapping in the breeze. The period detail is perfectly pitched too, with recognisable approximations of classic 1980s cars – a Cortina parked near the pub, an Austin Montego abandoned at a roadside, and the odd BMX bike left propped up by a tree. The lighting is rich and redolent, casting a John Constable-like glow over the countryside.It is an incredible achievement for a team of 15 people, especially as three of the artists are graduates, fresh out of university. Rapture is quite clearly a labour of considerable love. “We’ve ripped the village out and put it back in again three or four times,” shrugs Pinchbeck. “We have these discussions where someone just says sorry it doesn’t feel right. Jess [co-founder Jessica Curry] is really good at that – she comes in and says I know this is going to be unpopular but that just doesn’t work.”“I am the destroyer of worlds,” says Curry.With such a tiny team, the studio made the decision to not have any fully rendered and animated 3D characters in the game. Instead, there are certain locations around the environment where the player triggers strange, highly figurative cinematic sequences. These play out like ghostly, holographic recordings of conversations that took place in the days leading to the Rapture event. We see fragmentary visions of villagers discussing their lives and relationships; these spectres also hint at a flu-like sickness that’s sweeping through the area, and strange experiments at the nearby observatory. As you progress, you set open new sequences, learning obscure yet intriguing elements of the mystery. In other words, the game quietly and calmly sucks you into its looming Armageddon.“We wanted to capture that feeling of, it’s just happened, you just missed it,” says Dan Pinchbeck of the game’s quiet calm atmosphere.Photograph: The Chinese RoomThese sections, wonderfully performed by experienced radio actors, add to that whole sense of cosy Englishness. We hear of controversies in the village, love affairs and failed marriages, while clues about a coming disaster emerge. Something has happened at the observatory, some sort of force has been unleashed, but we discover this while also hearing about the daily lives of villagers. It’s like the Archers meetsThreads, the seminal 1980s television drama about a nuclear war.“My lovely late stepfather was a Radio 4 drama producer and my mum was a soap writer,” says Curry, who has also composed the game’s wrenchingly beautiful soundtrack (which we’ll cover in another article). “Maybe there’s something quintessentially British about those things and about how we tell stories. It’s the intimate against the epic.”Playing Rapture is like suddenly finding yourself in an 80s BBC dramatisation of Tripods or Day of the Triffids – but the story is there for you to build. It’s unlikely you’ll find all the possible story scenes, recordings and clues so everyone may come out with a very different idea of what happened and who was responsible. There’s no one official intepretation.“We want to inspire a collaboration between what the game gives and what the player gives – to provide a lot of space for your imagination to fill in the gaps,” says Pinchbeck. “That capacity to really inspire a player to come in and start creating all the links themselves ... this is something unique to games.”Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture will be released on PlayStation 4 on 11 August
Twitter has apologised for hosting a frat house-themed party for its staff while the company is in the middle of a class-action lawsuit for gender discrimination.The party was held on Tuesday by one of Twitter’s San Francisco-based teams for their internal “happy hour”, and involved frat-style accoutrements such as a keg, red Solo cups, and beer pong, all under faux-Greek letters reading “TWΦTTΣR ΓRΛT HΘVSΣ”.After a female Twitter employee posted a picture of the party on a Facebook group for women in technology, it spread rapidly, with many highlighting it as the latest example of how Silicon Valley culture can, purposefully or not, be exclusionary towards women.A Twitter spokesman apologised for the party,telling Fusion: “This social event organised by one team was in poor taste at best, and not reflective of the culture we are building here at Twitter. We’ve had discussions internally with the organising team, and they recognise that this theme was ill-chosen.”Silicon Valley US:@Twitteris having a#Fratparty for employees.#Lovewhereyouwork#diversitymatters#brogrammers.pic.twitter.com/WkX4aHHl6g&mdash; Global Tech Women (@GlobalTechWomen)July 22, 2015The party is particularly embarrassing for Twitter, coming as it does in the middle of its own battle with a class-action lawsuit alleging widespread gender discrimination at the company.Launched in March this year by Tina Huang, a former engineer at the firm, the suit claims that the company’s promotion and hiring procedures fail to ensure adequate diversity in high-level coding positions.The most recent report intoTwitter’s staffing shows it lacks gender diversity. Some 70% of its workforce is male and among its core technology employees that figure rises to 90%. Just eight out 37 (or 21%) of executives and senior leaders are female.
I don’t know what happened yesterday! Anyway, today’s game is Xo, a space strategy game from Portland-based developer, Jumpdrive Studios. The team is being supported by Square Enix and has launcheda kickstarterto fund the game.
Drone pilots who “buzz” passenger jets as they take off and land at British airports have been warned they face jail if caught as the number of companies and unlicensed individuals making use of the relatively low cost flight technology continues to grow.The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which issued the warning on Wednesday, has recorded six serious incidents in the past year when drones came within 20ft of airliners at airports around the country including Heathrow.Drone users must understand ... they are entering one of the busiest areas of airspace in the worldTim Johnson, CAAIn March, the pilot ofa 150-seat Airbus A320 approaching Heathrowat 1,800ft spotted a black object, believed to be a drone tracking along the approach path towards the plane. It passed above by just 50ft.Last July, at the same airport a drone buzzed the same type of jet just 700ft above the ground. The controller of the drone could not be tracked down in either case. Near misses have also been recorded at airports in Norwich, Southend and Leeds Bradford.“Drone users must understand that when taking to the skies, they are entering one of the busiest areas of airspace in the world,” said Tim Johnson, CAA policy director. “They must be aware of the rules and regulations for flying drones that are designed to keep all air users safe.”The warnings from the CAA come amid a growing number of privately owned drones in use in Britain for photography and recreation. There are now more than 800 companies registered to use drones, including the BBC Natural History Unit and Berkeley Homes, the housebuilder. Among the more unusual licensees areAngels Away, which offers to sprinkle a loved one’s ashes from a drone, and St Andrews University’s sea mammal research unit.Related:Investigators confirm Heathrow plane in near miss with droneBut members of the public do not have to register drones and none of those who buzzed planes in the past year have been caught. “Recklessly endangering an aircraft in flight” is a criminal offence, the CAA has warned and anyone convicted of the charge could face a custodial sentence.The CAA has launched a “drone code” to persuade operators to avoid the danger of collisions and a “drone safety awareness day”. They want operators to always keep drones within their line of sight and at a maximum height of 400ft and never to fly near airports and aircraft.Last September, a gyroplane pilot was flying with a student near Rochester airport in Kent when a drone flew straight towards them at about 1,000 feet above ground level. The pilot had to take evasive action but the drone got within 10ft.“Drones are here to stay and will have important benefits for the UK in the future,” said Stephen Landells, a flight safety specialist at the pilots’ union Balpa. “Drone operators need to put safety at the forefront of their minds when flying though, and ensure there is no conflict with commercial manned traffic.”The warnings from the CAA and pilots follow growing concern at the safety impact of drones worldwide. Firefighters in California said last week that lives were put at risk when helicopters could not douse forest fires because of hobby drone pilots flying devices above the fires.
New York City’s mayor, Bill de Blasio, warned that Uber was not taking a “wise course” in its dealings with New York City and said that “people will reject” the online taxi service if it continued to act as if it could “dictate to government”.The latest missive in De Blasio’s ongoing fight with the multibillion-dollar company, which is facing regulatory hurdles in major cities around the world, came shortly after the mayor rejected an open invitation for a debate with the company officials that would have been streamed online to discuss the Democratic mayor’s issue with the company.“I don’t debate with private corporations,” he said. He is supporting a proposal that would ban Uber from New York streets while the city conducts a study on the impact the service would have on congestion.De Blasio was at the Vatican on Tuesday to participate in a discussion on climate change and modern-day slavery. He used a speech at the conference to highlight New York’s goals of drastically reducing its climate footprint.Related:Mayor Bill de Blasio pledges to cut New York carbon emissions by 40% by 2030He apparently also used it to have a good old-fashioned moaning session about Uber with the mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, who also attended the meeting of mayors and apparently also thinks the company is a pain.Asked about their chat by a reporter, De Blasio said: “She is having a very similar experience.”“I think it’s clear that as a corporation, as a multibillion-dollar corporation, Uber thinks it can dictate to government. I remind them that the government represents the people and the people’s larger interest, and that is more important than any one company’s needs.”He said the situation in New York was playing out in Paris in a similar way as it was in New York and London.“I think in each case that people of our cities don’t like the notion that those who are particularly wealthy and powerful dictating terms to a government elected by the people,” he said. “So I think that is not a wise course and that ultimately the people will reject it.”On Monday New York taxi drivers held a rally in support of De Blasio’s proposal. The rally, which took place on the steps of the City Hall, included local union representatives and progressive groups like Communities for Change. One of the main complaints is that Uber classifies its drivers as contractors, not employees.“If Uber thinks it can exploit communities of color in New York City as part of some cynical marketing strategy, it can think again,” said Bertha Lewis, executive director of the Black Institute. “New Yorkers want real economic development, not a predatory business model that classifies full-time employees as contractors to cheat them out of benefits.”20 Jul 2015, New York City, New York State, USA --- New York, United States. 20th July 2015 -- Taxi drivers and supporters rally on the steps of New York City Hall for a cap on For-Hire-Vehicles (FHV) allowed on the city’s streets, specifically e-hail services like Uber and Lyft. -- The New York City Council is scheduled to vote this week on a cap on For-Hire-Vehicles (FHV) allowed on the city’s streets, specifically e-hail services like Uber and Lyft. Both Uber and the Taxi Industry are lobbying the council respectively. " width="1000" height="667" class="gu-image" />Taxi drivers and supporters rally on the steps of New York City Hall for a cap on for-hire vehicles allowed on the city’s streets, specifically e-hail services like Uber and Lyft.Photograph: Richard Levine/Demotix/CorbisUber has implied that the mayor’s support of a temporary ban was influenced by his loyalty to taxi companies, which the company said had first proposed such a ban.In response to De Blasio’s plan to limit its services, Uber released an update last week in which users could select a “De Blasio” option, which showed fewer to no cars available nearby. The company also released a TV ad featuring Uber drives, whichaccused the mayor of destroying 10,000 jobs.In an op-ed published in the New York Daily News, De Blasio said the city was on the verge of being flooded with “tens of thousands” more cars, which would overwhelm the city.In Paris, the company has been the subject ofmajor protests by taxi drivers, who see the company as a threat to their livelihoods.The protest attracted attention all around the world after a celebrity – Courtney Love – was apparently caught up in a “mob of taxi drivers” throwing rocks at her car as she made her way from Charles de Gaulle airport.
I’m always quick to defend the internet against charges of toxicity. It is home to so much that’s positive, but there’s no doubting it can be a despairing space. Ellen Pao, former chief executive of Reddit, wrote earlier this week inthe Washington Postthat “the trolls are winning”.There’s online misogyny, cyberbullying, hacking, and God knows how many irritating mailshots from political parties. And there’s no better marker of how unfun the internet can be than the ongoing Twitter conversation between Vine starCarter Reynoldsand his ex-girlfriendMaggie Lindemann, who split in December 2014.Reynolds, who is 19, has become a huge celebrity on the video network, with 4.3 million people following his account and its stream of short sketches with other young, male Vine stars. Lindemann herself has 63,700 followers.Reynolds has become a huge star, with 4.3 million followersReynolds attracted negative attention back in June when a video filmed on his phone –hacked from his iCloud account, according to him – seemingly showed him pressuring a drunk Lindemann, who was then 16, into sex. The revelation was met with widespread condemnation and some questioned whether he would be foundguilty of statutory rape. At the time, Reynolds took to Twitter to defend his actions,even attempting to set up a hashtagin support of himself. He then tweetedan apology, of sorts.#WeLoveYouCarterthank you for teaching me that sexual assault is normal and easy to cover up if you get your own hashtag going :)&mdash; Ezra Koenig (@antiarzE)June 25, 2015@carterreynoldsNOPE COUPLES DO NOT DO THAT ALL THE TIME COUPLES DO NOT TRY TO FORCE ONE OF THE THE OTHER TO DO SMTH THEY DNT WANNA&mdash; mira (@cigarettezayn)June 24, 2015Now, the pair have become embroiled in another Twitter back-and-forth. Lindemann tweeted apicture of herselffrom a hospital bed. (The cause of her admission is unclear.) This instigated a response from Reynolds, a continuation of harsh comments in the past few days, and a heated exchange. Then tweets of hackneyed soul-searching:you&#39;re a bitch&mdash; Carter Reynolds (@carterreynolds)July 14, 2015i know no matter how many times i say it nothing will change, but i&#39;m sorry for everything maggie. calling you names, shit talking you, etc.&mdash; Carter Reynolds (@carterreynolds)July 18, 2015liking someone so much for so long but never getting to have them is so exhausting and upsetting&mdash; maggie lindemann (@MaggieLindemann)July 19, 2015remember to stay strong and I love you all more than anything no matter what. ❤️&mdash; maggie lindemann (@MaggieLindemann)July 20, 2015At one point, after attempting for a second time to set up a hashtag in support of himself (dude, seriously), Reynolds’ tweets took a darker turn, and after Lindemann’s admission to hospital Reynolds implied he had had suicidal thoughts.i really did think about doing it, but then I talked to my friends and family. they made me realize that there&#39;s a lot more to life.&mdash; Carter Reynolds (@carterreynolds)July 20, 2015Alongside rape threats, side-click galleries, poorly drawn weight loss adverts and pop-ups, this exchange has to rate alongside the worst and saddest of the internet. The pair avoid tweeting each other directly, or even using @-replies, instead relying onsubtweets, vague statements and passive-aggressive posts online that everybody can view.Millions of people, therefore, are watching an exchange between two teenagers professing suicidal ideation, against a background of possible underage sexual assault, and then talk of police involvement.yo carter didn&#39;t save my life he actually wouldn&#39;t call the police for me bc he didn&#39;t want them to ask him stuff and it get out what I did&mdash; maggie lindemann (@MaggieLindemann)July 20, 2015If someone is feeling depressed and suicidal, they are in need of support and help, and the best place for them is probably not in the middle of an argument on a social network. Suicide, as Reynolds andLindemannboth later tweeted, “is not a joke”.suicide isn&#39;t a fucking joke&mdash; maggie lindemann (@MaggieLindemann)July 20, 2015If Reynolds is indeed guilty of sexual assault, he should face prosecution. But apart from both of these things, the fact remains that millions of followers are interested in this banal, oversharing spat, which treats very serious subjects (suicide, assault) with such a lack of gravity.i&#39;m NOT going to jail&mdash; Carter Reynolds (@carterreynolds)July 20, 2015Reynolds, who is an adult, should know better than to broadcast his entire life and relationship online, if only for his own sake. This is precisely why I am glad that my own teenage years came slightly too early for this type of blanket social media use. Not that this stops much older adults taking this no-holds-barred approach, and not that Reynolds himself is not vulnerable (though he does not come across well).Above all, it makes one despair. Despair that the 17-year-old Lindemann has such a high profile based mostly on sexualised photographs. Despair thatrape culture, a big problem offline, is perpetuated online, as one can see with the leaking of Reynold’s video. Despair that people think it’s OK to share everything and anything about their personal lives, without considering consequences for others or themselves.It is saddening and worrying that references to suicide and mental health problems are batted around the internetIt is saddening and worrying that references to suicide and serious mental health problems are batted around on the internet; either because they are used flippantly or because, when serious, individuals should feel they can seek help offline.I’m not suggesting that the infuriating and concerning exchange between Reynolds and Lindemann comes close to the heinousness of the likes of asubredditdedicated to “cute female corpses” – still yet to be shut down by new interim Reddit chief executive,Steve Huffman. But it’s a worrying sign of the times.BothReynoldsandLindemannhave tweeted that they will take a break from social media. That’s probably for the best.• For more information on mental health in the UK, visitmind.org.ukorstopsuicidepledge.org. The Samaritans helpline is open 24 hours a day: 08457 90 90 90. In the US:suicidepreventionlifeline.org, and Australia:suicidepreventionaust.org
Hackers threatened to release the identity and credit card details of 33 million adulterers on Monday. And it turns out I was one of them.I set up an Ashley Madison profile last year to investigate the site’s claims to have built an “infidelity map of the UK”. But when I attempted to delete my account, I was presented with a £15 charge. Given that the service prides itself on its discretion, I decided my personal information would probably be safe, and I forgot all about it – until yesterday.Related:Ashley Madison customer service in meltdown as site battles hack falloutWhen the story broke, I attempted to gain access to my account and delete my profile –a service that Ashley Madison was temporarily offering for free. But I couldn’t remember my password. I requested a reset, but the emails failed to arrive. I called their UK customer service for assistance, and this is when things became increasingly confusing. Customer service agents gave different information, calls were dropped, and the site’s internet was down.“We currently have a technical fault and don’t have access to accounts, so can’t reset your password,” a customer service representative with a North American accent said. They tried their best to allay my fears, and emphasised that this was not at all related to Monday’s hacking incident. The agent then suggested that I call back in an hour, because they didn’t have access to the internet.I became increasingly worried about my identity being leaked online. Although I’ve never been an active user, the idea of my registered email address – which includes my full name and where I work – being published on a list of adulterers filled me with slight dread.Ashley Madison is temporarily offering users the ability to fully delete their account free of charge.Photograph: AshleyMadison.comI called back, specifically to ask them how much they thought I needed to worry. “Only two of our members have been affected. Credit card details are not saved in our servers, it’s saved in payment processors. Email address and photos are saved in the system. But no one has access to us – it takes a lot to break our system,” a different customer service representative said.Reassuring customers is the job of a customer service agent. But these statements didn’t tally with what I’d seen in reports. An initial statement from Ashley Madison’s attackers does contain the details of only two specific customers, one from Massachusetts and one from Ontario. But it also contained a link to six different repositories of a data dump containing 2,500 records, until Ashley Madison used copyright law to get the mirrors removed.Every customer service agent I spoke to tried hard to reassure me that my details were safe. “Our system is completely secured. They tried tohack the site, but they weren’t successful. Your details are never compromised,” one said. The hackers still claim to hold the information of all 37m user accounts, including mine.On the fifth call, I eventually reached an agent who could reset my password so that I could delete my account. I was put on hold for a few minutes. The customer service agent returned with good news: I had a new password. It was 12345.
Extramarital dating site Ashley Madison is in disarray with its customer service centre telling users their accounts are secure despite the company admitting its user records have been stolen.More than 2,500 customer records have been released to the public by attackers who claim to have stolen the total database of the site, which claims to have more than33 million members in 46 countries.A Guardian journalist, who had previously signed up for an account when investigating the site, called Ashley Madison to discover how todelete her account for free, an offer made in the wake of the hack.Related:What happened when I tried to delete my Ashley Madison accountA succession of representatives stated that Ashley Madison’s system was completely secure, that the hack was not successful, and that only two members’ details were ever leaked.The first representative, who spoke with a north American accent, told her that the company’s internet went down “half an hour ago”, which meant they could not reset her password or delete her account. When asked if the outage was connected with the hack, the representative said: “They tried [to take the internet down] but they didn’t succeed. We have a technical glitch. Sometimes we have glitches on the system because we have too many members.”The representative offered to transfer her to another agent but the call was disconnected.On redialling, the journalist spoke to a second representative, who told her: “We understand your concern that is released by the media. Our system is completely secured. They tried to hack the site but they weren’t successful. Your details are never compromised … it’s false [that 2,500 customer records were leaked]. Only two of our members’ details were leaked. You know how the media work and they want to get attention. The site is very successful and are trying to make stories.”An attempt to transfer the call was again disconnected. Upon redialling, another representative repeated the claim that only two members were affected, and added that: “Credit card details are not saved in our servers, it’s saved in payment processors. Email addresses and photos are saved in the system. But no one has access to us, it takes a lot to break our system. The media has made it sound like a huge deal.”The initial statement from Ashley Madison’s attackers, who call themselves The Impact Team does contain personal information about two specific customers, one from Massachusetts and one from Ontario. But it also contained a link to six different repositories of a data dump containing 2,500 records, until Ashley Madison used copyright law to get the mirrors removed. And the attackers claim to have access to all of the 33m user accounts.The Ashley Madison website claims to have 33 million users.Photograph: Cartel/Rex ShutterstockThe information released by the attackers also features the details of one user who is listed as a “paid delete” – the controversial service by which Ashley Madison charged £15 in the UK and $19 in the US to fully remove an account. But, the attackers claim, that user’s payment information was still available on the servers, revealing him to be the Ontario-based customer.In a statement released on Monday evening, Ashley Madison told the Guardian: “The ‘paid delete’ option offered by AshleyMadison.com removes all information related to a member’s profile and communications activity. The process involves a hard-delete of a requesting user’s profile, including the removal of posted pictures and all messages sent to other system users’ email boxes.”But while the company affirms that the paid-delete option removes “profile and communications activity”, it has refused to elaborate on whether the option also removes personal information related to payments activity, as the attackers allege it does not. Most countries have regulations which require the storage of electronic payment information for a certain period of time as an anti-fraud measure.The Guardian asked Ashley Madison why its customer service representatives were telling users that the hack was not successful, even after the company’s founder and chief executive, Noel Biderman, was quoted as saying: “We’re not denying this happened. Like us or not, this is still a criminal act.”An Ashley Madison spokesman saidits official statement on the matterstill stood and the company had spoken with its customer service team “to make sure that the message is consistent all round … some of them might be stepping a bit too far in terms of what they’re saying”.One security expert told the Guardian the Ashley Madison hack was likely to be more damaging than many others, because users would be loath to admit that they are victims and ask for help.Tod Beardsley, the security engineering manager at cyber security firm Rapid7, said: “Dating site users are likely to feel more violated after a breach than those caught up in a retail or government website breach and they are less likely to reach out for help and advice on how to manage their identity information after a breach. For Ashley Madison users in particular, this tendency to suffer silently is all but guaranteed.”A user from Sydney, Australia, who gave the pseudonym Steve Dee, told the Guardian many of his fellow users were simply fantasists.In an email exchange, he wrote: “We’d like to believe that those people are bad people, but in many cases I think people go on there for the experience of being on there, flirting with the idea of an affair, as a fantasy.“Like a lot of dating sites, AM works more like a porn site – they are selling the suggestion of a woman wanting you or a chance of that. And for those in a relationship, I can imagine them using the site to say: ‘I want the fantasy of being able to pick one of these men or women (fake or real) and have this wild experience’ ... You become part of someone else’s sexual fantasy. You are the hot guy that they couldn’t resist, so much so they broke their vows, just to get the sexual fulfilment you can provide. And that’s what they are selling – that fantasy.”Dee said he was not worried by the threat of his details being leaked because he had given a false name. He said: “Nobody uses their name ... I don’t think there’s much personal on there. I don’t have a public profile, as in I’m not famous, so I have nothing to lose. If they have my credit card, that’s different, but I didn’t hear they had that kind of stuff.”
Security experts are urging owners of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles vehicles to update their onboard software after hackers took control of a Jeep over the internet and disabled the engine and brakes and crashed it into a ditch.A security hole in FCA’s Uconnect internet-enabled software allows hackers to remotely access the car’s systems and take control. Unlike some other cyberattacks on cars where only the entertainment system is vulnerable, the Uconnect hack affects driving systems from the GPS and windscreen wipers to the steering, brakes and engine control.The Uconnect system is installed in hundreds of thousands of cars made by the FCA group since late 2013 and allows owners to remotely start the car, unlock doors and flash the headlights using an app.Related:Most cars are vulnerable to 'hacking or privacy intrusions' – reportThe hack was demonstrated by Charlie Miller and Chris Valasek, two security researchers who previous demonstrated attacks on a Toyota Prius and a Ford Escape. Using a laptop and a mobile phone on the Sprint network, they took control of a Jeep Cherokeewhile Wired reporter Andy Greenberg was driving, demonstrating their ability to control it and eventually forcing it into a ditch.Unlike the majority of hacking attempts on cars, the vulnerability within the Uconnect system allows cybercriminals to take control of the car remotely, without the need to make physical contact with the car.Hackers take control of a Jeep Cherokee.WiredThe security researchers notified Fiat Chrysler nine months ago, allowing the car manufacturer to release a security update to fix the problem, which it did on 16 July.However the update requires users to manually update their cars by visiting the manufacturer’s site, downloading a programme on to a flash drive and inserting it into the car’s USB socket. FCA dealers can update the car for owners, but the company is apparently unable to automatically update the cars over the internet.“This update might not sound particularly important, but trust me, if you can, you really should install this one,” Millersaid on Twitter.Related:Driverless cars could face threat from hackers trying to cause road chaosIndependentsecurity expert Graham Cluley added: “Note that the researchers believe that, although they’ve only tested it out on Jeeps, the attacks could be tweaked to work on any Chrysler car with a vulnerable Uconnect head unit.”“You should consider installing a security update that Jeep has issued for cars fitted with a model RA3 or model RA4 radio/navigation system.”It is unclear whether the vulnerability within the Uconnect system is confined to US cars, or certain models.A FCA spokesperson said on Wednesday: “Under no circumstances does FCA condone or believe it’s appropriate to disclose ‘how-to information’ that would potentially encourage, or help enable hackers to gain unauthorized and unlawful access to vehicle systems.”“FCA released a software update that offers customers improved vehicle electronic security and communications system enhancements. The Company monitors and tests the information systems of all of its products to identify and eliminate vulnerabilities in the ordinary course of business. Customers can either download and install this particular update themselves or, if preferred, their dealer can complete this one-time update at no cost to customers.”
All eyes will be on Apple’s Watch sales when the tech behemoth reports its latest quarterly earnings later today. There may not be much to see.Analysts have called for caution ahead of Apple’s earnings call today, during which the company is expected to give its first official indication of Apple Watch sales figures since they went on sale in April. However, Apple will probably leave the exact revenue for the product in the “other” category and few are expecting detailed figures for an Apple product that has got off to a mixed start.“Even if Apple comes out on the low end, everybody else wants to have those numbers,” said Ramon Llamas, who analyzes the phones and wearables market for market research firm IDC. “Everyone want to have those numbers even if they’re low, because everyone wants to crack that 1m unit barrier.”Apple is believed to have topped that number in its first day of pre-sales, buttepid reviewsand the inevitability of a newer version with fewer bugs have kept analysts’ estimates low – most estimate numbers for the quarter between three and five million. The company itself has been quiet about sales figures.S&amp;P Capital’s Angelo Zino, in a note to investors, said he believed the company should have greater transparency given the attention of shareholders on the product.“While [Apple’s] launch into the wearables space began with a bang, we believe orders for the Apple Watch have considerably cooled down since the initial release,” he wrote. “We believe management should release actual figures for the Apple Watch given that it has completed its first full quarter, as it has been an overhang on the shares in recent weeks.” Zino added that he didn’t believe that would happen, but that expansion of watch sales into a wider geographic area would boost sales.Llamas remains bullish. “Never, ever, ever underestimate Apple,” he said. “I think the big question is where does Apple go from here?” Llamas added that the next questions were logistical: will Apple announce third-party retailer partners, and if so, will its availability at, say, Best Buy affect the marketing strategy that has focused so much attention on selling the watch as something for an executive?It’s also an open question how Apple will continue to develop the app store for the product – initial impressions of the store were mixed to negative, with users complaining about a surfeit of fitness apps and too few options that made efficient use of the small screen.And of course, when will users get an Apple Watch 2? That date, said Llamas, has to be far enough in the future that early adopters don’t feel slighted.“I don’t think it’ll be in 2015,” he said. “That would piss off a lot of customers.”Especially customers who boughtthe deluxe version.
Scientists have created a transistor made up of a single molecule. Surrounded by just 12 atoms, it is likely to be the smallest possible size for a transistor – and the hard limit forMoore’s law.The transistor is made of a single molecule of phthalocyanine surrounded by ring of 12 positively charged indium atoms placed on an indium arsenide crystal, asrevealed in the scientific journal Nature Physics.Each indium atom is 167picometresin diameter, which makes them 0.167nm wide or 42 times smaller than the very smallest circuits currently possible, asrecently revealed by IBM.For comparison a strand of human hair, at 100,000nm thick, is about 600,000 times wider than the atoms surrounding the new transistor. A red blood cell is a 36,000 times bigger, at 6,000nm in diameter. Even a strand of DNA is 15 times bigger at 2.5nm wide.Phthalocyanine molecule in centre of transistor is surrounded by 12 positively charged indium atoms.Photograph: US Naval Research LaboratoryThe transistor represents a big step forward toward quantum computing, and was made possible using a scanning tunnelling electron microscope to place atoms in exact positions and control the electron flow through the gate.Typically scientists working to this atomic scale have struggled to reliably control the flow of electrons, which are difficult to contain and can jump outside of the transistor, rendering it useless.The international team of researchers from Paul-Drude-Institut für Festkörperelektronik and the Freie Universität Berlin, Germany, the NTT Basic Research Laboratories, Japan, and the US Naval Research Laboratory also discovered unexpected behaviour from the transistor. The orientation of the molecule ofphthalocyanine– an organic molecule typically used in dyes – at the heart of the transistor is affected by charge.A red blood cell is around 6,000nm in diameter, meaning around 7,200 of the new transistors could fit on a single cell.Photograph: Ikon Images/Rex ShutterstockIts orientation could be changed by altering its charge, leading to more than a simple on-off switch-like state as seen in traditional transistors.The work proves that precise control of atoms to create a transistor smaller than any other quantum system available is possible and opens the door to further research into harnessing these tiny transistors for computers and systems with orders of magnitude more processing power than today’s machines.Chip manufacturers have struggled to maintain Moore’s law, which dictates that processing power will double every 18 to 24 months, primarily through the doubling of the number of transistors they can fit on a chip. The more transistors that can fit on a chip, the more powerful it can be.Moore’s law explained.Chips used in computers are currently made at the 14nm scale, but going smaller has proven difficult, with 7nm the latest breakthrough. While single-molecule transistors are nowhere near being ready to put into a chip, this new research will help bring about quantum computing, widely considered to be the next stage in the evolution of computers.•Quantum computing explained: harnessing particle physics to work faster
Twitter users are no longer able to set their own background pictures as they browse the site, after the company quietly turned off the much-loved feature and replaced backgrounds with a uniform light grey.User-set backgrounds will still be visible when a specific user’s feed, or individual tweet, is visited. But when browsing the home timeline, users are now faced with a plain background, rather than one of their own choice.The change was initially made without an announcement, prompting many users to wonder if the site had broken, but a Twitter spokesperson confirmed that the update was deliberate.“We’re removing background images from the home and notifications timelines on web for all users,”the company told Engadget. “Now, background images are only available where logged-in users will see them publicly [Tweet pages, list pages and collections pages].”Some users have speculatedthat the changes are to pave the way for adverts which take over the whole background.The change has upset some users, who appreciated the ability to personalise their Twitter experience, and one has created a chrome plugin to undo the change. Mika, a coder based in Leipzig, Germany, releasedthe Twitter Background RestoreronGithub on Tuesday morning. “I bet there’s gonna be paid-for background ads now,” Mika said this morning. “People are defending it in the comments with ‘good, people were myspacing it up anyway’ – you can still see the background on individual tweets!”
Google, Facebook, Dell, HP, eBay and a collection of other large Silicon Valley companies have sided with Samsung in its battle over patents with Apple.The coalition filed a motion with the US Federal Circuit Court of Appeals supporting Samsung’s appeal over damages related to alleged patent infringement, saying that the ruling will have “significant detrimental consequences for the continued development of useful modern technologies” if left to stand.Apple and Samsung have been fighting in courts around the world for the past three years, trading suits over patent infringement, some involving now standard features such as double-tap or pinch to zoom.Last year, the two companies agreed to end all patent lawsuitsoutside of the US, leaving America the final battleground.Apple was awardedmore than $1bnin the first patent trial in 2012. Since then Samsung has appealed multiple times to have the sum reduced or the judgment overturned. Samsung was later ordered to pay Apple the “total profit” of its infringing Galaxy smartphones. Apple thensued Samsung for $2bnlast year. Samsung’s appeal is still ongoing, and now supported by the Silicon Valley coalition’s amicus brief.The coalition argues that the design patents covered only minor features and that should the court uphold the judgment and force Samsung to pay Apple damages over patent infringements it would be detrimental to the development of the industry and consumer choice.“If allowed to stand, that decision will lead to absurd results and have a devastating impact on companies who spend billions of dollars annually on research and development for complex technologies and their components,” saidthe coalition in the brief.Apple has argued that the support of other companies in the patent battle should be ignored by the court, and that Google’s involvement in particular should be dismissed.Google, as the developer of Android on which the infringing Samsung smartphones and tablets ran, has a direct vested interest in the case.Should the court uphold Apple’s victory and force Samsung to pay damages, it could open up other companies including Google to further patent infringement lawsuits.•Apple-Samsung patent trial: a guide to the key issues
Extramarital dating site Ashley Madison has apologised to its users a second time for allowing its database to be comprehensively stolen, and is temporarily offering users the ability to fully delete their account from the site free of charge.The “paid delete” ability, which typically costs £15 in the UK and $19 in the US per account, was cited by Ashley Madison’s pseudonymous attacker, The Impact Team,as a main reason for the hack in the first place. The group alleged that the site did not in fact fully delete all information about a user, even after they had paid the fee.In a statement, Ashley Madison said that that claim was false. “Contrary to current media reports, and based on accusations posted online by a cyber criminal, the “paid-delete” option offered by AshleyMadison.com does in fact remove all information related to a member’s profile and communications activity.“The process involves a hard-delete of a requesting user’s profile, including the removal of posted pictures and all messages sent to other system users’ email boxes. This option was developed due to specific member requests for just such a service, and designed based on their feedback.”Although the stolen information is already in the hands of The Impact Team, the site is now offering users the ability to delete accounts free of charge. “As our customers’ privacy is of the utmost concern to us, we are now offering our full-delete option free to any member, in light of today’s news,” the statement says.It is not clear whether the move is intended to assuage some of the hackers demands or simply an attempt to lock the stable door after the horse has bolted.The company, which described the hack as an “act of cyber-terrorism”, has been attempting to keep the preliminary data dump from the hackers off the web, and claims success in the matter. “Using the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), our team has now successfully removed the posts related to this incident as well as all Personally Identifiable Information (PII) about our users published online.” As a result, the six initial locations the attackers posted the information in are now clear. But with the data now in the wild, and the attackers promising to release more, firefighting is likely to be a doomed effort in the long run.Tod Beardsley, security engineering manager at cybersecurity firm Rapid7, says the hack is likely to be extremely damaging once more data is made public, as users will not want to admit they have suffered a breach.“Dating sites also host millions of intensely private scraps of user data,” Beardsley said. “Users of these services may routinely share risqué photos, checklists of sexual preferences, and patterns of romantic activity that they consider deeply personal. Because of this, any breach involving a dating site comes with a built-in ‘ickiness’ factor.“Dating site users are likely to feel more violated after a breach than those caught up in a retail or government website breach, and they are less likely to reach out for help and advice on how to manage their identity information after a breach. For Ashley Madison users in particular, this tendency to suffer silently is all but guaranteed.”Ashley Madison’s chief executive and founder, Noel Biderman,said on Sundaythat the firm believes the hack was an inside job, from someone who already had access to its systems. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials,” he told the security journalist Brian Krebs. “It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.”
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest newiPhoneand iPad apps and games. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection.Clangers for iPhone and iPad.APPSClangers - Playtime Planet (£2.29)Children’s TV show Clangers has returned in a remake, but this being 2015, there’s also an app along for the ride. It’s a characterful collection of mini-games for pre-school children taking in music, constellations and bouncing peas, among other activities.iPhone / iPadEnlight (£3.99)This slick photo-editing app has been a hit on iPhone, but now it has been released for iPad too – arguably the better device for longer bouts of pic manipulation. It has lots of features and tools to improve your photos, but it’s easy to use too.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone apps of 2014Mapstr (Free)With Google, Apple and more offering maps apps, does anyone need a new one? Well, the twist here is that Mapstr helps you make your own map, tagging the places you visit most (or want to visit) to create something more personalised. An intriguing idea that could develop well.iPhoneAnnabel Karmel Family Cooking (£3.99)If you’re a parent, you quite possibly already know about Annabel Karmel and her recipes for babies and toddlers. This is a bit different though: an app that’s as much about getting slightly older children cooking with you in the kitchen through a series of “recipe challenges”. Meanwhile, more than 120 recipes provide plenty of ideas for adults too.iPhone / iPadNewsmart! (Free)This is the work of the Wall Street Journal, but it’s not your average news app. This is actually for people who want to learn business-English through a mixture of daily WSJ articles, and comprehension, grammar and vocabulary exercises.iPhoneThe Cat in the Hat - Read &amp; Learn (£3.99)US publisher Oceanhouse Media has been diligently turning the entire Dr. Seuss back-catalogue into book-apps over the last five years. This is a brand new take on The Cat In The Hat though, with the familiar story accompanied by learning activities for children to practise phonics, spelling and reading comprehension.iPhone / iPadWitness (Free)Subtitled “the panic button for the smartphone age”, Witness is the kind of app you hope you won’t ever have to use. It’s a mobile panic-button which calls and texts your pre-set emergency contacts when triggered, as well as broadcasting your location and live video and audio.iPhoneRelated:The best iPad apps of 2014HeadTrainer (Free + IAP)This is an interesting idea: a brain-training app that aims to improve your sporting abilities. That means a series of mini-games testing your focus, visual-spatial awareness, decision-making, memory and processing speed, with sporty themes and social features.iPhone / iPadFailPop – Essential Travel Tips (Free)This could be useful if you often find yourself travelling to countries you haven’t visited before: an app promising to fill you in on “essential local customs” including how to eat, what to wear and meeting people. Soon, it’ll add a premium tier with more tips.iPhoneLoyalive (Free)Finally, an app for storing details of your loyalty cards, so you can quickly check how many points you’ve racked up and whether you’re eligible for a reward. It’s fully UK-friendly, with more than 70 cards eligible from Starbucks and Boots to Nectar and Tesco Clubcard.iPhoneThis War of Mine for iPad.GAMESThis War of Mine (£7.99)War, but as experienced by civilians rather than soldiers. This game has picked up rave reviews on other platforms, and deservedly so: it’s a gripping adventure as you try to help your group survive in a war-torn city, avoiding snipers and foraging for supplies. It’s a wonderful game.iPadWarhammer 40,000: Deathwatch - Tyranid Invasion (£3.99 + IAP)The latest game for Warhammer 40k fans looks like it could be the best yet: a turn-based strategy game that sees your troop of Space Marines battling it out with vicious Tyranids. Collecting and upgrading your warriors is the prime attraction.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014SongPop 2 (Free + IAP)Remember SongPop? The ‘name that tune’ game was a mobile craze for a while, but then died down. Now it’s returning with a sequel that includes new ways to test your song-ID skills against friends – including a massively-multiplayer party mode.iPhone / iPadMission Impossible: Rogue Nation (Free + IAP)A new Mission Impossible film is on its way to cinemas, and publisher Glu Mobile is anticipating it with the official game. The company knows this territory (guns, action, big film brands) well, so this looks a polished adventure blending shooting and strategy.iPhone / iPadDexter: Hidden Darkness (Free + IAP)Everyone’s favourite serial killer Dexter has made his way onto iOS with a game that puts you in the titular role, solving crimes while “planning out your own secret agenda” – which is a tactful way of putting it. It’s good fun if you’re a fan of the show.iPhone / iPadMountain Goat Mountain (Free + IAP)There’s definitely some Crossy Road DNA in this latest game from Zynga, although it’s no straight copy. Here, you control a goat leaping up a mountain while avoiding hazards, and collecting “goat hats” (goat hats are a thing?) that can change the environment. It’s good fun.iPhone / iPadForest Home (Free + IAP)This has a cutesy look, but the gameplay is pleasantly challenging. You have to lead a series of forest animals to safety by tracing lines on the screen, in a fun puzzle game that tests your lateral-thinking skills.iPhone / iPadBarcode Knight (Free + IAP)There is an amazing mobile game to be made out of scanning real barcodes to create monsters. Barcode Knight isn’t quite it, but it’s interesting: you go dungeoneering with more than 60 monsters created with scans of your fish fingers / cider multi-packs / Cillit Bang packaging (delete as appropriate).iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Dragon Ball Z Dokkan Battle (Free + IAP)If you’re new to Bandai Namco’s Dragon Ball Z franchise, this might be a good way in. It’s a colourful battling game that’s only been available in Japan until now: you build teams of fighters and send them off to scrap, with a boardgame feel wrapped around the action.iPhone / iPadMillion Arthur (Free + IAP)Here’s a nice twist on the card-battling genre: a game based on the legend of King Arthur. Who, thanks to Disney, I can’t imagine without a talking owl named Archimedes. None of that here though: this blends Arthurian myths with anime visuals, as you follow your destiny to become king.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by oniOSin the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
A two-foot-long steel strut only an inch wide at its thickest point was to blame for last month’smidair explosionof an unmanned SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, according to a preliminary investigation. The CEO of SpaceX, Elon Musk, said on Monday that the part, provided by an external supplier he declined to name, was “not something that should ever have failed at this force level”.Related:Nasa SpaceX mission to International Space Station ends in explosionThe disaster, a major setback for Musk’s ambitious space plans, also destroyed the Dragon spacecraft that the Falcon 9 was carrying. The Dragon, a partially reusable spacecraft developed by SpaceX, was due for a rendezvous at the International Space Station.In his first public comments on the disaster, Musk said the strut “would appear to be incorrectly made but with no visible way of determining that from the outside”. The part held in place a tank of helium pressurized at about 55,000 pounds per square inch, cooled cryogenically by liquid oxygen and fed into the engine and back out again to keep the pressure equal in the rocket’s second stage.“The strut that we believe failed was designed to handle 10,000lb of force and it failed at 2,000lb of force,” Musk said.He also said that the Dragon could have been saved. “If the software had initiated the parachute deployment, the Dragon spacecraft would have survived,” Musk said. “We’re adding additional software so that the the spacecraft will always attempt to save itself. It’s an unfortunate thing.”Musk said the test of SpaceX’s next version of its rocket, the Falcon Heavy, had been pushed back to the spring of 2016.Musk cautioned that further investigation bySpaceXmight reveal more over time but said that the inquiry, conducted in cooperation with the Federal Aviation Administration, Nasa and the US air force, suggested the strut had allowed the helium tank to shoot up through the stage as its buoyancy increased in proportion to the gravitational pressure of the rocket’s acceleration, ultimately releasing helium into the liquid oxygen and causing “a pressure event”.That event took place over .893 seconds – part of the reason the findings were only preliminary. “When milliseconds matter, it’s remarkably difficult to line things up exactly right,” he said.“It’s very difficult to test a rocket stage,” Musk said. “The only way to fully test a rocket stage would be to have an enormous centrifuge that doesn’t exist on Earth.”The tech CEO said he believed the company had begun to rest on its laurels after severalsuccessful launches. “The company as a whole, I think, became a little bit complacent over seven years, after 20 successes in a row,” he said, “and this is an important lesson and something we’re going to take with us in the future.”Musk said SpaceX wouldn’t be using those specific struts in the future and, when the replacements were selected, would be testing each one individually irrespective of the supplier’s certification.Like a wedding officiant, Musk asks his employees to speak or forever hold their peace, he told reporters. “Before any flight I always send out an email saying: ‘If anyone can think of any possible reason why we should keep this flight from launching, they should call me on my cellphone or email me whether their manager agrees with it or not,’” he said. “I think sometimes it just seems like Elon being paranoid again.”The failure, he said, wouldn’t affect the company’s submission for Nasa’s upcoming commercial cargo contract.“Rockets are a fundamentally difficult thing,” he said.
Name:Ashley Madison.Age:That would be telling.Appearance:Discreet, subtle but, you know, up for it.Is this a male Ashley or a female Ashley?Neither. It’s a corporate Ashley. Ashley Madison is the name of a website founded in Toronto in 2001, which sells married people the opportunity to connect with each other and have affairs.Ah, yes. I’ve heard of that. But why can’t married people just have sex with their workmates as usual?Oh you know, it can get complicated. Plus not everybody has workmates they want sex with.Nonsense! I’d gladly have sex with you.Thanks. Anyway, Ashley Madison is in trouble because its ultra-sensitive customer datahas just been breached by a hacker or hackers unknown.Would you have sex with me?The hackers call themselves the Impact Team, and claim to have accessed the entire database of Ashley Madison’s 37m users and the 1.3m users of Established Men (matching older men with younger women). They have already released some credit card details and company documents, and are threatening to publish everything else unless the parent company Avid Life Media shuts both sites down.Are these family-values hackers then?No. They say they are responding to the fact that Ashley Madison charges departing users $19 to conduct a “full delete” of their data. (Although theycan leave and become nearly untraceable for free.)So they are online privacy campaigners, but they are trying to get their way with a massive breach of online privacy?That’s right. If their demands are not met, they promise to release “all the customers’ secret sexual fantasies, nude pictures, and conversations and matching credit card transactions, real names and addresses”.A bit hypocritical maybe?Or maybe a bit personal. Avid Life Media says it suspects an inside job. “We’re on the doorstep of [confirming] who we believe is the culprit, and unfortunately that may have triggered this mass publication,” says the site’s founder Noel Biderman. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials. It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.”Do you at least think I’m attractive?This comes just four months after ahack on Adult FriendFinder, which revealed the unusual sexual preferences of 3.5m people.Do say:“Life is short. Have an affair.”Don’t say:“But also unpredictable. Get a lawyer.”
Instagram has apologised after it handed control of a Spanish user’s account over to a Barcelona football player with the same name.Andrés Iniesta, from Madrid, is the holder of the @ainiesta Instagram account. Andrés Iniesta, from Fuentealbilla, is the captain of Barcelona football club. The former Iniesta woke up on Wednesday to find that access to his Instagram account was blocked.The app gave him a message saying it had “deactivated his account because it infringes our conditions of use” – and then, two days later, his friends started noticing updates from the footballer on their feed.“A couple [of] days later, other followers reported that suddenly Andrés Iniesta the football player appeared on their ‘following’ list,”Iniesta wrote on Medium. “And they don’t even like football!”By this point, Iniesta had contacted Instagram three separate times, and received no response. So he took to Medium in despair. “What pains me is that all of this has happened without any explanation, not even a twitter response from Instagram,” he wrote.“I’m not a celebrity, and I don’t want to be one. I just don’t like things being taken away from me.”Five hours after posting on medium, the company relented, and returned his account to him. Later still, Instagram provided a short statement, and, finally, an apology.“We made a mistake here and restored the account as soon as we learned about it. Our apologies go out to Mr Iniesta for the trouble we caused him,”the company told Gizmodo.As for the significantly wealthier Iniesta, he’s returned to Instagram,on his own accountthis time. It already has 5.4 million followers.
The music-streaming battle between Apple Music and Spotify isn’t just aboutwhich one has the Taylor Swift album: it’s about which one has the best playlists, and the ability to recommend them to the listeners who’ll love them.Apple Music made a strong start on the first of those: the service has won plaudits for its deep collection of programmed playlists. Now Spotify is fighting back on a related front: personalisation.Related:Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand my tastes?Spotify is launching a feature called Discover Weekly, a new playlist of “new discoveries and deep cuts” for each of its 75 million users, based on their tastes and those of people like them.Each user’s playlist will be automatically updated every Monday with a new set of tracks, with Spotify encouraging them to save the songs they like to their personal collections or other playlists.“We wanted to make something that felt like your best friend making you a mixtape, labelled ‘music you should check out’, every single week,” said product manager Matthew Ogle, who co-founded music-discovery startup This Is My Jam before joining Spotify in January.The more people listen, the better attuned their Discover Weekly playlist will be to their tastes, claimed Ogle, who stressed that it will also fling a few aural curveballs at users along the way.“Some weeks, your recent listening will nudge it in new directions, and in other weeks, Discover Weekly might be the one doing the nudging,” he said.Spotify’s new Discover Weekly playlist will be different for each user.Discover Weekly fits neatly into an under-reported aspect of the competition between Spotify and Apple: their respective abilities to understand people’s tastes and behaviour, and serve up music accordingly.For Apple Music, that’s reflected in the playlists suggested in its app’s “For You” section, with the promise that they’ll get more and more relevant the more each user listens.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'For Spotify, this is also about itsrecently launched “Now” homescreen, which suggests playlists based on each user’s habits, as well as the time of day.In both cases, it’s also the latest sign that playlists – whether compiled by experts or algorithms – are an increasingly-important format for music listening, alongside the traditional album.Music-streaming services are also hoping that playlists and personalisation will boost streams of music from emerging artists as well as established stars, after regular criticism that they are only sustainable for the latter as an income.Spotify said Weekly will not be influenced by the company’s marketing partnerships with music labels. While it has worked with labels to“power-seed” new artists’ tracksin playlists programmed by its editorial team, that will not expand to the new personalised playlist.
After years of enthusiastic fan campaigns, raised hopes and dashed dreams, Shenmue III has finally been funded. The third title in the influential action adventure series, originally developed for the Sega Dreamcast console, finished its Kickstarter campaign at the weekend, attracting just over $6.3m from almost 70,000 backers.Envisioned and overseen by legendary designer Yu Suzuki, the long-awaited sequel is now the most highly funded video game on the Kickstarter platform, beating previous record-holder Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night by almost a million dollars. Shenmue III was also the fastest title toshoot through the one million dollar funding mark, reaching the figure less than two hours after the Kickstarter launch. The game went on to earn its $2m target within nine hours.But there are still a few questions hanging over the project. Here’s what we know.Who’s developing Shenmue III?While Yu Suzuki is creative director on the project, the game is being developed by Shinjuku-based studio Neilo, previously responsible for the offbeat PlayStation rhythm action-based role-playing game Orgarhythm. It’s not a huge legacy, but then, the chief executive is Takeshi Hirai, one of the lead coders on the original Shenmue back in 1999.The company has been busy building the development team over the last few months, recruiting several more Shenmue veterans, including original character designerKenji Miyawakiand voice actors Corey Marshall and Masaya Matsukaze who voiced lead character Ryo in the previous two instalments.Is the game being made for $6m?Released back in 1999, the original Shenmue was one of the most expensive games ever made, with a reported development budget of around $50m. The title was hugely ambitious, allowing players extraordinary freedom within its 1980s-themed urban environment; it is considered an important forerunner of the open-world genre.So is this second sequel going to be made for a fraction of that cost? No. Sonyannounced at E3that it will be helping to fund at least the PlayStation 4 portion of the game’s development; the project also has another corporate backer, Shibuya Productions. It is not clear yet how much these two, or any further third-party investors, will add to the pool. Suzuki took to the Kickstarter site in June to clarify thatnone of these companies will receive money from the Kickstarter funds, but the details remain ambiguous. It could be that the corporate investment will be scaled to match the crowdfunded total – it is certainly not unusual for a developer to launch a Kickstarter that acts as a test for public interest and a signpost to potential investors.Will Shenmue III be an open world game?While the first two titles allowed players a lot of explorative freedom, they weren’t strictly open-world in the modern sense – you couldn’t visit any area of the map at any time as you can in, say, the Grand Theft Auto titles.Suzuki has previously stated that, if the game funding reached $10m, the development team would be able to create a truly open world environment, which caused excitement in the Shenmue community. However, the final figure falls $4m short of that. So does that mean the open-world dream is dead? Not necessarily. If further financial investment is later confirmed, it’s possible that this will be funnelled into world development.There’s disagreement among the Shenmue community whether this would be a good idea, however. A highly detailed, handmade environment may well prove more in keeping with the Shenmue experience – indeed Suzuki himself has stated: “For the next game, I’m going to go much deeper.” It’s possible the aim is a more detailed world with richer characterisation and not necessarily a larger one.Is this the final part in the Shenmue story?Yet more ambiguity here. Duringan AMA session on Reddit, Suzuki claimed: “There are a total of 11 chapters that make up the whole story. Over the past 14 years I originally planned for there to be four or five games to the series. If at all possible, I would still like to realise the full story of 11 chapters.”So where does Shenmue fit in with the other two games?Chapters 1-5 are covered by the original Shenmue and Shenmue II, as well as a manga series, Shenmue: Side Story, which means Shenmue III begins at chapter six. It is a direct sequel to Shenmue II, following on from the end of the game with Ryo travelling to the town of Guilin in China to track down his father’s killer. There he meets the mysterious Ling Shenhua, a girl he has dreamed about in the past.It’s not clear though, at which point in the over-arching story that Shenmue III will end, and whether further manga will be commissioned to fill in any gaps. Whatever the case, it seems unlikely that Suzuki wants this to be the close of the series. Whether or not it is will no doubt depend on how well the game performs.Will a physical copy of Shenmue III be sold in shops?This is not confirmed yet. Although backers will receive a physical copy of the game on PC or PlayStation 4, gaming news siteVG247 was informed by Suzuki’s company Ys Netthat a full retail release is not yet certain.What about Sega?Sega was the original publisher and developer of the first two Shenmue titles.According to Yu Suzuki, the company still owns the intellectual property rights on the Shenmue name but has licensed them to Ys Net. Sega has also provided assets from the first two titles which will be used in the third title. It looks like the company is content to sit in the background, with no direct involvement.When is Shenmue coming out?The current aim is December 2017, with versions on PC and PS4. Of course, with such a small team and such an ambitious project that could slip – we’ve certainly seen that happening with some high-profile Kickstarters, including Pillars of Eternity, the role-playing game from Obsidian that attracted almost $4m in funding in 2012. That game was delayed several months, but emerged this year to wide critical acclaim.With Sony Computer Entertainment on hand, however, Shenmue III should have access to considerable development and production support if things start to slip. After the huge publicity around that E3 expo announcement, no one wants this to become another resident in development hell.Shenmue – discovering the Sega classic 14 years too late
The first US government-approved drone delivery has successfully transported 4.5kg of medical supplies to a rural health clinic.The drone, made by Australian drone manufacturer Flirtey, took part in the demonstration, which was approved by the Federal Aviation Authority, in partnership with Nasa on Friday.The Flirtey drone made three three-minute flights from Lonesome Pine Airport, Virginia, to the clinic at the Wise County Fairgrounds, carrying 24 medical packages.Close up of Flirtey delivering in Virginia today!pic.twitter.com/7genpCweHF&mdash; Flirtey (@Fly_Flirtey)July 17, 2015“Proving that unmanned aircraft can deliver lifesaving medicines is an important step toward a future where unmanned aircraft make routine autonomous deliveries of your everyday purchases,” said Flirtey chief executive Matt Sweeny in a statement.The test is being hailed as proof that drones can be useful in a delivery scenario, particularly in rural and remote areas that are hard to reach via ground vehicles. But the range and flight time of drones means that opportunities are limited.Amazon and others are currently developing the technology to make drone deliveries possible on a commercially viable scale, but rules and regulations currently governing their operation have held development back.Rules on drone flights in the US are currently under revision by the FAA, seeking to enable safe but regulated commercial drone flights. But the proliferation of cheap and readily available drones for personal use has left the law outdated and has caused several near-misses with commercial aircraft.Second successful drone delivery by Flirtey!!pic.twitter.com/Mip3nz25cI&mdash; Flirtey (@Fly_Flirtey)July 17, 2015Current UK legislation dictates that drones cannot be flown within 50m of a building or a person or within 150 metres of a built-up area. The maximum flight height is also only 400 feet, while the drone has to remain in line of sight and within 500 metres of the pilot, which has restricted attempts to use drones for delivery or surveillance purposes.Pilots must complete a training course and apply for a permit from the CAA to fly the drone for commercial purposes.•Drone firing handgun appears in video
Italian police are investigating whether the attack on cyber-espionage firm Hacking Team, which exposed its dealings with repressive regimes and flaws in user software, could have been an inside job.Investigative sources told Reuters they were considering the possibility that six former employees could be responsible for the attack on the company, which saw 400GB of private data dumped on the internet.Reuters reported that the six suspects had already been placed under investigation in a separate case for allegedly revealing the company’s industrial secrets, after a complaint by the Hacking Team chief executive, David Vincenzetti, over the leaking of source code for programs, which was also exposed as part of the data dumped on the internet.Vincenzetti has previously said agovernment might have been behindthe hacking of the company’s systems.Hacking Team made software used by law enforcement and intelligence agencies, including the US Federal Bureau of Investigation, tohack into and spy onthe smartphones and computers of suspects.The company’s email archive was also exposed in the data theftrevealing deals with repressive regimesand countries criticised over their human rights records.The latest reports indicate Hacking Team had developed a system that could remotely hack companies, governments and individuals via wifi carried into range by a drone.•Hacking Team hack casts spotlight on murky world of state surveillance
Hackers have stolen and leaked personal information from online cheating site Ashley Madison, an international dating site with the tagline: “Life is short. Have an affair.”The site, which encourages married users to cheat on their spouses and advertises 37 million members, had its data hacked by a group calling itself the Impact Team. At least two other dating sites, Cougar Life and Established Men, also owned by the same parent group, Avid Life Media, have had their data compromised.Related:It hurts, but I’m going to defend Ashley Madison and 37 million adulterers  | Van BadhamThe Impact Team claims to have complete access to the company’s database, including not only user records for every single member, but also the financial records of ALM and other proprietary information. For now, the group has released just 40MB of data, including credit card details and several ALM documents.According to the information security journalist Brian Krebs,who broke the news, ALM has confirmed that the hacked material is genuine, and the company is working to remove from the net the material that has already been posted. But the initial leak is just a taster, according to the Impact Team, which accompanied the data with a manifesto threatening release of further information if Ashley Madison and Established Men are not permanently closed.“Avid Life Media has been instructed to take Ashley Madison and Established Men offline permanently in all forms, or we will release all customer records, including profiles with all the customers’ secret sexual fantasies and matching credit card transactions, real names and addresses, and employee documents and emails. The other websites may stay online,” the group’s statement reads.The hackers’ main point of contention is with the fact that Ashley Madisoncharges users a fee of £15to carry out a “full delete” of their information if they decide to leave the site. Although users have the option of permanently hiding their profile free of charge, the company’s advertisements claim that the full delete service is the only way to completely remove their information from the servers.But the hackers say that that claim is “a complete lie”.“Users almost always pay with credit card; their purchase details are not removed as promised, and include real name and address, which is of course the most important information the users want removed,” they allege.Related:Dating site hackers expose details of millions of usersALM believes it has identified the perpetrator of the hack, which it says was likely an inside job. “We’re on the doorstep of [confirming] who we believe is the culprit, and unfortunately that may have triggered this mass publication,” the company’s chief executive, Noel Biderman, told Krebs. “I’ve got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials. It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.”The data dump seems to back-up that theory to a certain extent, specifically apologising to the company’s director of security. “You did everything you could, but nothing you could have done could have stopped this,” the manifesto reads.In a statement, ALM said: “We apologise for this unprovoked and criminal intrusion into our customers’ information. The current business world has proven to be one in which no company’s online assets are safe from cyber-vandalism, with Avid Life Media being only the latest among many companies to have been attacked, despite investing in the latest privacy and security technologies.“At this time, we have been able to secure our sites, and close the unauthorised access points. We are working with law enforcement agencies, which are investigating this criminal act. Any and all parties responsible for this act of cyber–terrorism will be held responsible.”Ashley Madison, along with a number of other dating sites, had already been criticised for the lack of care taken over customer information at least once before. In 2012, the online rights campaign group EFFexamined eight popular dating sites, and found that just one, Zoosk, carried out simple security precautions such as enabling encrypted connections by default. In the EFF’s study, however, Ashley Madison was explicitly praised for deleting data after users closed their account.ALM later said it had used the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DCMA) to demand the removal of online posts about the incident “as well as all personally identifiable information about our users published online.”Posts on Twitter which had apparently earlier linked to pages containing hacked material were now bringing up “page not found” results, the Guardian found.ALM also said it is now offering its full-delete option free to any customer to help them protect their privacy.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatestAndroidapps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!Microsoft Hyperlapse for Android.AppsMicrosoft Hyperlapse Mobile (Free)Fresh out of beta, this is Microsoft’s app for turning your videos into time-lapsed films, speeding up the action up to 32 times faster than the original footage. It also uses stabilisation technology to de-jerkify the experience for viewers on the various social sites it posts to.WifiMapper (Free)This is one of the most useful apps you can have on your Android device if you regularly find yourself hunting for public Wi-Fi. It’s a database of more than 650m hotspots around the world, including the free ones.Booking Now (Free)This is a standalone app from travel site Booking.com, responding to competition from the likes of HotelTonight in the ‘I need somewhere to kip at short notice’ market. You can quickly browse nearby hotels, B&amp;Bs and apartments and book them from within the app.Musical.ly (Free)If your Facebook feed is full of friends and relatives lip-syncing film clips and music choruses using the Dubsmash app, be aware: soon you may be seeing Musical.ly clips too. It’s a video-sharing app for lip-syncing to songs or adding sound effects to other videos, then sharing the results on social sites.HeadTrainer (Free + IAP)This is an interesting idea: a brain-training app that aims to improve your sporting abilities. That means a series of mini-games testing your focus, visual-spatial awareness, decision-making, memory and processing speed, with sporty themes and social features.HBO Now (Free + IAP)Being based in the UK, I haven’t been able to try this app, but it’s been keenly-awaited in the US – the standalone streaming service from cable network HBO. Cable-cutters can watch new and archived shows from the firm, paying $14.99 a month for the privilege.Tiles Instagram Lock Screen (Free)Want to be reminded of just how spiffing your friend’s filtered noodles looked last night? You need Tiles. It’s an app that pulls your Instagram feed onto your Android device’s lock screen, including a feature to set which mates you do and don’t want to see.DogVacay (Free)Booking Now might be for humans looking for a berth for the night, but DogVacay caters for their four-legged best friends. It’s an app for the online service to browse, book and pay pet sitters in the US and Canada, complete with reviews of their work.Red Bull Alert (Free)Good news, lovers of branded alarm-clock apps! Red Bull has a new one that promises to “wake you with inspiring photos and alarm sounds”, although it’ll also track how long it takes you to turn off the alarm and encourage you to do better, like some kind of motivational snooze-o-phobic.Loyalive (Free)Finally, an Android app for storing details of your loyalty cards, so you can quickly check how many points you’ve racked up and whether you’re eligible for a reward. It’s fully UK-friendly, with more than 70 cards eligible from Starbucks and Boots to Nectar and Tesco Clubcard.This War of Mine for Android.GamesThis War of Mine (£7.99)War, but as experienced by civilians rather than soldiers. This game has picked up rave reviews on other platforms, and deservedly so: it’s a gripping adventure as you try to help your group survive in a war-torn city, avoiding snipers and foraging for supplies. It’s a wonderful game.Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation (Free + IAP)A new Mission Impossible film is on its way to cinemas, and publisher Glu Mobile is anticipating it with the official game. The company knows this territory (guns, action, big film brands) well, so this looks a polished adventure blending shooting and strategy.Warhammer 40,000: Space Wolf (Free + IAP)As a youth I was more of a Blood Bowl fan than Warhammer 40,000, but the latter series has a large fanbase to this day, when it’s being reinvented digitally. This is an engaging take on the world of Space Wolves and Space Marines, with a blend of solo campaigning and player-versus-player battling.Million Arthur (Free + IAP)Here’s a nice twist on the card-battling genre: a game based on the legend of King Arthur. Who, thanks to Disney, I can’t imagine without a talking owl named Archimedes. None of that here though: this blends Arthurian myths with anime visuals, as you follow your destiny to become king.Wars and Battles (£5.99 + IAP)A treat for sofa generals here, because this styles itself more as “a platform of turn-based wargames”. What that means is an engine powering skirmishes across a range of conflicts: Normandy 1944 is one of the draws at launch, but other scenarios including The Korean War are following as extra packs.Mountain Goat Mountain (Free + IAP)There’s definitely some Crossy Road DNA in this latest game from Zynga, although it’s no straight copy. Here, you control a goat leaping up a mountain while avoiding hazards, and collecting “goat hats” (goat hats are a thing?) that can change the environment. It’s good fun.Dragon Ball Z Dokkan Battle (Free + IAP)If you’re new to Bandai Namco’s Dragon Ball Z franchise, this might be a good way in. It’s a colourful battling game that’s only been available in Japan until now: you build teams of fighters and send them off to scrap, with a boardgame feel wrapped around the action.RPG Tears Revolude (£3.99)Continuing that theme, here’s a prime slice of Japanese RPG (JRPG) from a developer that specialises in the genre: Kemco. It’s a reassuringly old-school roleplaying game involving “command” based battles, diligent character-upgrading, and a story with plenty of twists.Redden (£1.91)This is interesting: a game where you don’t play characters, but which instead encourages you to “be a tool”. Quiet at the back there. From arrows and bullets to shuriken, your job is to make them fly through the air and hit targets, with lush graphics.Stuntman Stuart (Free + IAP)“No goats,” promises the Google Play listing for this diverting action game. Is the lack of goats now a selling point for mobile games? Nobody tell Zynga if so… But yes, this is a fun pixel-art take on the world of stunts and stuntmen.That’s my choice, but whatAndroidapps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
That a considerable batch of DLC would follow the critical and popular success ofSSBwas a given, but this latest mix of characters and Mii outfits still seems unnecessarily expensive. The highlight of the pack is Ryu ofStreet Fighterfame who fits naturally intoSmash Bros. His unique movements allow for a very technical execution, making him one of the best third-party inclusions the series has seen.The remaining new characters, Roy and Lucas, both have similar movements to their series’ counterparts, Marth and Ness, and it’s hard to shake the feeling that they’re a bit obscure for inclusion in a major update. Fans of previous Smash games might enjoy having the roster rounded out, but it feels as if Roy and Lucas are simply there to prompt those same fans into buying the bigger pack.Equally, at nearly half the price of the full game, unless customising your Mii fighter is the goal, it’s not particularly good value for money – buying Ryu separately will suffice.
It’s Monday again! Today’s game isDream, a narrative adventure set in the unconscious mind of the lead protagonist. It’s coming to Steam on 31 July.
Solitude has long been the condition for inspiration. John the Baptist fled to the desert; Descartes retreated to his fireside; Mahler took refuge in his lakeside cabin. Through solitude, religious, intellectual or creative enlightenment can be reached. As Nietzsche said: “How can anyone become a thinker if he does not spend at least a third of the day without passions, people and books?”Solitude involves some degree of social withdrawal, but it is not necessarily a state of loneliness. “I have never found a companion that was so companionable as solitude,” declaredThoreau; the philosopher Hans-Georg Gadamer describes it as friendship with oneself. Solitude may be enjoyed “in the midst of cities and the courts of kings”, as French philosopherMontaigneobserved in the 16th century – but, he said, “it is enjoyed more handily alone”.Solitude under threatThe internet makes physical isolation easier than ever: we can work, shop and be entertained without ever leaving our bedrooms. But withdrawing from society is a different matter. Social media is so habit-forming that Facebook has its ownaddiction scale. And as we scroll, like, click and share our way through each day’s digital maelstrom, we are left withprecious little energy for creative thought. Laptops and smartphones can be turned off, at least – but what about the internet of things?The network of networks becomes accessible through any physical object: fromcars, toumbrellas, topotted plants. But when the internet escapes from behind a screen, the world becomes a far more distracting place.Notifications appear on ourdressing tables, sofas and kitchen cabinets. The flood of emails becomes a deluge as our householdappliancesget in on the act. We arenudged,manipulatedandspied uponin our own homes. If the internet of screens put solitude on the endangered species list, it looks like the internet of things guarantees its extinction.Would Mahler have written two symphonies atSteinbachif his desk had a built-in touchscreen? Would Christianity have turned out differently if John the Baptist’s desert sojourn had been interrupted by recipe tips forlocusts and wild honey? And what if, instead of lowering himself into his battered Queen Anne to ponder the foundations of knowledge, Descartes had relaxed into ashapeshiftingsmart armchair – which, upon detecting his contemplative mood, promptly transformed itself into a chaise longue?The fear of boredomBut it’s not the internet of things that is the true threat to solitude. It’s not even the more familiar “internet of screens”. The real hazard is our own anxiety – but this trepidation is not the dread of loneliness. It’s the fear of being bored.In alecture coursethat he delivered in 1929-30, the German philosopher Martin Heidegger identified boredom as the defining mood of the 20th century. Whereas the Romantics were enraptured with the world, modern people simply shrug at it. This ubiquitous, insidious ennui plucks at our sleeves– but technology steps in, and we bury our boredom under a heap of gadgets.In a technologically saturated world, Heidegger argues that we never truly inhabit time: we either manage it or while it away. The physical world is treated as a “standing reserve” of resources to be plundered by the onward march of innovation. The distractions of technology must be resisted, for Heidegger – but doing so requires embracing solitude, which means confronting boredom. The road is hard, but the alternative is worse. “He who completely entrenches himself against boredom also entrenches himself against himself,” warnsNietzsche: “he will never get to drink the strongest refreshing draught from his own innermost fountain.”Solitude in the internet of thingsEven though Heidegger thought that technology was fundamentally aimed at distraction and self-avoidance, it doesn’t have to be. Technology does what we design it to do. And the internet of things could help us in our search for solitude.The philosopher and the staircasePhotograph: Chris Waits/flickrIn the homes of the future, the mundane tasks that can interrupt concentration – regulating theheating, ortaking out the bins– could be fully automated. But smarthomes are only the start. Because the internet of things could help us not just to connect more objects, but also to disconnect ourselves when we need space to think.Studies have shown that even spotting a notification on a smartphoneis distracting. So what if all home offices were equipped with physical kill-switches for notifications, which could mute all but the most urgent messages? And what if we could work not on multi-function laptops, where the temptations of the internet are just a new browser window away, but onsmart typewriterswith only minimal email connectivity? The homes of the future could be like the great houses of the past, run discreetly and efficiently by considerate butlers – quiet havens where the need for solitude and privacy is respected, rather than disregarded by default.Rethinking the internet means rethinking ourselvesAs the boundary between the physical and the digital grows increasingly blurred, imagining the internet of tomorrow just becomes an exercise in envisioning the future. Do we want to march onwards as mindless consumers – avaricious, fearful and jealous of our peers? Or do we want to reclaim creative space, gather our wits and face the world carefully, thoughtfully and with curiosity?Montaigne thought that the most admirable way to live was not to seek to own more, to do more, or to be more. “The greatest thing in the world,” he wrote, “is to know how to belong to ourselves.” The internet of things doesn’t have to usher in the death of solitude. On the contrary: it could herald its return.
Codemasters’ latest version of itsF1franchise is what the sport would call an absolute lights-to-flag winner. The racing sim is a bumper crop stuffed with both 2015’s and 2014’s seasons – the years the new engine regulations came in – from which players take their pick from a roster of real drivers and make their way to the top. Realism is the order of the day, with the game’s incredible physics engine modelling everything from tyre wear and aerodynamics to the weight of the fuel in your tank. It even updates to adjust to the real-world performance of teams and racers, while the braver might risk Pro Season mode, so realistic there is no HUD.The fine line between intense, demanding technical driving and the visceral rush of adrenaline is also balanced admirably. But there’s a surprising amount of character outside of the cars. As you push the machines harder, a friendly engineer chimes in to keep you up to date about how many seconds behind you the nearest racer is. Off the track, it’s all presented like TV coverage – complete with ludicrously detailed commentary – which very much makes the atmosphere. It’s a championship-winning package.
Nearby, there’s a cape with rainbow stripes and a cowl covered in diamantes; beside them a Batman bust featuring the phrase: “Although of course you end up becoming yourself”. It’s a book title, but also a neat comment on this weird character.We’re at the Kachette art gallery in Shoreditch and tonight sees a promotional installation featuring dozens of Batman outfits reinterpreted by artists and celebrities. It’s the sort of event Bruce Wayne would begrudgingly attend, and somewhere among these curious art works is Sefton Hill, the director of the monumentally successful Batman Arkham video games.Related:Batman Arkham Knight review – a richly empowering comic book fantasyTwelve years ago, Hill and Jamie Walker found themselves out of work when veteran British studio Argonaut closed down. Taking a few other colleagues with them, they set up Rocksteady Studios in north London, and started out by completing their last Argonaut project, a gritty urban first-person shooter then known as Roll Call. That game would go on to become the well-received PlayStation 2 release Urban Chaos: Riot Response – a game in which a lone hero had to fight gangs of criminals in a fictitious American city. Something in that rather familiar set-up alerted DC Comics and a year later, Rocksteady had been set to work on a new Batman project, subtitledArkham Asylum– a dark, third-person adventure, set to reinvent the hero as a game character.Now, of course, the resulting trilogy has come to a close. Released in June, Arkham Knight has drawn critical plaudits, managing to combine the close-quarters combat of its predecessors, with a much more open world. And once again, the game combines the power of Batman with enough vulnerability to ensure the revolutionary fighting system remains interesting throughout.Considering the huge success of the Arkham series, it’s hard to believe Rocksteady is now abandoning the Dark Knight, but Hill assures us they are. “This is definitely the end of the trilogy,” he says. “We wanted to have a very final end, because it enables us to write the story much more cleanly. It just felt like the right time to do this as the finale, it felt like we’d put so much into this game, this was everything we wanted it to be.”Interestingly though, despite its clean narrative arc, the Arkham series wasn’t originally conceived as a trilogy. When Rocksteady started the first title, the team didn’t know if they’d get to make a sequel. Back then, the game was being developed for SCi, the now-defunct UK publisher that previously swallowed up Eidos and would itself become Square Enix Europe. It was a complicated era. “When we developed Arkham Asylum we were all wishing we’d get to make a sequel, but we didn’t know for sure, we didn’t know until quite late on in development,” recalls Hill. “It was when we started to work on City that we felt we were in the middle part of the trilogy. We thought, ‘OK, we have a definite story we want to tell here’, and then, with the death of the Joker at the end of Arkham City, we were really interested in where that would take things. When you remove that chaotic element from Gotham what happens next?”It’s the relationship between Batman and the chaotic elements of Gotham society that seems to have really inspired Rocksteady. Despite the expanding environments, Hill is clear that the feeling of intensity between the characters is the core of the experience. “The important thing about Batman is the way that he interacts with both the super villains and his allies,” says Hill. “But it’s also the way he interacts with Gotham City, which is why bringing that to life was so important.”The game is very lethal. But if you approach it and think like Batman, then you’re going to be successfulSefton HillWith a vast range of influential material to draw on, from the earliestBob Kane and Bill Finger artworks, through thezany Adam West years, to the broodingChristopher Nolan movies, the team drew most heavily from the darker comic books. They studiedDeath in the Family,The Long HalloweenandArkham Asylum, stories that close in on the motivations of this flawed, angst-ridden character. “You know, what does it mean to be Batman?” says Hill. “How does it affect Batman when things happen to him? What is his psychological make up? Those are the influences behind the game. If you treat this person as real, it actually introduces some really interesting dilemmas – you actually delve into the psyche of what makes him what he is, which is where I think so much of the interest in Batman is.”For the first two titles, Rocksteady worked closely with DC writers like Paul Dini, but Arkham Knight was penned entirely in-house. The team had developed its own idea of how the iconic character should be handled, keen to explore the implications of embodying Batman. There’s a key dynamic that makes the games so fascinating: Batman is unwilling to kill while also having a brutally finite amount of health himself. In the comics, this makes for interesting stories, but in games, it translates into a compulsive balance mechanic, which also shows Batman in a new light. Longterm fans found a new way to think about the idea of this superhero, and the interior conflict he represents. “The game is very lethal,” says Hill. “But if you approach it and think like Batman then you’re going to be successful.”It’s how Batman interacts with his allies, enemies and city that help define the character, according to Sefton Hill.Photograph: Warner BrosDespite a desire to explore the darker, more mature edges of the character, Rocksteady decided to use the voice actors from the cartoon series for its trilogy.Mark Hamillis up there on the cast list of the first two titles, providing his wonderfully deranged Joker, and Kevin Conroy portrays a memorably stoical Batman. Hill sees no contradiction there. “We all felt the animated series was something quintessentially Batman”, he says. “They’re not a pastiche of Batman or an over the top version. For many of us, when we think of Batman, Kevin Conroy was the voice we would hear, the same with Mark Hamill and The Joker. Bringing that tone across to the games didn’t feel wrong. It worked fine; this wasn’t a comic book take. It was darker than that.”Related:The grey knight: Burt Ward and Adam West announce animated Batman filmThis is perhaps the defining achievement of the Arkham trilogy. However they work as games, they have considered the whole mythos of the character in enough depth that they feed into, rather than simply draw from, the canon. Some players have complained that the Batmobile broke the sense of balance and made Batman too powerful in Knight. But Rocksteady saw it as true to their vision of the character – and how he extends his power and influence into Gotham. “The big thing we were pushing was that there’s a symbiotic relationship between Batman and the Batmobile,” says Hill. “One shouldn’t trump the other, it’s Batman’s game. The car is a gadget, it’s an extension of Batman.”So what lies ahead for Rocksteady Studios after three and a half years on Arkham Knight and almost a decade on the trilogy? “Holidays” says Hill. “It’s been a long hard project, by far the biggest thing we’ve done. We’re going to take a break, we’re going to try our best to sort of enjoy it, which is always hard in our industry. Then we’re on to thinking about what’s next.”With Warner now a majority owner in the company, there are no doubt plenty of licenses available, if Rocksteady wants to explore another well-known fiction. And then there’s the rest of the DC universe. Could that interest the team? “That’s a really good question, and one that we’re asking ourselves as well,” says Hill. “I think the answer is that we want to do the thing that inspires us.“The one thing we learned from the Arkham games is to work on something you feel inspired by. That’s the thing we need to decide now.”This interview was conducted before the issues with the PC version of Arkham Knight – developed by a separate studio – were known. Rocksteady is now working on a patch for that version of the game.
Of all this year’s 80s revivals, thereappearance of the ZX Spectrumis the most eagerly awaited. At least, it is among middle-aged geeks who get a warm feeling just thinking about its tactile rubber keys and fuzzy sprites.Launched by Sir Clive Sinclair in 1982, the home gaming console sold a million, inspired a generation to program, and hit the start key on the British games industry. This month, two Spectrum replicas are being released, in the shape of thecrowdfunded Vegahandheld and a full-size unit from Elite Systems.Those who had one of the originals will know that the defining game of the speccy was Manic Miner. Released in 1983, the fiendishly difficult platform game featured a miner called Willy, who was assailed by poisonous pansies and chomping toilets. At the time, this was groundbreaking stuff.Manic Miner still has fans worldwide, and, just this year,Ed Miliband eulogised it, describing the day he completed the game as “a pretty important moment”. Yet few people are aware that Manic Miner was the creation of a 17-year-old whizzkid from New Brighton in Merseyside, called Matt Smith, who has since become something of an enigma.Manic Miner, which was created by Matt Smith.Photograph: Public DomainIn the early 80s, Liverpool was at the epicentre of the nascent entertainment software scene. Programmers such as Smith were treated like rock stars – and, like many rock stars, their royalty cheques quickly disappeared into thin air.After his early success, Smith’s productivity slowed to a crawl; whereas Manic Miner had taken him just eight weeks to develop, its sequel, Jet Set Willy, took eight months. The final game in the proposed trilogy never appeared at all. Its working title, Miner Willy Meets the Taxman, is often thought to hint at some of the other issues he was dealing with.Tired of all the pressure, Smith dropped off the gaming radar. In the early noughties, a website appeared titled Where Is Matt Smith? as anxious fans attempted to track down the JD Salinger of programming. Fans eventually traced him to a commune in Holland, where he wasengaged in factory work. Two decades on, the lost legend of gaming is back, living with his mum in Wallasey.Matthew Smith, who created Manic Miner.Photograph: From Bedrooms to BillionsElite owner Steve Wilcox laments an unfulfilled talent. “He’s unique really. So smart, but so untogether. He could be a significant star if he wanted. I’d love to see him do more, but I’ve no confidence we’ll ever see another game, sadly.”Manic Miner’s reputation, meanwhile, has never stopped growing. Its economy (the Speccy boasted a mere 48K memory) has put it on the syllabus for degree-level computer-gaming courses.Smith has since conducted a handful of interviews. In one thatcan still be seen on YouTube, he concludes: “Five years ago I was a washout. Ten years ago, I was history … Now I’m a legend.”With the relaunch of the ZX, maybe Smith will find a new generation of fans.
Price £22,320MPG up to 76.3Top speed 149mphIn the list of adjectives used to describeVolkswagen’s Passat, the word “boring” crops up a lot. A Passat is a car – it’s not a queue, or an ad break, or a selfie, or Bono. How can it beboring? I’ve spent enough time waiting on the hard shoulder of life to know that being reliable might be boring in a partner, but it’s not in a car. It’s driving, not dating. The Passat is also practical (yawn), economical (dullsville) and nice to sit in (good grief). When I was young, my mother used to tell me that being bored was just a lack of imagination…The Passat, in fact, is VW’s secret weapon. Like a silent ninja, it has the ability to match and then exceed the qualities of all its competitors – without seeming to try too hard.VW sells more than 1.1m Passats every year. Since 1973 it has shifted over 22m – which means a Passat arrives into the welcoming arms of a new family every 29 seconds. At the moment, more than the Beetle or the Golf, it is VW’s bestselling model. Boring,shmoring? It has a truly global reach and is sold everywhere, though not always as a Passat: elsewhere it’s the Dasher, Quantum, Santana, Corsar, Carat and Magotan. In America they get a slightly longer version, built in a new plant in Chattanooga. Can you be boring if you are built in Chattanooga?Inside story: the luxurious and very comfortable interior of the new Passat.This new Passat is the eighth generation. It’s lower and wider and very slightly shorter than the seventh (2mm – the scale of that number gives you an insight into the forensic attention VW brings to its products). It’s also 85kg lighter. Weight is crucial in the battle for efficiency. It takes less power and less fuel to shift it, so dumping the equivalent of a full-time passenger is a big deal. From the outside, this all-new model is more angular than the last – designers have had enough of curves and wraparound lenses. We’re back once again to hard edges, creases and folded corners. It looks fresh, for now at least. But it also looks sensible and utilitarian which suits its job-done approach to the road. Only diesel engines are on offer at the moment, but soon there will be a plug-in petrol-electric hybrid and a super-efficient Bluemotion version which will do 78mpg and emit a piffling 95g/km of CO²emissions.Inside it’s roomy and comfortable, and has an enormous boot. The sharp aesthetic continues with horizontal bolsters on the seats, a squared-off steering wheel and an old-school flat dashboard. The real step change, however, is technology. It’s so loaded with gadgetry there’s hardly any actual driving left to do. In terms of tricks up its sleeve, the Passat gives Derren Brown a run for his money. A couple of high points are its 360-degree radar system, which monitors other road users, and the pedestrian detection system which slams on the anchors if a jaywalker jumps out in front of you. Smarter still – and sillier too – is Trailer Assist. This takes over the steering when you’re trying to reverse a trailer into a difficult slot. It’s a hellish manoeuvre, but how many Passat owners will have a caravan/burger van that needs parking? Then there is Traffic Jam Assist, which steers, accelerates and brakes in stop-start traffic, brilliant for cities, or those endless narrow-lane motorway speed restrictions… Autonomous driving is getting closer all the time. Is it boring? You’ll just have to use your imagination more.BMW R1200RS: motorcycle review by John WestlakeEasy riding: the large BMW is ideal for long and relaxed trips.Price from £10,825Power 123bhpTop speed 140mphIf there’s one thing aging motorcyclists enjoy more than going round corners, it’s deriding BMWs. “Just look at it,” says my friend Adam, grimacing at the RS’s large frontage, “it looks like a big fat scooter. I’m not sure the French will let you in on that. They have standards.”We’re outside the Eurotunnel departure building near Folkstone, waiting for the last member of our elite squad of middle-aged berks to turn up, and though I’m tempted to point out that Adam could be likened to a big fat scooter himself, I smile sweetly. The 200 miles I’ve ridden the newBMW R1200RSso far have filled me with confidence. Adam has no idea just how good this sports tourer is.“You wait until you have a go,” I say. “I hereby bet you’ll change your tune.” Much huffing and puffing follows, with many hilarious jibes about the word pompous being invented to describe BMW riders, especially those who say ‘hereby’. Good grief. I’ve got six more days of this.On the other side of the channel we hit the peage to fast-forward the dull wastelands of northern France. The five of us are heading to Cahors near Bordeaux on our annual motorcycle tour and we plan to do some serious miles in the morning and then, after a suitably calorific lunch, find some corners.Stiff competition: the big BMW was more than a match for some of the other bikes on the ride through France.After an hour of mildly illegal speeds we stop for fuel, the two sportsbike riders among us struggling to get more than 120 miles from a tankful compared to the RS’s 180 mile range. I say nothing, but already the tone is changing. “So, how does the cruise control work?” asks Jim, who noticed me breezing along with both hands ostentatiously tapping out a happy tune on the tank. I show him the switch on the left bar that sets the cruise control and then demonstrate how the screen can be pulled up to a higher level to enable more relaxed motorway percussion. With a rueful glance at the BMW’s sumptuous saddle, he stomps off to his pristine, but horrendously uncomfortable, ZX-636 sportsbike.The process of education continues throughout the week, with my fascinating explanations of the workings of BMW’s semi-active suspension, riding modes, quick-shifter and electronic spring preload adjustment being the highlights of everyone’s day.But the BMW’s killer blow is delivered one afternoon as we chase through a forest near Limoges. I’m following Adam on his race-bred Honda SP-2 sportsbike which he’s doted on for years. Being an ex-racer, Adam is irritatingly fast and smooth, carving the Honda down swirling forest roads at such a lick that we leave our comrades behind. But you know what? I’m hardly trying. The twin-cylinder BMW is no more powerful than the aging Honda, but its brakes are fabulously strong, the traction control lets me charge out of corners with no fear of impending hospital food and it steers beautifully, no matter what hamfisted tomfoolery I get up to. I blast past Adam on the next straight and after a few corners he’s left my mirrors.A week after our return home, the holiday posse receives an email from Adam. He is selling his SP-2 in order to buy a more comfortable, versatile motorcycle. The letters B, M and W are not mentioned, but I won’t be surprised to see them on his bike at the Eurotunnel next year.Driving to Europe this summer?A study byTomTomhas revealed that almost 12 million Brits are planning on driving abroad this summer and many could find themselves on the wrong side of the road. The Europe-wide study of more than 10,000 drivers found that more than half didn’t know the driving laws of their destinations, for instance that in Scandinavia it is illegal to drive without headlights, even in daylight; Cyprus has a zero-tolerance policy on all drinking at the wheel, including non-alcoholic drinks and eating any food; in some Spanish cities, cars must be parked on different sides of the road according to the day of the week; in Portugal it is illegal to carry bicycles on the back of a car and in Denmark you must do a routine check for sleeping children under your car every time you drive… This video explains all you need to know. Watch it now and save yourself a lot of botherEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
You’ve just finished off the last of the corn flakes, your other half is clearing up the breakfast things and about to throw away the empty box. Hang on a minute!You grab your new scanning device and zap the box before it hits the bin. The scanner is synced with your online supermarket account, so corn flakes are instantly added to your shopping list. The milk, eggs and flour are about to run out too, so you scan them for good measure.Will this type of gizmo make your life easier, more fun even? Supermarket chain Waitrose thinks it will. It’s in the latter stages of trialing its “hiku” home scanner and plans to roll it out within the year.“It’s basically a fridge magnet with a scanner on it. I like to think of it as taking online shopping off the screen and into the kitchen,” says Tom Fuller, Waitrose’s head of technology innovation. And it has voice recognition, so you can tell it what to add to the list.Of course, this isn’t just about making shopping more fun. Across our high streets, from supermarkets to fashion stores, Britain’s retailers are tripping over themselves to digitise and personalise our shopping experience. The aim is to inspire brand loyalty and drive up sales at the same time.“New technology initiatives are about trying to create loyalty, and about trying to push the message that supermarkets have a hi-tech, progressive aspect to their brand,” says Richard Cope, a retail trends analyst at Mintel.In some small format Tesco stores, for example, they have begun installing “endless aisles” – huge touchscreen displays that make their entire online selection available for purchase.And just as pop-up ads target our specific likes online, special sensors, called iBeacons, will soon do the same in stores as well. As you walk around the supermarket, ads are pushed to your mobile phone, prompting you to pick up that chocolate sponge you bought the week before or how about some half-price cream to go with those strawberries? Waitrose says it hopes to roll out the technology within the year.“With iBeacons there will no longer be any division between bricks and mortar and online worlds. They’ll be coexisting,” Cope says.Fashion retailers see hi-tech as the future too. The Burberry store on London’s Regent Street uses digital chips in jackets and handbags that convert so-called magic mirrors into video screens, displaying digital information about the products you’re trying on.The next generation of these mirrors will let you see yourself in different colour combinations of the same outfit, or wearing different handbags, earrings or makeup. And you will be able to share the images with friends on social media in real time. There is even talk of mirrors that can point out your beauty defects (using built-in high definition cameras) and advise you on which products you should buy to fix them.Clinique concessions in department stores already make use of technology, partly to help customers through the bewildering array of products but, says Ian Humphris, managing director of the marketing agency Life, mostly because makeup consultants can often be pushy and intimidating.“So they’ve installed devices that take shoppers through a series of skincare diagnosis questions and print a prescription so they know exactly what regime of products to select,” he says.Humphris says there’s a lot of “fluff and unnecessary technology” going into retail environments. Much of it is hidden away, with staff not trained and shoppers not given clear direction on how to use it.“But, some stores are getting it right,” he says. He points to Audi City, McQ, Nespresso and Burberry as examples of technology being used to bring high-end, luxury items to life that people wouldn’t normally consider buying.“People don’t believe they’re worth the price, so tech is used to sell the dream in all its glory. Think 3D visualisation paired with high-quality sound effects of the Audi R8. Or seeing the latest season on the catwalk, not just a hanger,” Humphris says.But it is in the cutthroat world of the supermarkets where the stakes are especially high. Not only are Britain’s big four losing market share to the German discounters Aldi and Lidl, companies such as Amazon are increasingly posing a threat too. The internet giant has recently launched a one-hour delivery service in London for everything from wine to nappies. And the service aims to go nationwide by the end of the year.Sainsbury’s head of technology, Jon Rudoe, insists that two-thirds of Britons still jot down a shopping list before they go to the supermarket. So his firm’s next technology gambit, set to launch by the end of the summer, is an app to help you create that list on your mobile, wherever you are.When you come to do your shopping in-store, the app guides you to your items, then lets you scan and pay for them directly from your phone, avoiding checkout queues altogether.“Over time we’ll get more value out of the list creation because we’ll understand customers’ shopping history, and we’ll start helping shoppers create their lists,” Rudoe says.
It’s a question as old as art itself: “Yeah, but is it art?”Type it into Google and get 1.26 billion results. It lends itself tobooktitles,television seriesand conversations between white walls, whetted by prosecco.It’s a question asked of ashark in formaldehyde; anunmade bed; asleeping footballer; two humansmeeting in silence across a table, and before those ofJohn Cage;Mondrian;Pollock.This question, the distant cousin of “my kid could have done that”, has quietly endured.The decibel levels rise, however, when it comes toappropriation. Appropriation is the practice of artists taking already existing objects and using them, with little alteration, in their own works. The objects could be functional, everyday objects, or elements of other art pieces; commercial advertising material, newspaper cuttings or street debris. Anything, really.It’s interesting, though, that some appropriation in art is seen as acceptable in the public consciousness, some not.Warhol: of course. Sampling at the birth of hip-hop – well, sure. Found object art like Duchamp’sFountain? Hmm.Duchamp’s fountain – for years they’ve asked: is it art, or just a pisser?Photograph: Alfred Stieglitz/APRichard Prince and the art of ‘rephotographing’Richard Princeis a New York-based artist famous for appropriation. His work relies heavily on the work of others. Not all of his pieces or projects are appropriated, but his most famous pieces owe their existence to the technique.Take, for instance, Prince’s “rephotographing” ofMarlboro cigarette advertisements, specifically those featuring theMarlboro Man(originally shot bySam Abell). The series, entitled – and some might say, appropriately – Cowboys, began in the 1980s. A more recent piece from the series (2000) sold for more than $3m (£1.9m) at a 2014Sotheby’s auction.There’s a rather brilliantPDN interview, in 2008, with Abell, who speaks about Prince’s appropriation of his photographs. At the beginning of the interview, Abell states: “I’m not angry, of course”. He then speaks for three minutes, getting angrier and angrier.I’m not particularly amused … it’s obviously plagiarism, and I was taught by my parents the sin of that … it seems to be breaking the golden rule … he has to live with that.”Photographer Sam Abell talks about his Marlboro Man works being appropriated by Richard Prince.Abell’s Marlboro photographs are not the only pictures to be repurposed by Prince. In 2014, Prince settled athree-year-long copyright casewith the photographer Patrick Cariou after the former used Cariou’s Yes, Rasta, abookon the rastafarian community, as part of hisCanal Zoneseries. He’s also been known to hand out copies ofA Catcher in the Ryewith hisown name on the cover.Now, Prince is back in the spotlight. His current exhibition –New Portraits– opened in June at the Gagosian gallery in London, having debuted in New York in 2014.The portraits, however, are not new to everyone – and certainly not new to their subjects.This is because Prince’s New Portraits series comprises entirely of the Instagram photos of others. The only element of alteration comes in the form of bizarre, esoteric, lewd, emoji-annotated comments made beneath the pictures by Prince.Richard Prince with the designer Marc Jacobs in 2007.Photograph: Eric Ryan/Getty ImagesPrince’s pieces sold for up to $100,000 (£63,700) at New York’sFriezeart fair,according to CNN. This might not sound a lot, given the prices fetched for oher artists’ works at theSotheby’s and Christie’s auctionsin London this month – including $32.1m (£20.9m) for a Warhol painting of a $1 bill – but it is what mothers around the world would call “better than a poke in the eye with a sharp stick”.As collaborations go, ifJay-Z and Beyonceduetting represents a bringing together of the best of hip-hop and R&amp;B, andScorsese, Nicholson and DiCaprioa filmmaking supergroup, then Richard Prince and the internet are an appropriation dream team.So it is that one of the oldest questions (“but is it art?”) collides with one of the most pressing, current global debates: that of online privacy and ownership in the digital age.Alex Hern looks at our Richard Prince inspired artworkPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs / Hannah Jane Parkinson‘Did you need permission?’Prince isn’t just a visual or conceptual artist: he’s also a writer. He’s a good writer.On his blog, and reprinted inLovemagazine, he has published anessayabout the genesis of New Portraits and how he discovered technology, and the way in which it has informed, and become a part of, his work.I asked my daughter about Tumblr. Are those your photos? Where did you get that one? Did you need permission? How did you get that kind of crop?“You can delete them? Really? What about these ‘followers’. Who are they? Are they people you know? What if you don’t want to share? How many of your friends have Tumblrs?”Later, he writes: “This past spring, and half the summer, the iPhone became my studio. I signed up for Instagram. I pushed things aside. I made room. It was easy. I ignoredTumblr, andFacebookhad never interested me. ButInstagram...”Prince, who is active onTwitterand has over 15,000 followers, explains that his first social media project consisted of “portraits” of his family – via tweets.I called the photo/texts tweets I was posting The Family. I posted photos of my extended family … mother, brother, sister, nieces, cousins, uncles, aunts, in-laws, step-children …But the subjects of New Portraits are not members of Prince’s family, nor are they his friends.For the most part, the people whose images he has appropriated are strangers: cool, creative 20-somethings, artfully or sexually posed (the majority of them women), with the odd celebrity addition (again, most of them women –Kate Moss,Sky Ferreira,Pamela Anderson,Taylor Swift,Lara Stone).Thus, quite apart from the debate around authenticity and process (yeah, but is it art?), is the query: wait, what? You just took people’s photographs without their permission, blew them up, exhibited them and then made a lot of money?Almost all of the people I spoke to whose pictures Prince had used had not been contacted by the artist – either to notify them of his intentions, or to ask them for permission.The first they heard about it was when friends got in touch having seen the pictures, or when other Instagram users began to tag them in photos they had taken at his exhibition.This, from Jan Gatewood, otherwise known asYoung Duckits, is pretty typical:Someone tagged me in a photo Richard Prince posted of me on his Instagram and said ‘you made it’.I was confused because I was unaware of who he was. I noticed he had a pretty good amount of followers so I tweeted about what happened, and some friends further informed me of who he is and what he does. He did not get in touch with me and ask me for permission.Furthermore, the subjects I spoke to also said Prince had yet to contact them after the fact. (Princedid tweet, however, that one subject, Nitecore, had asked him for her print, and he had given it to her).Gave New Portrait to Nitecore for free. Why? Because she asked. The rest of U Jr. Minds? F*ckU &amp; the horseU rode inOnpic.twitter.com/gXuGDSpstx&mdash; Richard Prince (@RichardPrince4)May 30, 2015Were these people not angry? Like, really angry?Gatewood is honest about the fact he sees Prince using his picture as a positive because it means more exposure for him – the California-based 21-year-old works in the424 apparel store, but he also paints, skates and makes music. But he does add that a small part of him thinks the whole thing is “ridiculous”.Sita Abellan, who is 22 and from the south of Spain, has just moved to Tokyo to further a modelling and DJ-ing career. Abellan had heard of Prince before, and was familiar with his work.“He’s a really cool artist, I like him very much”, she writes. “I feel special that an artist like him used my picture to make his project. But I can understand that people feel upset if he did not ask for permission”.It’s a view echoed byKarley Sciortino, a sex columnist for Vogue, who has previously called her inclusion in the exhibition “an honour”.So it’s fine, right? AsPrince would have it– his apparent artisticraison d’etre– “what’s yours is mine.”That could also work as the motto of the internet. When we talk about the internet, we talk about sharing. Sharing our photographs, our thoughts, links to articles we find interesting, games we enjoy playing. And the internet is as much about sharing others’ content as it is our own.Much of what we mean by the internet is about appropriation, recontextualising and simply copyingMuch of what we mean by the internet is about appropriation, recontextualising and simply copying. Round and round we go.Retweeting, regramming, reblogging, re-everything. In particular, Tumblr andPinterestare sites specifically geared towards the sharing and collating of found content. The online, social equivalent ofDuchamp’s readymade art, orobjet trouvé.Either content is source credited and acknowledged – or it isn’t.You can put a watermark across an image, but crop tools exist (as Prince cropped out the Marlboro logo on his Cowboy rephotographs). Missed a gig? No problem, search a hashtag, screen shot, change the contrast a little, and present the photo as your own. Steal a joke from Twitter, sans h/t (hat tip).Why shouldn’t Prince be allowed to do what all of us do, all day, every day? It’s not illegal (is it?), and anyway, women have been wearing trousers in Paris for decades, which wasagainst the law until 2013, right? There might as well not be a law. This is the way things are. What’s yours is mine.People own their photos – InstagramThere’s only one real answer at the moment to the question of whether Prince’s New Portraits violates copyright law orrights of publicity, and it’s this:¯\_(ツ)_/¯Until an action is brought against the artist, all we can do is speculate. I contacted Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, to make sure its users retained ownership of the photographs they upload. The answer:People on Instagram own their photos. On Instagram, if someone feels that their copyright has been violated, they can report it to us and we will take appropriate action. Off Instagram, content owners can enforce their legal rights.The spokesperson added that if a user felt their content was being appropriated in such a way that might violate copyright law, then it should be reported to itshelp centre.Instagram’s – rather daunting – advice on reporting content that could breach copyright law isas follows:Submitting a claim of copyright infringement is a serious matter with legal consequences. Before you report a claim of copyright infringement to us, you may want to reach out to the person posting the content. You may be able to resolve the issue simply by bringing it to their attention without contacting Instagram at all.If you’re not sure whether the content you’re reporting is infringing your legal rights, you may want to seek legal guidance. Keep in mind that submitting intentionally misleading reports of infringement may be punishable under theDigital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)in the United States or similar laws in other countries.”And, of course, that’s a whole other issue. Different countries have different copyright laws, and internet traffic passes through many servers in different countries. In the case of US copyright law, Prince would probably be fighting to defend his work using something called thefair use doctrineunder Section 107 of the1976 Copyright Act(as he did during hisprevious court battle with Cariou).Section 107 seems to allow for appropriation. In layman’s terms, whileSection 106of the Copyright Act is all: this is your work, ain’t nobody gonna steal this. We got your back.Section 107is a bit like: no, wait, this guy maybe can, if he can prove that it’s, like, fair for him to do so.Prince could argue under fair use that his work is not derivative because it is “transformative”.In this specific instance, Prince not only added his own opaque comments under individuals’ pictures before he took screen shots, but also reportedprevious comments as spam, ensuring they disappeared (when viewed on his own account), pushing his own comments to the top – thereby arguably altering the original work. (He writes about this hackhere.)He might also say that he has changed the very nature of the original photographs by re-contextualising them and framing them in an artistic, analogue setting and fuelling debate.Of course, copyright law was basically invented so that people could protect their ability to make money from their original creations. So it follows that one of the most importantfour tenetsof US copyright law is the element of commercial gain.I don’t know about you, but I would regard $100,000 per image (£64,000) as quite a bit of commercial gain.I could have done with some of the money, to be honestThis is a recurring theme when speaking to the Instagrammers who have had their pictures lifted: well, sure, I could have done with some of the money, to be honest.Apart from the smattering of celebrities, many of Prince’s subjects are aspiring or career-beginning models, actors, artists, students, in their teens and early-20s, working at clothing stores as in Duckits’ case, or bars, while finding their feet.Selena Mooney, more commonly known as Missy Suicide, is slightly different. She is the co-founder and co-owner of the successful pin-up site,SuicideGirls.But, as she puts it: “It is shocking to think that people are paying $90,000 for anything other than a house.”Though one might argue that this is more a criticism of the art market itself, Mooney decided to hit back in an inventive, clever way aftermany imagesof SuicideGirls models were used by Prince.Thinking that it would be “more fun than spending my days in court”, Mooney teamed up with publisherEyes on Wallsand decided to rephotograph Prince’s rephotographs of her photographs (I need to lie down), andsold the printsfor just $90 (“99.9% off the original price”), donating all proceeds to adigital rights charity.This, ironically, could lead to charges of Mooney breaching Prince’s copyright by appropriating his idea. As chief executive officer ofMoz, Sarah Bird,puts it, an idea cannot be copyrighted, but the expression of an idea can be. Prince’s response?“Missy Suicide is smart.”Much better idea. I started off selling my &quot;family&quot; tweets for $18 at Karma not to long ago. Missy Suicide is smart.pic.twitter.com/3OfjgNBq4a&mdash; Richard Prince (@RichardPrince4)May 28, 2015‘It’s such a violation’It is Mooney who has been the most vocal campaigner against New Portraits, and touched upon the element that a lot of people find most troubling: that of an older, white man (#CheckYourPrivilege) making money from pictures, mostly self-portraits, of young women in various states of undress. Live on,male gaze.SuicideGirlswas established in 2001, back in the days when the internet came packaged with a CD-Rom. ItsInstagram accountnow has 3.5 million followers.The website was set up to allow women – especially those not conforming to mainstream beauty standards – to take back their sexual agency.In Mooney’s own words:SuicideGirls is about celebrating how the model feels sexiest about herself, how she wants to be presented to the world and how she curates her own image, so to have a guy [Prince] grab the images and claim them as his own, especially to such hefty profits, is such a violation.It’s not a great look for Prince. He’s a friend and peer ofTerry Richardson– the photographer made famous for snapping naked women andallegedly pressurising them into sexual favours(and most recently seen in adocumentary about Amy Winehouse, encouraging the singer, dressed in just bra and pants, to run a shard of mirror glass across her stomach).Prince also countsJeff Koonsas a friend – the artist ofgiant-balloon-dog fame, who also made aseries of photographsdepicting him mid-coitus with his then porn star wife.Comments Prince has posted under pictures of women,include: “Enjoyed the ride again. Let’s do it again some time. Richard.”Amanda Bodell’s self portrait, which was used by Richard Prince in his New Portraits exhibition.So far, so sleazy. But so what? When photorealist artistPanayiotis Lamprouphotographed his wife, naked from the waist down with her legs open, her pubeless vagina pointed at camera, he wasn’t chastised or branded a perv – the picture wasnominated for a prestigious prizeand displayed in theNational Portrait Gallery.Double standards, is the argument. How come sometimes nudity is deemed OK (high art), sometime it isn’t (porn), and who gets to make that distinction?Richardsonshooting a naked Miley Cyrusis exploitative, but Rembrandt and Schiele’s portraits? That’s art. Round and round we go. Until we end up with Rupert Murdoch’s The Sun re-publishing a Vogue nude spread of Keira Knightley in defence of Page 3.It’s a debate that won’t be put to bed anytime soon. Lamprou is different, we might say. He sought permission. It’s not, as Mooney terms Prince’s work, “a violation”.Meanwhile, SuicideGirls has its own detractors. The site has come under criticism for being co-founded and owned by Suicide’s male partner, Sean Suhl, and Mooney’s role has been questioned.Though, as she correctly points out, themajority of her staff are women, and it’s unlikely such scrutiny would have been applied at all if she were not its female figurehead. The website has also endureddisputes with models and photographers(since resolved).The criticism people level, though, is that SuicideGirls is just another internet porn site, nothing to do with empowerment. It’s just women taking their clothes off. Again. Why is it different if they happen to have a septum piercing?Or, as a woman I shared a cigarette with one night while writing this piece, said:“They say it’s for themselves, to feel good. But why would you put it online then?”Because everything is online.Richard Prince v ‘digital natives’If it’s not online, did it really happen? Schrödinger’s internet cat.Fear of missing out may have existed pre-internet, but it didn’t become a cultural and societal phenomenon with its own acronym (Fomo) before Instagram filters were added to festivals and Facebook statuses about the beauty of Bora Bora.I never used to know that while watchingCruel Intentionsin a darkened Oxford flat for the 50th time you were out partying on the Upper East Side for real. I didn’t realise my ex was getting married until Facebook told me I hadn’t been invited.Many of Prince’s subjects, however, are – to use a phrase which should have been strangled by an ethernet cable at birth –digital natives. They always knew about the wedding.Digital natives don’t make room for digital – it is how they liveIt ages Prince when he admits to thinking Tumblr was spelt “tumbler”, and writes about how he “pushed things aside” and “made room” for Instagram. Digital natives don’t make room for digital – it is how they live. This is the way things are.Amanda Bodell, a 22-year-old model from Sandviken, Sweden, and another subject of Prince’s, puts it rather brilliantly in an email to me:“I get that a 65-year old thinks that a hashtag is something you smoke.”Most of those featured in New Portraits, including Bodell, live the internet, and are active on a number of different social media platforms. Most of them have a greater number of Instagram followers than days I have been alive (I’m 25).Don’t they ever worry about putting themselves so entirely out there?Bodell, who has been blogging since she was 16, says that she has a separate private Instagram account just for family and friends, but apart from that, all of her online accounts are public.“I’m almost always online, except for about 2 to 3 times a month I delete all my social medias for a day or two, it’s like a meditation thing.”The one person featured in Prince’s exhibition I contact who says Prince did ask for permission to use her image is AustralianJen Schmitz.When I try to seek Schmitz out on Instagram, it becomes apparent she has deleted her account. HerTumblris still active though, and when I view it, somebody has already asked why she got rid of her Instagram.“Because people started treated me like an animal in a zoo, online or in real life”.I follow up – via Tumblr, asking about Prince, and get an equivocal response:“[Prince] asked if he could use my photo and I agreed, I don’t really feel any type of way in regards to the use of my photo.“When I said people were treating me like an animal in a zoo, I meant that people stopped treating me like a human being with feelings – like people thought they were entitled to an opinion about my life when they’d never met me.”Schmitz’s Tumblr, along with the social media accounts of Abellan, Duckits and Bodell, is popular because it is interesting. Their presence is widely felt and followed because it is a good presence.Duckits tells me he “naturally gravitated” towards social outlets because he always loved learning and talking to people.“I grew up in the suburbs of Colorado so I loved being able to feel somewhat close to the things we didn’t really have access to.”His online presence grew after positive reactions to a series his punk band posted toYouTube. Duckits’ accounts, along with the others, are full of carefully collated art, and poetry and fashion and music. Most of it, I might add, almost certainly reproduced without permission.An image on Schmitz’s Tumblr, for instance, is brazenly lifted straight from a stock photo site with the watermark still stretched across it, with no attempts to remove it. This, in its own way, is a perfect microcosm of the internet.Everybody I speak with agrees that while it’s bad form to try to pass something off as one’s own, it’s unrealistic for it to be feasible to ask every single person for permission when using their image on a personal Tumblr or website.It is, as Bodell tells me, a “very complex issue. Of course it’s a problem if people’s photos or artwork are being stolen and used for mass production and such without any credits given. But at the same time, without sharing, the internet wouldn’t exist.”Young Duckits’ Instagram picture, as it features in Prince’s New Portraits.I’ve never been to a show and been so unmovedThis being the Gagosian, I have the door opened for me by a security guard dressed as slickly as anUberLuxdriver, rather than the polo shirts you might find at theTate.The London offering is smaller than Prince’s 2014 New York showing, which featured 37 portraits. This is just as well, as the room is tiny. The New Portraits exhibition is held in theDavies Street space, around the corner from Claridge’s hotel, in moneyed Mayfair. Home to people who can afford to spend $100,000 on art, I guess.The portraits are ink-jet printed and reproduced on six-foot canvases. I suppose I should have expected this – iPhone screenshots blown up to such a size – but the quality is awful. The text of the comments in particular is so blurry it feels like I’m looking through contact lenses clouded by having slept in them.Most of the subjects’ portraits are unremarkable, but then, why wouldn’t they be? They were never intended for a high-end gallery show. Some, however, are witty, playful. Others banal, or smack of the poseur.I spot Duckits’ picture. Abellan is there, too. Her picture, a bathroom-mirror selfie, she thinks she took when she was at home sick. She wrote to me that she has had a lot of shit for it on Instagram, people being rude about it “because I don’t have breasts. I’m ok with it though, cos I found it funny to confuse people about my sex”.Bodell is also there. And the SuicideGirls. There are other subjects. Aprincefrom the United Arab Emirates, celebrities, some young guys in Snapbacks, two women scissoring.I ask the security guard whether he likes the exhibition. He gives me a look which manages to combine: a)what, this crap?b) utter indifference c) concern for his job. At this point, given that I’m the only person in the gallery, a young man wearing Buddy Holly glasses, a member of staff, asks if he can help.He’s more enthusiastic about New Portraits. He may be professionally obliged to be –Larry Gagosianhas a longstanding relationship with Prince and represents him – but he also seems genuine. He talks about what it all means: appropriation, age of internet etc. Sure, sure, I say.But I can’t help thinking that I’ve never, ever been to a show and been so unmoved. So underwhelmed. Sowhat’s-the-point? And this is coming from a bonafideAbramovichfan, a lover ofEmin, and someone who actually thinks Koons can be quite beautiful.I got nothing. The pictures themselves are not particularly interesting and Prince’s commentary is just irritating, like the guy on the train who refuses to stop making rubbish jokes, while simultaneously looking down your top.Art as genius trollingThe New Yorker’s Peter Schjeldahlsaidhis responseto New Portraits was a “wish to be dead”. And art criticJerry Saltz, in defending Prince,admittedthat the artist was guilty of “genius trolling”. He is. Just last week he tweeted a screen grab of a Google image search when someone asked him about his process.When I asked him for comment for this piece he tweeted the following to me:@ladyhajaDear Hannah: I&#39;m feeling slow. I found some 714&#39;s in a sock draw and bly me if I don&#39;t feel drippy. I figured it out didn&#39;t I?&mdash; Richard Prince (@RichardPrince4)June 16, 2015He does, however, seem to have elaborated on his thoughts in a series of tweets on the exhibition, mostly mocking the charge of appropriation.Appropriation is killing one bird with two stones.&mdash; Richard Prince (@RichardPrince4)June 15, 2015ArtNet published a review with the rather succinct title:Richard Prince Sucks. “Prince is painfully removed from the youth culture in which he’s participating, which only extenuates the project’s problems,” it stated. But what really are the problems at the project’s core?Is it that Prince took the photos of strangers and used them without their permission (even though many of his subjects re-post and re-blog images they also do not own)?Or is it that a majority of the images are of women, wearing few clothes, and these were reused without their knowledge?Or is this a David and Goliath issue, all about an imbalance of power? That a multi-millionaire artist can take stuff belonging to kids making their way in the world, and convert it into cold, hard, cash?Another subject of Prince’s, 19-year-old student Anna Collins, toldBusiness Insider: “I just think about how I’m a working student in school, I’m extremely broke, and here is a middle-aged white man making a huge profit off of my image. Kind of makes me sick. I could use that money for my tuition.”Further, she didn’t even take the picture of herself lounging around with her boyfriend, she said. Her sister did.And to the question:yeah, but is it art? We can’t deny that Prince has added to the debate around online privacy, appropriation and internet freedom.He’s asking us to explore ourselves, and our choices and the way we present to society. That’s part of what art should do, right?One wants to say the question of whether Prince’s New Portraits is art is easily answered:of course.And then you remember: yeah, but he’s literally just taken screen shots of photos of 20-year-olds in pools and added random comments alongside the wink emoji.My kid could have done that.
All the problems you might encounter with a BMW i3 will be because you have not planned your life around having one. You can’t charge it with an extension cable, so even if you have a plug installed in your forecourt (who has a forecourt?), parking must reach it. I was charging up with a cord 30m down my road, hopping in and out of the house to apologise to passersby.The mileometer is maddening: a promised 16 miles morphs mysteriously into 10 after you’ve gone down two streets. The company claims a range of 100 miles, thanks to its incredible battery: on the controls, it goes up to 80. But that comes with more riders than a presidential entourage: it depends on climate, driving style, weight of driver, weight of passenger, weight of handbag.It’s a white-knuckle ride of battery life. Do I have enough to get myself home? If I don’t, do I have enough life on my phone to call for help? What are we going to do when theoil runs out?So there’s your answer: if you are committed to the electric car, you will sort out your plug, actively enjoy the limits to your driving range, learn to use the regenerative braking better and keep off the actual brake – and then you will have a blast in this vehicle. It’s like driving on a fairground ride.The cabin’s design maximises the feeling of driving a giant toy. The eucalyptus wood dashboard looks like a micro-desk for working at Google and improving your posture. Through the huge windscreen, things look otherworldly, like a film. The shape is boxy and faux-naive, as though made of Lego. Pale blue splashes of trim underline futuristic friendliness.Because of this cuteness overload, the grace and power of the acceleration come as a bit of a shock, and the brakes are incredibly sharp. The steering is so responsive, it made me want to zigzag down the road for a laugh. The silence is spookier to pedestrians than to the driver: in an i8, people notice you because they notice the car; in this, not so much. A couple of people did walk in front of me, but were fine.The ConnectedDrive system means, theoretically, that you can get your texts and emails on the screen as you go along. I didn’t get this working – nobody with an iPhone, so far as I know, has done so – but I was smitten with the satnav (super-fast in responding to traffic, so that it was like driving in a deserted city). It’s pretty expensive. It’s a bit of an executive toy. It’s also amazing.BMW i3: in numbersPrice£42,115 (but you get a £5,000 government grant, and you don’t necessarily need a sunroof)Top speed93mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.2 secondsCombined fuel consumptionN/ACO2emissions13g/kmEco rating10/10Cool rating10/10
Commercial infringement of copyright online should in future be punishable by up to 10 years in prison, ministers are proposing.A consultation launched by the Intellectual Property Office and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills is calling for the present maximum sentence of two years to be significantly increased.The aim is to bring penalties for online offences into line with equivalent large-scale crimes involving copyright infringement of physical goods.Related:Stephen Witt: ‘Music piracy is illegal – but morally, is it wrong?’Before the consultation’s launch on Saturday, the intellectual property minister, Baroness Neville-Rolfe, said: “The government takes copyright crime extremely seriously – it hurts businesses, consumers and the wider economy both on and offline. Our creative industries are worth more than £7bn to the UK economy and it’s important to protect them from online criminal enterprises.”She added: “By toughening penalties for commercial-scale online offending we are offering greater protections to businesses and sending a clear message to deter criminals.”The head of the police intellectual property crime unit, DCI Peter Ratcliffe, said: “Online or offline, intellectual property theft is a crime. With advances in technology and the popularity of the internet, more and more criminals are turning to online criminality and so it is imperative that our prosecution system reflects our moves to a more digital world.”The UK’s creative industries, including film, televisionand music, support more than 1.6m jobs. The proposals aim to offer the creative industries further protection from large-scale online copyright offenders and provide a significant deterrent.Eddy Leviten, the director general of the Alliance for Intellectual Property, said: “This consultation is very welcome as we feel there is a clear anomaly in the way that online copyright infringement by criminal enterprises is treated by the justice system.”Online copyright infringement is dealt with under theCopyright Designs and Patents Act 1988and is punishable by a maximum of two years.
Elon Musk has made it official: his electric car company, Tesla Motors, is planning to debut an unnamed new Roadster in four years, and it won’t be based on a Lotus like the last one.But Musk isn’t done with the old cars yet. Theelectric techmogul held a press conference on Friday to tell reporters how fast his old car goes with its new upgrade: zero to 60 miles per hour in 2.8 seconds, which would put the four-door sedan in a league with high-end sports cars like the most recent Lamborghini Murciélago.The upgrade package, which will be an additional $10,000 for new Model S buyers and $5,000 plus labor for people who now own the car, is called “Ludicrous mode”.“People have lovedInsane mode,” Musk said. “It’s been extremely well-received. It’s incredible fun. It’s like having your own private rollercoaster.” Tesla customers weren’t asking to go faster, he added, but the company wanted to see if they could do it.“We figured out from an engineering standpoint how to go beyond and then we thought, we should release that.” Musk said that the acceleration was officially 1.1 G’s, making it “faster than falling”.“You can’t hide that light under a bushel,” he said.Musk was asked how the new packages would affect the company’s revenue. The company rolled out a longer-lasting battery, as well, that will take the car about 50 miles further.“As far as sales, I have no idea”, he answered. “We’re just trying to make awesome cars. And we thought these would be pretty awesome.”The company is also making self-driving software alongside auto giants such as Daimler and tech companies including Google. Musk said the software was progressing, but that he had run into difficulties on the road in California.“Right now [the auto-driving software] works incredibly well if the highway markings are clear,” he said, but less so if lane lines are hard to see. This is a problem across self-driving vehicles; when Daimler sought permission to run self-driving 18-wheelers in Nevada, itasked the stateto brighten the lane lines.“The acid test [...] happens to be the 405 in LA, one of the world’s worst freeways,” Musk said, “which is a light concrete surface with faded white lines and then black skidmarks that have a higher contrast than the actual lanes.” Lane width also varies on the 405, he said.Asked what was keeping the Model X, which has been delayed several times, Musk said the larger car had had to be redesigned more fully from the Model S than he had anticipated. “We originally thought the X would have a lot of commonality with the S,” he said. “But maybe 30% of the parts are in common, so there’s a huge amount of body work associated with the X and that’s our main focus right now.The new car will have an even faster mode than Ludicrous, Musk promised. He called it “Maximum Plaid”.This article was corrected on Friday 17 July 2015 to clarify that it was the Roadster, not the Model S, that was based on a Lotus.
A contractor that provides visa services on behalf of governments around the world, including the UK, has suffered a serious technical glitch that allowed personal data to be compromised. VFS Global, which acts for around 45 governments, released online application forms this week that used sequential reference numbers, allowing users to access other people’s private information by mistake.Users could see the personal information of other applicants, including their date of birth, passport details and addresses, if they mistakenly input the ID number of another person when logging into the system. The issue was resolved when customers complained about the flaw. The issue was limited to visa application forms for Italy, VFS said, but as many as 50 people were in danger of having their personal information compromised before the issue was fully addressed.The UK Home Office is among many European government departments that have outsourced technology services to VFS for their diplomatic missions abroad. Foreign nationals applying for a UK entry visa from many countries have to use VFS services in order to travel to Britain. Other clients include Italy, Norway, Germany, Switzerland and the Netherlands.Two Russian nationals living in the UK who were using VFS application forms to apply for an Italian visa for a holiday were shocked to experience the breach earlier this week. The pair, who are technology consultants, immediately realised the seriousness of the issue.“I could hardly believe it,” Dmitry Bagrov, managing director of DataArt UK, told the Guardian. “As anyone who has to apply for a visa to go almost anywhere will tell you, this process is not the most straightforward one, with ambiguous rules and customer service from the likes of VFS Global is very Kafkaesque.”Bagrov said he didn’t believe the issue was due to a bug, but rather “because whoever designed this system has not even thought about protecting my data”. He said he has never had any problems with UK authorities. He added: “This is beyond stupid. This is just taking your customers as an annoyance, comfortable in the knowledge that you have a long-term contract regardless of how you work.”Alexey Utkin, head of financial practice at DataArt UK, said: “The global visa processing company VFS Global has always been a huge pain from the customer experience perspective on a website, utter confusion.” He added that it was “totally insane” that he could access anyone’s forms by just inputting an application number. Numbers were sequential, and while he was trying to find the application for his son, he was able to access the applications of many others.“They simply didn’t put in any protection. I left feedback to them, but they’re huge and in my view totally incompetent. Fifteen hours later, it was still not secure, last time I checked. You would assume they should know about data protection – they’re trusted by governments worldwide,” he said.A VFS Global spokesperson said: “We launched a beta release of the Italy visa online application form in UK [for third country nationals] yesterday – 15 July 9.30am GMT. Since it was a beta release, the new release was scheduled for 16 July 2015, midnight India time. Once the issue was highlighted, the new release was [rescheduled] and rolled out at 1pm GMT on 16 July 2015.“Furthermore, to VFS Global, data/information security is an extremely critical element of our service solution. Our systems undergo stringent external independent audits on a periodic basis. Testing and auditing are ongoing processes at VFS Global for which we have dedicated teams, robust practices are in place to encourage feedback on any aspect of our service, and enhancements are implemented based on such feedback.”A Home Office spokesperson said: “The UK contract with VFS uses different systems to the system in question … We expect all contractors to comply fully with the UK’s stringent data protection requirements.”
Three Google employees have been injured in a crash involving one of the company’s self-driving cars.Google revealed the accident happened on 1 July when its car was rear-ended while stationary on a public road in Mountain View, California.It is the first accident involving one of Google’s fleet of self-driving vehicles to have resulted in injury.The modified Lexus sports utility vehicle, 20 of which are operating on public roads, was hit by another driver. Three Google employees within the self-driving car were taken to hospital complaining of whiplash and later released. The driver of the other car also complained of neck and back pain.The Google car was stationary in a queue of traffic when it was hit by the vehicle travelling at 17mph, according to an accident report filed by Google.Accident proneThis is the 14th accident in six years and about 1.9 million miles of testing, according to the company. In 11 of the 14 accidents, Google said its car was rear-ended.Related:Two self-driving cars avoid each other on Californian roadsGoogle has also said that its cars have not caused any of the collisions while driving themselves. In 2011, a Google employee took one of the company’s cars to run an errand and rear-ended another vehicle, but the car was under human control at the time.Chris Urmson, head of Google’s self-driving car programme, wrote that his automated cars “arebeing hit surprisingly often” by distracted drivers.“The clear theme is human error and inattention. We’ll take all this as a signal that we’re starting to compare favourably with human drivers.”Urmson said his team was exploring whether its cars could do something to alert distracted drivers before a collision. Honking would be one possibility, but Urmson said the noise could annoy residents of Mountain View where the cars are tested.•Google acknowledges its self-driving cars had 11 minor accidents
If you’re remotely interested in strategy gaming, you’ve probably heard of Warhammer. In its 32-year history the tabletop game of fantasy battles has provided a gateway into gaming for generations of players, and it remains one of the most recognisable franchises in the industry.But creator Games Workshop recently brought the game’s three decades of bloodshed and battle to a close, destroying the Warhammer world in a cataclysmic in-game event known as the End Times.Now the company has unveiled the game’s new incarnation.Warhammer: Age of Sigmaris a complete overhaul of the game’s rules and fictional background. So what has changed, and why did Games Workshop bring the curtain down on their iconic world of fantasy warfare?What is Warhammer?Warhammer is a tabletop battle game which puts players in command of armies of valiant humans, noble elves, savage orcs or a variety of twisted and monstrous creatures. Players collect forces of miniature plastic models, all with different stats and abilities, and use them to play out clashes on a tabletop battlefield. Unlike a board game, where players’ moves are restricted to defined areas, Warhammer commanders freely manoeuvre their units set distances using rulers and resolve shooting and hand-to-hand combat by rolling dice.In its lifetime the game has gone through several editions, tweaking rules and adding new units and creatures for players to deploy in their armies. Its science fiction spin-off, Warhammer 40,000, has proved phenomenally popular with its armies of Space Marines, war machines and vicious alien hordes.If you go into a Games Workshop store, you’re very likely to see large Warhammer battlegrounds set up in the shop, usually beautifully modelled to resemble real landscapes.So it’s toy soldiers? Is it just for kids?Plenty of children and young teens play Warhammer, but the game has always involved a heavy dose of strategy that appeals to adults as well. Building an effective army, utilising your force’s strengths and exploiting your opponent’s weaknesses are the keys to victory.But the Warhammer hobby extends beyond the game itself. Players spend hours building and painting their miniatures, a process that requires patience, dedication and, sometimes, considerable artistic skill.Warhammer players collect, paint and fight battles with armies of miniature troops.Photograph: Games WorkshopWhat’s changed in the new edition?Age of Sigmar rewrites the Warhammer setting from the ground up. Where previous editions of the game pitted rival empires against one another in a world reminiscent of the works of JRR Tolkien, Michael Moorcock and Robert E Howard, the new version seeks to establish a more distinct universe.The most notable change is the addition of the Stormcast Eternals faction – an elite force of human warriors elevated to the service of the god Sigmar. These replace the multiple human armies of previous editions and bear a striking resemblance to Warhammer 40,000’s Space Marines - Games Workshop’s best-selling line of miniatures.Other races, including the rat-like Skaven and the shambling hordes of the undead, have returned, but the names of some forces have been changed, presumably so that they can be registered as trademarks. The generic orcs, goblins and ogres have become orroks, grots and ogors respectively.What about the game mechanics?Mechanically, the game is dramatically different from its previous editions, which revolved around regiments manoeuvring across the battlefield in rank-and-file formations. Troops in Age of Sigmar fight as loose units, much more akin to Warhammer 40,000, and the game seems streamlined for faster play – long-time players may disagree as to whether this is a positive development.The new edition also hugely simplifies the army-building process. Where previously each unit came with a points value to ensure even contests between players, the game now does away with the arithmetic of constructing a force, instead giving outnumbered players in-game bonuses to level the playing field.Units themselves have also been made much simpler, represented by just four numerical stats. Unlike past editions, which required players to buy supplemental army books to play with their chosen faction, each box of miniatures now ships with a Warscroll, a printed sheet containing all the information needed to field a unit in battle. It’s a similar approach to that of Fantasy Flight Games’ popularStar Wars space battle titles.Why has the game changed so dramatically?Just as video games spawn numerous sequels, it’s common for tabletop games of all sorts to evolve over time. As players fine-tune their armies and find the optimum strategies, designers introduce new elements to provide a fresh challenge and new storyline elements.A customer plays a game of Warhammer in a Games Workshop store in London.Photograph: AlamyBut Warhammer’s publisher Games Workshop particularly needed to rejuvenate the game. After a long period of success, the firm’s sales and profits slumped in 2014, as players soured on the company’s price increases and perceived heavy-handedness in shutting down people itclaimed had infringed on its intellectual property.The company had alsosuffered from falling interest in its Lord of the Rings games series, which had initially generated healthy revenues, but hadn’t retained their popularity following the end of Peter Jackson’s film trilogy.Is the game going to expand over time?Definitely. At the time of publishing, two armies have been revealed: the heroic Stormcast Eternals and the bloodthirsty warriors of the Chaos god Khorne. You can expect an ever-growing range of troops for both of these forces, as well as entirely new factions in the months and years to come.Can I still use my old miniatures?If you’ve collected armies for prior editions of Warhammer, there’s nothing stopping you and your friends from continuing to play with the models and rule sets you’re already familiar with. Games Workshop has also published conversion rules for their existing range of miniatures, allowing you to use your armies under the new system.Several of the conversion guides take quite a tongue-in-cheek tone, however. The rules include bonuses for players who sport impressive moustaches or who pretend to ride on horseback during play, and this suggests that they aren’t taking the whole thing entirely seriously.Don’t expect Games Workshop to provide continued support for older editions of the game, either. If you’re looking to expand your existing armies, you’ll have to look at picking up second-hand miniatures.Related:Warhammer 40,000 Forbidden Stars review: an absorbing evening of combatSo how do I get started, and what does it cost?The Age of Sigmar starter set comes with everything you need to fight small two-player battles between the Stormcast Eternals and the forces of Chaos. At £75 ($125 in the US, $200 in Australia), it’s not cheap – although to be fair, the cost of entry is considerably lower than the price of a gaming PC or current-gen games console.You’ll also need to pick up some modelling equipment, paints and brushes since the game’s miniatures come unassembled and unpainted. If this all seems a bit intimidating, there are plenty of online tutorials covering army painting techniques. You don’t need to be Michaelangelo, but most opponents will expect you to give your troops at least a basic paint job.Speaking of opponents, you’ll also need people to play against. Games Workshop runs events in its stores, of which there are over 400 around the world. Alternatively, you may want to find a local games club to play at. Several organise informal games or more serious tournament play.Are there any alternative battle games?Yes. If the Warhammer universe doesn’t interest you, there are lots of other fantasy and science fiction wargames that you might find more appealing.US studio Fantasy Flight Games has released two space battle games set in the Star Wars universe. TheX-Wing Miniatures Gamefocuses on lightning-fast dogfights between squadrons of Rebel and Imperial pilots, whileStar Wars: Armadaoffers a more drawn-out, strategic experience featuring some of the biggest and most powerful ships from the film franchise.Related:How the boundary between board and video games is blurringNottingham-based Mantic Games has produced a number of games by former Games Workshop designer Alessio Cavatore.Kings of Warpits armies of humans, dwarves, elves and orcs against one another in a fantasy setting while the upcomingWarpath– with work-in-progress rules available to download now free of charge – lets players fight futuristic battles with high-tech troops and weaponry. If you’re a fan of previous editions of Warhammer and 40K, they might be the closest thing you’ll find nowadays.Warmachine, from Privateer Press, features battles between forces of heavily armoured steampunk war-walkers, while the company’s other game,Hordes, puts players in command of armies of monstrous creatures.AndBeyond the Gates of Antaresis a science fiction game designed by Rick Priestley, Warhammer’s co-creator and long-time creative director. It ditches many of Warhammer’s gothic trappings, taking its cues from “harder” military sci fi.
Microsoft’s Windows 10 will force automatic updates on to home users with systems that that cannot be disabled.The latest preview build of Windows 10 for home users, which is considered to be the final version due to be released to the public in the very near future, has an automatic Windows Update system that cannot be turned off.Theend user license agreement(Eula) also has aclause within itthat says: “By accepting this agreement, you agree to receive these types of automatic updates without any additional notice.”Professional and Enterprise versions of Windows 10 will be given more control over the installation of updates.Previous versions of Windows, including the latest Windows 8.1 have given users several options when dealing with software updates, including the ability to turn them off completely.Beyond simply fixing bugs and making sure the system operates as expected, updates to Windows are crucial for maintaining the security of the operating system and protecting users from hackers and cybercriminals.Windows 10 has only two options for updates: download, install and reboot the computer automatically, or simply download, install and ask to reboot the computer.The automatic updates will help better protect users, but are unlikely to be popular. Many of Microsoft’s core audience are wary of updates, particularly those who do not use a computer regularly and are often confronted with an unavoidable update screen whenever attempting to do something.Automatic updates may also create a situation where an update breaks something on a computer system, perhaps a legacy program. Currently users can stop updates happening and maintain function.•I read all the small print on the internet and it made me want to die
Hello, it’s Friday. Today’s game is Solar Shifter EX, a top-down bullet hell shooter from Elder Games, the one-man studio formed by Hungarian developer, Ede Tarsoly.Solar Shifter features a jump shift mechanic that lets you warp out of danger zones faster than Kenny Loggins. Coming to PC later this year it’ll hit Xbox One and PS4 in 2016.
Every morning Kayla Strata takes her temperature using a basal digital thermometer and checks her cervical fluid. She then enters those readings into a smartphone app to determine where she is in her monthly cycle.Known as the Fertility Awareness Method (FAM), this is a way to track ovulation to either help a woman become pregnant or prevent a pregnancy. Strata started using this method in 2014 when she decided hormonal birth control was no longer an option for her because of its side effects.“You have to be disciplined, but I’m so passionate about this that I follow it diligently. I’m part of a group of women who use this method, and they have been able to avoid pregnancy for years,” she says.Before the contraception pill, women regularly used FAM, or rhythm method, as a way to prevent pregnancy. And until recently this method meant keeping a paper trail of a woman’s monthly cycle data.Now the tech scene has taken note and is helping women understand their monthly cycle with smartphone app charts, including ones from Selene, iCycleBeads and Groove. Strata uses the smartphone app Kindara, which, according to its founder William Sacks, has had 700,000 downloads and is just as effective as hormonal contraceptives.This year Kindara introduced a Bluetooth Wink basal body thermometer that automatically syncs with the Kindara mobile app. “People have an intimate relationship with their smartphones, we have so much information on them, and this is some of the most intimate information there is,” Sacks says.According to Sacks, Wink is four times faster than other basal body temperature products on the market. Women are encouraged to keep Wink by their bedside and take their temperature as soon as they wake up. If they forget, Wink will vibrate to remind them.“If your oestrogen level is low, you’re good to have unprotected sex and have a zero percent chance of getting pregnant. Or, if your oestrogen level is high and rising and you want to get pregnant, today would be a great day,” he says. Eventually, he says, a woman will be able to look at her smartphone to determine their hormone levels with sensing technology.“In ten years this will exist. I’m not sure if it will be an implant, patch or clothing based sensor, but women will know what is happening every day, with no confusion about their fertility,” he says.Chantae Hergenroether used the data to help her get pregnant. She had been receiving Depo-Provera injections, but when she decided to start a family she found out it would take up to two years for the drug to leave her system.“My doctor told me not to plan on getting pregnant for at least a year,” she says. From there she searched the internet to see how she could improve her chances of becoming pregnant faster, and decided to track her cycle digitally.Using the technology forced her to become “baby focused”. Taking her temperature first thing in the morning reminded her to make healthy choices in her diet and to exercise. Doing this she became pregnant within two months of coming off the injections.“This is bringing technology into something we’ve known about for a long time,” Dr Helen Webberley of the Oxford Online Pharmacy says. According to Webberley, anyone who uses this method will automatically understand their menstrual cycle, and for motivated women who have regular cycles, it can be an effective method of birth control.“If you went up to someone on the street and asked them if they knew that there’s a completely natural way, without hormones, coils, condoms or diaphragms, to avoid pregnancy, they wouldn’t know it,” she says.In addition, Webberley says that learning how to track your cycle can also help a woman understand why she’s not getting pregnant.“If you’re doing a family planning cycle and you’re not getting a rise in basal body temperature, you can tell your doctor that the reason you’re not getting pregnant is that you’re not ovulating. So rather than using expensive fertility treatments, there’s a tablet called Clomid that will make you ovulate.”However, she warns that if you take paracetamol or have a drink, your basal body temperature can be affected. “If pregnancy would be a complete disaster, maybe you should think about using another method,” she says.Fertility tracking is only one way people are tracking their health. In the UK, 13.1 million people will use a health tracker in 2015, up from 6.7 million in 2014, according to Kantar Media.The NHS has a website explaining how to use trackable devices and apps for health issues such as how to quit smoking, lose weight or improve a diet.In the US, 69% of adults keep track of their health, such as blood pressure, diet or headaches, with 21% of them using technology to help them do so, according to the Pew Research Center.Jennifer Daskal decided to use a wearable device to track her second pregnancy. Living in the tech hub of San Francisco, California, she hears about many health tech devices, so when she was approached by Bloom Life to track the third trimester of her pregnancy she decided to give it a try.Set to be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 2016, The Bloom Life device is a small sensor that sits below a pregnant woman’s bellybutton. It picks up on motion and electrical activity within the mother’s body. The motion is an accelerometer, like a FitBit, and measures activity such as walking, running and sleeping, while electrical activity measure organs, such as the mother’s heart, the baby’s heart or the uterus.“Collectively these signals from the mother and the baby are the most important health parameters that doctors care about to determine whether or not the mother and baby are healthy during pregnancy,” Eric Dy of Bloom Life says. Once this data is collected, it is then transferred to the mother’s smartphone so that she can track fetal movement and contractions.“For first-time mothers trying to track some of these things is guesswork. This is a way of tracking these parameters without the mother doing anything. The sensor will automatically track this information, send it to a smartphone, and then the woman can share it with whoever she wants.”By wearing the device, Daskal felt she understood her body better. “When you’re pregnant for the second time, you’re better prepared, but for me it was more about visually seeing what I was experiencing.”What she learned was that she was having several contractions that she wasn’t feeling.“I felt like I was really far away from labor, but because of the device I could see that I was having contractions that I wasn’t feeling and that my body was preparing.”However, Daskal understands that women feel pain differently. “You could be like me, and not feel your contractions, or you could feel them a lot, so you can see how strong they are – are you feeling them strongly? – or maybe your pain threshold is lower.”Bloom Life also has the ability to pull data from third-party devices. “If you’re diagnosed with gestational diabetes or pre-eclampsia, the mother is told to record her blood glucose levels or blood pressure twice a day. We can collect that data from these devices to provide a much more objective measurement because it can tell you what you were doing when you took your blood pressure. Was it up because you were walking up a flight of stairs, or was it up because of your hypertension?” Dy says.However, Dr Maureen Baker, Chair of the Royal College of General Practitioners, warns women about investing in technology devices during pregnancy.“Conditions such as gestational diabetes and preeclampsia are extremely worrying for pregnant women, but the best care, advice and support are available from qualified health professionals, free of charge on the NHS. We cannot comment on the effectiveness or reliability of this particular device but we are concerned that some mobile phone apps, which are promoted as providing greater reassurance to patients, can actually cause unnecessary anxiety and this is particularly worrying for women in the later stages of pregnancy.”Baker says that mobile phone apps and medical devices have huge potential to support patients and the health professionals who provide their care – but only if there is credible evidence to support their claims.It is worth remembering that no device is 100% reliable and if you are paying a significant amount of money for a product, it is important to check that it meets the required standards, and is CE marked or equivalent.“We would advise any woman who has concerns about her pregnancy to speak to her healthcare professional before spending money, unnecessarily, on something that might not work.”This article was amended on 22 July 2015. An earlier version referred to progesterone where oestrogen was meant.
Reddit finally began contending with the hate-filled parts of its popular internet free-for-all on Thursday, as new leadership vowed to crack down on the site’s baroque selection of pornography and to isolate other “content that violates a common sense of decency”.Dozens of so-called “subreddits” devoted to images and fantasies of rape and violence have now vanished, less than one week after Reddit’s female chief executive departed amid a chorus of death threats and slurs from the site’s notoriously toxic users.Hours after ousted interim CEO Ellen Pao emerged to declare that “the trolls are winning”, her replacement took to the vibrant forums that both power and taint global online discussions, warning users that Reddit would soon ban spam, incitement, bullying and images suggestive of child abuse along with anything “actually illegal, such as copyrighted material”.But Steve Huffman, the new interim CEO and Reddit co-founder, stopped well short of a full-on purge, appearing to allow the continued existence of the site’s sizeable and seedy underbelly.“We believe there is value in letting all views exist, even if we find some of them abhorrent, as long as they don’t pollute people’s enjoyment of the site,” Huffman wrote inan Ask Me Anything sessionon Thursday.Related:'What did you expect?' Women in tech reflect on Ellen Pao's exit from RedditHuffman said the subreddit “r/rapingwomen” would be banned and that other inappropriate content would become more difficult to find. Boards like “r/coontown” and “r/PhilosophyofRape”, however, remained, as will discussion of illegal activities such as drug use.“There are many subreddits whose contents I and many others find offensive,” Huffman wrote, “but that alone is not justification for banning.”The policy shift demonstrated an awakening within Reddit to a long acknowledged problem: the site might not be able to survive without the unpaid labor of a teeming sewer of neo-Nazis, rape enthusiasts, corpse fetishists and the bullies and trolls who have helped to drive away senior employees – many of them women – including Pao, who often stood up for the users’ right to express themselves however they wanted.In an email exchange with the Guardian, Huffman said he “had almost no involvement with reddit during the Ellen months”. But ahead of his new content mandate on Thursday, labor lawyers and civil rights groups told the Guardian they viewed the site’s practices as undoubtedly suspect in terms of ethics – and questioned whether or not Reddit could exist without them.In any case, it appeared white supremacists and rape fetishists had already found new places to go.Who moderates the moderators?Related:How Ellen Pao lost her job but survived Reddit's swamp of trollsPao, who became an international emblem for women in technology when shelost a landmark gender discrimination lawsuitearlier this year,resigned on Fridayafter a torrent of abuse following the dismissal of a popular administrator, Victoria Taylor.Taylor was a Reddit employee and point of contact for the many unpaid Reddit moderators – or “mods” – in charge of allowing discussions to continue, even amid a torrent of abusive discussions and topics. The mods shut down forums including the popular Q&amp;A board “r/AMA” in protest.On Thursday, Pao spoke out about the end of her eight-month tenure at the company in detail for the first time since her resignation.“Expecting Internet platforms to eliminate hate and harassment is likely to disappoint”, she wrote in aWashington Post op-ed, arguing that Reddit’s popularity – the site had 164 million unique visitors last month – had become a stumbling block. “If mistakes are made 0.01 percent of the time, that could mean tens of thousands of mistakes.”“Balancing free expression with privacy and the protection of participants has always been a challenge for open-content platforms on the Internet,” Pao wrote. “But that balancing act is getting harder. The trolls are winning.”While the trolls may be winning and the so-called “mods” culled from Reddit rabble remain in control, Huffman and his co-founder insisted on Wednesdaythat was not created to be a “bastion of free speech”.In response – in fact,in the same Reddit thread– Pao’s predecessor, Yishan Wong, put the blame squarely on the shoulders of Reddit users themselves: “We tried to let you govern yourselves”, he wrote, “and you failed.”One synecdoche for the site’s trouble with trolls is the subreddit “r/Catholic”, which allows earnest Christians to hold forth on their personal struggles –sometimes with relationships or sexuality, sometimes with the church’s decisions or policy.The mods often abuse people who come on to to the site in good faith (it copies the look of the much larger r/Catholicism), but there appear to be completely untainted discussions on the board, too. The mods’ interests give them away: with the sole exception of a cartoon-loving user named platinum4, all of the Catholic subreddit’s moderators also oversaw forums devoted to rape, race hatred or gore – sometimes all of the above. One subreddit with five overlapping r/Catholic moderators was r/cutefemalecorpses; r/beatingwomen was also popular among them. (Under the new policy, the latter sub-foru has been eliminated. The former has not.)The problem plagues the mainstream sections of the site, too: there is moderator overlap between r/CountryMusic and r/TrayvonMartin; between r/Gaza and r/PicsofDeadKids; between r/AdventureTime and a subreddit featuring X-rated cartoons of the popular children’s show, r/ATPorn. Subreddits usually have multiple moderators – often more than a dozen – and mods often oversee dozens of communities.In the email exchange with the Guardian on Wednesday, Huffman declined to detail his concerns with hate speech in the Reddit community, saving them for his mea culpa in the AMA on Thursday.But he said the site would “be adding more tools for both moderators and the community managers we employ at reddit”.“I think we can save everyone a lot of time,” Huffman wrote.What will happen if you quarantine the trolls?Reddit has also been a windfall for the growing online communities of white supremacists around the US and the world.When discussion of valueless subreddits arises, as it did on Thursday, users have been quick to ask the site’s administrators why the notoriously hate-filled sub-reddit “r/Coontown” is still allowed to exist.In the days following Pao’s departure – in which she said hate speech from users directed at her “made me doubt humanity” – the regulars on that particular racist forum had begun anticipating a ban.Even after Thursday’s massive policy shift, it remained.“People who are in reddit already, when they stumble on [one of the many racist subreddits], get this immersive experience of being surrounded by all this white supremacist content,” said Keegan Hankes of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate groups.As one user pointed out during Huffman’s Q&amp;A session on Thursday, “r/Coontown” approaches the white supremacist site Stormfront.org in terms of traffic.Hankes said he was baffled by the notion that Reddit could solve its problem with hate groups by quarantining them. “Why would Reddit do that?” Hankes asked. “Why would they lend their name and the legitimacy that comes with that? Reddit’s a household name. That’s almost more disturbing than how it’s operating now. Then you lose the idea that the good voices even out the bad.”Along the side of the “r/Coontown” main page are links to communities that have even fewer rules, including the group’s chat network on the web client Kiwi IRC, which often exists as a kind of shadow discussion forum alongside Reddit communities.“I don’t have any issue with the type of users coming into Kiwi,” the client’s co-founder, Darren Whitlen, wrote in an email on Thursday, saying that the site was seeing an increase in traffic from Reddit as the content debate has raged.On Kiwi, the would-be exiles from “r/Coontown” seemed energized by what they saw as persecution: “I do think the biggest thing holding us back about Reddit is we can’t act,” wrote one user. “But without reddit we’d be a force to contend with.”It turns out they didn’t have to worry, so they celebrated. Even before the AMA concluded, r/Coontown had a new header on its page, with a mocking “reddit seal of approval” on it.The digital media’s content factoryReddit remains a weak hitter, financially speaking: it has those 164 million unique users, by its own accounting – not far behind Buzzfeed’s 192 million – but it made just $8.3m last year. BuzzFeed broke the $100m mark before Thanksgiving, even as itmines Reddit for source material.In his email to the Guardian on Thursday, Huffman called the attention from news organizations “[o]n one hand flattering, on the other frustrating” and suggested improving the notoriously low-tech site: “Better sharing functionality should help with this,” he wrote.Of course, none of Reddit’s moderators are paid – just its administrators, who remain a separate and much smaller group. The moderators’ primary reward for managing high-traffic sections of the site – such as the celebrity AMAs – is the ability to act as super-users, managing powerful, high-traffic fiefdoms.“It seems odd that so much of the business of the company is being done by unpaid workers,” said Juno Turner, a labor lawyer at Outten &amp; Golden.Jonathan Segal, of the firm Duane Morris, said trolls and racists might “be less sympathetic, but I’ve been surprised by some of the people that government agencies have found sympathetic”.Labor concerns don’t yet appear to trouble the company. On Thursday, Huffman told Redditors, his primary concern is making sure the site’s basement does not cause trouble with the rest of the site.“[The new policy] is what we will try,” he wrote, “and if the hateful users continue to spill out into mainstream reddit, we will try more aggressive approaches.”This article was amended on 17 July 2015 to clarify that the r/Catholic subreddit was set up by trolls as a parody of r/Catholicism.
Google finally ended its losing streak on Thursday when it beat expectations and posted better-than-expected profit for the first time in six quarters.The company’s advertising revenue jumped 11% from last year to $16.02bn. Its consolidated revenue rose 11% to $17.73bn. The number of ads, or paid clicks, increased by 18%.After closing at $601.78, Google shares rose to $663.54 in after-hours trading.The almost 10% jump in stock “is reflecting the fact that they’ve effectively just beat earnings for the first time in several quarters,” said Victor Anthony, an analyst at Axiom Capital.There was one other reason why investors and analysts were looking forward to Thursday’s call: Ruth Porat, Google’s new chief financial officer. Porat had previously worked as CFO at Morgan Stanley, and analysts were hoping that her past life on Wall Street would provide them with an ally on the other end of the phone.“Our strong Q2 results reflect continued growth across the breadth of our products, most notably core search, where mobile stood out, as well as YouTube and programmatic advertising,”Porat saidon Thursday.“We are focused every day on developing big new opportunities across a wide range of businesses. We will do so with great care regarding resource allocation.”According to Anthony, Porat’s comment about Google exercising “great care regarding resource allocation” was another catalyst for boost in stock prices.Google’s capital expenditures in the second quarter, which totaled about $2.5bn, were primarily related to production equipment and data center construction.“In our view, our infrastructure is one of our most strategic assets that we have,” said Porat.When asked about the growth and success in the US, Porat attributed it to the company’s “diverse set of products” that continue to do well.Omid Kordestani, Google’s chief business officer, echoed that sentiment. According to him, products like YouTube, Chrome and Android had over a billion users each.The earnings presentation also touted the new photo app, which allows users to upload, save and share their photos.Related:Google says sorry for racist auto-tag in photo appEarlier this month, the app came under scrutiny after it automatically tagged a black couple as gorillas.Google apologized for the errorand said that they are working on a long-term fix.“It’s getting better every day,” Kordestani said of the app on Thursday.Additionally, Porat fielded questions on regulatory pressures the company faces in Europe.In April, the European Commission accused Google of skewing its search results to benefit its own shopping services.“We see that Google has engaged in misconduct in a broad number of member states since 2008 and continues to do so,” Margrethe Vestager, EU’s competition commissioner,said at the time. “The commercial importance of appearing prominently in Google search results is obvious: if you can’t be found, you can’t do business.”Skirting around the question, Porat said that Google operates within a competitive industry and looks forward to working with European Commission to address any concerns they might have.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
As civil rights past and present remain in focus after the shooting in Charleston, South Carolina, and the release of Harper Lee’s Go Set a Watchman, Google is celebrating journalist and activist Ida B Wells-Barnett’s 153rd birthday with a “Google doodle”.Wells-Barnett, more commonly known as Ida B Wells, was an African American newspaper editor, suffragist and anti-lynching activist at a time when avenues were thoroughly blocked for women – especially African American women.Thursday’s doodle– which replaces the usual logo at google.com – shows Wells-Barnett working at a typewriter. Wells-Barnett is considered an unsung American hero, and Google said it chose to commemorate her “journalistic mettle and her unequivocal commitment to the advancement of civil liberties” with its doodle. The activist’s name was one of those suggestedas part of the recent campaignto get a woman on the $20 bill.Wells-Barnett was born in Mississippi in 1862, the oldest of eight children. Her parents,who were born into slavery, were very active in the Republican party during Reconstruction but died during an outbreak of yellow fever when Wells-Barnett was 16, leaving her to support her siblings by working as a teacher in Tennessee.Shortly after arriving in Memphis, Wells-Barnett was involved in an “altercation” with a white train conductor, who ordered her to move from the ladies car to the Jim Crow section of the train, despite Wells-Barnett’s having purchased a first-class ticket. When she refused and the conductor tried to forcibly move her, Wells-Barnett, in her words, said she “fastened her teeth on the back of his hand”. Wells-Barnett sued after being ejected from the train and won her case, though the decision was later reversed in court.By the time Wells-Barnett turned 25, she had become the co-owner and editor of the Memphis-based Free Speech and Headlight, a local black newspaper, a platform which allowed her to decry racial inequality and violence. Afterone of her friends was lynchedby rival white store owners, Wells-Barnett denounced the act in her paper’s pages, and spent two months traveling in the south, gathering stories about other such lynchings. While she was away from Memphis, a mob destroyed her printing press.In 1895, Wells-Barnettpublished a 100-page pamphlet, the Red Record, the first statistical record documenting the history of American lynchings, which became a seminal text.Wells-Barnett later moved to Chicago, where she became a full-time correspondent for the Daily Inter Ocean, the newspaper depicted in Thursday’s doodle. She laterassumed controlof the Chicago Conservator, the oldest black newspaper in the city. She wrote prolifically and traveled to Europe where she lectured widely on civil liberties, which is why she was drawn with a suitcase by her side, Google said.She helped organize and found the National Association of Colored Women in 1896, andlater the NAACP.Shemarried Chicago lawyer and editor Ferdinand Barnettand, uncommonly for the time, hyphenated her name rather than take his. Wells-Barnett died at the age of 69 in 1931 and was survived by four children. She continued to fight for the rights of African Americans and an end to lynching until her death.
A British man accused of hacking into US government computer networks has been arrested.Lauri Love, 30, from Stradishall in Suffolk, has been charged with hacking into various agencies, including the US army, Nasa, the Federal Reserve and the Environmental Protection Agency.Scotland Yard said officers from the Metropolitan police’s extradition unit arrested Love at an address in Stradishall on Wednesday on an extradition warrant on behalf of the US.The warrant alleges offences under the Computer Misuse Act for which he has been indicted in the districts of Virginia, New Jersey and New York between various dates in 2012 and 2013.Love was first arrestedby officers from the UK’s National Crime Agency under the act in October 2013 and released on bail.The law permits the arrest of anyone who starts attacks from the UK on computers anywhere in the world.Love’s solicitor, Karen Todner, said her client’s bail was cancelled more than a year ago and his arrest was “out of the blue”.Love appeared at Westminster magistrates court on Wednesday where he was granted conditional bail before a full extradition hearing on 1 September.“He will certainly be fighting extradition,” Todner said.Matthew Reilly, a spokesman for the US attorney’s office in New Jersey, said US officials had filed an extradition request.According to the indictment against him in New York, Love bragged to other hackers in December 2012 that he controlled the computer server for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.Using the moniker “peace”, Love told others in a chatroom that he had “shelled” – or infiltrated – the Federal Reserve computer system, the indictment said.It said he had discussed possibly defacing the Federal Reserve website and sending fake emails to users of its computer system.The indictment also said he informed other chat room members in February 2013 that he planned to publicly disseminate Federal Reserve computer system users’ passwords and phone numbers.Previous US attempts to extradite British hackers have become highly politicised.Related:My son Gary McKinnon has won justice at last | Janis SharpTodner also represented Gary McKinnon, who was accused of breaking into US military computer systems in 2002.McKinnon fought a decade-long legal battle that culminated in October 2012 when Theresa May, the home secretary, defied US authorities byblocking his extradition.May told MPs she had taken the quasi-judicial decision on human rights grounds because of medical reports warning that McKinnon, 46, who has Asperger’s syndrome and suffers from depressive illness, could kill himself if sent to stand trial in the US.The decision was criticised by the US State Department but welcomed by campaigners and politicians across the political spectrum in the UK.
