The email service reportedly used by surveillance whistleblower Edward Snowden abruptly shut down on Thursday after its owner cryptically announced his refusal to become "complicit in crimes against the American people."Lavabit, an email service that boasted of its security features and claimed 350,000 customers, is no more, apparently after rejecting a court order for cooperation with the US government to participate in surveillance on its customers. It is the first such company known to have shuttered rather than comply with government surveillance.Silent Circle, another provider of secure online services, announced on later Thursday night that it would scrap its own encrypted email offering, Silent Mail.The founder of Lavabait, Ladar Levison,wrote on the company's website: "I have been forced to make a difficult decision: to become complicit in crimes against the American people or walk away from nearly ten years of hard work by shutting down Lavabit." The news was firstreported by Xeni Jardinthe popular news site Boing Boing.Levison said government-imposed restrictions prevented him from explaining what exactly led to his company's crisis point.I feel you deserve to know what's going on – the first amendment is supposed to guarantee me the freedom to speak out in situations like this," Levison wrote. "Unfortunately, Congress has passed laws that say otherwise. As things currently stand, I cannot share my experiences over the last six weeks, even though I have twice made the appropriate requests.Silent Circle said in a blogpostthat although it had not received any government orders to hand over information, "the writing is on the wall".Privacy advocates called the moves unprecedented. "I am unaware of any situation in which a service provider chose to shut down rather than comply with a court order they felt violated the constitution," said Kurt Opsahl, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation.Several technology companies that participate in the National Security Agency's surveillance dragnets have filed legal requests to lift the secrecy restrictions that prevent them from explaining to their customers precisely what it is that they provide to the powerful intelligence service – either wittingly or due to a court order. Yahoo has sued for the disclosure of some of those court orders.The presiding judge of the secret court that issues such orders, known as the Fisa court, has indicated to the Justice Department that he expects declassification in the Yahoo case. Thedepartment agreed last weekto a review that will last into September about the issues surrounding the release of that information.There are few internet and telecommunications companies known to have refused compliance with the NSA for its bulk surveillance efforts, which the NSA and the Obama administration assert are vital to protect Americans. One of them is Qwest Communications, whose former CEO Joseph Nacchio – convicted of insider trading –alleged that the government rejectedit for lucrative contracts after Qwest became a rare holdout for post-9/11 surveillance."Without the companies' participation," former NSA codebreaker William Binneyrecently told the Guardian, "it would reduce the collection capability of the NSA significantly."Snowden was allegedly a Lavabit customer. A Lavabit email address believed to come from Snowdeninvited reporters to a press conferenceat Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport in mid-July.While Levinson did not say much about the shuttering of his company – he notably did not refer to the NSA, for instance – he did say he intended to mount a legal challenge."We've already started preparing the paperwork needed to continue to fight for the Constitution in the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals," Levinson wrote. "A favorable decision would allow me resurrect Lavabit as an American company."He continued: "This experience has taught me one very important lesson: without congressional action or a strong judicial precedent, I wouldstronglyrecommend against anyone trusting their private data to a company with physical ties to the United States."Opsahl noted that the fact that Levinson was appealing a case before the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals indicated the government had a court order for Lavabit's data."It's taking a very bold stand, one that I'm sure will have financial ramifications," Opsahl said."There should be more transparency around this. There's probably no harm to the national security of the United States to have it publicly revealed what are the legal issues here," Opsahl continued.The justice department said it had no comment to make. Representatives from the NSA, White House and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone Store passes 2 billion downloads, 1 billion in only 6 months &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserTodd [Brix, general manager of Windows Phone Apps]  attributes the growth to new devices growing the audience, and interestingly if we divide 2bn by the around 40m devices out there we get around 50 apps per device, the same as in July 2012, but this is somewhat understandable given that such a large number of Windows Phone users have only joined the platform recently.50 apps is a lot. 40m isn't, in the context of smartphone platforms. But it's only going to increase. (Tnanks @rquick for the link.)The Microsoft tablet disaster was so easy to predict &gt;&gt; Beloved BrandsGraham Robertson:I hate being right!!! I just hate it. The reason I hate it is because it seems like the obvious should be obvious to everyone.  This tablet launch just had disaster screaming all over it. Sometimes the answers are so obvious, yet people are blinded by not asking the right question. They just go ahead with wrong answers. For Microsoft, they missed a bunch of right questions.Give Robertson credit - heforecasted this nine months ago. And he provides some useful ways to figure out if a new product - from anyone - is going to fly or flop. (Thanks @Avro for the link.)Federal judge: Bitcoin, "a currency," can be regulated under American law &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe determination is necessary so the US government can try the memorably-named Trendon Shavers on charges of having run a Ponzi (pyramid) scheme for his "Bitcoin Savings &amp; Trust" (BTCST) operation. Because you can't run a Ponzi scheme involving coloured beads, for example.Here's what the judge said:Shavers argues that the BTCST investments are not securities because Bitcoin is not money, and is not part of anything regulated by the United States. Shavers also contends that his transactions were all Bitcoin transactions and that no money ever exchanged hands. The SEC argues that the BTCST investments are both investment contracts and notes, and, thus, are securities.…It is clear that Bitcoin can be used as money. It can be used to purchase goods or services, and as Shavers stated, used to pay for individual living expenses. The only limitation of Bitcoin is that it is limited to those places that accept it as currency. However, it can also be exchanged for conventional currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, Euro, Yen, and Yuan. Therefore, Bitcoin is a currency or form of money, and investors wishing to invest in BTCST provided an investment of money.That's a precedent.Being a Glasshole for a day &gt;&gt; Jamie RyanRyan has worked at Samsung, Apple and Sky. He tried Google Glass for a day:Unfortunately, it hasn't won me over. The privacy and safety concern isn't one that I can ignore and there are little benefits to wearing this every day from what I can see. It's also $1500 at the moment and there is no way it is worth that amount. I know it's the "explorer" edition but still. For me to consider this it'd have to be &lt;£150, it's not a phone replacement so it shouldn't cost as much as a phone. With Smartwatches on the horizon this offers nothing more other than maybe a camera (which may feature on the watches too). I don't buy products based on their potential because that's folly…Attract new customers with local ads on the Google Maps app &gt;&gt; Inside AdWordsThe Adwords blog is where you get to eavesdrop on Google talking to itsrealcustomers:Recently, we launched a new version of the Google Maps app for Android, iPhone, and iPad where we introduced several new features. Today we're introducing an updated ad experience we think is more attractive for users and more effective for advertisers.Relevant ads on the Google Maps app can now appear at the bottom of the screen after a user performs a search. They include a title, ad text, and a link to get directions. Users can tap or swipe upward to see more information — this is a new click type known as "Get location details" and results in a standard CPC charge.Slashdot founder Rob Malda on why there won't be another Hacker News &gt;&gt; Washington PostMalda (aka CmdrTaco) is not part of the group being bought by Jeff Bezos:Hacker News is awesome. It is probably my number one RSS feed right now. But it's getting too big. They've crossed the line that reddit crossed a long time ago. The value on reddit now is on the subreddits, not on the main page. Hacker News is wobbling on that space now. If I could just find someone who made a Hacker News digest, with the 10 best items from Hacker News, that would be a really good Slashdot.Plenty more in a fascinating interview.iPhone logs my complete movement profile &gt;&gt; Security Forumi just swiped through my iPhone iOS7 Beta 5 settings and stumbled across the following new default setting:Settings → Privacy → Location Services → System Services (at the bottom) → Frequent LocationsIt kept track of my complete movement profile (location and time tracking) without me knowing anything.Just to give you an insight whats possible and already used with and without PRISM.It's opt-in, judging by the settings, and linked to your Apple ID; seems to be to help Apple improve its Maps - and there's a hint of Google Now-ishness in that it has tags for "home" and "work", and "Frequent locations" will "allow your iPhone to learn places you frequently visit in order to provide useful location-related information." What would that be? (Thanks @Sputnikkers for the link.)The reality about Android tablet usage: browsing share by region &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh wanted something broader than theUS-basedNorth America-based Chitika survey, but also looks at tablets:To solve these problems, we need a data source that measures tablet browsing share by region, with a large sample size. Interestingly, this data has been available for years, but has been ignored by analysts and the tech media. Statcounter Global Stats measures browsing share by region with a sample size of over 3m websites. Unfortunately, it was assumed that Statcounter just measured smartphone market share. In response to an inquiry from me, Statcounter reps confirmed that they did measure tablet browsing share, but that it was included in desktops for now. Because of the size of the PC install base, tablet browsing data would just show up as a small blip in desktop stats. However, after downloading the data, I could isolate the tablet browsing performance of Android devices and the iPad.Ubuntu Edge now only $695 &gt;&gt; IndiegogoWith 14 days to go, it's time for our biggest announcement yet. From now until the end of the campaign, we're fixing the price of the Ubuntu Edge at $695! No limited quantities, no more price changes. You wanted a more affordable Edge, and now you've got it.How are we able to do this? Mainly thanks to all of you. The huge support the Ubuntu Edge has been receiving from all corners of the world has really sent a message to the mobile industry -- and that message has been received loud and clear.Yesterday we announced that Bloomberg LP has snapped up the first of the $80,000 Enterprise bundles, and we expect more businesses to follow suit. To make it even more appealing, we've raised the number of phones included in the bundle from 100 to 115.Great news for all those who pledged to buy it at $780 in the first fortnight.Update: the page says "anyone who's already pledged more than $695 for the phone will be offered a refund of the difference." It's not clear if that means the funding received has to be adjusted downwards to allow for that.Meanwhile, the project still needs to raise $1.6m every single day for 13 days to hit its funding target.RealNetworks posts $18.5M loss, Glaser still 'very confident' in turnaround &gt;&gt; GeekWireRealNetworks today posted a loss of $18.5m for the second quarter, as revenue declined in each of its core businesses.Co-founder and chairman Rob Glaser, who returned as the Seattle company's interim CEO more than a year ago, told analysts on a conference call this afternoon that he remains optimistic about the prospects for turning RealNetworks around.Glaser pointed to recent moves in its Games division as examples of the company's strategy of faster product releases and more decisive business moves. The company last week acquired social casino company Slingo Inc. for $15.6m and announced a $100,000 sweepstakes to give gamers more incentive to play its own GameHouse Casino.This must be some sort of karma for all those hours spent wrestling with RealPlayer installers. The company still has $236m in cash, though.Tiny, cheap, and dangerous: Inside a (fake) iPhone charger &gt;&gt; Ken Shirriff's blogI recently wrote a popular article onthe history of computer power supplies, which led tospeculationon what's inside those amazingly small one-inch cube USB chargers sold by Apple,Samsung,RIM, and other companies. In the interest of science, I bought a cheap no-name cube charger off eBay for $2.79, and took it apart. It's amazing that manufacturers can build and sell a complex charger for just a few dollars. It looks a lot like a genuine Apple charger and cost a lot less. But looking inside, I found that important safety corners were cut, which could lead to a 340 volt surprise. In addition, the interference from a cheap charger like this can cause touchscreen malfunctions. Thus, I recommend spending a few dollars more to get a brand-name charger.Truly fascinating: a lesson in how tiny differences can be lethal. (Thanks @AlanAudio.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Amazon Developing Android Console For Release By End Of 2013 | GameInformerAn intriguing rumour from US magazine, Game Informer:Sources have approached Game Informer with an interesting bit of news from one of the world's largest retailers. Amazon is developing an Android based console for release by the end of this year, most likely by Black Friday.According to those we spoke with who have knowledge of the in-development hardware, Amazon will be leveraging the titles already available on its platform. Each day, the company offers one productivity or game app for free and stocks a healthy library for its own devices, like the Kindle Fire. The console will also have its own, dedicated controller.Of course, the Android console market is becoming rather crowded, with Ouya, Game Stick and Project Shield all in various states of release. However, Amazon has a vast distribution network and a large customer-base that already uses its Kindle devices.Xbox exec on Crackdown 3: "I'm going to bite my tongue"In a newOXM interview, Microsoft Game Studios corporate vice president Phil Spencer was asked about the possibility of Crackdown 3, to which he replied, "I'm going to bite my tongue."The interviewer commented, "We still believe!" and Spencer added, "I do too. I do too."I heard an amazing rumour about this last night, but I can't repeat it – just yet...A history of (muted) violence: The present and future of Adults Only games | PolygonA typically lengthy Polygon future on adult content – or the lack of it – in video games. Get yourself a cup of tea and dive in:"If creative freedom is of the utmost importance, any developer or publisher is free to distribute their game online where marketplace constraints would not be in a position to influence their artistic vision. It's up to the developer or publisher to generate the demand for their product. And it's up to the market to respond. But freedom of expression doesn't guarantee the right to earn a living through one's art."PES 2014 preview: Why I'll be making the switch back this year | Eurogamer.netIt would appear PES has its mojo back:It's the sharpness and rhythm of the passing, the weight of the players as they receive and turn with the ball. It's the balance, that impossible-to-articulate synchronicity between the game's most fundamental aspects that just somehow 'clicks', and immediately draws you in. Despite playing for about two hours, I could happily have sat for two or three times that length trying to build up attacks and find new ways to score.A Nintendo F2P game that lets you bargain for better prices | GamasutraInterestingly little story on a possible new kink in the controversial F2P mechanic:Darumeshi Sports Store is a free-to-play title found in Nintendo's Japanese 3DS eShop. It works like a lot of free-to-play titles do: it costs nothing to download and relies upon in-game microtransactions to extract revenue from players. However, Darumeshi comes with a twist: players can bargain with the system for lower prices.Through a combination of in-game item collection (a familiar idea) and doing favors for the in-game shopkeeper (a more novel concept), Darumeshi players can shave off more than a quarter off the retail price of the title's minigames. It may even be possible to get the games for free.The game is only available in Japan, but as the article points out, Nintendo is experimenting with F2P concepts and could well roll out its bartering model to global digital releases.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Friday.
Streaming music comes in various forms. There are the on-demand services like Spotify, Deezer, Rdio and now Google's All Access, providing unlimited access to big catalogues of songs for free and/or for a monthly subscription.Then there are personal radio services like Pandora and the upcoming iTunes Radio, which generate streaming stations of music based on specific genres, artists and songs, or based on the preferences of the listener.Then there's good old traditional radio being streamed over the internet; non-interactive services like Mixcloud where you're listening to other people's mixes and playlists; cloud locker services where you upload your existing MP3 collection and then stream it to various devices.But an important trend in 2013 is for hybrids of these different forms. All Access does on-demand, personal radio and has a cloud locker; mobile app Bloom.fm offers free personal radio then lets you download a set number of tracks if you pay; and Spotify and Deezer have had personal radio features for some time.NowRdiodoes too. The service, which was launched in the US in 2010 by entrepreneurs Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, who'd previously founded filesharing network Kazaa and little-known Voice-over-IP service Skype. Its UK debut came in 2012.Rdio hasjust added a feature called Stations, which to all intents and purposes offers similar personal radio functionality to the company's on-demand rivals, but with the elegant design that's quietly made the service an increasingly credible alternative to its more high-profile rivals.There are 10 types of stations, including the ability to launch a stream of music related to an artist, song or genre. But it can also play a station based on your "Collection" – albums you've bookmarked for easy access on Rdio – or on the listening habits of specific Rdio users.They might be friends, musicians, media or other tastemakers, while a Heavy Rotation station generates its playlist based on what all the people you follow on Rdio have been listening to.And there's also a station called You FM, which pulls in your listening history, Facebook Likes and Twitter follows (if you've connected those two services to Rdio) and tracks you've voted up or down in the past to serve a stream of music it thinks you'll like – complete with a slider bar to tell it how much new stuff you'd like to hear.Rdio is working with music tech firm The Echo Nest, using its Taste Profiles technology to understand what you listen to and how you listen to it – how often and how adventurous and diverse you are in your choices – to serve up music.Rdio's vice president of product, Chris Becherer, says the Stations feature has been designed to complement the on-demand aspect, rather that sit apart from it. If you like a track playing as part of a station, you can jump to its parent album, and vice versa."We wanted to provide a seamless transition between passive listening and active on-demand listening: a service that allows users to hop seamlessly between the two," he says."A lot of services cater to the lean-back experience [of personal radio] and a lot cater to that lean-forward on-demand experience, but we don't feel there's any service that lets you bounce between the two effortlessly."There was one: I remember having an impressive demo of US streaming music service Mog a few years ago, which had similar hopability between its personal radio and on-demand features, complete with a slider bar to guide the adventurousness of its suggestions.Mog never quite made it to the UK, but it ended up getting bought by headphones maker Beats to use as the base for its own Beats Music streaming service, which is due to launch later this year. In the meantime, Rdio appears to have done a good job of pushing its best feature on.Rdio's You FM feature is based on a Taste Profile of each user, based on their listening habitsRdio doesn't quite have the profile of, say, Spotify or Deezer. The company has never announced user or subscriber numbers, so while we know that Spotify has 24m active users and 6m paying subscribers, and Deezer has 10m users and 4m subscribers, Rdio's silence has hinted that its numbers are small by comparison.The only useful stat comes from Facebook, whose figures show thatRdio has somewhere between 1m and 5m monthly active usersand between 100,000 and 500,000 daily active users – in both cases, though, this only counts people who've connected their Rdio and Facebook accounts.In recent months, though, anecdotal evidence suggests Rdio has been growing. Its iPhone app has been riding high in some countries' App Store charts, for example, while clever partnerships with music identification apps like Shazam have raised awareness of Rdio."Mobile is huge for us right now: it's where most of our new registrations are coming from," says Becherer. "Two thirds of our new registrations come in from mobile, and 90% of our subscribers are accessing Rdio from their mobile devices, although most do use both mobile and web."The launch of Stations is partly to match the personal radio features of Rdio's rivals, and partly to continue building its understanding of its users."As you invest time into listening on this service, it'll be returned to you in the form of better recommendations and discovery," says Becherer."Whether you're listening to a station or an album, we're learning about you, and taking that into account. That's why it makes sense to have one service where you listen to stations, albums and playlists."There's one other competitor hoving into view, of course:Apple with its iTunes Radio, which lacks an on-demand element, but will come preloaded with the second most popular smartphone and tablet ecosystem in the world, iOS.How does Rdio feel about that competition? Becherer certainly talks a good game."We really think the crux of this is seamless transition from stations listening to albums listening. iTunes Radio is specifically a radio experience: there's no on-demand listening there," he says."And even on the stations part, iTunes doesn't really have social built in the way that Rdio does. This ability to create a station based on a friend or an influencer is not something that iTunes Radio has built in."By itself, Stations might not look like big news in the bigger digital music picture: another on-demand streaming service adding personal radio to its features.But it's a reminder that Rdio is more than a minor player in this space, capable of innovating around seemingly-standard features, and pushing its bigger rivals to continue pushing forward themselves."They have a very engineering-led, agile culture: great on the front-end user experience side of things, but they also understand the importance of data as well," says Jim Lucchese, chief executive of The Echo Nest."Stations is a really elegant execution around what Taste Profiles are capable of, but still simple and intuitive. You're seeing their understanding of who you are as a music fan, which is an exciting step forward."
A one-liner has stuck around the games industry for a while now. What is Microsoft's successor to Xbox 360? The Xbox 180. Such has been the runup to the release of the Xbox One, which has featured more reverse-ferrets than a mirrored petting zoo – and all of them self-inflicted. Thursday brings another, but this time wrapped in the more interesting news of what exactly gamers will get for their investment of £429 – outlined in that most modern of formats, the "unboxing video".If you can't spare a few minutes of your life to watch big-budget QVC, fear not. The headline change here is theinclusion of a chat headset, because back in June Microsoft announced customers would have to buy it separately. The newly packed-in headset enables voicechat with three times the sampling rate of the Xbox 360 equivalent (ie clearer, a very welcome improvement), has in-line controls, can be worn on either ear, weighs a light 44 grams, and despite the "liquid black" finish still looks cheap as chips. But it'll certainly do the job.Thursdays other new details perhaps have more to do with the dazzle of jargon. The Category 2 HDMI cable in the box is capable of outputting on 1080p, 3D and 4K displays. This is arguably no less than you'd expect, but Microsoft could have plumped for a cheaper option – so fair play. Equally welcome is the step up in Xbox One's wireless adaptor, which now works on dual-band 2.4ghz and 5ghz frequencies.Also included is the new version of the Kinect sensor, but after this we get into the kind of territory that may have your eyes drooping – for example, the inclusion of a power supply. The Xbox One controller (also included) features more than 40 design improvements, it was reiterated, though the video somehow forgot to mention that the play &amp; charge kit (ie a bespoke rechargeable battery) is sold separately. There is also the bizarre boast that Xbox One's pad can be used without batteries – if you buy the aforementioned play &amp; charge kit, and use the cable included therein. What was that thing about razorblades and razors?Known quantities were re-stated; the console will have a 500GB hard drive, a slot-loading Blu-ray optical drive, HDMI input and output, three USB 3.0 ports, a Kensington security slot, IR blaster port, and a S/PDIF interface. Following the recent "increase" in Xbox One's GPU speed from 800 to 853MHz (a tit-for-tat announcement designed to stoke fan wars), this means that the only major spec left unknown is the speed of Xbox One's 8-core CPU, which will likely be announced at Gamescom – the rumour mill says to expect something around 1.6GHz.For me the greatest part of Thursday's announcement, the cherry on top, was a glimpse of the redeemable code included only for "Day One" purchasers, as Microsoft calls them. This code will grant its owner an "Achievement" [sic] upon entry – branding them among the community, if you will, forever after. And that's not all.Hand-in-hand with this is the Xbox One's embossed controller, which bears the legend "Day One 2013". This is an interesting phenomenon. It is as if Microsoft looked at the fetishisation of say, Apple products, and thought the Xbox One could do with a bit of that. The only difference being that the Xbox One is a big black rectangle rather than a svelte design masterpiece. These Day One bonuses clearly aren't aimed at me – that is, an adult – though one does wonder who goes in for this stuff.You sense that, in years to come, marketing students will look back on Xbox One's launch as a famous example. What could have been done better? With another policy reversal on Thursday, the answer is clearly "lots". But it is also important to give credit where it's due: as with Xbox One's always-online functionality and draconian copyright enforcement, it seems that the loud protests have been heard by Microsoft and, more importantly, acted upon. Such an attitude doesn't hide Xbox One's mistakes. But it does suggest that, once players are unboxing the thing rather than Major Nelson, there will be far fewer.
In 2010 I made a radio documentary about Eleanor Longden for BBC Radio 4. When I heard in 2012 that the TED conference in Long Beach, California, was doing a kind of talent search – looking to give the stage to people who might not normally have access to such a place – I thought of Eleanor. I told the TED people about her, they auditioned her in London, and she got through.Doing a TED talk is very anxiety-inducing. You have to stand there in front of people like Al Gore and Bill Gates. Plus people keep telling you it's the most important 18 minutes of your life. In my year, 2012, Susan Cain was doing her introvert talk and everyone kept saying: "Oh she's so brave giving a TED talk when she's an introvert." But when I was chatting with Susan Cain backstage I was the one so nervous and fidgety I destroyed my TED ID badge. It exploded in my hands. Whereas Susan Cain was FINE. I started worrying about what the stress of being at TED might do to Eleanor, given her previous mental health problems.It's six months later andEleanor's TED talkis about to go online, andTED is publishing a bookto go alongside it. They asked me to do an email Q&amp;A with her. So that was my first question.Eleanor Longden:Yes, I was definitely VERY nervous in the run-up. In fact the day of the talk itself was agony – like waiting to take an exam in front of a colossal audience. I was never worried that it would have a severe impact on me though. In fact having experienced such serious difficulties in the past has given me very useful skills in managing emotion and taking care of myself, more than I most likely would have had if the breakdown had never happened.Jon Ronson:OK. Let's talk about what happened to you. Whenever I tell anyone your story I always begin with a bit of a narrative flourish: you are just a regular student somewhere in England. And then one day you got out of bed and … what happened?EL:This brewing catastrophe began in a relatively mundane way; the appearance of a single, neutral voice, that calmly narrated what I was doing in the third person: "She is going to a lecture," "She is leaving the building." I was startled at first, very shaken. It was quite a weird sensation. But I got accustomed to it fairly quickly, because it was so unthreatening. I knew what voice-hearing was, of course, but this didn't seem anything like the types of frenzied, violent voices you read about in the media or saw in films. And after a while I even began to find it quite reassuring.Owing to a series of childhood traumas, I was a very anxious and unhappy teenager, and the voice's methodical observations started to feel like a reminder that in the midst of crushing unhappiness and self-doubt, I was still carrying on with my life and responsibilities. I even wondered whether other people had similar commentaries but just never talked about it.JR:But then you did something that anyone would do – it was the obvious thing to do – but it turned out to massively be your undoing. What was that?EL:One of my most fundamental mistakes was, as you say, something that seemed entirely natural at the time: talk to a friend about it. And she was UTTERLY horrified. She pretty much radiated fear and mistrust. And in turn, her anxiety was contagious. She insisted I seek medical help, and that really sealed the beginning of the end.JR:It's horrific, but the thought of it always kind of makes me laugh – you saying to your friend, "Hey, so this weird thing has started happening to me …" And your friend looking utterly horrified. Can you remember any of the conversation?EL:Well in a way it was even worse than that, because I was actually quite excited about it! I had really started making links between my emotions and the voice, and by putting this theory to the test, had achieved some positive results. In this instance, I'd stood up to another student in a particular seminar group who used to put me down a lot – usually, if I tolerated it, the voice would sound irritated, but when I was assertive and defended myself, it returned to its normal, calm tone. So I was – the irony! – actually looking forward to telling her about it. She was like: "Oh, that's great, what made the difference?" and I said "Well, there's this voice …" Her face! She thought I was winding her up. Really it would have been helpful if the voice had chipped in and said: "She is going to seriously regret this monumentally poor decision!" I remember her repeating several times "Voices? You mean you're hearing voices?" And gradually it began to sink in … what if this wasn't the harmless thing I'd thought it was?JR:So this story is about to get hugely worse. But before it does, let me ask a question. I remember when I was a kid once or twice hearing a kind of weird babble of voices in my head. Like there was a party going on and a whole bunch of people were all talking at once. It didn't bother me at all. I think a lot of people have had a similar experience. Hearing a voice just as they're falling asleep, or whatever. Before everything got worse for you, is that the kind of thing we're talking about? Something as innocuous as that?EL:That's a really interesting question, because what research suggests is that voice-hearing (and other unusual experiences, including so-called delusional beliefs) are surprisingly common in the general population. This recognition has led to the popularity of 'continuum models' of mental health, which suggests different traits and experiences are all part of human variation – not strictly categorical in terms of "us and them", "sane and insane", "normal and abnormal". However, I do think life events play a vital role in determining who becomes distressed and overwhelmed and who doesn't. This might include experiences of abuse, trauma, inequality, powerlessness and so on, but it can also include the immediate reactions of the people around you. If you don't have people who will accommodate your experiences, support you, and help you make sense of what's happening, then you're probably much more likely to struggle.JR:Right. So after your friend looked so shocked you went to see the campus doctor. And this was the turning point. What happened?EL:It was as if my friend had picked up a baton, which was handed to the doctor, then ultimately to a psychiatrist. The same consistent, frightening message: voice hearing = insanity. One of the worst parts though, was when this baton was passed to me. I was someone who'd always relied on the intellectual – I was afraid of strong emotions – and had always tried to rationalize problems and conflicts. Now it felt as if my main resource has betrayed me – my 'diseased mind' had let me down.JR:Can you tell me about the visit to the psychiatrist and how that ended up with you being committed?EL:The first psychiatrist I saw subscribed very much to the same view as my friend and the GP – that my voice (and bear in mind, it's still only a single voice at this time) was a sinister harbinger of something much more serious. The nurses in the same mental health service were actually really considerate and kind, trying to support me with my day-to-day concerns, and taking my anxieties seriously. But the psychiatrist was the polar opposite. She really made me feel like a walking inventory of symptoms. This forensic-like scrutiny grew to feel very frightening and de-stabilizing, and was basically sending the message that the only relevant thing about me was my deficits. Not my strengths, not my abilities or resources, just my Bad Brain. I was eventually admitted to hospital (voluntarily), and the impact of that was disastrous because it sealed my perception of myself from someone who was confused, unhappy and frightened into someone with an uncontrollable, carnivorous mental illness. Eventually, I was diagnosed with schizophrenia. The voices (which by this time had multiplied and become much more aggressive) were witheringly contemptuous about this: "You can't even SPELL schizophrenia," one of them said, "So what the hell are you going to do about having it?!"JR:So when people started treating the voice hearing as if it was scary and serious – when people gave it a label – it became scary and serious? What other things did the voices start saying to you?EL:For me personally, an analogy for all this is 'a psychic civil war'. You start taking a blaming, negative stance towards your own mind. And the more I began to become fearful and resistant towards the voices (shouting at them, trying to drown them out, being abusive towards them) the more persistent, intrusive, and aggressive they became. I explore this concept in a lot more detail in the TED Book, but it has been neatly summarized by Marius Romme, co-founder of the Hearing Voices Movement: voices are messengers that carry important messages about genuine problems in the person's life. Therefore it simply does not make sense to 'shoot the messenger' and deny the content of the message. My voices embodied all my (considerable) emotional problems.In fact, at this stage in my life I had more issues than National Geographic! What I would eventually learn is that the voices were part of the solution, but at the time they seemed like a colossal problem. Occasionally they could be quite witty and amusing, but far more often were frightening and malicious. I had quite a dysfunctional attachment to them. I was becoming so socially isolated that the voices became a source of companionship (as Oscar Wilde said: "The only thing worse than being talked about is not being talked about"!), but they could also turn extremely nasty without warning. They would discuss me amongst themselves, taunt me, and eventually, start commanding me to harm myself. It was impossible to please them – nothing I did was ever good enough. And of course, this sense of not being good enough, of feeling out-of-control in a world that could be arbitrary and cruel was a genuine fear I had, originating within myself because of previous traumas, that was being embodied by the voices.JR:Didn't they at one point say to you, "We can put everything back to how it was but you have to pass a series of tasks?" Like the Labours of Hercules?EL:It was like I was developing this weird, desperate illusion about pseudo-control – that somehow, if I could only try hard enough, it would be possible to turn things back to how they were. The voices very enthusiastically colluded with this! So they would start off with relative mundane instructions, like pulling out three strands of hair, but over time it rapidly escalated – wear nothing but red, don't use words starting with the letter 'B', don't write anything even remotely critical about this particular author (I was still at university at this time, so as you can imagine it made some of my essays pretty interesting reading!). They even told me to throw a glass of water over a tutor. Each time I would think, "This will be it, this is the task which will change everything." And it did change everything – but in a really negative, devastating way.JR:And did you throw the glass of water over the tutor?EL:I'm afraid to say I did! I quite shocked myself – even the voices were grudgingly impressed. But I guess it was an indicator of how desperate I was.JR:I suppose the big question at this point – and maybe it's an unanswerable question – is this: would the voices have got so aggressive and frightening if you'd never told your friend, and never seen that psychiatrist, and never been diagnosed as 'schizophrenic'?EL:Good question! And, as you say, hard to answer. Our society is given extraordinarily pessimistic messages about 'schizophrenia' (even though, as I discuss in my TED Book, the concept of schizophrenia as a valid entity is very problematic and contested) and in turn it can fill people with an overwhelming amount of hopelessness about themselves. Of course, everyone's recovery story is unique and different, just as our experiences are. But I think a crucial part is providing hope, information, and choice. And being given opportunities to make sense of what's happening to you, and what can be done about it: if passive drugging, sedation, and silencing is the cure response, then an active understanding, exploration, and integration of the emotional and social meaning of the person's experience is the recovery response. But my own feeling is that things would never have got as bad as they did if I'd had someone available from the beginning to help de-escalate this crisis in a more positive way.This is something, for instance, that 'Voice Collective' (voicecollective.co.uk), a young people's project in London, is very dedicated to doing. They provide reassuring information about voices, suggest coping strategies, organize peer-support groups for young voice hearers, and emphasize hopeful messages, including the fact that a lot of people hear voices and lead happy, fulfilling lives. In my own case, I believe the reason I began hearing voices had to do with traumatic life events, and this was a separate issue that certainly needed to be dealt with. But what actually happened was that I ended up on the Schizophrenia Scrapheap – diagnosed, drugged, discarded, and with all the problems that had driven me mad in the first place still unprocessed and unresolved. Plus a whole burden of new difficulties, in terms of stigma, discrimination, medication side-effects, and a crippling sense of hopelessness, humiliation and despair about myself.JR:OK. Let's get onto the worst part – how bad things got for you. I was telling someone your story a few months ago. His brother had been diagnosed with schizophrenia, and was apparently in a terrible state. When I told him about my friend Eleanor who had basically recovered for this reason and that, I could tell what he was thinking: 'Well, if this woman recovered the way Jon says she did then she can't have been THAT bad to begin with.' But things DID get that bad for you, right?EL:Oh yes, unfortunately, things got very bad indeed. At one point, my parents had to prevent me trying to drill a hole in my head to "get the voices out". (My mum still finds it very distressing to think about – in fact that was one of the reasons it was so wonderful to have her at TED, as it felt like a real shared triumph.)JR:So as extraordinary and shocking as your decline was, your recovery and subsequent successful life has been even more so. How the hell did you go from a person who was trying to drill a hole in her head to where you are now?EL:I don't think there was a single, defining turning point, more an accumulation and fusion of positive changes. Primarily, I was very fortunate to have people who never gave up on me – relationships that really honoured my resilience, my worth and humanity, and my capacity to heal. I used to say that these people saved me, but what I now know is that they did something even more important: they empowered me to save myself. My mum, for example, had an unconditional belief that I was going to come back to her and was willing to wait for me for as long as it took. I also met an amazing psychiatrist, who absolutely didn't subscribe to the idea of me as 'schizophrenic' – or any other label for that matter. "Don't tell me what other people have told you about yourself," he would say, "Tell me about you." Along with his nursing colleagues, he was incredibly proactive, pragmatic, creative, and empathic. Their approach was all about active coping rather than passive adjustment. Crucially, they also helped me get in touch with the UK Hearing Voices Network, which was an absolute revelation.For the first time, I had an opportunity to try and see my voices as meaningful – messages and metaphors about emotional problems in my life – and in turn begin to relate to them more peacefully and productively. I began to understand the voices (as well as my other experiences, like self-injury, anxiety, and paranoid beliefs) in a more compassionate way. Not as symptoms, rather as adaptations and survival strategies: sane reactions to insane circumstances. The voices took the place of overwhelming pain and gave words to it – memories of sexual trauma and abuse, rage, shame, loss, guilt and low self-worth. Probably the most important insight was when I realised that the most menacing, aggressive voices actually represented the parts of me that had been hurt the most – and as such, it was these voices that needed to be shown the greatest compassion and care. Which of course ultimately represented learning to show compassion, love, and acceptance towards myself.JR:So when did you first notice that the voices were becoming less threatening? Can you remember a moment when the voices became noticeably nicer?EL:It was a complex process and happened gradually – and some voices took longer to change than others. But primarily it was when I stopped attacking and arguing with them, and began to try and understand them, and relate to them more peacefully. It was about putting an end to the internal civil war I mentioned earlier, because each of them was part of a whole – me! I would thank them for drawing my attention to conflicts I needed to deal with. I remember one very powerful moment, several years down the line, when I said something like, "You represent awful things that have happened to me, and have carried all the memories and emotion because I couldn't bear to acknowledge them myself. All I've done in return is criticize and attack you. It must have been really hard to be so vilified and misunderstood." There was an immensely long pause before one of them finally responded: "Yes. Thank you."JR:So you went back to college then, and sat an exam, and something extraordinary happened.EL:I really struggled going back to university at first. I had to choose one really close to home as I wasn't able to live independently, and I messed up the first year so badly I needed to take a year off and re-take some of the exams, then return and study part-time. I was really devastated about this as it seemed like yet another set-back. Also, because my voices always got worse when I was stressed, they became very disruptive during exams. The University were brilliant though, and allowed me to sit them in a separate room with only myself and an invigilator, so I was able to talk to them very quietly, things like: "I know you're affected by how scared I feel, but please can you not talk to each other, it's really distracting." That's when something amazing happened, in that they didn't only apologize, one of them started dictating the answers. And he got them right!JR:And what grade did you get?EL:I finally ended up graduating with the British Psychological Society's Undergraduate Award and the highest first class degree the university had ever given for psychology, in terms of average grade scores. One year later I gained the highest ever MSc in Health Psychology. Which, as I always say, isn't bad for a mad woman.JR:Ha! And here we are. So. How are you making a living now?EL:I used to work in the NHS for an Early Intervention in Psychosis service, but left a few years ago to do my PhD. I also do freelance teaching, training, writing and public speaking.JR:Is it true that your voices were helping you out while you were on stage giving your TED talk?EL:Yes, it's true – they helped out in both London and California. One comment was "Go for it! You're doing great!", and they also acted as a prompt when I thought I was going to forget what I wanted to say next. There are other voices that can be a bit more unpredictable and undermining, but I'm so much more in control of them now that I was able to ask these voices to 'wait' in the hotel. And on the way to the venue, I visualized these voices relaxing somewhere separate from myself. So when I got back, these voices said, "How did it go?", and another said, "It was wicked!" (I doubt any therapy in the world could ever cure my voices' addiction to out-dated slang!).JR:Haha! And when was the very last voice that you heard?EL:I last heard voices yesterday. They were repeating something I'd read on the internet. The comment was: "I'm going to spoil the ending for you. The ending is – everything's going to be great!"JR:And this IS the ending. And everything IS going to be great. Thanks Eleanor.
Research by Ofcom has found that home broadband speeds have increased by 64% within a year, although rural households are still lagging behind.The average download speed for an urban household in May this year was 26.4Mbit/s compared to 9.9MBit/s in rural areas, and the difference between the two has increased since Ofcom conducted similar research in 2011.Though average connection speeds are increasing in rural areas, the lack of superfast services and slower ADSL was contributing to the problem."With the average household now owning more than three types of internet-connected devices, consumers are demanding more than ever from their broadband service," according to Ofcom consumer group director Claudio Pollack, who said internet providers are responding by upgrading customers to higher speed services and launching new superfast packages."We are yet to see the full effect of government measures to improve broadband availability in rural areas, which should also help to boost speeds. We also anticipate 4G mobile to have a positive effect on mobile broadband availability across the UK."Average UK connection speeds have increased fourfold since Ofcom first published its speeds data in November 2008.Around 19% of households now have super fast broadband of at least 30Mbit/s, up 8% in one year.Ofcom singled out network upgrades to Virgin Media's cable service as a major driver of faster fibre services which had doubled speeds for many customers.Ofcom found that Virgin's "up to" 120 MBit/s service offered the fastest download speeds with an average of 112.6 Mbit/s, while BT's "up to" 76 MBit/s delivered 61 MBit/s. Plusnet's "up to" 38 MBit/s achieved 33.7 MBit/s.
The total number of iPhone users will pass that for Android in the US next year, because those who join Apple's apps and services ecosystem tend to stay in its "black hole", according to a study by research firm Yankee Group.By contrast, existing Android owners are more likely to switch away to other platforms - and in the US a significant proportion are considering, or have moved to, the iPhone. It reckons that that means the US has hit "peak Android", in which ownership of the Google-powered phones will remain at about 34% of the overall population.The surprising prediction, in the face ofrapidly growing Android shipments worldwide, saw some confirmation in data released by ComScore.Thatshowedthat the total installed base of Android phones actually fell for the first time ever in June, by just 150,000 to 73.7m - while iPhone ownership continued an unbroken rise, increasing 1.3m in the month to 56.6m.US smartphone installed base, by platform, 2009-June 2013. Has Android peaked? Source: ComScore, GuardianAs the US smartphone market becomes increasingly saturated, with 59% of phone users already owning one according to ComScore, more people are replacing a smartphone purchased two or more years ago - and the data suggests that this is where Apple could reap benefits.Data from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners (CIRP) surveying 500 people in the US who had bought phones between January and March found that iPhone owners were the most loyal: 78% who had one went on to buy another, while for Android the figure was 67%.Yankee Group's data, which has been seen by the Guardian, suggests even higher loyalty: "only 9% of Apple owners plan to switch to another platform with their next phone purchase, while 24% of Android owners plan to defect from the platform," noted Carl Howe, its author, based on data collected from 16,000 people over the past 12 months in the US. It also says its data shows 18% of Android owners plan to buy iPhones subsequently, while 76% intended to remain with Android.Samsung surpriseSurprisingly, Yankee Group said that Samsung owners were not particularly loyal: "despite the 24 different models of smartphones Samsung offered in the US market between 2010 and 2012, only 56% of Samsung smartphone owners intend to buy another Samsung smartphone," Howe noted. That is the highest within the Android ecosystem, above Motorola's 45%, HTC's 40%, and LG's 35%. (Android's overall loyalty rate is higher than that for any individual manufacturer because some Android owners switch between brands.)"Most of Samsung's phone marketing budget today is spent on advertising and providing incentives to salespeople to push Samsung's phones," Howe commented. He suggests it should offer rebates, for loyalty, and "invest in providing more local service for broken and defective phones; many consumers who experienced 'sudden death' syndrome with their Galaxy S3s had to wait weeks to get replacements through their operators." He contrasted that with the availability of same-day replacement for faulty iPhones through Apple's own stores.Ecosystems as leaky bucketsYankee Group says that the battle of ecosystems between Android and Apple has now become key to people looking to renew their contract. "Once a consumer buys an iPhone, he or she is highly unlikely to switch to another ecosystem," it says, pointing to the loyalty figure. "Think of the Apple and Android ecosystems as two buckets of water. New smartphone buyers - mostly upgrading featurephone owners - fall like rain into the two big buckets about equally, with smaller numbers falling into Windows Phone and BlackBerry buckets."However, the Android bucket leaks badly, losing about one in five of all the owners put into it. The Apple bucket leaks only about 7% of its contents, so it retains more of the customers that fall into it. The Apple bucket will fill up faster and higher than the Android one, regardless of the fact that the Apple bucket hay have had fewer owners in it to begin with."With a limited supply of featurephone upgraders to draw from, the only way for Android to fill its bucket further is to leak fewer Android customers to other platforms." It recommends that Google find a way to "plug the loyalty leaks" by reinforcing the Android ecosystem brand, and crack down on manufacturers' varying implementations of the software: "Google can no longer afford its present laissez-faire attitude that allows hardware manufacturers to pick and choose Android features and deliver a sub-par experience that doesn't generate Android loyalty."BlackBerry defectionsBoth CIRP and Yankee Group's data highlighted the problems faced by BlackBerry. Both found that it had the lowest loyalty among any of the smartphone platforms: CIRP said only 10% of existing owners who bought a new phone remained on the platform between January and March, its study of 500 phone buyers found.Yankee Group's data, collected from 16,000 people over the past 12 months in the US, suggested even lower loyalty, finding the proportion of BlackBerry users intending to stay with it at around 5%.That tallies with the ComScore data, which suggests that BlackBerry's consumer installed base in the US has declined from 7.6m in January to 6.2m in June. Separately, research company IDCreckonedthat shipments of BlackBerry smartphones fell to just 5.1m, between April and June - lower than at any time since 2009.Android gets the largest number of featurephone users upgrading (50%), but iPhone retains users best (78%); BlackBerry does worst. Windows Phone figures were too small to be meaningful. Source: CIRPThe trend towards the iPhone in the US goes against broader global trends, where phones powered by Google's Android made up 80% of total smartphone shipments worldwide in the second quarter, while the iPhone comprised 13%. Viewed against the broader mobile market, Android-powered phones now make up 43% of the 432.1m mobile phones of all sorts shipped in the quarter, while Apple's iPhone - with 31.2m - was 7%, according to IDC.The figures for Android include shipments of "AOSP" - Android Open Source Platform - phones in China, which are reckoned to make up at least a third of the total Android shipments on their own. However Android phones also make up a sizeable majority of smartphone shipments in Europe, Asia and other regions.Feature attractionIn the US, Android does well in attracting buyers who own featurephones: the CIRP survey found that 50% of people who had a featurephone bought an Android phone, against 39% who got an iPhone. However both BlackBerry and Windows Phone fared badly in tempting featurephone users: only 3% of featurephone owners moved onto to either platform, against 6% who replaced their featurephone with another one.Yankee Group's figures suggest a closer race between the two main OSs in attracting featurephone users: it found that 35% of them planned to go to Android, against 33% for Apple.The figures offer little hope for Windows Phone or BlackBerry, however, which Yankee Group said could cull only 24% of upgraders. Of those, Windows Phone was significantly ahead, capturing 17% of intent against 7% for BlackBerry.Tablet filesYankee Group's study also suggests that similar loyalty dynamics apply in tablets, with 79% of iPhone owners who have a tablet owning an iPad, and 74% of those intending to get a tablet this year aiming for an iPad. Loyalty was less strong among Android phone owners, where only 50% intending to buy a tablet planned to get an Android one.For Microsoft, 45% of Windows Phone owners also had a Windows-powered tablet, and 67% of the remainder who planned to get a tablet this year intended to get a Windows one. But with Windows Phone penetration low, the overall benefit to Microsoft is low, Yankee Group suggested.
When photo-sharing appInstagram added video in June 2013, users couldn't import footage that was already stored on their smartphones: they had to shoot it within the app.That's now changed. Instagram rolled out version 4.1 of its app for iPhone and Android smartphones yesterday, and the main new feature is the ability to import video from the device's library."Starting today you can upload videos from your phone's media library and share those moments to Instagram regardless of when they were captured," explainsthe company's blog post."Once you select the video clip you'd like to import, you can trim it down to the exact part you like best. We've also made it so that you can choose how you square-crop your clip so you can keep the action front and center."This is mostly good news for Instagram users. For example, anyone shooting videos at a gig or sporting event with no Wi-Fi and/or dodgy 3G reception (i.e. most gigs and sporting events) can now film at the event and edit and upload to Instagram later over a more reliable connection.The new feature also has its risks for brands and media companies using Instagram, however. Particularly the former, who may be tempted to take their 15-second TV ads and slap them up on Instagram, rather than thinking harder about the nature of the app and its community, and creating clips for it specifically.Instagram's decision to make its maximum video length 15 seconds was arguably taken with a view to giving brands a format that would feel familiar, but when the feature first launched, some agencies welcomed the lack of video-importing as an encouragement to be more creative in their use of the app."As a consumer, the best news about the launch of Instagram video is that you can't import video – you have to shoot it in the app," Rufus Leonard's head of innovation Iain Millertold The Guardian at the time."Hopefully this will mean brands will try and understand what the medium is really good for, and create great new stuff - rather than lazily applying a filter to their existing TV ads."Now the temptation is there to do exactly that. But I suspect Instagram users will vote with their Like buttons for videos that are more interesting and creatively ambitious, spurring smarter brands and agencies to avoid such laziness.Also notable in Instagram 4.1 is the addition of video to the version of the app for smartphones running the Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich software. A significant change, given that according toGoogle's own stats, 22.5% of Android owners are still running Ice Cream Sandwich on their devices.
As two of YouTube's co-founders, Chad Hurley and Steve Chen have already played key roles in one disruptive video-sharing service. Now they're hoping to strike gold for a second time with a mobile app called MixBit.Launched asa free download for iPhonetoday, it's the latest product from their companyAVOS Systems, which last made headlines with itsacquisition of social bookmarking service Deliciousin June 2011.MixBit is a video-sharing app that "helps people create dynamic videos together" according to its App Store listing. It's launching into a market dominated by Twitter's Vine and Facebook's Instagram, although its emphasis on collaboration makes it closer to another startup,Vyclone.Users can shoot video clips between one second and an hour in length, edit them together and share them on MixBit's community, as well as to Facebook and Twitter. They are also encouraged to "view, collect and mix" videos from other MixBit users."We started YouTube to make it easy for everyone to share videos. Now we want to help people make great videos," explain AVOS' founders in the app's listing."We are a community of creators. We believe everyone has something interesting to say. We give people fun, intuitive tools to help them tell stories together. We think video should be a living, breathing entity and that creativity is a collaborative process."AVOS Systems is a venture capital-backed company, havingraised an undisclosed round of Series A fundingin April 2012 from Google Ventures, New Enterprise Associates, Madrone Capital and Innovation Works.Besides buying Delicious, the company has acquired several other startups includingdesign-prototyping app POP,analytics firm Tap11andlink-saving service Trunk.ly.The company also launchedZeen, a tool for people to create and share digital-magazine-like collections of text, images, music and videos that sits somewhere between Pinterest and Flipboard.MixBit is AVOS' latest product, with Hurley having dropped regular hints in recent interviews about the app's aims and approach."The new stuff I'm thinking about is how do you remove the identity from some of the things that have been going on today with social? And how do you combine people so it allows them to work together in more collaborative ways?" he said during aMarch interview for tech podcast Foundation."It's not about the individual, it's about the content they create... We're working on some ideas about how people could collaboratively work together to create better content. I call it structured storytelling."MixBit's ability for users to collect and mix videos has plenty of creative potential, but also could spark discussions about copyright in a similar way to YouTube in its early years."Over time, all content is going to be distributed digitally and consumed on any type of device, so rights are a grey area,"Hurley told the Australian Financial Reviewearlier this month.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Oculus appoints John Carmack as CTO | DevelopId software co-founder and technical director John Carmack has joined Oculus as its chief technology officer.Carmack will work from the virtual reality company's new office in Dallas, which the firm is currently in the process of staffing up.The story goes on to add:Update: Id Software has said John Carmack is not leaving the company, and will "continue to provide leadership" for its games in development.This is an interesting coup for Oculus, and it'll no doubt add to the technology's status going forward. A momentum is clearly building behind the device, which has so far been largely confined to the hardcore gaming sector. Having the creator of Doom onboard, ramps things up. And, of course, he brings yet more technical genius to the platform.Xbox One Game DVR restricted to Gold subscribers | CVG UKXbox One owners will need to subscribe to Xbox Live Gold if they hope to make use of the console's new Game DVR functionality.According to an Xbox Live promo page on the official Xbox website, the feature is among a list of benefits offered exclusively to Xbox Live Gold accounts holders, suggesting that non-subscribers will find the feature completely disabled.Surely this makes sense: gamers who record footage will no doubt be wanting to share it with their Xbox Live buddies – so they'll need a connected account anyway. Plus, multiplayer footage will no doubt figure highly in the output.Nintendo still selling Wii U at a loss | GamesIndustry InternationalThose holding out hope for a Wii U price cut to combat system launches from Microsoft and Sony may want to brace for disappointment. A Nintendo representative confirmed for GamesIndustry International today that the company's hardware is still being sold at a loss.New PlayStation 4 pre-orders no longer guaranteed for launch | Eurogamer.netSony can no longer guarantee that if you pre-order a PlayStation 4 in the UK you'll get it at launch.A directive was sent to a number of UK retailers including Amazon and ShopTo.ShopTo displayed the message first: "Sony have confirmed all PlayStation 4 pre-orders placed from 6th August will now not be guaranteed for launch. You can still pre-order PS4 with us in case we receive cancellations and can fulfil your order for launch."Ubisoft Signs Console Game Deal with Hasbro | IGNUbisoft has signed a deal with toy-giant Hasbro, allowing the publisher to develop and publish console games based on popular Hasbro board game properties for current and next-gen hardware.Monopoly, Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit, Risk, Battleship, and Cranium are among the brands confirmed by the recently announced deal.EA held the license before Ubisoft anddidmake that passable version of Scrabble that let you use your smartphone as your letters board – but then it hasn't released a Hasbro title in some time. What can Ubisoft bring to these classic board games?Maybe some cross branding... An Assassin's Creed version of Monopoly? Splinter Cell Risk?You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWorld's biggest data breaches &amp; hacks &gt;&gt; Information Is BeautifulWorld's Biggest Data Breaches: Selected losses greater than 30,000 recordsDavid McCandless, of "Information is Beautiful" fame, gets to work. Some of the biggest aren't what you'd expect.LG puts buttons on back of G2 smartphone &gt;&gt; BBC NewsThe new device features a 5.2in (13.2cm) screen and is powered by Android.Its rear keys can be used to adjust its volume or - if pressed for a longer time - to activate the device's camera and note-taking software.LG suggests that using a back-button to take a self-portrait with the front camera also makes it easier to take a steady shot."Moving the main buttons to the back of the phone gave users more control since this place was where individuals' index fingers are naturally located," it said."Researchers also found that moving the buttons also resulted in fewer dropped phones when adjusting the volume while talking."Novel, and rather clever, idea.Apple iPhone charger teardown: quality in a tiny expensive package &gt;&gt; Ken Shirriff's blogDisassembling Apple's diminutive inch-cube iPhone charger reveals a technologically advanced flyback switching power supply that goes beyond the typical charger. It simply takes AC input (anything between 100 and 240 volts) and produce 5 watts of smooth 5 volt power, but the circuit to do this is surprisingly complex and innovative.Really tiny too. Transformers are really fascinating when you dig into them. (Thanks @AlanAudio for the link.)Twitter's killer new two-factor solution kicks SMS to the curb &gt;&gt; Wired.comThe new two-factor system works like this. A user enrolls using the mobile app, which generates a 2048-bit RSA keypair. The private key lives on the phone itself, and the public key is uploaded to Twitter's server.When Twitter receives a new login request with a username and password, the server sends a challenge based on a 190-bit, 32 character random nonce, to the mobile app — along with a notification that gives the user the time, location, and browser information associated with the login request. The user can then opt to approve or deny this login request. If approved, the app replies to a challenge with its private key, relays that information back to the server. The server compares that challenge with a request ID, and if it authenticates, the user is automatically logged in.Think that's clever? Wait until you read the solution for how it does it when youdon'thave your phone.Shipments of second-generation Nexus 7 estimated at 3.5m in 2013 &gt;&gt; DigitimesGlobal shipments of the second-generation Nexus 7 through the end of 2013 are estimated at 3.5m, mainly because the model will not be launched in the China market and there is competition from other 7in tablets, according to sources with Taiwan's supply chain.The sources pointed out that the new Nexus 7 is unable to enter the China market due to Google's decision to quit the China market in 2010 after the US company refused to comply with some of China government's Internet policies.…The first-generation Nexus 7 has shipped 6m units in total so far since it was launched in July 2012.The Chinese government bit seems a bit odd - was China ever a target for the N7? - but Digitimes tends to be right on Taiwan-based gossip. Remember that it was one of the first to point to the Surface being a slow seller.$1.5 million Cyberheist Ruins Escrow Firm &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:A $1.5m cyberheist against a California escrow firm earlier this year has forced the company to close and lay off its entire staff. Meanwhile, the firm's remaining money is in the hands of a court-appointed state receiver who is preparing for a lawsuit against the victim's bank to recover the stolen funds.The heist began in December 2012 with a roughly $432,215 fraudulent wire sent from the accounts of Huntington Beach, Calif. based Efficient Services Escrow Group to a bank in Moscow.Big money to be made (and lost) through these things.Display ratio change (again) &gt;&gt; Lenovo BlogsMatt Kohut on the official Lenovo blog:I stated in my last post that the industry is going to go through yet another display ratio change over the next year or so. For years we've had 4:3 "square" displays. These have all but disappeared from the market as the current standard is 16:10 "wide." The industry is about to move yet again to true 16:9 wide. This means that the ratio of your PC display will match that of your HDTV. This change won't happen overnight, but will phase in gradually. In fact, it's already started. Many of the newest consumer notebooks, especially in the 15" class, now sport the more rectangular 16:9 display. If you pay attention to this sort of thing, then you'll notice that your display gets shorter yet again vertically. For manufacturers, this makes it easier to put full size keyboards inside their notebooks (though most won't). Again, we can thank the LCD manufacturers for this change. By cutting everything in the same aspect ratio, they have less waste per large sheet of glass.Hope you didn't think the change was driven by customer demand. (It's a fascinating blogpost with detail about minimum order quantities too.)Anonymity Smackdown: NSA vs. Tor &gt;&gt; Errata SecurityPointing out that the NSA is believed to control a number of Tor (anonymity) servers:By default, Tor chooses three hops: the ingress point, the egress point, and only a single in-between node. If the NSA is able to control one or two of these nodes, you are still okay because the third node will protect you. But, if the NSA is able to control all three, then your connection is completely unmasked.This means that the NSA occasionally gets lucky, when somebody's connection hits three NSA nodes, allowing them to unmask the user.Update: If we assume the NSA controls 1% of Tor nodes, that comes out to one-in-a-million chance the NSA will unmask somebody on any random connection. If a million connections are created per day, that means the NSA unmasks one person per day.The last calculation is wrong, of course. There's about a 66% chance that one person will be unmasked each day. (It's 1 - (0.999999)^1000000.)Discover great in-depth articles on Google &gt;&gt; Inside SearchGoogle's official search blog:To understand a broad topic, sometimes you need more than a quick answer. Ourresearchindicates perhaps 10% of people's daily information needs fit this category - topics like stem cell research, happiness, and love, to name just a few. That's why over the next few days we'll be rolling out a new feature to help you find relevant in-depth articles in the main Google Search results.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google is the latest company to enter the increasingly-crowded market for streaming music services in the UK, with the launch of its Google Play Music All Access.It joins Spotify, Deezer, Rdio, Xbox Music, Sony's Music Unlimited, Rara and others jostling for attention among British music fans, although unlike those rivals, Google's service will have no free option.All Access launched in the US in May, and then in Australia and New Zealand in July. Its UK debut is part of a wider European rollout: Austria, Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal and Spain are also getting it today.In the UK, the subscription-based service will usually cost £9.99 a month, like most of those rivals, but people signing up before 15 September will pay £7.99 a month.Google's service shares many of the features of its competitors: unlimited "on-demand" access to a catalogue of millions of tracks from major and independent labels; apps for smartphones and tablets as well as a website; recommendations for new music from Google's editorial team; and a personalised radio feature that streams songs similar to specific tracks or artists.One of All Access' key features is the way it integrates with Google's cloud locker service, which enables people to store up to 20,000 songs from their existing digital music collection on its servers and play them alongside tracks from the All Access catalogue.For now, Google's service will be a standalone subscription in the UK, although in the US, the company isreportedly in talks with telco Verizonto bundle the service into its mobile tariffs.That's a model that already exists in the UK. Just ahead of All Access' launch here, mobile operator Vodafone announced that customers signing up to its 4G service when it launches later this month will be able to choose tobundle a Spotify or Sky Sports mobile TV subscriptioninto their tariff.Google sees streaming music as the latest piece in its growing suite of entertainment services offered through its Google Play hub, as it goes head to head with Apple's iTunes."With today's launch, Google Play moves one step closer to your ultimate digital entertainment destination, where you can find, enjoy and share your favourite apps, games, books, movies, magazines, TV shows and music on your Android phone or tablet," says Paul Joyce, product manager for Google Play Music.Apple has yet to launch an on-demand streaming music service as part of iTunes, although it is preparing for the US debut this autumn of iTunes Radio, which will focus on personalised radio. A UK launch date has not yet been announced.The British music industry has had a bumpy relationship with Google, welcoming its activities in legal digital music services, while regularly attacking the company for not doing more to downgrade piracy sites in its search-engine results, and to prevent its advertising network being used by these sites as a source of income.Google promised in August 2012that it would start penalising sites in its search rankings if they sparked large numbers of valid copyright-removal notices from rightsholders.A few months later, the boss of music industry body the BPI, Geoff Taylor, wascriticising Google for moving too slowly on this score."Google's transparency report shows they know clearly which are most infringing domains," he told The Guardian. "Yet three months into the much-vaunted algorithm change, many of these illegal sites are still dominating search results for music downloads."Still, the music industry has welcomed Google's entry into the streaming music market, which is growing fast in the UK and elsewhere in the world.BPI figures show that UK music fans streamed more than 3.7bn tracks in 2012, generating more than £49m in revenues for British record labels and accounting for 15.2% of the industry's digital music income.Globally, 20m people paid to use subscription music services in 2012, according to another industry body, the IFPI, which has highlighted streaming's impact in Sweden and Norway as a sign of bright times ahead for other countries.Music industry revenues were up12% in Swedenand17% in Norwayin the first half of 2013, with streaming subscriptions accounting for 70.5% of all recorded-music sales in Sweden during that period, and 66% in Norway.Labels are hoping fierce competition among streaming services in the UK can lead to a similar upswing in industry revenues, after more than a decade of piracy-fuelled decline.Not everyone in the music industry is enthralled by this new business model, however. Some artists have spoken out about their dissatisfaction with the amount of money they get paid by Spotify and its rivals, which currently averages out at around 0.4p per stream.Atoms for Peace recently reignited the debate by removing their albums from streaming services, with band members Thom Yorke and Nigel Godrichtweeting their criticisms of Spotifyin particular."Streaming suits catalogue but cannot work as a way of supporting new artists. Spotify and the like either have to address that fact and change the model for new releases or else all new music producers should be bold and vote with their feet," wrote Godrich."Catalogue and new music cannot be lumped in together. The model massively favors the larger companies with big catalogues."Thus far, Spotify has been fielding most of the flak on this issue, but the entry into the market of Google – given that separate debate on its approach towards piracy sites in its search rankings – may draw some of the fire.
It's Thursday.
Malcolm Turnbull has ridiculed Kevin Rudd's question about whether theCoalition's broadbandpolicy launch at Fox Studios, owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, was further evidence of commercial motivations behind anti-Labor editorials in Murdoch papers.Turnbull, the Coalition's communications spokesman, said he and the opposition leader, Tony Abbott had held the launch at the venue "because it was colourful and it would look good on television".And he said it was ridiculous that the prime minister had presented the launch site as some kind of revelation, since "it was hardly a secret. It was on every station, every network.""Kevin Rudd looks like Tintin but he's not much of a detective," Turnbull said.Abbott also weighed in, saying:  "We have a prime minister with a glass jaw and a thin skin."Turnbull said Murdoch's views on the "over-expensive" NBN were "very mundane" and widely held.He repeated his analysis that in fact the Coalition's broadband policy – which Turnbull says would deliver fast speeds more quickly and affordably – would in fact pose a bigger threat to Foxtel, which is half owned by News Corp."If Mr Murdoch was sitting there in his bat cave plotting out his preferred position on the NBN as he is in Kevin's fevered imagination … he would prefer Labor's policy because it's probably never going to get built," Turnbull said.Speaking on the ABC's 7.30 on Wednesday night, Rudd said it was the "democratic right" of the News Corp chairman to call for his removal as the prime minister and for News Corp papers to editorialise against him, asthe Daily Telegraph did with its front page headline on Monday, "Finally you have the chance to Kick This Mob Out."But he added: "The question I posed through this is simple as follows: what is underneath all this? Is it to do with the national broadband network representing a commercial threat to Foxtel?"I've seen some commentary on that and I've only just been looking back on the files today and discovered that in fact Mr Abbott's NBN policy was launched at the Fox Studios here in Sydney. I would like to hear some answers as to what discussions Mr Abbott may have had with Mr Murdoch on the future of Australia's national broadband network."The Daily Telegraph front page on Thursday.Labor woke on Thursday to another hard-hitting front page in the Telegraph about the "revelation" that the deputy prime minister, Anthony Albanese, had had a beer with the former Labor MP Craig Thomson, who resigned after charges regarding the use of his credit card. Albanese was portrayed as the bumbling Sergeant Schultz from Hogan's Heroes, Rudd as Colonel Klink and Craig Thomson as Hogan. The headline was: "I know nuthink."Asked on Wednesday night whether there had been any conversations with Murdoch about the commercial impact of the major parties' rival broadband plans on Foxtel, Turnbull told Guardian Australia, "None with me at all.""I don't know anyone in the business world who doesn't think the NBN is reckless and irresponsible and I imagine Mr Murdoch has the same view," he said.And he pointed to ablog he posted on Sundayin response to a newspaper column, in which he argues the Coalition broadband plan poses the greater threat to Foxtel because it would offer sufficient download speeds to bypass Foxtel and get videos and television shows directly from the internet, but more quickly and cheaply than under Labor's national broadband network.Foxtel has said fast broadband presents opportunity as well as threat. In a statement this week it said it "welcomes the deployment of broadband networks in Australia."Better broadband will improve Foxtel's ability to reach new customers and offer new services … today's broadband supports products such as Foxtel Go [Foxtel's mobile offering] and Foxtel Play [Foxtel's internet protocol television product]. Even without government intervention, these networks would have developed and expanded."If government action improves in the reach and quality of broadband networks, or ensures that they are deployed more quickly, Foxtel will benefit by being able to offer products such as Go and Play to more Australians.Murdoch has also tweeted: "We all like ideal of NBN, especially perfect for Foxtel. But first how can it be financed in present situation?"Rudd has adopted a deliberate strategy of "calling out" what Labor strategists believe is a concerted anti-ALP campaign, waged in particular by the Telegraph, which is widely read in the crucial western Sydney electoral battleground, and the Courier-Mail in Rudd's home state of Queensland, where Labor must win seats if it is to have any chance of victory. Some believe the "hostile views" of those two papers are targeted to influence the outcome of the election.A spokesperson for News Corp has this week responded to Rudd's claims about the Telegraph: "Every newspaper in the free world exercises its right to editorialise its position before an election, often on the front page. The Daily Telegraph supported Kevin Rudd in the 2007 election. This time it does not."And regarding News Corp's coverage of the NBN, the spokesperson said: "Our mastheads have, quite rightly, scrutinised a massive piece of government spending which is devoid of a cost-benefit analysis. But that does not equate to being against faster internet speeds – indeed The Australian in particular has constantly editorialised in favour of high-speed broadband – it is great for productivity and for our own business."The deputy opposition leader, Julie Bishop, said Rudd's attacks on News Corp were a sign he was "losing the plot"."I do recall that when Kevin Rudd lost the leadership to Julia Gillard, he hot-footed over to New York to seek career advice from none other than Rupert Murdoch. So he's spent the last three years leaking against his colleagues, getting stories in News Corporation papers and now that the News Corporation editorial doesn't think that he's fit to be prime minister, a view that his colleagues share, all of a sudden it's a conspiracy and then he's got this theory that somehow Malcolm Turnbull launching our broadband policy at Fox Studios was something sinister," she told the ABC's Lateline program."I mean, seriously? It's a showcase for high technology. It would have looked good on TV. Why wouldn't you launch your broadband policy there? But for Kevin to find something sinister in that, I think he's lost the plot."
When unveiling the first iPad in January 2010, Steve Jobs suggested that it would fill a gap between the smartphone and the PC - one that at the time was being taken on by netbooks. "The problem is netbooks aren'tbetterat anything," Jobs said at the time. "They're just cheap laptops. And we don't think they're a third category of device."Now,netbooks are dead, and Forrester Research says that Jobs was right - and that the tablet format has become the "third form" of computing, along with the other two. The tablet, it suggests, has become like a microwave in a kitchen: a mainstay device that people expect access to both at home and work.Forrester's new report, which the Guardian has seen, suggests tablets will become a mainstay of households in developed markets by 2017, with 60% of online consumers in North America and 42% in European owning one by 2017. By then 905 million people worldwide, equivalent to one in eight of the global population, will have one, predicts Forrester Research.The figures compare with PCs, which took over 20 years to pass the 1bn installed base mark in 2008. Another research group, Gartner, reckons the installed base will reach 1.5bn by the end of this year, but sales are dwindling amid lengthening replacement cycles and growing consumer interest in tablets and smartphones.Taking off with the tabletsBy contrast the tablet market is enjoying rocketing growth.New figures from a separate research business IDCshow that in the second quarter of 2013 worldwide tablet shipments rose by 60% year-on-year to 45.1m, even while the three top-line vendors Apple, Samsung and Asus all saw a sequential drop in sales. Apple also saw year-on-year sales drop in the absence of a refreshed version of its iPad. And while Apple was the single largest vendor, with 32.5% of the market, Google's Android took over the majority share with 62.6%.Forrester's analysis points to tablets becoming an essential part of office as well as home life, which will "catapult the tablet from merely a popular mass-market device to a highly visible mainstay device among consumers and businesses in developed nations.""Tablets have hit hyper-growth," Forrester notes in its new report. "Using a kitchen metaphor, we could say they have become the microwave of personal computing, after the refrigerator and the oven. In other words, they have exceeded the status of mass market to become what we can term a 'mainstay' device'… the earlier big two - the PC and the smartphone - have become a big three."It reckons tablet sales will grow at a compound rate of 25.6% annually through to 2017 to reach 381m - larger than the worldwide PC market has ever been.Yet even that figure looks modest compared to a forecast made in May by IDC, which reckoned that in 2017 tablet sales would hit 410m, against PC sales of 333m down from a 2011 peak of 364m.How IDC's forecasts for tablet sales (yellow) and PCs (red/green/blue/navy) have changed from June 2011 to May 2013. Source: IDCIn fact, a series of forecasts shown above from IDC (collated by The Guardian) show that it has kept raising its forecasts for how many tablets will be sold (the yellow column) while cutting that for PCs (the other colours supporting the yellow column). Each successive line on the graph is a newer forecast; on each, the red line is a little lower - in some cases, substantially so.And if you're wondering how accurate they are, the green overlays show the years where the prediction has met reality. For 2012, it's particularly noticeable that a small initial forecast for tablets, and large one for PCs, shifted the other way - and in the end saw more tablets shipped than initially expected.That points to deeper travails for companies which rely mainly on PCs for their business and profits. IDC's second-quarter tablet figures contrast withits figures for PC shipments for the quarterof 75.6m – which fell by 11.4% year-on-year. That means that tablet shipments are now 60% as large as PC shipments, in a category which had languished since Microsoft created it in 2000 until January 2010, when Apple reinvigorated it with the first iPad.Since then Apple has sold 140m iPads, and they have begun to filter into businesses such as British Airways, American Airlines and Barclays Bank. Dell, meanwhile, which doesn't have an offering in either tablets or smartphones, is struggling so badly that it is going private in order to give itself time to reinvent itself and its offerings. HP, which burnt more than $1bn on the TouchPad, has only just got into the tablet business (with a £129 7in Android tablet), which doesn't seem to have made any impact on its PC business, which in the quarter to 22 May was down 20%.The key to tablets' success, says Forrester, is its "hyper-portability": it can be used in the home, while travelling, in restaurants (30% of adults with a tablet said they'd done that), while at work "tablets rival smartphones in terms of their mobility" for applications ranging from simple email to LOB (line of business) apps: Logitech created a proprietary tablet app for its sales staff in China which can take photos of retail outlets to check inventory and window displays, tagged to location. It's the sort of thing that would be unwieldy - or impossible - with a conventional laptop, and hugely fiddly on a smartphone.Small isn't always beautifulThe introduction by Amazon of the Kindle Fire, and then Google's Nexus 7, followed by Apple's iPad mini, and the successive media coverage might make it seem that small tablets are what people really want.Not so, says Forrester: 61% of people who own or "have interest in" tablets preferred tablets between 8.9in and 10.1in (the Kindle Fire HD 8.9 through to the iPad and Samsung 10.1). Then, 16% prefer the smaller 7in-8in size. So that leaves 23% who could be persuaded either way. There are some who could be interested in even larger tablets (there have been rumours, unsubstantiated, of Apple working on a 13in iPad). But the key element is that there's a sizeable segment who need to see a tablet in a shop before deciding.As for Windows, there's a little chink of light: "20% of global information workers indicated that they would prefer to use Windows 8 on their next tablet," a Forrester survey found in Q4 2012. But that's only if the ecosystem of apps for it - both in size and quality - improves.As for Apple, its eclipse in the latest IDC figures isn't a cause for worry, by Forrester's lights. "iOS will continue to maintain a lead, albeit at a diminished plurality of market share, due to the incredible ecosystem of applications and support for the platform," it suggests.But for the PC businesses, the outlook still looks grim. PC sales are only falling - and the "post-PC" age, where the PC of old is only one of many ways in which we carry out computing tasks, is becoming more and more clear. PCs do one class of task; smartphones do another; and tablets do a class that slots in between both of those.One thing's clear - they're not netbooks, which hit a total of 60m shipped worldwide in 2010. They wereforecast to hit double that number this year- whereas instead the figure is 100% lower. But then, predicting the future has always been fraught.
For British parents, it's now deep into the summer holidays. You've been to the soft-play centre twice, exhausted the potential of the local play-park, and been banned from the paddling pool due to that unfortunate floating-object incident.(Well, how could you have known it'd escape from the waterproof nappy?)Half the parents I know already have a thousand-yard when-does-term-start-again stare on their faces. The other half are just better at hiding it. Keeping children occupied for six weeks ishard.Apps can help with that. Here are 20 recently-released children's apps that may captivate your children – for a few minutes at least – while also gently flexing some of the educational muscles that they developed during the last school year.One important point: these aren't intended as a replacement for trips out, playdates, physical play, reading or kids occupying themselves. It's not an either/or situation: digital learning and play can complement all this. And this particular selection is weighted towards apps that are fun to use together with your children, rather than by kids alone.Another important point: I'm sensitive to Android-owning parents complaints that these kind of roundups tend to be skewed towards iOS, so this time I've divided it into 10 for each platform (with three apps appearing in both).That said, all the Android apps are also available on iOS. No bias here, just a reflection of the children's apps market, where it's super-rare to see Android-exclusive apps.Sago Mini Doodlecast for iPhone and iPadIPHONE / IPADSago Mini Doodlecast (£1.49)Aimed at 2-6 year-olds, this is an app for creating stories and sharing them with family members. It gets children to draw pictures on the touchscreen, while talking about what they're scribbling. The results are saved as videos, which can be exported to the Camera Roll and sent on from there. The app also offers 36 "drawing prompts" to suggest scenarios and spark ideas.Ladybird: Read it Yourself (£1.99 – iPad-only)The latest app from book publisher Penguin's famous Ladybird imprint, this offers stories across four levels of reading ability with illustrations, animation and comprehension questions and puzzles. Parents also get tips on how to discuss each story with their child. Four are included, with others sold as £1.99 in-app purchases, including tales from Peppa Pig, Moshi Monsters and Charlie and Lola.Curious George's Town (£1.99)Curious George's Town is a CityVille-style town-building game starring the famous cartoon monkey, where children construct buildings and buy animals (and dinosaurs) with virtual coins. Which would normally set off an "IN-APP PURCHASES ALERT" klaxon, except IAP isn't used here. Instead, the game aims to teach kids about saving their virtual resources up, earning more coins for completing parent-set tasks in the real world.Justin Fletcher's Lettersounds (£1.49)CBeebies star Justin Fletcher (aka Mr Tumble) has released two apps for children this year, and both are excellent. This one focuses on the first eight letter sounds that children will encounter as part of their phonics learning – so it's a great primer for kids starting reception class in September. The app combines video of Justin with animation and simple, clear mini-games to teach the sounds of s, a, t, p, i, n, m and d.colAR Mix (Free)Augmented reality can feel like a gimmick in many adults' apps, but in children's apps it can be a delight when done well. colAR Mix looks to have plenty of potential, especially in the way it encourages pencil'n'paper colouring rather than purely on-screen entertainment. You print out pictures from the developer's website, kids colour them in, and then when you point your iOS device's camera at them, the drawing springs to life in 3D.Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo for iPhone and iPadMr Shingu's Paper Zoo (£1.99)This is another game that you might expect to use in-app purchases, but which doesn't. It sees children creating and curating their own digital zoo, folding its animals together origami-style on-screen. There are elements of virtual pet games too, as they keep the animals happy with food and toys. And in more digital-to-physical fun, the origami bits act as a handy tutorial for making the animals in the real world.Toca Builders (£1.49)Lots of people are calling this Minecraft-for-kids, although a more accurate way of putting it would be Minecraft for kids slightly younger than the kids who *are* playing Minecraft. It gets children to craft houses, people or whatever they like from 3D blocks, using six robots – each with their own skill. Developer Toca Boca has also beenpublishing YouTube video tutorialsto give children and parents some tips on how to get started.Night Zookeeper Teleporting Torch (£0.69 iPad-only)More drawing here from another well-crafted app that aims to spark children's creativity, rather than imposing too many restrictions. Set in a zoo full of magical animals, this sets kids a series of "drawing and story writing missions" – between three and six a day – setting a brief and then letting kids run with it. Parents can log in to a website dashboard and set their own missions too. The startup behind this cut its teeth going into classrooms and running creativity workshops – that experience is reflected well in the app.Where's My Mickey? (£0.69)Disney's Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry? games were hits with children and adults alike, but the latest in the series stars the company's most famous character of all. Children have to help Mickey Mouse through more than 100 physics-based puzzles, with the use of IAP restricted to paying 69p for an additional set of levels starring Goofy. It's a good brain-stretching game for young problem-solvers.Despicable Me: Minion Rush (Free)The official game for family film Despicable Me 2 has been a monster hit, notching up 50m downloads in its first month alone. The inspiration is obvious: the Temple Run endless-runner games, albeit with a cheeky movie Minion in the main running role, and various characters and settings from the films appearing too. This is one game where parents will need to have their IAP-restriction settings sorted –here's a guide to doing that– as virtual tokens are sold in amounts of up to £34.99.colAR Mix for AndroidANDROIDcolAR Mix (Free)One of three apps to appear in both iOS and Android lists here, colAR Mix is one of the most innovative AND fun uses for augmented reality I've seen so far in a children's app. As parents, you download and print out pictures for children to colour in. Then point your Android device's camera at them to see the objects – planes, shoes, dragons etc – come to life in 3D.Where's My Mickey? (£0.64)As on iOS, this is a strong entry in Disney's series of Where's My mobile games, with Mickey Mouse working his way through more than 100 levels of physics-puzzle action. The look of the game is interesting: it adopts the same visual style as the new Mickey Mouse cartoons that Disney launched this summer. It's fun for children and adults alike, but perhaps best when they work together to solve the puzzles: a sign that apps aren't just for digital-babysitting, despite what their detractors often suggest.Despicable Me: Minion Rush (Free)Again, it's hard to overstress the popularity of the official Despicable Me game since its release in June: Google has it in the 10m-50m installs bucket on Android's Google Play store, but given the game's overall 50m+ downloads on iOS and Android, I'm guessing the latter is north of 30m by now. The game is a Temple Run-style endless runner, with Minions and other characters from the Despicable Me films. As on iOS, make sure you have your IAP settings restricted, to prevent your kids splashing your cash on virtual tokens.Thumbelina (£2.99)Developer StoryToys takes its inspiration from pop-up books, with Thumbelina its latest release for Android. The app takes Hans Christian Anderson's fairytale and presents it as a mixture of text and pop-up scenes, with mini-games including bean-planting, wedding dress-creating and playing music. The interactivity is fun, but it doesn't distract hugely from the story itself.Gomma Friends (£0.76)More digital/physical crossover here. Gomma Friends is a dressing-up app where children create scenes and give people virtual clothing to wear. At the end of each scene, they unlock one of 16 paper models which can be printed out and folded into a real object.Dipdap for AndroidDipdap (£1.99)Dipdap isn't one of the highest-profile cartoons on CBeebies, but it's a favourite for many parents and children. This is its official app, based around drawing to match the scribbly nature of the TV animations. There are 16 missions where kids have to draw missing objects to help the Dipdap character complete his task, plus a free-drawing mode where he reacts to the lines your kids are tracing on the touchscreen.Toca Hair Salon 2 (£0.81)It took a while for iOS developer Toca Boca to reach Android, but Toca Hair Salon 2 is hopefully the first of many of its apps to make the leap. Here, your children will be playing hairdresser, with a set of six characters wanting their hair cut, styled, washed, dyed and curled/crimped. As with other Toca Boca titles, there is no IAP or advertising.Max's Pirate Planet (£0.62)Pitched as a "board game adventure", this takes its cues from real-world board games, with a piratical theme and up to four people playing at once. You and your children will be sailing the globe looking for map pieces, battling with swords and cannon, and encountering bats, sea monsters and other pirates as you go.The Shape Monster (Free)This is aimed at children aged two and up, helping them to learn shapes by feeding a "hungry, food-slobbered monster". A good description of the average two year-old... Shape Monster tells your child what shape he wants dragged from the bottom of the screen, with two levels of varying difficulty to cater for different ages and abilities.10monkeys Multiplication (Free)Finally, a maths game for children that teaches times tables from two to 10, with monkey-based mini-games, high-score tables and controls easy enough for children to grasp quickly – and thus concentrate on the sums rather than the interface. It's a good example of a mini-wave of maths games (the Squeebles apps deserve an honourable mention here too) that are fun without losing their educational value (and, indeed, which are educational without being dry).That's the 20, but if you're still looking for inspiration, read the earlier50 best apps for kids from 2013 that parents can trustroundup, or last year's50 best children's apps for smartphones and tabletspiece. And do recommend your favourites in the comments section if they're not included here.
When I first met Berni Good, she was introduced as a cyberpsychologist. I admit to thinking a cyberpsychologist was something that a game developer had invented for their Gibsonesque cyberpunk game, where synthetic humans plug in at jack-in points and have their circuits probed for social relay malfunctions.In my head, a cyberpsychologist was like a maternal mainframe entity, an electronic pitstop for android jumpstarts. Berni Good (BSc Psych; MBPsS) isnotan electronic pitstop for android jumpstarts. There is nothing Uncanny Valley about her intelligence and candour for creative output.Cyberpsychology exists:The British Psychological Societyhas a whole section of its website and studies dedicated to it. According to John Suler's 1996 bookThe Psychology of Cyberspace, of course available online in its entirety, cyberpsychology can help to understand "how people react to and behave within cyberspace".The proliferation and subsequent ubiquity of the internet throughout our lives has undeniably had a huge impact on the human condition, but it's not only this that cyberpsychology formally investigates. Good is studying the impact of video games on the human psyche."Cyberpsychology is all about how human beings interact with technology, and the psychology of human behaviour when it comes to interacting with technology," Good says. "I did an undergraduate degree, a degree that was accredited by the British Psychological Society … and I had a yearning to get back into the video-game industry, because I missed it so much – I'm a hardcore gamer, I love my gaming, it's what I do with my free time."Good previously headed up the website Games Domain in the dotcom bubble, and so in terms of the games industry, she's a veteran. "I was trying to figure out a way of combining aspects of human behaviour and video gaming in terms of what can I do for a living, instead of sitting and counselling people through various issues they might have from a psychological perspective …"Good found the only masters level course available in the world in cyberpsychology, which is in Dún Laoghaire in Ireland, just south of Dublin. She praises the course for its expertise. "It's one thing understanding psychology and understanding video-game play, but combining them both is really quite a big jump, and there's only a few people that do this in the world."Good's research has recently concentrated on developing a video game designed to help with mental-health issues. "I've been working with self-determination theory," she says, referring to the psychological theory of motivation developed with regard to human intrinsic needs. Much expanded on by researchers Edward L Deci and Richard M Ryan, self-determination theory suggests competence, autonomy, and psychological relatedness are the three needs that stimulate the psychological health and wellbeing of a person."Video games can sometimes make people really happy," Good continues. "I've grown up around video-game players, skateboarders, graffiti artists – people who take their leisure time quite seriously. I've seen over the years how video games have helped people. I see video games as a soft place to fall when the going gets a bit tough."When I play a video game – if it's a good video game and I'm immersed in it – I feel a sense of wellbeing and happiness. Why not take those mechanics and use those gaming mechanics to address people who have mental-health issues?"Now I'm not talking on a very deep level here, because people will still need clinical help – people who have really serious mental-health issues. But certainly people like self-help books, and so the idea I had is to develop something along that kind of line. Something that can go a bit mainstream, but is something that will help you deal with everyday stresses – depression for example."Young people have lots of pressure on them these days to reach certain expectation levels, and what's been great doing the cyberpsychology masters is that it has enabled me to access academic research that's really robust; that's taken some of these ideas around in terms of what video games can do, in terms of helping to treat people who have some mental-health issues – anxiety and that type of thing."And has the games industry – or even academia – embraced Good's idea of combining video games and psychological research? "Two years ago, when I first started doing my masters, one of the reasons I started to do the masters was because I had this idea of how can we take the really good stuff that gaming can do for people and take it to an applied perspective. People were just looking at me like I was a bit crazy. I think it's loosened up a bit over the last 12 months. And quite why that is I don't know, and I'd love to understand why, but I think, generally, that there's been a dilution across obvious platforms and different genres and stuff like that within the games industry anyway, and so maybe people are being a bit more open,."Really smart developers could be including some of the stuff that triggers wellbeing and happiness within their games, that address light levels of people feeling a bit stressed, a bit anxious. And if they were really smart, they'd start including that in their games.""When I think about self-determination theory, Halo is a great example," Good smiles. "I know, it's a big title and all the rest of it, but it's a really good example, particularly the last Halo that came out. In terms of competence, you can defeat your enemies quite well in Halo. You can keep getting back up on the horse and defeating as you move along."In terms of autonomy, there are lots of different maps and lots of different areas in Halo that you can choose to go. There are different weapons that you can choose and you can decide where you want to go and what you want to do, so it does address those issues. And in terms of relatedness – Master Chief. I mean, at Eurogamer last year there was a Master Chief dressed up … I was pushing 14-year-old people out of the way so I could get my photograph taken with him," she laughs.Good gave a talk at the Develop conference in Brighton calledGamer Perception of Psychopathy in Characters, which was a review of the researchDr Angela Tinwell, senior lecturer in games and creative technologies at the University of Bolton, did on the 'Uncanny Valley' phenomenon in realistic, human-like characters from animation and video games.Tinwell's research suggests that human beings feel alienated from people who do not emote in the top half of their face, which correlates with how much video game players relate to the facial animation in game characters. The research also suggests that the reason this might happen is that people who display psychopathic behaviour often are expressionless in the top half of their face, which sets off warning signals in people around them. In the same manner, if game developers were to deliberately not animate the facial expression in a character, it might transmit a significant feeling of alienation and fear to a player about a character, which could be used in horror games, for example.Good also said research suggested that people were more empathetic towards women characters than men. There has been a lot of emphasis on women characters in games, particularly recently, as they often appear as the emotional touchstone of games like The Last of Us, being more emotional, and crying more, responding emotionally to events around them.What has also happened is that a lot of psychological research has been done into female psychopaths' expressions, as there is often more media coverage of their trials, which gives researchers more material to study. This research has shown that though female psychopaths might cry in court, often their faces are expressionless, which unsettles people in response.I ask Good if there is a reason game developers are focusing more on women characters' emotional impact on the player. "Going back to what I was saying in my talk," Good explains. "For every 20 male psychopaths, there's one female psychopath, but that female psychopath can drop a lot of really hardcore bombs … I think that because of the nurturing, empathetic aspects to females in general, that they're probably trying to play on it a little bit … let's hope that they [game developers] are getting their visual, facial expressions right in those characters, because if not, they might just be turning people off."If you think about the female psychopaths and some of the stuff that you can see, from media in murder trials and stuff, you can see a lot of them crying. But if you look at it from a psychological perspective, they're fake tears really. Now, if people are reading that in characters – that it doesn't seem authentic or not appropriate, in terms of the emotional response – that would just turn people off I would think."Is there a danger that people are not going to find Tinwell's research and will carry on down the Uncanny Valley? Good replies that she thinks The Last of Us has done something right. "Whatever approach they've used to make the graphical and behavioural fidelity of that character realistic, you can guarantee someone's going to be copying that,"  she says.But how can the games industry embrace more academic research? How can we use this research and have psychologists communicate more with game makers? "You have to be able to critically evaluate the validity of those research papers," Good suggests of developer-academic relations. "And that's why academic research goes out to peer review, so that it can be pulled about by colleagues – other scientists and social researchers can go: 'That doesn't make any sense'. Validity and reliability is: can that piece of research be replicated and will it show similar results continuously? And game developers and publishers and people in the industry – will they be able to be able to pick it apart and pull it apart? I don't know, I doubt it very much.""I would love to see people like myself get over to game developers and publishers the results of this research; and present them research that's going to work," she says.More about Berni Good and her research can be foundhere.• This article was amended on 2 September 2013 to clarify references to the work of Dr Angela Tinwell: Tinwell, A, Abdel Nabi, D &amp; Charlton, J (2013) Perception of Psychopathy and the Uncanny Valley in Virtual Characters, Computers in Human Behavior, vol 29, no 4, pp 1617-1625.
A serious flaw in the security of Google's Chrome browser lets anyone with access to a user's computer see all the passwords stored for email, social media and other sites, directly from the settings panel. No password is needed to view them.Besides personal accounts, sensitive company login details would be compromised if someone who used Chrome left their computer unattended with the screen active.Seeing the passwords is achieved simply by clicking on the Settings icon, choosing "Show advanced settings…" and then "Manage saved passwords" in the "Passwords and forms" section. A list of obscured passwords is then revealed for sites - but clicking beside them reveals the plain text of the password, which could be copied, or sent via a screenshot to an outside site.But the head of Google's Chrome developer team, Justin Schuh, said he was aware of the weakness and that there were no plans to change the system.That response wasdescribedby Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the British inventor of the web, as "disappointing". He characterised the flaw as "how to get all your big sister's passwords".Chrome is one of the three most widely-used browsers on desktops worldwide, along with Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Mozilla's Firefox. It has millions of users and is seen by some as crucial to Google's future efforts to monetise web use, by tying users to Google accounts and synchronising between their desktop and mobile systems.Elliott Kember, a UK-based software developer from New Zealand whodiscovered the flaw, commented: "In a world where Google promotes its browser on YouTube, in cinema pre-rolls, and on billboards, the clear audience is not developers. It's the mass market - the users. The overwhelming majority. They don't know it works like this. They don't expect it to be this easy to see their passwords. Every day, millions of normal, every-day users are saving their passwords in Chrome. This is not okay."Other browsers have previously had similar flaws with password visibility - and closed them. In 2010, Firefox wasrevealedto use the same "plain text" storage that Chrome is being criticised for - andadded a master password optionrequirement. Some versions of Microsoft's Internet Explorer have also had the same failings. Apple's Safari requires the user to enter a master password before it will show stored passwords.Schuhwroteon Hacker News that "We've also been repeatedly asked why we don't just support a master password or something similar, even if we don't believe it works. We've debated it over and over again, but the conclusion we always come to is that we don't want to provide users with a false sense of security, and encourage risky behavior. We want to be very clear that when you grant someone access to your OS user account, that they can get at everything."However the position was criticised by other developers. "A good safe is judged by the time required to break it,"wrote"marcgg". "There is no safe that is unbreakable, you just need to put enough time, effort and noise to open it. Same thing could be applied here. Installing software, dump the cookies and so on requires time. Right now with this security a person could get my password in a couple of clicks with almost no technical knowledge."One security manager at a publishing company said: "The fact you can view the passwords means they are stored in reversible form which means that the dark coders out there will be writing a Trojan to steal that password store as we speak."
The mountain we're driving up is two kilometres high. In the distance, a patchy landscape of tea plantations and scrublands stretches out toward the horizon. Above us, bulbous clouds crawl by, scattering vast grey blankets of shadow.The Audi R8 V10 weaves its way through snaking roads, the sun occasionally glinting across the windscreen, the crumbling surface almost palpable beneath the tyres. This is India, accurately and rather epically modelled into a racing game. At this height, at the very tip of the mountain range, the artists have had to think about the curvature of the Earth, and how this will affect sunlight and cloud patterns at the furthest reaches. This is where game visuals are going.While we've known for months that DriveClub would take place in locations around the world, Evolution has only really showed Scotland so far – but while visiting the studio recently, we also caught glimpses of the impressive Canada and India environments. The art staff did what art staff do on racing games: they went on months of field trips to research architecture, geography and habitats; the difference is, the Evolution team seems to be trying to cramallof it into the game.For each country, there are many miles of landscape, loaded with authentic local detail. Most of the circuits are inspired by real-life roads and the local street racing routes the researchers learned about. "All the detail we're putting in is equivalent to PC first-person shooters," says technical art director, Alex Perkins. "And then we're throwing a whole dynamic lighting system over the top."As Perkins shows me the India circuit, he points out a drive along a river bed, through a valley of looming rock walls and out along a concrete overpass: "We've picked locations; and seasons that are indicative of the locations," he says. "I can think of three roads that we went along in this location that looked just like this; it's about capturing the soul of the roads and the networks". The seasonal element is important. Apparently, all the vegetation is accurate to the locations and the time of year – even the cloud movement is all real ("With summer clouds in the UK, the average lifespan is about eight minutes," Perkins points out nonchalantly at one point during the demo).Everything is then lit via a true 24-hour day/night system, rather than a baked in sequence of pre-set lighting changes. "We've developed our own capture technique so the lighting in shadow, the lighting in direct sunlight and the way the car highlights fall off over distance – they all maintain proper energy conservation values," says Perkins. "We had to redesign our entire materials system – how we actually collect the information; it's much closer to the process you'd have on a film set for compositing CG elements into a live action image."This transference to cinematic technique – the sort of things that would have been impossible to render in real-time on current machines – may well become a theme in console games moving forward. "The first time you saw a truly composited CG element used directly in a film, such as the T1000 walking through the fire in Terminator 2, that's where we are in games right now," says Perkins. "You have to think about ensuring consistency in real-world lighting in that way. But in film, its graded to match the lighting conditions on a scripted shot-by-shot basis, which obviously we can't do; for us, everything has to be dynamic to interpret the camera position and the lighting conditions in real-time."Showing flairFor a while, we've seen effects like lens flare coming into games to mimic the sense of viewing filmed footage through a screen, the sense that you're somehow in a movie; but this is all becoming much more complex as lighting technology matures."None of the direct light or shade is faked anymore," says Perkins. "It's at the point where you can see things like dynamic lens flare when you look at the sun and you can see a bit of chromatic aberration because we're mimicking slightly cheaper film lenses to capture deliberate imperfections that will make the game more lifelike."But there is more to it than simply making nice effects. It's about using environmental lighting to build atmosphere on a macro level. "One of the big things we're trying to do with the game, is to keep things as dynamic and changeable as possible," says Perkins. "The whole look and feel of the game changes dramatically based on the cloud covering – there's massive variation every time you play. And the light scatters properly, so when the clouds are injected into the scene, we get a real sense of scale."Car models too surpass anything Evolution has done before. While Motorstorm vehicles maxed out at around 23,000 polys each, DriveClub models are hitting 250,000, with interiors alone requiring around 60,000. Everything is authentic, from the fully functional speed and rev dials on the dashboard to the materials on the seats. Principle vehicle artist Neil Massam tells me that manufacturers are now having to rethink their approval procedures for racing games because the level of detail is so high.What's interesting is the increasingly close interplay between audio visual fidelity and car handling. In the first-person view, the head movement of the driver is designed to convey the feeling of what the car is doing beneath you. The team has apparently spent a long time working on tyre feel, the tactile input from skidding along tarmac, the imperfections of which are procedurally generated.There are also intricate audio cues on what the tyres are doing, leading to demands for more memory from the audio designers. As game director Col Rodgers explains, "The tyres of hundreds of different states, we know exactly what they're doing at any one time, and obviously the audio guys want to replicate that as much as possible, which means upping the amount of samples. Audio feedback is a massive part of the handling experience, a lot of people forget that."As for the handling model itself, the game director overseeing handling, Paul Rustchynsky, says his team includes ex-staff from the Gran Turismo, Project Gotham and Grid 2 all working on the feel of the drive. From our demo session, the aim seems to be upper-end arcade; cars are mostly sturdy and corner well, but they can slide out enthusiastically if the line is missed. For me, the effect is somewhere between Forza Horizon and, say, Need For Speed: Most Wanted."We start with the real data – they give us the CAD [computer-aided design] modelling of the cars and all the details on the engine torque curves and suspension set-ups, etc," says Rodgers. "We port that straight into the game, but we then look at the characteristics of the cars – we read reviews we watch videos, in some cases we get to drive them – and we think what makes it stand out? We try and implant those aspects into the personality of our car."Keeping it realThe aim then, is authenticity but not simulation. "It sits in the middle between simulation and arcade," clarifies Rustchynsky. "It's grounded in realism, so the cars have a sense of weight, a tactile feel with the road, but we want to make sure it's easy to throw them around the corners, it's all about having fun with the cars. But there is a lot of depth – you want to shave milliseconds of your lap times, you can do that. But players can pick up the pad and hammer the throttle, the intricacies can be picked up later."To me, this makes sense. I've grown utterly disillusioned with hybrid sims that simply rack up the driver assists to create an easy mode – you often end up feeling like you're controlling a Scalextric car. "You have to be careful of taking control away from the player," says Rustchynsky. "We've had feedback from professional drivers, we've had people come in from the manufacturers … it's always about making sure we have a clear focus; we want to make sure players can feel what the car is doing while maintaining full control."We've spent a lot of time refining how we deal with player inputs. If the player throws a car around the corner then touches the stick in the other direction we need to know how much opposite lock to give them at that time. Give them too much, they'll spin, too little and they'll under-steer. It's just all about refining and iterating. We feel we have the sweet spot now."Some of this sounds like racing simulation 101, some is highly ambitious, but all of it hinges on seeing a more complete demo. We've still only played the alpha build, which is 35% complete, and while the scale of the environments is clear, there is plenty of polish left to add if this is going to resemble the next-generation racer we're being promised. No doubt much more will be revealed at Gamescom, where we'll also find out more about the game's approach to matchmaking, and the smartphone app that will accompany it.Right now, a lot of the talk is about potential of the PS4, the reserves of power locked away in its architecture. Very briefly during my visit to Evolution, I chatted to studio group technical director Scott Kirkland about the PS4's graphics processing unit, which supports Compute – a means of utilising the power of the GPU for general processing tasks. There's a chance this could have a profound effect on the possibilities available to developers, with ramifications for AI, physics, lighting, etc. Is this already being explored?Kirkland is intrigued but reckons there's plenty of time to find that stuff. "You already have a lot of CPU power at your disposal," he says. "I think with many of the first generation PS4 titles, developers probably won't need to worry about it – they'll be able to get a lot out of parallelism across the CPU cores – but for teams who are a bit more ambitious, who want to do interesting things, it's just waiting there. We're doing some of that in DriveClub and I'm sure other guys will go further – and the platform guys will expose more of that functionality through the lifespan of the machine, unlocking more potential."Shared future?Toward the end of the studio visit, I bring up that reference that Perkins made earlier, about the intricacy of the landscape, and how it resembles the detail of a PC first-person shooter. I ask, not entirely seriously, if we're heading into a possible future of shared servers – could Evolution get together with Guerrilla and build an online landscape that will house both racing and FPS games; so you'll have supercars jetting it along highways as infantry battle all around. "It's technically possible," says one of the game directors. "I like that idea."That's sort of the fun thing right now – developers getting to grips with the next-generation, working out what will be the new technical standards, the new infrastructural paradigms that could shape how games work. When you have a game engine that renders to the horizon from a height of 2.2km, then anything is possible. But just to be clear: if Sony Worldwide Studiosdoesannounce a unified online game world with elements of both DriveClub and Killzone, I'm taking 10% commission on revenue. Okay Sony?
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Dragon Age: Inquisition's first gameplay details revealedGame Informer has a big preview of BioWare's latest fantasy role-player in its latest issue:The game map stretches from eastern Ferelden to western Orlais, but while it's more open world than previous games, BioWare has not built "a million square miles of space" between the "significant" regions players will actually be exploring.There will be no repeating level designs, and each area is larger than any seen in previous Dragon Age games. Each environment is full of little touches which lead to extra gameplay; this is designed to encourage exploration. That said, enemy encounters are rarely scaled to the player's level so wandering the wilds is not recommended.And this may turn out to be a key element:BioWare is hoping to allow players to approach the game from a tactical, action-oriented or hybrid philosophy, and to this end, has once more implemented complementary class-based skill trees and specializations.Behaviour sets and character switching also return. Although many skills are immediate effect, giving the feel of action, the game's pacing is supposed to push you towards a thoughtful approach.What inspired The Last of Us (interview) | GamesBeatA long and interesting interview with Bruce Straley and Neil Druckmann of Naughty Dog about the making of The Last of Us. Some great stuff on the motivations behind the lead characters:"Ultimately, at least for Joel, it became this idea of exploring how far a father is willing to go to save his kid. Each step of the way is a greater sacrifice."Can't quote more than that as its chock full of spoilers but this is required reading if you played the game.How Bungie plans to counter trolls through design in Destiny | Edge OnlineBungie technical director Chris Butcher has been telling Edge about the importance of combating anti-social gamers online:"I don't think you can ever design toxic behaviour out, you can't ever stop players from being toxic but what you can do is prevent them being able to ruin other players' experiences," adds Butcher. "You give people these tools that encourage them to interact positively with each other and then if someone is interacting negatively with you, well, they can't ruin your experience."Xbox Co-Founder Warns Publishers May Vanish | [a]listdailyEd Fries, one of the original founders of the Xbox project tells AList about how changes to the industry may render large publishers redundant:"Who knows if there'll be big publishers in the future? There don't have to be," Fries said. "Maybe the world of the future doesn't look like that. Maybe it's just lots of small developers, getting together and then breaking up into little teams all over the world, that's where great games are going to come from. Big publishers were formed because games were really expensive, there were big distribution issues. Walmart didn't want to deal with a hundred companies, they wanted to deal with four or five. A lot of those things changed with digital distribution. Maybe what we'll see in the future isn't like what we've seen in the past. What does that mean? There are winners and losers all through that."Walking the line – Volition on courting controversy, gender equality and Saints Row IV | Edge OnlineSaints Row 4 associate producer Kate Nelson has criticised former publisher THQ for its emphasis on using porn stars to promote both Saints Row 2 and 3."I did not always love how much THQ put an emphasis on porn stars," Nelson told Edge. "In Saints Row 2 and Saints Row 3 there was an emphasis on the penthouse girls, and earlier Tera Patrick. I think it's important in marketing games to make sure that the essence of the game is what's being marketed, and I think the porn star angle didn't really fit in with what Saints Row is at heart, which is a parody. We like to poke fun."You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Forensic investigation of big data documenting child abuse, hate crimes and computer hacking cases is being powered by military software first developed to cope with alleged human rights abuses in Iraq.Faced with vast quantities of filmed interviews, mobile phone traffic and digital evidence recording the detention of Iraqi prisoners, theRoyal Military Policeinvested in larger and more sophisticated data systems to be used by IHAT, theIraq Historic Allegations Team.IHAT's inquiries gathered 75 terabytes of data while investigating five years of alleged abuse by British soldiers between 2003 and 2008.Processing large volumes of data is now a regular challenge for investigators where mobile phones, laptops, memory sticks and even XBox games consoles increasingly feature.The old system involved a lone forensic analyst at a computer terminal slowly downloading material. By investing in more advanced software and equipment, the RMP accelerated the processing of digital records and made it easier for investigators to work as a team.Major Keith Miller, commander of the RMP's Service Police Crime Bureau, said that IHAT's software is now being used by several civilian forces including SO15, the Metropolitan police's counter-terrorism unit.Without such advances, Miller told the Guardian, the explosion in digital evidence threatened to snarl up the processing of court cases.The Portsmouth-Based RMP unit invested £1m in a system called Ares, named after the Greek god of war,AccessDatasoftware andDell bladeservers. A mobile version costing £600,000 is nicknamed Mars, after the Roman god of war, and can be flown to Afghanistan or wherever military police need to investigate."The new system has cut the costs of each investigation significantly," said Miller. "It speeds up the whole process. On a child abuse case, if you bring people in who work together then you can reduce the psychological damage [otherwise inflicted on solitary investigators]."The amount of data associated with each investigation rises by around 120% year on year. It's often about identifying images, for example, people taking 'happy snaps' of assaults or finding stored hate texts."The RMP, who last year handed the IHAT investigation over to the Royal Navy police so that the army was not seen to be investigating itself, has used Ares to help the Metropolitan police with Operation Elveden, its investigation into alleged payments by journalists to public officials for information.The unit also pursues those who hack into high security areas of military installations. "It has tended to be in reaction to an event," said Miller. "We have found people who have entered illegally."Child pornography and abuse cases, which occur in military life much as elsewhere, increasingly involve digital evidence. "Sequences are often hidden inside other films," Miller said. "The Ares system has a large library of clips so it can compare pornographic material."The surveillance can be automated. It recognises clips. There's only a very small percentage of material that's new. Most of it has been used before and is known. You can quickly identify known material."In the past you had to sit down and watch a whole movie to check it hadn't been spliced with something else. Now you can bring up the pictures quickly, display it frame by frame and see if its pornographic."Miller is amazed at how many people believe deleted material cannot be recovered. "We have brought back a lot of stuff and seen people changing not guilty pleas," he said.In an era of austerity, it is understandable that police forces baulk at the £1.6m Ares now costs. What is more puzzling to Miller is the attachment to physical paperwork displayed by defence lawyers. "We come up against some people who insist on taking paper evidence. I dump it all on them but the data sets now are so large they rarely ask for it in that format again."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStop writing Regular Expressions. Express them with Verbal Expressions &gt;&gt; The ChangelogGitHub user jehna has fashioned a runaway hit with his unique way of constructing difficult regular expressions.VerbalExpressionsturns the often-obscure-and-tricky-to-type regular expression operators into descriptive, chainable functions. The result of this is quite astounding.…This style may be off-putting to old-school regex pros, but even they would have to admit that it's quite approachable and easy to reason about.Nice.Moto X review &gt;&gt; The VergeJoshua Topolsky:Essentially, there's a way to put your Moto X into an "always listening" mode, which responds to you speaking the phrase "Okay Google Now." …But there's a catch. The touchless controls are rendered nearly useless if you have any kind of security lock on your phone. You can still use it to make calls, but everything else requires that you unlock your phone, which requires that you pick it up and interact with it… meaning you just defeated the whole idea of "touchless controls." If the voice recognition was as good and as personalized as Motorola would like it to be, this wouldn't be an issue. But it's an issue right now, and a bit of a bummer if you care at all about your phone's security (and let's face it, you should).Seems like a negative.Google seeks court reversal of mobile phone import ban &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle's Motorola Mobility told a US appeals court today a Microsoft patent that led to an import ban on its phones is the "poster child" for common ideas being applied to new devices and labeled an invention."Simply saying 'on a mobile device' is not an invention," Motorola Mobility lawyer Charles Verhoeven, of Quinn Emanuel in San Francisco, said today.Microsoft's patent for a way phones synchronize calendars with computers is little different than techniques used by Apple's failed Newton personal digital assistant of the 1990s, or Microsoft's desktop software, Verhoeven said.Motorola Mobility is seeking to invalidate the patent that it concedes it has infringed.Microsoft seems to have nailed Motorola on a non-essential patent - which it doesn't have to license. Motorola's been affected by the ban since May 2012.Kill your Windows XP systems, before they kill you! &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:One last thing I wanted to talk about was the comparison of the end of Windows XP support to Y2K.  Sorry folks, there is no comparison.  Y2K was about driving off a cliff while this situation is more like stopping maintenance on a bridge.  Cracks will develop.  Bolts will fall out.  Rust will set in.  But it will take years before the bridge actually collapses.  And in the case of Windows XP, as long as security vendors continue to produce anti-malware software for it most cracks will be patched.  Although with bubble gum rather than a weld.  To switch analogies, after April 2014 leaks in dikes will be plugged with fingers rather than properly repairing the dike.  Eventually fingers just won't be enough, the dike will be breached, and the city washed away in a flood.Anyone here still on XP?Apple set to do real damage to oblivious mid-range smartphone vendors &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:The $400 price point is already in real trouble – and going will get much tougher if Apple's new value iPhone is priced at or below $350 in retail as expected. The budget iPhone is likely to cost $0 with a two-year contract, while the high-end iPhone continues to cost $200 on contract. That is a major problem for many vendors who have been making bizarrely ambitious pricing decisions.After disappointing sales of high-end Z10 and Q10, BlackBerry opted to price the Q5 value model above $400. After disappointing sales of the high-end HTC One, HTC opted to price the HTC One Mini at around $500. Samsung has a vibrant low-end range, but it also decided to price the Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini at $500.Taken together, these design and pricing decisions seem wildly optimistic.That there would be no room in the mid-range has been forecast for a couple of years. HTC and BlackBerry might be about to hit hard(er) times.Royal Mail launches consultation on simpler Postcode Address File licensing &gt;&gt; Royal MailRoyal Mail has launched a consultation on a wide-ranging package of measures to simplify Postcode Address File (PAF) licensing.The proposals aim to incentivise take up, encourage greater use of PAF, and enable it to better meet the current and future needs of users and solutions developers in today's marketplace.The consultation runs until 20 September. The Free Our Data campaign says: push for it to be available for free and licensed under a UK government OpenData licence.Will Japanese smartphones survive? &gt;&gt; WSJJuro Osawa:A decade ago, Japan was known as the land of uniquely advanced mobile phones with Internet capabilities and various other features rarely seen elsewhere in the world. But those days are long gone.The mobile industry's shift to smartphones has dramatically changed the fate of Japanese handset makers. Most of them have failed to expand their smartphone operations outside of the domestic market, while global brands like Apple and Samsung have gained popularity among Japanese smartphone users.So it is no surprise that more Japanese companies may be thinking about pulling the plug on their smartphone businesses.NEC stopped last week, and Panasonic looks likely to follow. Apple is the largest smartphone vendor there (35.9% share), followed by Fujitsu (13%) and Sony (12%). It's rather like an island that's been cut off from evolution that abruptly gets visitors from overseas.Moto X review &gt;&gt; EngadgetJoseph Volpe:I haven't really found much use for Touchless Control, the always-on voice recognition feature launched by saying, "Okay, Google Now." I'm sure there will be instances where I'm otherwise occupied and will need to shout at my phone for assistance, but it still seems to me a gimmick… So, what can it do? You can instruct it to place calls, get directions, launch apps, send texts, set alarms and reminders, ask questions and even play music (through Google Play Music). I've gotten particular amusement out of asking it, "Who is Jennifer Aniston?" and then listening to the robo-voiced reply.Also includes some carrier bloatware apps:These are in addition to Migrate and Assist, Motorola's duo of actually useful pre-installed software. I've already detailed the purpose of Migrate, so let's talk about Assist. Assist backs up [Motorola's SVP of product management Rick] Osterloh's promise of a "smarter phone" that's contextually aware. Case in point, if you want to enable driving mode, which uses the accelerometer and GPS to detect when you're behind the wheel and then reads your texts and phone calls out loud, you'll need to set up Assist. The same goes for silencing notifications during meetings or keeping the phone quiet at designated times while you sleep.So it's not quite super-smart at knowing when you're driving. (You still could just be on the bus.) The voice control sounds exactly like Siri - down to the questions.We are the Engineering team behind Ubuntu for Android &gt;&gt; Reddit AMAWe are the Engineering team behind Ubuntu for Android. We're working on a truly converged device, where your PC can fit in your pocket, and make phone calls.An AMA from Monday evening.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Malcolm Turnbull has expressed "regret" after one of his senior staffers sent an email to a popular technology blogger that told him to "get fucked".Stephen Ellis, a policy adviser for Turnbull, told Steve Jenkin, who publishes a blog calledSteviej on NBN, in an email that "no one takes your psychotic rantings seriously. Nobody."Ellis added: "Given what you write is a delusional fantasy that exists only in your own mind, you can get fucked."In a blogpost detailing the exchange, Jenkin said he had been seeking information from Ellis on the wholesale costs associated with the Coalition's alternative National Broadband Network.Ellis responded by saying that he marked Jenkin's emails as "junk (like your copy)" and that the blogger's numbers were "all wrong"."Since the NBN stands to be greatly modified under whoever wins, your serial lies and distortions will be exposed in due course. In the meantime do not contact me again. Have a nice life."Jenkin's blog is regularly critical of the Coalition and its broadband policy, with recent posts labelling the plan a "financial disaster" and accusing another Turnbull staffer of having a "born to rule" attitude.Turnbull, the shadow communications minister, addressed the spat on Twitter on Wednesday, posting: "Regret my staffer's lapse into vulgar Anglo-Saxon in an email to a blogger. Charm remediation has been administered &amp; equanimity restored."Jenkin, via Twitter, said the email had been "ill-advised, not just uncivil" and that, in policy terms, Turnbull was "pitching something he knows is a dog".Turnbull has endured an occasionally fractious relationship with journalists and bloggers who cover the NBN. He hasclashedwith Nick Ross, editor of ABC Technology and Games, and accused tech journalists of "fanning a pro-NBN zealotry among tech-savvy citizens".
It's Wednesday.
Each year, Jeff Bezos, the billionaire founder of Amazon, writes to his shareholders, attaching the same, three-page mailshot he first sent them following the company's stock market flotation. "Amazon.com passed many&nbsp;milestones in 1997," the historic missive&nbsp;opens. "But this is Day 1 for the&nbsp;internet …"In April this year, with Amazon's global sales soaring above $61bn (£39.7bn) and climbing, Bezos again composed his annual letter. The world's largest online retailer, he reflected, was once again expanding in multiple directions – Kindle tablets, video streaming and cloud computing, to name a few."Our approach remains the same," investors were nevertheless told. "And it's still Day 1."It is a hungry, single-minded mantra that sets the tone at Amazon, and helps set the business apart from many of the digital innovators, such as Apple and Google, with which it is frequently bracketed. Bezos proudly retains a blinkered focus on discovering, building and dominating new markets, and not on keeping pace with competitors or chasing short-term profits. The profits, he says, will follow. Some day.In the meantime, Amazon – which started out in books, CDs and DVDs – has expanded its listings to many millions of items. It is piloting moves into clothing and grocery delivery as well as experimenting with TV programming.It is a leap of faith that US investors have been delighted to take, pushing the business to a stock market value of $137bn (£89bn) – three times that of Britain's largest retailer, Tesco. This is despite Amazon failing to turn a consistent profit for years, including the posting of a small loss last year of $39m. The mega-returns have repeatedly been put off by Bezos's multibillion-pound investments in new technologies such as Kindle, and in a rapidly expanding network of warehouses sprouting up around the globe.Though he rarely exhibits quite the level of showmanship of other digital business leaders, Bezos – who still owns&nbsp;a fifth of the business – has arguably built an even more faithful following on Wall Street.As a result, he now has an estimated fortune of more than $25bn, putting him in the top 20 richest billionaires  in the world,according to Forbes magazine.The hunger for expansion and market domination that Bezos has instilled has led to accusations from smaller high street chains, book publishers, online traders and warehouse staff that Amazon is growing into a monster, choking off diversity and demanding unreasonable terms from partners, suppliers and workers. Some politicians  in the US and Europe are also frustrated with the way Amazon has been able to lower its tax liabilities.Bezos, who calls his staff "Amazonians", or even "missionaries", has largely ignored or brushed aside criticisms. He is happy, however, to let the impression linger that Amazon is not always the easiest place to work."Our culture is 'friendly and intense'," he has said. "But if push comes to shove we'll settle for 'intense'." His business philosophy borrows from the Japanesekaizenconcept of seeking continual improvement, credited with helping build great success at Toyota for many years.But one former senior Amazonian has described the result as "a pretty brutal Darwinian atmosphere". Another former insider, the programmer and blogger Steve Yegge, has claimed that Bezos, on occasion, jokingly suggested staff – working in what Yegge called "dirt-smeared cube farms" – should be paying the Amazon founder for the privilege of working for his business.Yegge's colourful 2011blog posting– which he claimed was made public by accident – cast the Amazon boss as "Dread Pirate Bezos", spitting out instructions that saw his acolytes "scramble like ants being pounded with a rubber mallet". "Bezos is super-smart; don't get me wrong," wrote Yegge. "He just makes ordinary control freaks look like stoned hippies."While Amazon has upset some traditional high street retailers and suppliers, its web platform has been enthusiastically embraced by an army of small-scale entrepreneurs, most of them starting out, like Bezos, as traders working from bedrooms or garages. Last year there were more than two million such entrepreneurs selling millions of product lines on Amazon, accounting for two in five items bought on the site.Despite owing much of his initial success to book sales – not to mention being married an author, MacKenzie Bezos – he was among the first to predict the death of the printed word, to be succeeded by ebooks, read on products such as Amazon's Kindle."I don't know how long it will take," he has said. "But the physical book really has had a 500-year run. It's probably the most successful technology ever. It's hard to come up with things that have had a longer run … Given how much change there has been everywhere else, what's remarkable is how stable the book has been for so long. But no technology, not even one as elegant as the book, lasts forever."The smiling arrow, running beneath the Amazon logo, is said to signal Bezos's ambition to sell everything imaginable. Books, which provided Amazon's founder with his first selling opportunity, were just a launchpad. In 1994, he spotted an opportunity to take orders on the internet and dispatch these easily portable products by mail. Quitting a promising career in finance in New York, Bezos started trading, backed by a&nbsp;$300,000 investment from his adopted father. His site officially launched on 16 July 1995, taking $12,438 in the first week.Quickly looking for other wares to sell, Amazon raised funds by floating on the New York stock exchange two years later, one of a rush of dotcom companies seemingly full of promise. But when in 2000 the tech stock bubble burst, Amazon's share price fell dramatically, from $107 to $7. To Bezos, this was confirmation that fickle investor sentiment was best ignored. It is a&nbsp;conviction that holds today, after Amazon stock has more than recovered. Shares now change hands for $300 each.Outside of Amazon, several of Bezos's investment interests have reflected his personal passions, notably his interest in space travel. In 2000 he secretly set up space rocket company Blue Origin, with launch facilities in Texas. News of the project leaked two years later and this year Bezos reportedly began talking to fellow billionaire space enthusiast Richard Branson about combining some opportunities with his Virgin Galactic space flight firm.Bezos is also involved in a more philanthropic project torecover and restore enginesrecover enginesfrom the Atlantic Ocean, jettisoned by the Apollo 11 spacecraft that took Neil Armstrong to the moon. Other more commercial prospects within Bezos Expeditions, his private investment portfolio, include stakes in dotcom startups, including a holding in Twitter.In April, Bezos increased his stake in Business Insider, a technology business news site. The site is run by founder Henry Blodget, a former Merrill Lynch analyst banned from Wall Street and fined $2m following allegations that he had encouraged investors to buy dotcom stocks his private emails suggested he thought "junk" or "crap".Since reinventing himself in online news, Blodget, who has been close to Bezos for many years, suggested there remains little value in journalists seeking to break news."If someone has a scoop, we post it four minutes later," he  said.Journalists at the Washington Post will doubtless be hoping Bezos does not intend to adopt a similar attitude, now he has become the proprietor of one of the US's most respected newspaper operations.Potted profileNameJeffrey Preston BezosBornAlberquerque, New Mexico, 12 January 1964EducationHigh school in Houston, Texas, where his academic achievements marked him out as among the most gifted children in the state. BSE in electrical engineering and computer science from Princeton.Career1986, director of technology at IT firm Fitel; 1988, ran IT programmes at Bankers Trust, becoming vice-president two years later. Later joined hedge fund DE Shaw &amp; Co as vice-president. In 1994 he quit to set up Amazon.comHigh pointTaking $12,438 of orders in Amazon's first week of trading.What he says"[Amazon's] Value will be a direct result of our ability to extend and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership, the more powerful our economic model." (1997 letter to shareholders)What they say"He just makes ordinary control freaks look like stoned hippies." Steve Yegge, a programmer who formerly worked for Amazon.
Nintendo has released itsannual reportfor the fiscal year 2013, and the video game veteran is promising a brighter 2014. In a note at the beginning of the document, company president Satoru Iwata concedes an operating loss of 36bn yen for the year, but assures investors that a return to the firm's traditionally strong financial performance is imminent."Nintendo posted an operating loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013," Iwata states. "However, we strive to regain 'Nintendo-like' profits for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014 by providing many people with fascinating games and services. We continue to make brand-new and unique proposals, and make efforts for the growth of the home entertainment industry with a mission that is to pleasantly surprise people and put smiles on the faces of everyone Nintendo touches."The poor performance of the Wii U console has taken most of the blame for Nintendo's troubles. Lifetime sales of 3.61m units were recorded in the company's fourth quarter financial results, short of the 5.5m units predicted back in January. According to Japanese gaming magazine Famitsu Weekly, domestic Wii U sales dropped below 11,000 units in the week ending July 28 – the same number as the aging PS3 (morehere).A lack of high quality first-party titles has been blamed for the poor take-up. The console launched without a major new Super Mario adventure, while the much-anticipated Pikmin 3, a title promised since the announcement of the platform, has only just been released. At the same time, third-party publishers have found it tough to attract gamers and support for the format is wavering: Electronic Arts is holding off on any future projects, while Ubisoft only made3% of its revenue from Wii U titleslast year and is unlikely to make any more platform exclusives for the machine.Iwata's optimism, however, is no doubt centered on the impressive range of major Nintendo-developed titles due before Christmas. Wii U owners will see the return of some major franchises including Wii Fit, Mario Kart, Wii Party and Super Smash Brothers this autumn, while Super Mario 3D World is also expected before the end of the year. A well-timed console price cut or attractive bundle deal could well turn the machine's fortunes – although Nintendo's forecast to shift nine million units within a year of its November 2012 launch remains a lofty ambition.Nintendo is also lining up one of its regular'Nintendo Direct'web TV sessions, in which Iwata discusses forthcoming plans and projects. Airing on Wednesday, at 3pm UK time, the presentation will provide updates on games coming to Wii U and Nintendo 3DS, "in the remainder of 2013".The annual report goes on to provide some interesting statistics about Nintendo hardware and software sales. The company has apparently shifted 268.97m home consoles since 1983 as well as 2,195.09m units of software. Meanwhile handheld units stand at 385.15 million units with 1,907.25m games. By dwelling on past glories, the company perhaps wants to remind pundits of the classic games industry refrain: never write off Nintendo.
CResearchers at the UK's Internet Watch Foundation have discovered the motive behind the hacking of innocent websites, including a furniture retailer, to host extreme child abuse images.The move is part of an attempt by cybercriminals to take control of users' PCs – and seems to have been timed to take advantage of prime minister David Cameron's high-octane rhetoric over access to child abuse images in mid-June.The IWF, a Cambridge-based charity which checks for child abuse and "extreme" pictures online and cooperates with ISPs to get them removed or blocked, says that criminals used the hacked servers to infect viewers' PCs with malware hosted there.Users of adult pornography sites who clicked on innocent-looking links would find themselves taken to the hacked sites, where they would be shown the images of child abuse, which are so extreme that they rank 4 on the 5-point scale used by the IWF.While that happened, their PC would be silently infected with malware automatically downloaded from the site. The criminals then relied on the user being too scared of arrest for having viewed the images on their computer to get it properly disinfected. About 30 sites have been hacked, the IWF said.The timing of the hacking ties in with the high-profile criticism by prime minister David Cameron of search engines and ISPs for failing to "clean up" British internet use by blocking access to child abuse images.Cameron held a summit on the topic in the week beginning 17 June, and culture secretary Maria Millerdemanded actionfrom ISPs. The IWF spotted the first use of a hacked website to display the images on Thursday 20 June."It's apparent that the main reason they're hacking the websites isn't for the distribution of images," said Sarah Smith, technical researcher at the IWF. "It's instead to get the malware onto peoples' machines – probably to create a network of bots for hire."Cybercriminals create networks of "bots" – compromised PCs – using malware which allows them to spy on the user's activities, but also to rent out the use the computer to send out spam, host phishing websites, and create "denial of service" attacks to order on target websites. Some "botnets" comprise more than a million PCs controlled from a central server, unknown to the machines' owners.Hundreds, and possibly thousands, of people are reckoned to have been infected by the latest malware, which was first created in September 2012, after they clicked through from adult pornography sites.Rik Ferguson, vice-president of security research at Trend Micro, said: "We've seen this tactic of showing child abuse images used before in 'ransomware', where the virus takes over your PC and demands that you pay money to the criminals – it flashes up a message saying these are examples of content found on your PC. This sounds like an evolution of that."The malware being used was first identified by malware companies in September 2012. "Using a redirection from a website is quite clever," said Ferguson. "People who it happens to will think that the police know about it. That's definitely new."
The former director of the National Security Agency and the CIA speculated on Tuesday that hackers and transparency groups were likely to respond with cyber-terror attacks if the United States government apprehends whistleblower Edward Snowden."If and when our government grabs Edward Snowden, and brings him back here to the United States for trial, what does this group do?" said retired air force general Michael Hayden, who from 1999 to 2009 ran the NSA and then the CIA, referring to "nihilists, anarchists, activists, Lulzsec, Anonymous, twentysomethings who haven't talked to the opposite sex in five or six years"."They may want to come after the US government, but frankly, you know, the dot-mil stuff is about the hardest target in the United States," Hayden said, using a shorthand for US military networks. "So if they can't create great harm to dot-mil, who are they going after? Who for them are the World Trade Centers? The World Trade Centers, as they were for al-Qaida."Hayden provided his speculation during a speech on cybersecurity to a Washington group, the Bipartisan Policy Center, in which he confessed to being deliberately provocative.Under Hayden, the NSA began to collect, among other things, the phone records and internet data of Americans without warrants after 9/11, a drastic departure from its traditional mission ofcollecting foreign intelligence. A variety of technically sophisticated collection and analysis programs, codenamed Stellar Wind, were the genesis of several of the NSA efforts that Snowden disclosed to the Guardian and the Washington Post.Hayden said that the loose coalition of hacker groups and activists were "less capable" of inflicting actual harm on either US networks or physical infrastructure, but they grow technologically more sophisticated. Echoing years of rhetoric that has described terrorists, Hayden added that their "demands may be unsatisfiable".Snowden recentlyreceived temporary asylum from Russia, allowing the former NSA contractor to leave the Sheremetyevo airport on Thursday, an act of defiance by Moscow toward the Obama administration.Asked what he expected a potential cyber-terrorist attack related to Snowden to look like, Hayden clarified that he was being "entirely speculative, not predictive"."I'm just trying to illustrate that you've got a group of people out there who make demands, whose demands may not be satisfiable, may not be rational, from other points of view, may not be the kinds of things that government can accommodate," Hayden said."But certainly Mr Snowden has created quite a stir among those folks who are very committed to transparency and global transparency and the global web, kind of ungoverned and free. And I don't know that there's a logic between trying to [punish] America or American institutions for his arrest, but I hold out the possibility. I can sit here and imagine circumstances and scenarios, but they're nothing more than imaginative."
AtThe Awl, a self-describedmillennial, Becca Hafter, iscrossabout the language we decrepit over-30s are using to talk about the web:My mom is always saying things like &quot;Oh, Theresa, oh no, I don’t think she is on Facebook.” Or, “All of my college friends have thankfully joined Facebook!” and it drives me crazy because Facebook is a noun that you possess, not a noun with which you engage. The word “Facebook” requires an indefinite article (a, an) or a possessive adjective (my, hers), not a preposition (on, in, above).In other words, &quot;I&apos;ll put it on my Facebook&quot; is OK, along with &quot;all of my friends have a Facebook&quot;. But if you want to avoid being laughed at by 20-year-olds, don&apos;t tell them you&apos;re &quot;on Facebook&quot; to mean that you&apos;re a member of Facebook. Why? Because, for the youngsters, apparently, &quot;Facebook is the assumed space in which life occurs&quot;. Talking about being &quot;on Facebook&quot;, by contrast, implies that it&apos;s a separate space you sometimes enter, then leave. You don&apos;t go around asking your fellow humans &quot;Do you do breathing?&quot;, because of course they do; it&apos;s inseparable from just being. Even the word &quot;liking&quot;, Hafter writes, alarmingly, &quot;instantly connotes Facebook&quot; to her. To speak of &quot;liking something on Facebook&quot; is a clunky redundancy.Naturally, I shake my walking-stick in rage at all this (and my head in condescending despair at Hafter&apos;s additional implication that &quot;Facebook&quot; and &quot;the internet&quot; are largely the same thing). Mainly, though, I&apos;m just fascinated by the way such language betrays hints of the ways we navigate the world. Like most people born before about 1980, surely, I think about the internet using a specific kind of spatial metaphor. The internet is a world, parallel to the &quot;real&quot; one, divided into territories, including one very large territory called Facebook (run by an authoritarian dictator, who keeps changing its laws on a whim). I enter this parallel world, move between territories inside it, then leave.What happens to this world-and-territories metaphor, though, when a) the boundary between online and offline life begins to break down and b) a social network like Facebook becomes your primary means for encountering all content online? Hafter&apos;s post suggests she thinks of the online and offline worlds as a single space — and of &quot;a Facebook&quot;, perhaps, as something more like a vehicle she uses to explore it.We Olds have fought our own prescriptivist battles about the language of the internet. For years, I was a forthright member of the campaign to stop people using the world &quot;blog&quot; to mean &quot;blog post&quot;, for the reasons summarised by Meg Pickard inthis handy chart. &quot;Every time you make this mistake,&quot;writes Slate&apos;s Forrest Wickmanabout the blog-for-blogpost phenomenon, &quot;it sounds like you don’t understand this newfangled thing, the World Wide Web. Even if you think all those who might judge you are just being superficial, that’s not going to stop them from judging you.&quot;Yet this battle has been decisively lost – and thanks, partly, to the millennial scamps for whom Facebook is a background condition of life. The blog as a venue for a collection of blog posts by the same author or set of authors loses its significance once you&apos;re encountering most of what you read online through your (!) Facebook, your Tumblr or your Twitter. The more that individual blog posts get shared via social networking, uprooted from the blogs where they were originally published – if they were published on a traditional blog at all – the less it matters to maintain the distinction.In a similar spirit, I&apos;m sure I&apos;ll soon stop railing against &quot;my Facebook&quot; soon enough. I&apos;ll keep fighting a little longer, though, to preserve the distinction between &quot;Facebook&quot; and &quot;the internet&quot;. Mark Zuckerberg will probably win this one too, but that doesn&apos;t mean I need to make it easy for him.
Executives at fried-chicken chain KFC could be forgiven for feeling unsteady at the thought of a worm being found in one of their products. Mercifully, this time the worm is digital, and the product is an app.Security firm McAfee claims to have found a Windows worm nestling within the KFC WOW@25 Android app, which wasreleased by KFC India in Marchalongside an iOS version.The augmented reality app – which has since been removed from Android's Google Play store – scanned Indian banknotes and suggested KFC products, as well as offering a quiz to win prizes."Embedded inside this APK file, McAfee Labs found a Windows worm (Generic Malware.og!ats) that replicates itself via network shares," explained McAfee mobile malware researcher Fernando Ruizin a blog post."There is no auto-execution option for the malware on a Windows PC, but a user could run the malicious application by opening the APK (in Zip format) and running the program. This PC malware resides in each Android device that has installed the 'KFC WOW@25 Menu' app."Why would anyone want to embed Windows PC malware in an Android app, if it can't infect the device? Ruiz suggested that the KFC app's developer may have unwittingly been responsible:"The developer of this app possibly had outdated antimalware software on the computer, so without realizing that the computer was infected, the source code directory contained a copy of the worm," he wrote."From there the worm was packaged, signed, and deployed on Google Play, with the developer completely unaware of the file."McAfee's advice is for app to developers to ensure they have "updated antimalware software" on their computers, unsurprisingly, given its business selling exactly that kind of antimalware software.KFC India's WOW@25 app was released for iOS (pictured) and AndroidEven so, the discovery of the distinctly un-finger-lickin'-good worm in KFC India's app plays into wider debate about the threat that malware poses on smartphones, with Android often the focus of researchers' concerns.In aseparate report published earlier today, Trend Micro claimed that "the number of malicious and highrisk Android apps hit 718,000 in the secondquarter" of 2013, and is on course to reach 1m by the end of 2013 – a total that it took a decade for PC-based malware to reach.Meanwhile, the UK's Chartered Institute for IT recently warned thatAndroid malware has been evolvingbeyond the SMS Trojans that text premium-rate numbers from a user's phone, and which have beenthe most common form of Android malware in the past.The Institute warned of Android banking Trojans like ZitMo, and a new breed of "ransomware" malware from China that demands payment from users to restore their phones' functionality.Tech-savvy Android users may scoff at the thought of unwittingly downloading malware onto their devices, but the problem is more with less technically-adept owners of Android devices, with Google's OS now mainstream on both smartphones and tablets.Industry analyst Strategy Analytics estimates that Android took a79.5% share of global smartphone shipmentsin the second quarter of 2013, and a67% share of tablet shipments.With many Android malware apps posing as legitimate games and apps, Android's market domination (and the hands-off approval process of the Google Play app store) means plenty of potential victims. Although for McAfee and other security companies, they are also potential customers.
Norwegian studio 8-Bit Underpants has become the latest mobile games developer to fall foul of Apple's App Store approvals rules on political grounds, with its game Joyful Executions.The turn-based survival title is pitched as "a parody game on North Korean propaganda for children and a satire on our willingness to accept morally questionable acts through gamification", and puts players in charge of a firing squad tasked with killing protesters on the streets.8-Bit Underpants' Fredrik Nordstromtells Pocket Gamerthat the game was rejected by Apple after a month within its approval process due to flouting paragraph 16.1 of its App Store guidelines: "Apps that present excessively objectionable or crude content will be rejected."Joyful Executions has beenreleased for Android tablets, with an Android smartphone version to follow."It's Apple's right to decide what they want and don't want for whatever reason they fancy. However, as a developer, I would appreciate a more consequent and traceable implementation of their guidelines," says Nordstrom.The game may also have come up against a separate clause in Apple's guidelines, 15.3: "'Enemies' within the context of a game cannot solely target a specific race, culture, a real government or corporation, or any other real entity," it explains. Even with satirical intent, seemingly.TheJoyful Executions websitegives more background on why the game is being released, and its satirical intent regarding the North Korean regime, at a time of heightened sensitivity in the region."It's important that we're not scared by North Korean threats and that we don't take them seriously. Because if we do, we're cementing the legitimacy of the regime with our respect," explains the site, which also hints at an ambition to turn a spotlight onto the Western games industry."I didn't just want to make a funny parody of weird propaganda. I wanted to see if my game could be a little more than that. And so I tried my take on a topic that always baffled me with video games; how disturbingly easy we're manipulated by morally questionable ultra violence in video games."Joyful Executions is far from the first game with satirical intent to be rejected by Apple. In 2011, developer Owlchemy Labs saw its Smuggle Truck game, which saw players smuggling immigrants over the US border, alsoblocked by Apple's approvals team.It was reworked as Snuggle Truck with animals being delivered to a zoo, and was then approved for distribution on the App Store.The Phone Story game drew attention to controversial supply-chain issues in smartphone manufacturingLater in 2011, Italian developer Molleindustriasaw its Phone Story game barred from the store, after it tried to focus attention on supply-chain issues for mobile phones, including suicidal factory-workers jumping to their deaths – a topic that had been much in the news due toconcerns about employees at Chinese firm Foxconn, one of Apple's manufacturing partners.In January 2013, meanwhile,Apple rejected British developer Auroch Digital's Endgame: Syria, which was based on the conflict in Syria. This time, the rule in question was a clause on apps that "solely target a specific race, culture, a real government or corporation, or any other real entity"."Our aim is to use games as a format to bring news to a new audience and submission processes such as this do make it a lot harder for us," said designer Tomas Rawlings at the time. "I get that Apple want to make sure really offensive titles don't pass into their store, but ours is far from that."Apple's App Store Review Guidelinesare clear in some respects about its desire for satire to be channelled into forms of content other than games, but leave room for interpretation – or confusion – in other areas."We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate. If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical App," explains the document."We will reject Apps for any content or behavior that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, 'I'll know it when I see it'. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it."It's likely that Fredrik Nordstrom was well aware of the line-crossing potential of Joyful Executions before submitting it for approval, and for a developer wanting to raise awareness of a particular conflict or issue, an Apple ban can arguably be as useful as sailing through the approval process.Even so, Apple's continued belief that games aren't as worthy a vehicle for satire as books or songs means we're likely to see more approval controversies in the future.Meanwhile, Joyful Executions' sharp satire of the North Korean regime remains available for Android devices on Google Play, the store owned by a company whose executive chairman Eric Schmidt made ahigh-profile and controversial private visit to North Koreain January this year.
There are now 20m monthly active mobile gamers in the UK, and 6.2m who play on their smartphones almost every day, according toa report from market research firm comScore.The report suggests that mobile gaming is as popular as photo messaging, and only just behind weather, news and search (21m people apiece) as well as social networking (22m) as a mobile activity.comScore claims that the number of almost-daily active mobile gamers has nearly doubled since the start of 2011, with an almost-even gender split: 48% male and 52% female.The report also suggests that mobile gaming isn't necessarily "mobile" in terms of where it happens. 64% of British mobile gamers play at home in their living rooms, 45% in their bedrooms and 23% in their bathroom and/or toilet. 33% play while commuting, and 27% play at work.The growth in mobile gaming has been driven by the app stores of Apple and Google, and the popularity of freemium games like Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans, The Simpsons: Tapped Out and Top Eleven.At the time of writing, 18 of the 20 top grossing games on Apple's UK App Store are freemium, as are 19 of the 20 most lucrative games on Android's Google Play store.comScore claims that more than 8m Brits now download mobile games, up 45% in the last 18 months, although only 1.3m of them pay to download games. 55% of the latter group own iPhones, versus 28% for Android devices, 4% apiece for Windows Phone and BlackBerry, and 9% for other devices (i.e. non-smartphones).58% of the 6.8m people who download free mobile games in the UK own Android devices, 40% iPhones, 5% Windows Phones and 3% BlackBerry smartphones, with 4% on other platforms.From games developers' perspective, that means a target market for paid iPhone games of around 715k people versus 364k for Android and 52k each for Windows Phone and BlackBerry.No wonder so many are shifting focus to freemium apps, where the funnel of potential players is 3.3m Android users, 2.7m iPhone users, 340k on Windows Phone and 204k on BlackBerry. comScore claims that 2.2m mobile gamers in the UK spend money through in-app purchases.Newzoo's comparison of UK and European mobile gamers. Source: NewzooIt's worth comparing comScore's data with other studies and predictions for the UK mobile games market.Late in 2012, market research firm Newzoo estimated that there were33.6m British gamers across all platforms, with 17m of them playing on smartphones and 4.9m on tablets.The company also predicted that Brits would spend £390m on mobile games in 2012, just over 10% of overall UK games industry revenues of £3.8bn. Earlier in 2012,a separate Newzoo reporthad claimed that 39% of British mobile gamers – 9.2m people – were paying for mobile games.(That's a big difference to comScore's claims of 1.3m people who pay to download mobile games, and 2.2m who spend money on in-app purchases, mind.)Another industry analyst, IHS Screen Digest, claimed earlier this year thatBrits would spend nearly £300m on mobile gamesin 2013, compared to £743m on console games.This is all a far cry from the mobile games industry in the days before the launch of Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market (as it was known then).Reading the research above reminded me ofa presentation at the Mobile Games Forum conference in January 2008(six months before the App Store went live) by M:Metrics, a market research company that was later bought by comScore.This was a time when the most popular phones for gaming were made by Sony Ericsson and Nokia, but when only 4.8% of UK mobile subscribers were downloading games in any one month, even if nearly 30% had played a mobile game (i.e. Snake).Fast forward to the end of 2012, when if comScore's new research is right, just under 32% of theentire UK populationare playing mobile games every month, and just under 10% are playing them almost every day.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.PS4 &amp; PS Vita bundle coming for 'around $500' - Rumour | VideoGamer.comThis could be a smart move for Sony:Sony may introduce a hardware bundle containing a PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita when the next-gen console goes on sale later this year, according to a new report.Inside Gaming Daily claims to have been told by a "well-placed anonymous source" that a bundle containing the two consoles will release at "the end of the year" for "around $500" (~ £325).Sony has yet to announce any form of PS4/PS Vita bundle, but has been keen to push PlayStation Vita's functionality with its upcoming next-gen platform.The company seems keen to play up the 'second screen' possibilities of PS4, and PS Vita sales have been slowed. Selling the two together will put the 'remote play' concept into more hands.Carmack criticises "fundamentally poor" Kinect interactions | GamesIndustry InternationalThe id co-founder remains skeptical about Kinect:id Software co-founder John Carmack has addressed the "fundamentally poor" interactions offered by Kinect, and casting doubt over its relevance for game development.In the opening keynote of Quakecon 2013, Carmack acknowledged that Kinect was targeted at a "broad consumer base" with different demands and expectations to his own. However, he argued that even the new iteration of the hardware - on paper, a big improvement over the launch version - has obvious flaws."I think Kinect still has some fundamental limitations with the latency and frame rate on it," he said, as reported by Polygon. "Interacting with it is still ... when you interact with Kinect, some of the standard interactions - position and hold, waiting for different things - it's fundamentally a poor interaction."One way that I look at it is - I used to give Apple a lot of grief about the one button mouse. Anybody working with a mouse really wants more buttons - [they're] helpful there. Kinect is sort of like a zero button mouse with a lot of latency on it."We possibly shouldn't expect head-tracked strafing in Doom 4, then?Naughty Dog confirms European version of The Last of Us censored | Eurogamer.netEuropean fans of gratuitous dismemberment will be disappointed:In the US version of the game, the multiplayer features dismemberment and exploding heads. The European version's multiplayer does not.Eurogamer's US news editor Jeffrey Matulef, who, as you'd expect, is playing the North American version, has found that executions with certain weapons trigger exploding heads. The execution with the "Shorty", a sawed-off shotgun, blows your opponent's head clean off in the US version. In our version, we get a blood spurt.Crytek admits 'user data may have been compromised' | CVG UKAnother games publisher finds its digital offering compromised:Crysis studio Crytek has admitted that some users' information may have been compromised in a suspected hacker infiltration of its websites last week.Four Crytek websites, Crytek.com, Mycryengine.com, Crydev.net and MyCrysis.com, were taken offline over the weekend after the studio says it "became aware of suspicious activity".This followsthe hacking of an Ubisoft serverlast month.Even without Warcraft, EA's digital sales trend higher than Activision's | GamasutraSome stats on the emerging battlefield for major publishers: digital sales...In terms of company-to-company comparisons, this is the first 12-month period in which EA exceeded the digital revenue of its greatest rival, Activision Blizzard. At the end of March of this year, Activision Blizzard had annualized digital revenue of $1.73 billion per year while EA was hitting $1.66 billion. At the end of June, however, it was EA with the $1.72 billion total and Activision Blizzard with $1.62 billion.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
The British MP Stella Creasy, who has spoken out about the death and rape threats she has received on Twitter, has been tweeted a photograph of a masked man brandishing a knife, as the campaign of attacks on women who highlight online abuse continues.The Twitter user, operating under the name @Murkztah_, stated: "I'm gonna be the first thing u see when u wake up."The latest threat comes after a series of women in the public eye exposed the threats of violence they were subjected to on the social networking site, which has called the abuse unacceptable, clarified its rules on abusive behaviour and put extra staff in place to handle abuse reports.The Twitter user who targeted Creasy has been banned from the site and reported to police.The Labour MP has received a number of threats which she has made public. One user, calling himself @killcreasynow, threatened the Walthamstow MP with sexual violence and threatened to behead her. After the user was suspended by the site, another account, called @eatcreasynow, stated: "HI AGAIN S***!! IT TOOK TWITTER 30 MINUTES TO BAN ME BEFORE … I AM HERE AGAIN TO TELL YOU I WILL RAPE YOU TOMORROW AT 6PM."On Monday it emerged that the journalistsIndia Knight and Laurie Penny had received bomb threatsafter similar tweets were sent to the campaigner and writer Caroline Criado-Perez and the historian Mary Beard.Penny, who expressed her frustration at having to waste part of her working day reporting the threat, tweeted a screenshot of it and later told followers: "Police are here now and being very helpful. Am being advised to stay elsewhere tonight; have already sorted that out."Knight meanwhile tweeted: "Very grateful to @metpoliceuk, but officers wouldn't have to waste their time if @twitter could deal w this crap."Beard, who contacted police on Sunday after receiving a message claiming a bomb had been left outside her home, told BBC Breakfast on Monday that she has since received further threats on Twitter claiming that the originals were "just a practice run".The Guardian columnist Hadley Freeman, the Independent columnist Grace Dent and the Europe editor of Time magazine, Catherine Mayer, as well as a number of other women, have previously said they had been the subject of bomb threats on the site, while a number have received threats of rape.Beard said: "I've had lots of abuse, but only recently have I had these things actually threatening violence rape and death."I think we've got to be quite careful about drawing a distinction between those things because abuse is very nasty, it's sexist, it's misogynist but I think in some ways you can cope with that by naming and shaming."That's what I have quite often done – earlier this weekI retweeted one lad's Twitter threat and someone threatened to tell his mum and that sort of solved it."I think you have to be absolutely clear that these threats that have been coming to me and to other women and also, I have to say, to women who aren't lucky or unlucky enough to be in the public eye – these are criminal threats, they are threats of violence and death and all you can do is take them to the police."There is no two ways about it, threatening to kill someone is a crime and that's what I and other people have done and I hope other women who get these threats will do the same."Beard said that although Twitter had been slow off the mark to address the issue, she was happy with the support she had received from the site in the past 24 hours.Tony Wang, Twitter's UK general manager, posted a series of tweets on Monday saying abuse was "simply not acceptable". His messages came afterthe website clarified its rules on abusive behaviourand put extra staff in place to handle reports of abuse.Scotland Yard said it had launched an investigation into eight allegations of online abuse and threats. "The police central e-crime unit (PCeU), who hold the police national cybercrime remit, is now investigating allegations made by eight people that they have been subject to harassment, malicious communication or bomb threats," the Met said.
Freedom Hosting, linked by the FBI to child abuse images, has gone offline, as the FBI sought the extradition of a 28-year-old suspect from Ireland.Eric Eoin Marques is the subject of a US arrest warrant for distributing and promoting child abuse material online.He has been refused bail by the high court in Dublin, reported theIrish Independent, until the extradition request is decided. Marques, who is both a US and Irish national, will face the high court again on Thursday.If extradited to the US, Marques faces four charges relating to images hosted on the Freedom Hosting network, including images of the torture and rape of children. He could be sentenced to 30 years in prison.Freedom Hosting hosted sites on theThe Onion Router(Tor) network, which anonymises and encrypts traffic, masking the identity of users.Whistleblowers, journalists and dissidents too?On Sunday,Tor's official blogposted a detailed statement confirming that a large number of "hidden service addresses", or servers anonymised using the network, had unexpectedly gone offline.Tor was quick to distance itself from Freedom Hosting, which has been claimed to be a hub for child abuse material as well as Silk Road – the eBay of hard drugs, saying "the persons who run Freedom Hosting are in no way affiliated or connected to the Tor Project Inc, the organisation co-ordinating the development of the Tor software and research.""Anyone can run hidden services, and many do," said the statement. "Organisations run hidden services to protect dissidents, activists, and protect the anonymity of users trying to find help for suicide prevention, domestic violence, and abuse recovery."Whistleblowers and journalists use hidden services to exchange information in a secure and anonymous way and publish critical information in a way that is not easily traced back to them. The New Yorker's Strongbox is one public example."Security blogger and former Washington Post reporterBrian Krebswrote on Sunday that users were identified using a flaw in Firefox 17, on which the Tor browser is based.Rik Ferguson, vice-president of security research at Trend Micro, said he was awaiting further details to be made public as Marques is brought to trial, but that the takedown and related law enforcement "is great news for the campaign against child exploitation"."The malicious code made a 'victim machine' which visited one of the compromised hidden sites, and requested a website on the 'visible' web, via HTTP, thereby exposing its real IP address. As the exploit did not deliver any malicious code, it is highly unlikely that this was a cybercriminal operation."It is a legitimate concern that users of child abuse material may simply go elsewhere, and as such the individual users should continue to be targeted by law enforcement globally. However, going after the people and organisations that really enable this content to be made available at all is a much more effective strategy."In 2011, hacking collective Anonymous took down Freedom Hosting with a targeted DDos attack as part of an anti-paedophile campaign. Anonymous alsopublished detailsof the accounts of 1,500 members of Lolita City, claiming Freedom Hosting was home to 100GB of child abuse material.FBI conspiracy?Users on theTor sub-Redditwere suspicious about the news, dissecting the details of the vulnerability and pointing to aprevious casewhere the FBI had taken over and maintained a site hosting child abuse material for two weeks in order to identify users."FBI uploads malicious code on the deep web sites while everyone is off at Defcon. Talk about paying dirty," commentedVarthDaTor. Defcon is an annual event in the US for security experts and hackers."The situation is serious," saidgmerni. "They got the owner of FH and now they're going after all of us. Half the onion sites were hosted on FH! Disable Javascript in your Tor browser for the sake of your own safety."
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft cuts Surface Pro price by $100 following Surface RT reductions &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft is discounting its Surface Pro tablet this weekend, following heavy reductions to its Surface RT costs recently. The 10% price cut to Surface Pro reduces the cost of the 64GB and 128GB models by $100 each in the US. Not all regions appear to have Surface Pro price cuts just yet, but the US, Canada, Hong Kong, and Taiwan are all showing price cuts on both models.The Surface Pro pricing follows a 30% price cut on Microsoft's Surface RT tablets recently. The software maker took a $900m hit on Surface RT in its latest quarter, but Microsoft appeared to be focusing its price cuts and write-down on just the Surface RT tablet. The wording on Microsoft's Surface site appears to suggest the Surface Pro price cut is permanent.Exclusive: Apple recently acquired low-energy chipmaker Passif &gt;&gt; jessica lessinIt's easy to see why Apple wanted Passif, which was founded several years ago by Ben Cook and Axel Berny, who were PhD students at the University of California, Berkeley.  As technology companies pack more battery-draining features into smartphones, technologies that preserve and extend battery life are critical. Radios are some of the biggest battery drainers.The need is particularly acute for wearable devices, like activity-tracking watches. One of the reasons Apple and its rivals haven't launched such devices yet is how hard it is to shrink screens, batteries and radios to fit into them.Lessin is a former Wall Street Journal writer, now branching out with her own project.Gary Shteyngart: Confessions of a Google Glass Explorer &gt;&gt; The New YorkerThere is a tap on his shoulder. He turns around. An older man, dressed for the office in a blue blazer, says, "Are those them?""Yes.""My kid wants one.""If you give them to your kid, you'll be able to see everything he sees from your computer. You could follow him around all day."The businessman considers this. "Are they foldable?"The man with the glasses shakes his head. A young college student in a hoodie and Adidas track pants, carrying a Pace University folder, takes out one of his earbuds. "What does it do?"Everyone on the train is now staring at the man with the glasses.The man with the glasses jerks his head up and down. The soft pink light is on above his right eye. "O.K., Glass," the man says. "Take a picture." The pink light is replaced by a shot of the subway car, the college student with the earbuds, the older man, now immortalized.A great read.Tablet shipments slow in the second quarter as vendors look to capitalise on a strong second half of 2013 &gt;&gt; IDCAs expected, worldwide tablet shipment growth slowed in the second quarter of 2013 (2Q13), according to preliminary data from the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Tablet Tracker. Worldwide tablet shipments finally experienced a sequential decline as total volumes fell 9.7% from 1Q13. However, the 45.1m units shipped in the second quarter was up 59.6% from the same quarter in 2012, when tablet vendors shipped 28.3m devices.Lacking a new product launch in March to help spur shipments, Apple's iPad saw a lower-than-predicted shipment total of 14.6m units for the quarter, down from 19.5m in 1Q13. In years past, Apple has launched a new tablet heading into the second quarter, which resulted in strong quarter-over-quarter growth. Now, Apple is expected to launch new tablet products in the second half of the year, a move that better positions it to compete during the holiday season. Meanwhile, the other two vendors in the top three also saw a decline in their unit shipments during the quarter. Second-place Samsung shipped 8.1m units, down from 8.6m in the first quarter of 2013, although up significantly from the 2.1m units shipped in 2Q12. And third-place ASUS shipped a total of 2.0m units in 2Q13, down from 2.6m in 1Q13.That manufacturer called "Others" did great, though - up from 7.4m a year before to 17.5mWill a fingerprint sensor be Apple's next hit? &gt;&gt; Invasive CodeGeppy Parziale:Let's take a look at the most critical component of the entire fingerprint recognition process: the sensor. Recognition is highly dependent on the quality of the captured fingerprint image as in less noise, and better image. The core technology used to manufacture the sensors can introduce noise and errors on the captured fingerprint image, influencing the recognition to such a negative extreme that you could be continuously rejected by the system (false rejection) or somebody else could be granted access to the system instead of you (false acceptance).There are 2 kinds of fingerprint capture methods: touchless and touch-based fingerprint capture. I pioneered thefirst category.Youpioneeredit? Suddenly a lot more interested, Mr Parziale. A very useful primer even if Apple doesn't do anything of the sort.The Chromecast vs. Smart TV &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogPaul Gagnon:Ourresearchindicates that the percentage of TVs which are connected will increase to 23% in North America, though this is well below the global average of 36% and behind expectations. The low adoption rate of connected TV in the US relates to the proliferation of other devices that can duplicate the function of Smart TVs for little or no money. Gaming console owners already stream from web apps. Roku and Apple TV are relatively cheap at $60-$100. The Chromecast, at $35, significantly devalues connected TV functions (and may be followed up with an Android game console).For smart TV makers, this is a big challenge. To date, their solution has been to increase the functionality, complexity and componentry of the Smart TV to compete with other devices in the home. However, this increases the cost while consumers see decreasing value in Smart TV hardware (and set makers struggle with Smart TV obsolescence). The Chromecast will widen this gap further, and appears to be a hit among tech enthusiasts.Why would you pay $100-$200 extra for the "smart" functionality if you could add it for less with a Chromecast, Roku or Apple TV?Google, the freaky line and why Moto X is a game-changer &gt;&gt; The Next WebRobert Scoble (of Google Glass in the shower fame):Yes, Google is more transparent about what they are collecting on us than most companies, but it is asking an awful lot of us. Some won't go into the contextual age easily. Lots of my friends are getting freaked out by just how much Google is collecting on us. I think that's a marketing opportunity, even while those of us who like this kind of stuff adopt it.We'll see a new kind of digital divide open over the next couple of years. Not a divide between people who can and can't afford technology but a divide between people who are willing to go over the freaky line and those who aren't.It'll be interesting to see who will go over the freaky line and who won't and what that will mean for each group. It is the biggest social shift since the Web came on the scene in 1994.Scoble's new Big Thing is "context", which arguably is what devices need to have so they can be more useful. But does our data have to be sold on? Can't we just pay companies to use our data, but without advertising at us? The idea that monetisation must mean adverts is a peculiarly American one. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)How "one weird trick" conquered the internet: what happens when you click on those omnipresent ads &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineIt's doubtful, though, that Lon [who narrates the video] has much in the way of insider info. He's an actor hired by Barton Publishing, a firm based in South Dakota that puts out a wide variety of crankish health literature—there's nary a foodstuff that isn't the cure to some ailment in one of Barton's booklets. Most "one weird trick" ads are hard to trace back to a specific marketing firm with flesh-and-blood employees, but Barton is open about the kind of publishing it does, with pictures and bios of their contributors on its website. (Notably, the first person listed is not a homeopath but a "split tester.")Alex Kaufman investigates so you don't have to. Unless you already have, in which case why didn't you tell us earlier?Find your lost phone with Android Device Manager &gt;&gt; Official Android BlogHave you ever lost your phone in between the couch cushions or forgot it in a restaurant? Or maybe searching for your phone before you rush out the door is part of your morning routine? Later this month, the new Android Device Manager can help you out. It's one of a few simple features you can use to keep your device—and the data you store inside—safe and secure.If you ended up dropping your phone between those couch cushions, Android Device Manager lets you quickly ring your phone at maximum volume so you can find it, even if it's been silenced. And in the event that your phone or tablet is out of earshot (say, at that restaurant you left it at last night), you can locate it on a map in real time.Coming later in August for devices running 2.2 and up. Useful. Also vaguely familiar.HTC denies sale rumor amid poor Q3 outlook &gt;&gt; EngadgetPoor HTC just can't get a break. Earlier this week, EE Times' famed Chinese analyst Alice Sun posted a rather worrying rumor on Sina Weibo: apparently HTC chairwoman Cher Wang is giving up making mobile phones, and that she's already put her company on the market with a price.While Sun is usually known for reliable insights, this particular piece of gossip was quickly shot down by HTC, including China head Ray Yam who allegedly responded to a text message inquiry from Mobile China Alliance's secretary. At yesterday's corporate family day event, Wang also assured her colleagues that HTC will not be sold, according to Taiwanese publication UDN.HTC might not get a choice. Its July revenues were down 39% year-on-year. A loss this quarter looks inevitable.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Jeff Bezos, one of the wealthiest people in the world with a $22bn fortune made from Amazon.com, has been taking baby steps towards the journalism business for years.No longer content with timid approaches, Bezosmade a splash on Mondayby agreeing to pay $250m for the Washington Post after two other major publications – the Boston Globe and Newsweek – sold for a fraction of that over the past two days.Bezos is also getting a passel of smaller newspapers in the sale, including Greater Washington Publishing, the Gazette newspapers, Express, El Tiempo Latino and Robinson Terminal, according to a memo from the Washington Post publisher and chief executive, Katharine Weymouth.Bezos, 49, in many ways fits the profile of the classic newspaper owner: rich and politically active – he is a libertarian and actively supported gay marriage – and nearing the second stage of his career, after making his fortune. He draws a nominal salary from Amazon but his founders' shares, private investments and other holdings are worth about $22bn, according to Bloomberg.His personality as a leader is best seen in his comments on Amazon. While other giant companies may have "a conqueror mentality," he told Fortune Magazine last year, "we think of ourselves as explorers."That sense of adventure is evident in the name of his private investment firm,Bezos Expeditions. Through the firm, Bezos owns stakes in media companies – and media-intensive companies – including Twitter and the financialjournalism startup Business Insider, which was founded by former Wall Street analyst, Henry Blodget. The investment in Business Insider, which came in April, clocked in at under $5m."Jeff's investment grew out of a dinner he and I had about a year ago," Blodgetwrote in April. "We talked about the business, and he was excited about it. (He sees some parallels with Amazon). A few months later, he expressed an interest in investing. My reaction was basically 'Hell, yeah!'"Weymouth, whose family, the Grahams, have owned the Washington Post for eight decades, seemed similarly enthused in a letter to readers, in which she spoke of Bezos's intentions for the paper – namely, to push it into the digital future and leave it alone. "His focus is on the essential role that our journalism has on dialogue and the flow of information in our society," Weymouth wrote. She will continue to run the paper.Both Blodget and Weymouth have praised Bezos's tendency to favor long-term investments – knowing that the journalism industry is currently a long way from a feasible business model.In many ways, the Washington Post sale is also an indicator of a kind of cultural baton-passing. Bezos and his fellow tech entrepreneurs are taking the role in society once allotted to socially and politically powerful Washington-based families like the Grahams.Jeff Bezos and his wife, Mackenzie Bezos, at a Metropolitan Museum of Art gala benefit. Photograph: Evan Agostini/APBezos is a philanthropist through hisBezos Family Foundation, which is run by his mother, Jackie, to benefit childhood education. Last year, he and his wife, Mackenzie, donated $2.5m to a campaign supporting gay marriage at thebehest of a former employee, Jennifer Cast. According to the Seattle Times, the note from Bezos to Cast read: "Jen, this is right for so many reasons. We're in for $2.5 million. Jeff &amp; Mackenzie."In business, Bezos has a reputation as a cerebral perfectionist with a tendency to micromanage. He is said to start senior staff meetings with a 30-minute period of silent contemplation over six-page memos, a practice thatFortune attributedto his "fondness for the written word".Bezossaid in a note to employees, however, that he plans to let the management team run the Washington Post without his interference, and that he plans to stay in Seattle.Wags on Twitter were cracking jokes on Monday night about Bezos's new venture. The upshot of many comments, however, was that his Washington Post stake will test if not his fondness for the written word, then his patience for profit.
Charles Arthur and Jemima Kidd (What can you do to take action against the trolls?30 July) posed the question "Is a rape threat on Twitter more urgent than a real-life stalker?". In the digital world, and certainly for "digital natives", there is no distinction between the "real" and the online world. A "like" on your Facebook page is as great as someone saying something nice to you in the playground. A nasty comment on your timeline hurts just as much as any spoken bullying snipe – and lasts longer and is more widely shared. Similarly, a rape threat online should be treated exactly the same and with no less seriousness and urgency than one in real life.Sarah MannHead of e-learning services, Civica• The rules for social media sites should consider their size and market dominance. Consider a town with several pubs. Behaviour tolerated in one pub may cause some to drink elsewhere. But if the customers have nowhere else to go, it seems reasonable to expect the landlord to adopt a more interventionist role. Sadly, the way Mark Luckie, Twitter's manager of journalism and news, withdrew when subjected to a fraction of the abuse endured by the people who indirectly pay his salary shows corporate incomprehension of this responsibility.Why not provide tools to formalise natural tribal segmentation,as noted by Professor Vincent Jansen? That way we&nbsp;can all choose which pub to chat in and avoid the boors as well as the bores.Philip CunninghamLondon• Threats have always been sent by any media that do not have an intermediary, as the abuse of snail mail and the telephone demonstrate. However, the internet has seen an escalating coarsening of social life. When haters can threaten their victims with apparent impunity, it is not just those targeted who are at risk. The threat is to us all.Trevor FisherStafford• After a handful of articulate and influential middle-class women find people have posted tasteless and/or insulting comments, the media subjects the topic to intense scrutiny (Report, 4 August). As a result, Twitter is to add a complaint&nbsp;button, and apparently staff will also be questioned by a government&nbsp;select committee.Meanwhile, women who might be defined as non-influential, or poor and inarticulate, are, and continue to be, victims of domestic violence: the actual violence of a physical assault by a current or previous partner that results, on average, in the death of two women a week (see, for example, statistics on domestic violence cited byWomen's Aid). Where's the outcry from the chattering classes about the two "real victims" of gendered violence that are killed, offline, every week?Eddie DugganIpswich, Suffolk• I'm sure GCHQ would be happy to help locate the Twitter trolls. After all, if it's not to help fight crime, why else are they collecting the data?John GesslerBarnsley• While I have great respect for many of those involved in Sunday'sTwitter boycott, do they really think that Rosa Parks would have been remembered if she'd stayed off the buses, and walked?Dan AdlerFarnham, Surrey
Two more well-known women on Twitter have received bomb threats, as the historian Mary Beard called for repeated threats of violence and death against her and other women using the site to be distinguished from mere abuse.The journalists India Knight and Laurie Penny became the latest users to receive bomb threats after similar tweets were alsosent to campaigner and writer Caroline Criado-Perez, and the Labour MP Stella Creasy, as the campaign of attacks on Twitter against women who highlight online abuse continued.Penny, who expressed her frustration at having to waste part of her working day reporting the threat,tweeted a screenshot of itand later told followers: "Police are here now and being very helpful. Am being advised to stay elsewhere tonight; have already sorted that out."Knight meanwhiletweeted: "Very grateful to @metpoliceuk, but officers wouldn't have to waste their time if @twitter could deal w this crap."Beard, who contacted police on Sunday after receiving a message claiming a bomb had been left outside her home, told BBC Breakfast today that she has since received further threats on Twitter claiming that the originals were "just a practice run".Guardian columnist Hadley Freeman, Independent columnist Grace Dent and Europe editor of Time magazine Catherine Mayer, as well as a number of other women, have previously said they had been the subject of bomb threats on the site, while a number have received threats of rape.Beard said: "I've had lots of abuse, but only recently have I had these things actually threatening violence rape and death."I think we've got to be quite careful about drawing a distinction between those things because abuse is very nasty, it's sexist, it's misogynist but I think in some ways you can cope with that by naming and shaming."That's what I have quite often done – earlier this week I retweeted one lad's Twitter threat and someone threatened to tell his mum and that sort of solved it."I think you have to be absolutely clear that these threats that have been coming to me and to other women and also, I have to say, to women who aren't lucky or unlucky enough to be in the public eye – these are criminal threats, they are threats of violence and death and all you can do is take them to the police."There is no two ways about it, threatening to kill someone is a crime and that's what I and other people have done and I hope other women who get these threats will do the same."Beard said that although Twitter had been slow off the mark to address the issue, she was happy with the support she received from the site in the last 24 hours.Tony Wang, Twitter's UK general manager, posted a series of tweets yesterday saying abuse was "simply not acceptable". His messages came after the website clarified its rules on abusive behaviour and put extra staff in place to handle reports of abuse.Scotland Yard said that it has launched an investigation into eight allegations of online abuse and threats. "Detectives from the specialist organised &amp; economic crime command have taken responsibility for the investigations into a number of allegations recently made to the MPS relating to allegations of malicious communication made on the social networking site Twitter," the Met said in a statement."The police central e-crime unit (PCeU), who hold the police national cybercrime remit, is now investigating allegations made by eight people that they have been subject to harassment, malicious communication or bomb threats."
South Korea's government has expressed "concerns" about the Barack Obama administration'slast-minute reversal of a trade ban against Apple's iPhone 4 and 3G-capable iPad 2– amid the threat that a similar ban on Samsung products will be implemented on Friday.The block on the iPhone ban, which Samsung had won from the US-based International Trade Commission (ITC), was the first time the president has vetoed an ITC ban since 1987, when President Ronald Reagan ruled in favour of the import of Samsung memory chips against US rivals."We express concerns about the negative impact that such a decision would have on the protection of patent rights," Reuters quoted theMinistry of Trade, Industry &amp; Energysaying in a statement.The ministry also called on the US to make "fair and reasonable decisions" on upcoming patents.But Samsung's ban seems to have been overturned because it tried to use its ownership of a standards-essential patent (SEP) for 3G systems to force Apple to license it a non-essential patent relating to its interface software.Read also:Apple, Samsung, Google and the smartphone patents wars - everything you need to knowUS trade representative Michael Formanexplained in a letterthat he "strongly share[s]" concerns expressed earlier this year by the US Patents and Trademark Office (USPTO) that owners of SEPs which had volunteered to license them on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) terms were instead using those SEPs for "patent hold-up" – that is, demanding a higher price for use of the patent than it would get if it had not been incorporated into a standard.Many SEPs are low-level algorithms which have little inherent value, but are needed to make a standard effective. Wi-Fi and 3G rely on thousands of patents, whose owners have volunteered to license them on FRAND terms which often amount to fractions of a penny per device.Non-essential patents –such as the way interface software works – do not have to be licensed, or the owner can license them on its own terms. Samsung faces a final decision on Friday over a trade ban demanded by Apple on a number of Samsung phones and tablets, including its two-year-old Galaxy S2 phone and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet.Samsung said of the Obama veto that: "We are disappointed that the US Trade Representative has decided to set aside the exclusion order issued by the ITC. The ITC's decision correctly recognised that Samsung has been negotiating in good faith and that Apple remains unwilling to take a licence."Apple said in a statement: "We applaud the [Obama] administration for standing up for innovation in this landmark case. Samsung was wrong to abuse the patent system in this way."Samsung's apparent demand that Apple license non-essential patents to it in return for an SEP licence emerges from the dissenting opinion by one of the ITC judges in the case. Dean Pinkertwrotethat "it is neither fair nor non-discriminatory for the holder of the FRAND-encumbered patent to require licenses to non-FRAND-encumbered patents as a condition for licensing its patent."That suggests that Samsung was trying to use its leverage in SEPs to force Apple to license other non-essential patents.The European Commission issued a Statement of Objections to Samsung last December over its use of SEPs in court cases. That led Samsung to abruptly drop a number of court cases against Apple in which it was asserting SEPs."Historically, it is almost unheard of for the White House to veto an ITC imposed injunction and I did not expect it to in this case," commented Richard Windsor, who runs the RadioFreeMobile consultancy, whose clients include large handset makers (though not Apple)."I am certain that Samsung will be screaming that the White House has been biased in favour of an American company but the White House has a good reason: Samsung sought and won injunctive relief on the back of standard essential patents."Apple and Samsung have been locked in a series of bitter patent battles around the world. One of the largest in the US last year saw Apple awarded damages of $1.05bn (£907m) for infringement by Samsung of a number of its non-essential patents and "design patents" relating to the close resemblance of some Samsung phones to the iPhone 3GS. About $400m of that award was vacated, and will be reconsidered by a jury later this month.In the original trial, Samsung asserted that Apple had infringed a number of its SEPs. But the jury did not agree, deciding that Apple in effect had a licence through one of its chip suppliers.
The Obama administration's last-minute decision tooverturn the US import ban on Apple's iPhone 4 and 3G-capable iPad 2looks at first like jingoistic favouritism. Samsung won this ban in the courts and you have to go back 26 years to Ronald Reagan's administration in 1987 to find the last time such a decision was reversed. (Though interestingly, the beneficiary of that 1987 decision was Samsung's memory chip business, opposed by American rivals.)But the charge of favouritism doesn't stand up. First, Obama's justice department just whacked Apple in an anti-trust trial over ebook pricing; so no favouritism there.Second and more importantly: Samsung's ban was over "standards-essential patents" (SEPs) – the algorithms needed to comply with a standard. Apple had to use them to offer a 3G-compatible phone.Without regulation and transparency, owners of SEPs can set ridiculous prices and create an extortionate climate for rivals.The rivalry between Apple and Samsung is as bitter as they come. Samsung says Apple refused to license its patent; Apple, that Samsung was demanding a ridiculous price. The Obama administration, and many onlookers, think the latter.Samsung has form here. It isbeing investigated by the European commissionfor precisely the same shenanigans – using SEPs to "distort competition". The commission indicated its displeasure and in December last year Samsungdroppedits court action in Europe – precisely the sort of action it pursued in the US, and won. Fines could still be forthcoming.The veto is really part of an Obama-led drive to force better behaviour from SEP owners. Anti-trust watchdog the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has already extracted a pledge from Google's Motorola not to use its SEPs to demand sales bans (which it was trying against Microsoft's Xbox 360; it failed).The likely outcome is that owners of SEPs – including Samsung – won't be able to charge so much, nor get import bans. That is a good thing: standards need to be open and accessible, else they aren't standards. It might hurt the valuation of Motorola, on which Googlespent $12bn, and valued its patents at $5bn. That still looks ripe for awritedown. Maybe this will be the cue.
Motormouth right-wing talk-show host Rush Limbaugh has deigned to comment on the world of technology blogging,pronouncing that the media is biased against Applein the same way that mainstream media is biased against the Republicans.Limbaugh told listeners on Friday's show that reading high-tech and gadget blogs is a hobby of his, but like mainstream media, alternative media lacks conservative voices."I would venture to say that nine out of 10 bloggers writing high-tech hate Apple," said Limbaugh. "Apple is the equivalent of the Republicans on these blogs, and Google, Android, and Samsung are the equivalent of the Democrats – they're perfect, they can't do anything wrong, they're ideal, and everybody hates Apple."Limbaugh referred to recent stories measuring performance of Android to iOS devices."Pro-Apple bloggers are looking at the way the pro-Samsung, Google, and Android bloggers write, and they're now starting to write about the media bias … they're chronicling how these pro-Samsung and Google, Android guys are faking data, faking news to make it look bad for Apple when it really isn't."Limbaugh acknowledged that most of this generation would probably vote Democrat, and think Republicans are "aliens from Mars, racists, sexists, bigots, homophobes". And he claimed biased reporting in the tech sector reflected anti-Republican bias in America's mainstream media."I would love to just be able to get to one of these guys say, 'Now, I want you to do something. The way you see these guys propping up Samsung and Google and Android and the way these guys are ripping Apple to shreds, would you try to see that in the mainstream media?"Would you open your eyes and see what's going on in the mainstream media? Would you try to open your eyes and see that in the mainstream media, the Republican party is Apple, and the Democrat party is Samsung, Google, and Android."When asked to name the biased liberal blogs, Limbaugh refused. "If I call 'em out, all they're gonna do is get happy that I'm giving them attention and elevating attention … And put these little chumps on the map and they'd never be bigger, but it wouldn't change, just make 'em snarkier and ruder. Just the way things work."Limbaugh's interpretation of America's technology scene will be received with amusement by the largely Democrat tech community.Obama's election campaigns in 2008 and 2012 famously employed a string of A-list developer talent from firms including Google, Facebook and Twitter, and even opened an office in Silicon Valley for volunteer engineers.More recently, an internal Republican committee criticised shortfalls in the digital side of the 2012 Mitt Romney campaign.Republicans are now setting up a multi-million dollar projectto gather information on voters and raise funds, to include an office and team based in Silicon Valley.
Yahoo's flurry of mobile-focused startup acquisitions shows no signs of slowing down. Over the weekend, the company paid a reported $60m-$70m for browser firm Rockmelt, which promptly announced it will be shutting down its existing apps and website.The company launched a desktop web-browsing application in 2010 with an emphasis on social networking features, before shifting strategy in 2012 to focus on mobile apps.Then, in April 2013,Rockmelt launched a new websitepromising "a visual stream of the web" combining updates from other sites and social networks. Now it will be putting its engineering talent to use within Yahoo."Yahoo! and Rockmelt share a common goal: To help people discover the best content from around the web," explains ablog post from Rockmeltco-founders Eric Vishria and Tim Howes."In our short four and a half years at Rockmelt, we've learned a lot about how you like to browse the web, discover content, and share the great stuff you've found... You've taught us a ton. And we plan to put everything we've learned to work at Yahoo!"A Yahoo spokespersontold Reutersthat Rockmelt's technology will help the company to "deliver content in new ways".All Things Digital reported thatthe $60m-$70m acquisition was mainly in cash, and notes that with total funding of nearly $40m to date, Rockmelt's exit was thus a modest return for those investors.Its report notes that Vishria will be vice president for media products at Yahoo, while Howes will oversee the company's mobile engineering teams as it continues to tilt its focus towards mobile under chief executive Marissa Mayer.Rockmelt is Yahoo's 21st acquisition since Mayer took the reins in July 2012: a spree that has included social recommendation apps (Stamped, Alike, Jybe); social networking and media-sharing startups (Snip.it, Ghostbird Software, Rondee) and games companies (Loki Studios, Playerscale, Bignoggins Productions), as well as the$1.1bn acquisition of blogging platform Tumblr.Mayer outlined her overall strategy duringYahoo's financial earnings call in July, telling analysts that her first year as CEO had been focusing on creating the conditions for a "chain reaction" that will reignite the company's growth."Hire and retain a great team, build inspiring products that will attract users and increase traffic, that traffic will increase advertiser interest and ultimately translate into revenue," said Mayer. "People then products then traffic then revenue."Mayer has also overseen the relaunch of Yahoo subsidiary Flickr's mobile app, launched a new app for Yahoo Weather, and revamped the Yahoo Mail service for tablets, while integrating technology from a number of acquisitions into the company's existing services.The obvious model for Rockmelt is Summly, the news summarisation app Yahoobought for £18m in March. One month later, its technology was incorporated into a redesigned version of Yahoo's main app for iOS and Android.Mayer painted such acquisitions as essential for re-energising Yahoo. "These companies bring sophisticated technology and intellectual property to strengthen our product portfolio and they bring great engineering and product talent to Yahoo," she said during the earnings call.
If Sergey Brin didn't exist, it might be beyond the wit of anyone to invent him. He turns 40 on the 21st of this month, and can now add his role as the funder of the new €250,000 (£216,000) "test-tube burger" to a host of other wild science-fiction ideas that are turning into fact - including investing in asteroid mining, personal genome analysis and electric cars.And that's before you mention his role as the billionaire co-founder (with university friend Larry Page) of internet search giant Google, where he's also helped make the phone software Android one of the planet's most-used operating systems in just five years.The triumvirate that runs Google - chief executive Page, executive chairman Eric Schmidt, and Brin - divides its roles quite clearly. Schmidt is the smooth diplomat, as familiar with Davos and No10 Downing Street as the "Googleplex" in California. Page, who turned 40 in March, is the hard-edged businessman. Brin, meanwhile, drives the "moonshots" – the projects that sound outlandish until they happen. Thus Brin has made self-driving cars a reality in a number of American states, and introduced the idea that wearing glasses that are always connected to a computer – "Google Glass" – isn't necessarily a sign of utter geekiness. (It has a little way to go on this, though, and Brin's comments in February that using asmartphone is "emasculating"– while the Google Glass on his face made him look vaguely like a lost space pirate – wasn't his finest hour.)His excursions into new territories haven't been without personal cost. In September 2008, he revealed that his genome sequencing indicated he had a"markedly higher" risk of developing Parkinson's Disease. (He has beenfunding research to find a cure, so far putting in $132m.)What next? Brin has shown interest in power generation, particularly renewables; in 2010 Google invested in an offshore wind-power development in the US. He's also an investor in Tesla Motors, the US electric car startup. So perhaps he will next turn up in some utterly unexpected little startup developing something usingzero-point energy(a wrinkle of quantum mechanics).Where does his spiralling imagination come from? His parents – father a maths professor, mother a researcher at the US space agency Nasa – are the obvious answer. They emigrated from Russia when Brin was six; his father claims they faced anti-Semitism, and Brin has ever since been keenly alert, and opposed, to government oppression in all its forms. He and Page met at Stanford University, where Page was working on the question of indexing and ranking the web, while Brin thought about how to make the best use of data. The collaboration produced a web phenomenon that now straddles the world.Brin is a freewheeling type, quite literally. Ken Auletta describes in his book "Googled" how he would often turn up for meetings with powerful visiting executives slightly late, out of breath and wearing rollerblades. In his memoir "I'm Feeling Lucky", Doug Edwards, one of Google's earliest employees, describes Page as having "awkward moves and self-conscious grins" while Brin is "more fluid, athletic, acrobatic. Bouncy, even".For someone whose mind usually races ahead of everyone else's, performing a sort of mental parkour, it's fitting that Brin should prefer wheels to shoes. The only question is whether the rest of the world can keep up with his vision.
Age:A distinctly 21st-century problem.Appearance:A friend's face buried in a screen.What are we talking about?We're talking about phubbing.Never heard of it.That's because the word was first used about a month ago.To describe what?To describe the kind of person who bursts out laughing mid-conversation, making you think you've made a brilliant joke, and then says: "Sorry, I wasn't laughing at you, I just saw something really funny on Twitter." Or the sort who think it's appropriate to check their emails in the pub when you only have each other for company. Or the tedious people who live-tweet weddings.Those people are the worst. So what does "phubbing" actually mean?It means "The act of snubbing someone in a social setting by looking at your phone instead of paying attention."According to whom?According to the website of the internationalStop Phubbing campaign group.There's a campaign against it?There is. Or a website for a campaign anyway, set up last month by 23-year-old Alex Haigh from Melbourne. They haven't actually done all that much campaigning so far.How can I get involved?You can download "Stop Phubbing" posters for restaurants and "Stop Phubbing" place cards for weddings, browse a gallery of celebrity "phubbers" caught texting instead of talking – including Victoria Beckham and Elton John – and even "Shame a Phubber" from your own social circle by uploading an incriminating photograph to the site.Sounds pretty serious.Not really. There's also a list of "Disturbing Phubbing Stats" that includes "If phubbing were a plague it would decimate six Chinas", "97% of people claim their food tasted worse while being a victim of phubbing" and "92% of repeat phubbers go on to become politicians".Ah. So it's really just a joke site?Well, a joke site with a serious message about our growing estrangement from our fellow human beings. But mostly a joke site, yes.Do say:"Don't you hate it when people don't pay attention?"Don't say:"Sorry, I didn't hear that, I just found this really funny website about phubbing."
This year'sLeWeb '13 Londonconference was themed around the "sharing economy", celebrating startups including Airbnb, ZipCar, Uber and BlaBlaCar for business models based around connecting people and cutting out middlemen, from hotel chains to licensed-taxi systems.Throughout, though, the spectre of opposition from those middlemen – not to mention governments and city authorities – loomed large. As it does in San Francisco, where drivers from sharing-economy startups Uber and Lyft are reportedly being arrested if they try to pick up or drop off passengers at the SFO airport.Wired reports that11 Uber drivers and one Lyft driverhave so far had their knuckles rapped for misdemeanor unlawful trespassing offences, and quotes SFO spokesperson Doug Yakel as saying "We're certainly open to new business concepts, but not at the expense of safety."For its part, Uber's chief executive Travis Kalanick tells Wired that the airport's claims are "untrue", amid a backdrop ofproposed changes to Californian transport regulationsto treat these companies as legal taxi services.Regulations are a touchy subject for the sharing economy, as shown by the launch last week of a body calledPeerswhich describes itself as "a grassroots organization that supports the sharing economy movement", although the fact that founding partners include Airbnb, BlaBlaCar, Lyft and Sidecar are sparking questions about just how grassroots it really is."We believe that by sharing what we already have — like cars, homes, skills and time — everyone benefits in the process," explains its website."The sharing economy is helping us pay the bills, work flexible hours, meet new people or spend more time with our families. We think it's how the 21st century economy should work, so we're coming together to grow, mainstream and protect the sharing economy."Initial reports thatthe 22 founding partners were funding Peershave since been corrected: Salon journalist Andrew Leonard now reports thatmost of Peers' funding comes from "mission-aligned independent donors", although investors and executives from sharing-economy companies are included in that.Peers is presumably the organisation alluded to by Airbnb's head of community Douglas Atkin in a presentation at LeWeb '13 London, which I took notes on at the time but hadn't written up until now.His tone was instructive on how many people involved with the sharing economy feel about regulatory obstacles to their businesses. Or "unfair and unreasonable" obstacles as Atkin put it in his speech, which isarchived on YouTube."It's unlikely, I believe – and I believe this because I used to work for them – that the entrenched interests of the old economy are going to stand idly by as their business model of the past 70 years is challenged by the new economy," said Atkin."What's more, outdated laws, and new laws which have been badly conceived with unintended consequences, really threaten the growth of this nascent new-world economy. How much better it would be if citizens banded together to grow and protect their interests in the sharing economy, rather than companies wielding their power."Atkin talked about plans for "people to create a member-driven movement for the sharing economy: if you like, a new kind of union for a new kind of economy" – this, presumably, is Peers."It's independent, it's member-driven, it's global. It's not a trade association. It's not a lobbying group. It will use peer power and collective action to grow the sharing economy and overcome unfair obstacles," said Atkin."I personally want to see the sharing economy become the dominant global economic model in the world... It has the possibility of transforming the world for the better."There is self-interest on both sides of this debate: Existing laws do often shut out new, disruptive sharing-economy companies, yet sweeping away those regulations would clearly benefit those sharing-economy companies and their investors too, removing the barriers to further, rapid growth towards their goals of lucrative exits via acquisition or IPO.The startups argue that they are increasing consumer choice, whether it's catching a cab late at night or finding somewhere to stay in an overbooked city, while the regulators point out that putting people in the cars or homes of strangers brings with it important responsibilities too.Hence the SFO spokesperson's point about regulations as a way to protect people, rather than merely "entrenched interests". Past controversies, fromtrashed apartmentstorape accusations, have provoked scrutiny in the way shared-economy companies go about their businesses.Airport arrests aside, the mooted licensing changes in California show that compromise is possible, and indeed necessary, to figure out how the new and old economies intersect in a positive way, rather than a negative battle.
