We know how you love stats, so you'll be pleased to know thatMCVand other sources have been reporting on ChartTrack data showing console sales in the UK this year.The big news is that 24 million units of current generation consoles have been sold in the UK so far - with 8.4 million sales in the last 12 months. The Nintendo DS has the largest installed base with 9.1 million, the PSP dragging its little heels way behind with 3.3 million. Apparently, 300,000 DSi consoles have been sold since the launch in April.After the mighty DS it's Wii with 5.4 million (2.3 million more than the user base in June 2008), then Xbox 360 with 3.9 million (1.7 million sold since last June) and PS3 with 2.2 million (900,000 units sold since June 2008).So now for some analysis:Happy: NintendoSad: Sony
Apple's new iPhone 3GS gets hot during usage, according to anecdotal reports that have begun to emerge on the web in the fortnight since the device was released - which seems to have prompted the company toissue a warningagainst leaving it inside cars in hot weather, and noting that the phone will throw up a temperature warning if it overheats.The iPhone 3GS has a significantly faster central processor than its predecessor: while the iPhone 3G ran at 400MHz, the 3GS's chip functions at about 600MHz. But advances in chip technology in the intervening year should mean that the 3GS chip uses less power.Even so, a number of users have said that the phone gets significantly hotter than the 3G model that was released in 2008. Melissa Perenson, a reporter for PC World,saidthat she noticed that when it was plugged into the wall to recharge that it became "Very, very hot -- not just on the back, but the entire length of the front face, too. I was using a game, and then later the Web browser for reading the news about Michael Jackson, all over a Wi-Fi connection while plugged in. And in those circumstances, well...toasty doesn't even describe how surprisingly hot it got. It was too hot to even put the phone against my face."The clue may be that the iPhone's new battery becomes excessively hot while it is charging, especially if the phone is new and the battery has not been through a number of recharges.Apple's only concession to the questions about hot operation come in its statement on its website, which notes that the automatic temperature warning may come on if you  leave the device in a car on a hot day, leave it in direct sunlight for "extended amounts of time", or use certain applications in hot conditions or direct sunlight for long periods of time, such as GPS tracking in a car on a sunny day or listening to music while in direct sunlight.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
China's controversial plan to install Green Dam internet filtering software on all computers will go ahead despite being postponement, a government official told state media today.The official said it was only "a matter of time" until the software was installed.The remarks – if they fully reflect official policy – will anger internet users, who mounted a vociferous campaign against the policy this week and hoped they had secured a victory against government censorship.China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) announced a delay in the implementation of the programme late on Tuesday, hours before it had been supposed to come into force.Officials claim the technology will help to curb access to pornography, particularly by younger users.Internet users say the image and keyword filter blocks pornographic, violent and politically sensitive content and monitors behaviour and fear it will be used to curb access to information and keep track of users.Green Dam has also come under fire for exposing users to security breaches, with experts warning it could easily be hacked, and a US-based software firm is threatening to sue the Chinese developers for copyright infringement.Solid Oak warned computer manufacturers they would become "knowing infringers" if they included Green Dam.Industry bodies, the US government and others had also called on China to abandon the project.Some experts believed that countervailing arguments within the government might have prevailed.But an official, speaking anonymously, told China Daily: "The government will definitely carry on the directive on Green Dam. It's just a matter of time."What will happen is that some PC manufacturers will have it included with their PC packages sooner than the others. But there is no definite deadline at the moment."The official said the delay was necessary because some computer manufacturers needed more time to prepare."They have already spent around millions of yuan. If they don't install it, people will ask why they spent so much for nothing, so they have to brazen it out," Liu Xiaoyuan, a lawyer who has opposed the software, said."At present, there are too many questions and challenges domestically and abroad, so MIIT is in a dilemma."I believe they will carry it out after they have technically improved it and clarified the intellectual property rights."[But] if they really want to protect young people from porn, they should deal with the source – pornographic websites."Ai Weiwei, a leading contemporary artist and outspoken blogger who had proposed an "internet boycott" to mark opposition to the policy, said he was surprised to hear ministry sources say it would definitely go ahead."It was stopped just one day before the policy should be carried out – after preparing for such a long time and facing so much opposition from the public as well as manufacturers," he said.There has been confusion about whether the policy required the installation of the software, or whether manufacturers simply had to bundle it with computers."If it is true that installation has become party of the policy again, officials are limiting citizens' freedom to choose and freedom of expression," Ai said. "This is a backward step."
&bull; British gadget-heads could be getting their hands on a Palm Pre by Christmas,with O2 ready to announce an exclusive deal for the handset, we report inthe Guardian.&bull; Figures suggest that Microsoft's Bing search enginehas gained market share over its predecessor, saysReuters. Not much, though: Bing is up to 8.2% of searches in the US, up from 7.8% pre-Bing. Google, meanwhile, has a mere 78.4% market share.&bull; This week'sTechnology Guardian- pay 90p and you get some free fish wrapping -  We find out more about the Internet Archive'sOpen Library project, take a look atwhat might happen to id softwarefollowing its acquisition; and discover howretailers are using data miningto their benefit.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts)
I need to buy a new notebook or netbook (what's the difference?) to replace my ancient Windows 98 laptop, but I realise it wouldn't be suitable for work involving a lot of writing. Would it be practicable to use one with an external monitor and keyboard?Pat MacneilNetbooks are generally smaller, lighter and cheaper – they tend to have 7in to 12in screens where notebooks have 12in to 17in screens. They also have better battery life, due to their use of Intel Atoms instead of Core 2 Duo chips. However, the Atom is less powerful, and not suitable for tasks that need processing power. It may not be able to play HD movies, or even HQ movies from YouTube, without dropping frames.Most netbooks and notebooks can be used with a standalone screen, USB keyboard and mouse, and Windows lets you use two screens as standard. (Right-click on the desktop, select Properties and click Settings.) Read the notebook PC's specification to find out what type of video output port it offers, then buy a suitable cable and screen.Some business notebooks have a port (or slot) on the bottom for connecting to a docking station. This lets you keep the keyboard, mouse, screen, printer and other peripherals connected to the docking station while simply docking the notebook when required. Small docking stations are usually called port replicators. If you want to take this route, port replicators and/or docking stations are available for IBM ThinkPads, Toshiba, Dell, Fujitsu Amio and Stylistic, HP/Compaq, Sony and some other notebook PCs. In general, I'd go for a notebook with a special slot, not one that connects to a docking station via a USB port.A docking station adds to the cost, butin my experience, it's much cheaper than the physiotherapy you may need after spending too many hours writing on an unergonomic notebook.
An email says an update of Outlook Express is essential. It looks official, but WebShield says it's a possible threat. How does one know what to believe?MicaThere's a fake email security alert going around at the moment, warning about KB910721. If you run the attachment, it will infect your PC with a trojan/spyware program. Usually these fakes are easy to spot because of internal errors, butSophos comments that this one does look plausible: "the spelling and grammar are surprisingly correct, for malware authors".However, the fact is that Microsoft will never email you an update: it wants you either to turn on Auto Updates or visit Microsoft's web site for security patches. Also, Outlook Express became obsolete about three years ago, when it was replaced by Windows Live Mail.
Every time I switch the computer on, I find that Microsoft has tried to force me to accept Live Search as the default search engine for IE. It may be good, but I don't want it.Pablo Luis GonzalezJS: With the launch of Internet Explorer 7, Microsoft stopped having any default search engine at all, and it isn't trying to force you to adopt Live Search, which has recently been replaced by Bing. If you installed IE7 yourself, you would have got a prompt offering two choices: (1) Keep my current search provider, and (2) Let me select from a list of other search providers. (It would be nice to see more alternative browsers do the same.)It is possible that a default is being set by the PC supplier (they can do almost anything) or a toolbar or another application. However, if you run IE7 and go to Tools, pick Internet Options and click the button for Change Search Defaults, you should be able to change it. If not, you'll have to use something likeAnVir Task Manager Freeto find out what's interfering, and block it from interfering again.If you are using IE8, click the down-arrow next to the search box to get a list of defaults that you can choose. If you want a different one, you can click Find More Providers or the last option, Manage Search Providers.If you are using IE6, this recently set Bing as a default. Microsoft said this was a programming error and it was fixed the next day (3 June). However, you should not be using IE6 if you're an individual user, though some slow-moving companies still insist on it.
I have used Delphi 7 for many years, but having bought a new machine with Windows Vista, I get lots of error messages and warnings and it is unstable in operation.Alec WiliamsDelphi 7 is rather old so you might consider upgrading. However, someone asked the same question at the excellentStack Overflowsite, and the answer is that "Delphi 7 under Vista is no problem if you can turn UAC [User Account Control] off." Dr Bob also has auseful articleabout running Delphi on Windows Vista.
Wired editor and author Chris Anderson has told the Guardian that it needs to find a "pet for their penguin" - things that it can charge for to support journalism.Addressing a Guardian news conference, Anderson said the penguin reference was to Disney's online game Club Penguin - free to play but with premium memberships providing additional features.Based on the ideas in his new book, Free, which is published next week, he said newspapers must decide what they provide for free and what premium content and services they can develop to make money.As the newspaper industry has collapsed publishers have begun to believe they made a mistake 10 years ago by not charging for content. But the industry can't put the genie back in the bottle, Anderson said. The idea that news content should be free wasn't "a matter of Californian, hippie philosophy", but a matter of simple economics.With newspapers debating their future, the argument has been pitched as free versus paid-for models, but Anderson argued the real decision was free versus "freemium" - not about whether to charge, but choosing carefully which specialised content people will pay for.Publishers feel they are faced with crossing a chasm, he said. Print revenue is declining while the web generates only about a fifth of the revenue as the print business. Online revenues had been growing quickly but are leveling off, or even declining for some publications. "There isn't a model that works perfectly" to cross that chasm, Anderson said.Instead of working on growing the audience more, he believes publishers will need to grow their offerings. Right now, Wired provides three pricing tiers: free content on the web, about $5 for a magazine and 80 cents for subscribers. In the future, he believes Wired will have many tiers.Anderson rejected the idea that the net had conditioned everyone to expect free content. "We're training them that it's free to try, but then we must train them to pay for what they value," he said.Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger asked about Google's role in this freemium world; 40% of the traffic to its sites comes from Google.Anderson said: "I consider that a gift, but papers consider it theft." Newspapers could exclude Google from indexing their sites or could band together and charge Google to index their content. But it might be a self-defeating move."Newspapers need to be part of the conversation" on the net, he said. In the end, Anderson thinks that the democratising effect of the internet is a good thing, which will lead to a richer society, but, he added: "I don't deny that it will get messy."
As gamers, we adopt a natural knee jerk reaction against those who whom seem to be promoting videogame censorship. But journalist Benj Edwards,writing in Gamasutraearlier this week, made some interesting points about the future of game violence. His argument is that, as game visuals approach photorealism, and as the physics of combat increase in accuracy and authenticity, onscreen murders will become almost indistinguishable from the real thing - or at least, we will become so inured to graphic suffering we will be unable to register fear, horror or revulsion when confronted with the real thing.From the piece:As technology improves, the well-defined boundary between reality and fantasy provided by a TV set and hand controller might evaporate, making the gaming experience less like a game console and more like Star Trek's holodeck. (And we needn't wait two decades for that boundary to start blurring: with Microsoft's Project Natal -- a camera that captures motion with no other peripherals required -- the line between real and virtual is already disappearing.)If, in this hypothetical future, we're capable of stripping away our empathy and compassion to murder a 99% realistic virtual human (and maybe even enjoy it), will we be psychologically any different from people who actually murder those of flesh and blood? Having perhaps unintentionally trained ourselves to become cold-blooded killers through systematic desensitization, will we be emotionally capable of doing the same thing in waking life?Gamasutra has already runa reposteto the article, which states the findings of Lieutenant-Colonel Dave Grossman in his book,'On Killing'. This seminal work posits that humans have an innate resistance to killing - even when trained as soldiers. However, Grossman does postulate that violent games mimic the training methods used by the military to overcome this resistance - so not the best source to quote when attempting to debunk links between games and violent behaviour.More successful is Tom Allins' argument that, just because the games industry may one day be able to produce ultra realistic deaths, it doesn't mean people will want to buy the games. And even if they do, frankly, there's an enormous psychological, emotional and philosophical no man's land between virtual death and the real thing. I've been playing violent videogames since they were invented. I do it for a living. I do it everyday. Yet seeing the YouTube footage of Neda Agha-Soltan's shooting has haunted me for days. Nothing I ever saw in a game prepared me for that.It's telling, that as games move toward real war, real war moves in the opposite direction. Modern soldiers are now assisted by so much technology, by so many augmentations, that they are being rendered incapable of differentiating between humans and computerised 'targets'. This is a necessity of combat in the modern era, this is what it takes to beat our revulsion for killing. Modern man - in order to take another human life - needs less reality not more.What do you think?
For a company that is still an internet startup, Facebook takes itself very, very seriously. And among all of the serious subjects it takes very seriously, possibly the most serious if privacy. After all, the company's got achief privacy officer, and agrowing teamof lobbyists looking to secure the company's privacy agenda with governments.With all that in mind, then, thechanges to Facebook privacy settingsannounced by the site today could be important: they are trying to fix the fact that the controls, as Chris Kelly (aforementioned chief privacy officer) said, not "as clean as one would like".That's an understatement: Facebook's privacy settings are spread out across lots of different pages and presented in lots of different ways - ways that are largely confusing and, I'd imagine, unusable for many ordinary people.As a result, the company wants to simplify what's going on. Controls will be more obvious, more centralised and explain clearly what they do.Among the biggest changes that come out of this, though, is the decision to kill off local networks - the geographic groups that let you associate yourself with a town or city like London, Manchester or Norwich. In the early days of Facebook, these were often the most vibrant and active parts of the site... but they appear to have worn out their welcome.Why?Facebooker Leah Perlman said that only around 50% of people joined local networks anyway - and many of them didn't understand the way information was shared with other members (who are, most likely, strangers). Of course, that doesn't take into account that Facebook has made these networks increasingly difficult to monitor over time: I recently tried to change my network and the process was horribly convoluted and unclear.But is closing down networks something people will be happy with? Fifty percent of users don't use them - which means that the other 50% do.Not that networks themselves have disappeared entirely - if you have one that requires verification, such as a school or business - that will remain intact. But the days of chatting with everyone in your town are numbered.Simplification of privacy controls can only be a good thing for people who use these services. But they are also an important part of Facebook's recognition that complexity isn't better. One irony of all this, of course, is that the people who would most benefit from the more complicated tools are usually the least likely to use them - so at least the site is no longer working against itself.
Laptop as desktopI need to buy a new notebook or netbook (what's the difference?) to replace my ancientWindows 98 laptop, but I realise it wouldn't be suitable for work involving a lot of writing. Would it be practicable to use one with an external monitor and keyboard?Pat MacneilJS:Netbooks are generally smaller, lighter and cheaper – they tend to have 7in to 12in screens where notebooks have 12in to 17in screens. They also have better battery life, due to their use of Intel Atoms instead of Core 2 Duo chips. However, the Atom is less powerful, and not suitable for tasks that need processing power. It may not be able to play HD movies, or even HQ movies from YouTube, without dropping frames.Most netbooks and notebooks can be used with a standalone screen, USB keyboard and mouse, and Windows lets you use two screens as standard. Right-click on the desktop, select Properties and click Settings. Read the notebook PC's specification to find out what type of video output port it offers, then buy a suitable cable and screen.Some business notebooks have a port (or slot) on the bottom for connecting to a docking station. This lets you keep the keyboard, mouse, screen, printer and other peripherals connected to the docking station while simply docking the notebook when required. Small docking stations are usually called port replicators. If you want to take this route, port replicators and/or docking stations are available for IBM ThinkPads, Toshiba, Dell, Fujitsu Amio and Stylistic, HP/Compaq, Sony and some other notebook PCs. In general, I'd go for a notebook with a special slot, not one that connects to a docking station via a USB port.A docking station adds to the cost, but in my experience, it's much cheaper than the physiotherapy you may need after spending too many hours writing on an unergonomic notebook.Sticking with Delphi 7I have used Delphi 7 for many years, but having bought a new machine with Windows Vista, I get lots of error messages and warnings and it is unstable in operation.Alec WiliamsJS:Delphi 7 is rather old so you might consider upgrading. However, someone asked the same question atthe excellent Stack Overflow site, and the answer is that "Delphi 7 under Vista is no problem if you can turn UAC [User Account Control] off."Dr Bob also has a useful articleabout running Delphi on Windows Vista.Fake update for Outlook ExpressAn email says an update of Outlook Express is essential. It looks official, but WebShield says it's a possible threat. How does one know what to believe?MicaJS:There's a fake email security alert going around at the moment, warning about KB910721. If you run the attachment, it will infect your PC with a trojan/spyware program. Usually these fakes are easy to spot because of internal errors, butSophos comments that this one does look plausible: "the spelling and grammar are surprisingly correct, for malware authors". However, the fact is that Microsoft will never email you an update: it wants you either to turn on Auto Updates or visit Microsoft's web site for security patches. Also, Outlook Express became obsolete about three years ago, when it was replaced by Windows Live Mail.Defaulting to IEEvery time I switch the computer on, I find that Microsoft has tried to force me to accept Live Search as the default search engine for IE. It may be good, but I don't want it.Pablo Luis GonzalezJS:With the launch of Internet Explorer 7, Microsoft stopped having any default search engine at all, and it isn't trying to force you to adopt Live Search, which has recently been replaced by Bing. If you installed IE7 yourself, you would have got a prompt offering two choices: (1) Keep my current search provider, and (2) Let me select from a list of other search providers. (It would be nice to see more alternative browsers do the same.) It is possible that a default is being set by the PC supplier (they can do almost anything) or a toolbar or another application. However, if you go run IE7 and go to Tools, pick Internet Options and click the button for Change Search Defaults, you should be able to change it. If not, you'll have to use something like AnVir Task Manager Free to find out what's interfering, and block it from interfering again. If you are using IE8, click the down-arrow next to the search box to get a list of defaults that you can choose. If you want a different one, you can click Find More Providers or the last option, Manage Search Providers. If you are using IE6, this recently set Bing as a default. Microsoft said this was a programming error and it was fixed the next day (3 June). However, you should not be using IE6 if you're an individual user, though some slow-moving companies still insist on it.Backchat• I mentioned ISP contention ratios ina reply to Martin Saunders. Andrew Moore says "your figures are correct for the majority of ISPs" but "more modern providers such as O2 and any provider using the Cable &amp; Wireless LLU network will connect to backhaul using gigabit Ethernet. While this doesn't eliminate contention entirely, it makes it less of a factor."
A while ago I posted about Capcom's plans to set up a London base for Monster Hunter fanatics. The massively addictive combination of Pokemon and World of Warcraft has become an obsession in Japan, where groups of kids gather in parks and town squares to enjoy the co-operative creature-collecting RPG on their PSPs. The games publisher is clearly hoping for a similar reaction here now thatMonster Hunter Freedom Uniteis out in the UK.Hence, the Gathering Hall, which is opening on July 3 at 121 Charing Cross Road. As Capcom explains:Three floors will be available for players - featuring comfortable seating, free soft drinks and amazing graffiti art, and enough space for several hundred enthusiasts to come together and play. Open from 10am to 8pm, 7 days a week, and from 10am to 10pm on Thursdays, the space, called The Gathering Hall, will open its doors to everyone who wants to experience Monster Hunter at its best - played with other people - and to meet fellow fans. Admission is only allowed with a PSP - so don't forget your console and a copy of Monster Hunter!I absolutely love this idea, partly because it's about videogames appropriating the social elements and rarefied environments of both night clubs and art galleries (indeed The Gathering Hall has taken over the building previously occupied by the Lazarides gallery). But it's also about a games publisher making an effort to foster and embrace a social phenomenon based around one of its products.If there are any Monster Hunter fans planning on giving this place a look, please tell us about it at gamesblog + at + googlemail + com.
Who would set up an organisation employing two groups of professionals managing the same set of customers with two distinct computer systems? You guessed it: the NHS. For historical and political reasons too tedious to relate here, NHS GPs and NHS community care staff use IT systems with entirely separate origins and evolutionary pathways, which as a result are incapable of exchanging useful information. Even when two groups work at arms' length, such incompatibility is inconvenient. But when the two are part of the same body, a primary care trust (PCT) created by the latest wave of NHS reforms, the result is bonkers. Especially when it is reinforced by IT contracting arrangements designed for an earlier age.Take Tower Hamlets PCT, in east London. GPs hold their patients' records on the Emis system, developed by GPs as part of a cottage industry that flourished in the 1990s. Under the NHS national programme for IT, however, chiropodists, physiotherapists and other community staff were expected to use a standard system called Rio, being implemented across London by the capital's prime contractor, BT. In fact, Tower Hamlets has rebelled. To support a borough-wide campaign aimed mainly at tackling diabetes, it needed a single information system. It decided to standardise on a new version of Emis software on the web. It will be available not just to GPs and community nurses, but to diabetes consultants in the local acute hospital which (of course) has its own separate taxonomy of systems. Although on the same system, different professions will have their own distinct view of the records, always subject to consent.Tower Hamlets isn't rejecting the central NHS programme - the PCT still depends on central services such as population registers and centrally procured broadband. But its decision to go its own way with patient-record software, and to share information within a "natural community" rather than nationwide, is a challenge to the programme's ethos. Dr Kambiz Boomla, one of the GPs leading the project, admits it is a gamble. He's had to persuade managers to pay for additional Emis licences rather than take the "free" national system. He reckons he has at most two years to get the system embedded, and showing benefits, before spending cuts begin to bite.Tower Hamlets' rebellion is more than just another story of NHS IT fragmentation. It could also be a taste of things to come across the public sector. The Digital Britain report, published last month, called attention to the public sector's habit of buying IT systems that replicate analogue-era processes and organisations. Such systems are rigid, tend to duplicate each other and "are not well adapted to the fluid, iterative nature of the digital world", the report said.Tower Hamlets' web-based approach is a step towards that vision. Digital Britain proposes going further, using the vogueish concept of "cloud" computing. I understand that the cabinet office is putting together a team to investigate creating a "G-Cloud", from which public bodies can draw IT services without being locked into systems created under rigid contracts to support processes or organisations that no longer exist.The concept sounds promising. However, before we consign organisational and professional boundaries to history, it is worth remembering that there was sometimes a good reason for setting up ring-fenced information systems. Digital Britain talks of the need to ensure personal data is treated "on a similar footing to the handling of money". In that respect at least, the report is bang on.
The launch of Nokia's long-awaited N97 smartphone at the same time as&nbsp;Apple's beatified iPhone 3GS marks a clash not just of two remarkable  devices but of two cultures. Nokia didn't invent mobiles – Motorola did – but it has led the world in their exploitation, especially in adding new functions. Apple, with no legacy in mobiles to protect, came to the drawing board with a clean sheet of paper, and it still shows. The 3GS has virtually no moving parts and despite its sophistication it is amazingly easy to use and doesn't need a manual. Nokia couldn't, and maybe shouldn't, make that leap yet (its touchscreen N800 tablet a couple of years ago was not a success). The N97, in addition to a touchscreen, comes with a pull-out keypad – it's an impressive piece of engineering but it adds weight and cost.On some scores, the N97 is streets ahead of the iPhone: screen resolution is better, the 5 megapixel camerasuperiorand the videomuch better. It has an FM radio, FM transmission and more memory for the money. It has a big selection of music and, now, its own Ovi store for apps (games and services) which works fine, except the cupboard is embarrassingly bare. I hardly spent any of the voucher money supplied for the trial, as they didn't compare in quality, let alone quantity with Apple's cornucopia of more than 50,000 apps. But Nokia is trawling the world for new ones and has a greater geographical reach than the iPhone, so there is plenty of potential. What I was most looking forward to was mapping, where Nokia has invested heavily. I had been impressed by Nokia demos showing fast access to GPS signals and maps that (unlike web-based Google ones) are embedded in the phone for easy access. But it was not to be. I spent hours figuring out what was wrong, including emails to Nokia's press advisers (not open to ordinary buyers), a visit to the Nokia shop – which recommended a software update from my PC at home – but to no avail. It gave spasmodic GPS data but no maps. Whether it was my fault or a rogue phone, who knows. The lesson? Before you buy this potentially exciting device, get them to include the maps.&nbsp;There are no winners and losers with these phones. There will be opportunities for all in a global market where half of humanity already has at least one phone and before long nearly everyone will. According to Informa, around 160 million people already have web-savvy smartphones. Nokia offered mobile web access and apps long before the iPhone was dreamed about but it took Apple's genius to make them user-friendly and, more important, to break the resistance of telcos to "unlimited data" packages. The iPhone/iPod Touch is still a comparatively small player but accounts for a large proportion of people using their phones to access the web, a market it has singlehandedly prised open. Nokia, with 37% of the global phone market (and 43% of smartphones) won't lose, at least in the short term, because it operates in markets where Apple is absent. In the US, where it barely makes the top five in terms of unit sales, it ought now to be attractive to all the other operators looking for an iPhone killer. It will have tough competition from Google's Android handsets and from the well-received Palm Pre, not to mention the BlackBerry, but if it irons out the teething problems on the N97 it has all to play for.These devices seem expensive – the N97 costs £499 with 32GB of memory without a contract, while the iPhone 3GS starts at £440 for 16GB (or £538 for 32GB) – but as they relieve you of the need to buy an MP3 player, a camera, a video camera, a satnav system, a tape recorder, a watch, an alarm clock, a calculator, even a computer, and goodness knows what else, they are remarkably affordable. No wonder smartphones are booming even in the midst of an international recession.twitter.com/vickeegan
One of the worst things about online applications is that, just when you learned to live with one set of suboptimal design choices, someone will change the pages to introduce an even worse set. They do it without any warning or consultation, and you don't have the option to keep using the old stuff, as you do with desktop apps. Online suppliers can do what they like and you really don't have a choice, except to leave.Well you can protest, as Bobbie Johnson showed on Friday inYouTube users revolt over new design. But as we've seen with changes at other sites such as Facebook, Hotmail and Yahoo Groups, that's unlikely to make any difference.Twitter is in the process of introducing arbitrary changes with the usual effect: they tend to look a bit prettier but work rather worse. To be specific, it has just changed the pages for "followers" and "following" to make them generally less useful. Look at your followers now and the icons are too small, and hovering the mouse no longer shows you the most useful bit of info, which is what people have written in their bios. Instead, you get a recent tweet, which might be useful but might also be misleading.Yes, you get a "real name" as well as a user handle, and a location, but it would have been very easy to add these to the old design. You also get a couple of icons for each person, one of which has a helpful popup (Follow xxxx) and the other of which – a cogwheel – doesn't. But there is still no way to tell how many other people a follower is following, or how many people are following them, without clicking through to their page (and back).Similarly, the redesigned pages that list people you're following make it very much harder to see if they're following you. In fact, you have to click the anonymous cog for a dropdown menu to see if you can send them a direct message. This is much less convenient than it was before, when no click was needed, or than usingfriendorfollow.com/Another piece of spectacular cluelessness is revealed in the page options for Expanded and List views. As you might expect, List view shows just one line of text for each person, instead of up to five lines. But change from Expanded to List view and you're still stuck with 20 people per page, not 40, or 50, or some user-selected number (126?). Considering there are a couple of dozen Twitter users with more than a million followers, it does make you wonder what sort of working brain limits you to viewing them via 50,000 separate pages.You still can't sort, search, filter or group your own followers, which is another astoundingly obvious but unimplemented set of features. And while you can block spammers, you can't actually drop them unless you temporarily protect your updates.In a blog post, Twitter co-founderBiz Stone says, all too briefly: "We've upgraded the design of these pages and added features. Instead of a basic list, there are now actions you can perform that provide a better overall experience."Sorry, Biz, but in my opinion, you have downgraded the design of these pages and removed the best features, while making the overall experience considerably worse.But they do look prettier. That's the most important thing, right?Twitter's saving grace, of course, is that the majority of tweets aren't made via the web interface but using separate programs that access its API (applications programming interface). Presumably there is at least one app that wasn't written by and for 17 year olds with 20/20 vision, that doesn't take a day to configure, that does use up your ration of 100 API requests in half an hour, and that doesn't use Adobe Air and/or otherwise consume a gigabyte of RAM to show the equivalent of 20 SMS messages. The only problem is finding it.
The news that id Software had been acquired by ZeniMax Media caused more than a few raised eyebrows when it was sealed last week. Its co-founder John Romero called it "disgusting", and the (quickly retracted) Twitter outburst seemed to reflect the surprise many industry watchers initially felt. For 18 years, id had protected its independence from the advances of some of the biggest names in videogames (including EA and its long-time publishing partner, Activision) only to now succumb to a privately owned media company with fewer than 10 titles to its credit. So what was the attraction of ZeniMax and its ambitious but enigmatic chairman, Robert A Altman? Id's chief executive, Todd Hollenshead, understands it may take a bit of explaining."I had to brush up on my history too," he concedes. "I'd heard of Bethesda and Altman is clearly a business guy at heart. He's not a developer, programmer or artist but he respects the talent it takes to succeed in those disciplines and he won't say, 'I want this in the game because I think it's a good idea.' The first time we met was at E3 2008(Electronic Entertainment Expo)and we sat down to talk about how the companies could work together. I liked the way they thought and felt we had similar opinions about the industry."Loss of indie influenceDespite his optimism, he also acknowledges that id's passing as a true independent marks the end of an era. This, remember, was the developer that largely established the PC as a consumer-friendly device through Doom's revolutionary shareware distribution model, the company that once shook the share price of a billion-dollar graphics card industry with a single tech blog posting. Id's immediate reputation may now rest on the hotly anticipated first-person shooter, Rage, but it is unlikely we will ever see an indie wield such influence again."Never say never," warns Hollenshead. "The videogames business is defined by technology, which is why guys like JC [John Carmack] are still so significant. Consumers may not be as in touch with the intricacies as they used to be, but you can still make significant, impactful change. We're confident Rage will be one of them but if you're asking 'When will that be?', I have to say what I've always said: 'It'll be ready when it's done' – that much about us hasn't changed."Hollenshead is keen to stress the mantra that "id will continue to be id", reassuring fans that the four main owners, including its influential technical director, John Carmack, will remain in their current positions. However, at first glance the benefits do seem skewed towards ZeniMax's founding label rather than the new acquisition. Despite boasting directors such as the movie producer Jerry Bruckheimer and Ronald Trump (Donald's brother) the company owes its rising status to Bethesda, whose Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was based around physics technology licensed from Havok. By adding the engines behind Doom, Quake and&nbsp;Rage, Bethesda titles are guaranteed cutting-edge 3D graphics in the future, although how id will immediately benefit is somewhat harder to quantify."Firstly, we gain the financial stability associated with ZeniMax," maintains Hollenshead. "In 2007 they had a private equity investment of $300m in cash. Id didn't have access to anywhere near that. Secondly, due to these resources we can accelerate our expansion to three full development teams, allowing us to keep all development on id titles internal, resulting in more regular and timely releases at a higher level of quality. Thirdly, it really does allow us to double up on the benefits of our efforts – prior to this deal we only got the developer share of the pie; now we get the publisher share too."Shoot to thrillIndeed, although id's next two games are tied to Activision and EA respectively, the need to be part of a publisher underlies much of Hollenshead's enthusiasm."Resources are scarce. Back in the mid 90s when we were working with Activision and GT Interactive, those companies had no competitive titles. It was the birth of the first person shoot-em-up, so we had our own corner to operate out of. Now FPSs are one of the most popular genres and when a publisher looks at whether to invest in an internal franchise to which they have sequel rights for all eternity, or in an outside property they only have rights to for one game, they almost always choose internal. That problem wasn't insurmountable but it was clearly going to become more acute."It's also clear the games industry has changed significantly since id's heyday in the late 90s, and Hollenshead concedes the company has struggled to extend the impact it once enjoyed beyond the platform that made its name. "The PC ­market has receded in terms of significance. It's literally being robbed blind by piracy. From a larger standpoint, because videogames have gone from a niche market 15 years ago to a mainstream market, bigger emphasis must be placed on bigger games to maintain the same status."
To save money, naturally – though the idea that a company whose only ­products are an ethereal string of zeros and ones would shut down in the manner of a car factory pondering a huge glut of unsold vehicles seems bizarre.Adobe, however, says that the closure of its North American operations for a week is part of a cost-cutting effort that will be repeated at least once more this year, following a similar pause in April. And that's in addition to its policy – taken for granted in the UK, not so in the US – of shutting between Christmas and New Year's Day. In all, the company is now implementing a week's paid break for staff every quarter.Could anyone object to getting four weeks' holiday in a country where that could seem generous? The problem is that Adobe's reasons for the shutdowns – its attempts to cope with the economic slowdown that has, in turn, reduced demand from its core customer base in the "creative knowledge worker business" – don't mean that it's easing up on staff.The office closures didn't mean that deadlines were pushed back by a week for those developing software. And for those preparing for a conference, such as the RSA conference in April, which came immediately after one of Adobe's one-week breaks, there was simply no let-up.Adobe is under pressure, no doubt. In December it said it would lay off around 600 staff from its worldwide workforce – at the time, more than 7,500. Its sales declined in the past two quarters, though they were healthy enough: $126.1m (£73.3m) profit on £$704.7m for the quarter ended 29 May.Still, those revenues were down 21% as customers held back from upgrading to the latest version of Adobe's Creative Suite (CS4) programs, which generate about 60% of the company's sales.People in the UK, of course, may have a better reason than any for pausing, as the– an increase that was announced ­earlier&nbsp;in June but that is still not ­documented on the company's UK website. That has pushed the disparity between the pricing of CS4 in the UK and US to 39.7%.Adobe insists that the price rise was because of exchange rates, but that did not satisfy many commenters at the Guardian when the price rise was discovered. Adobe has not made any comment on the effect of the price rise announcements on sales in the UK.However, the closure implies that the brave new age of the knowledge worker wrangling bits to create seamless ­products that can travel effortlessly over the internet at the speed of light looks a lot like the mechanical age when people bashed metal and had to make supply meet demand. The problem now is not the supply: it is the far trickier problem of managing prices to keep demand constant or rising.
Are the land mass, population and GDP per capita of the US, Australia, Canada, France, Sweden, the Netherlands, Norway and New Zealand – as well as the legal form of their national mapping agencies – commercially confidential information? If you believe the UK's mapping agency, Ordnance Survey, certainly. Those details were redacted – blacked out in the manner of an MP's expenses – in the copy of a key study it carried out and released to the Guardian under the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act last week.Yet even while leaving one to wonder why OS's chief executive, Vanessa Lawrence – who personally oversaw the redaction of the report – doesn't think such details aren't already publicly available online through sites such as Wikipedia and Gapminder, the report leaves a much bigger question: how does the report justify the public claim by Sir Rob Margetts, OS's new chairman, that the study showed that moving OS to a free data model – where it gave away its map data – would mean "the cost to government in the first five years would be between £500m and £1bn"?Rush jobEven with the redactions in place,the detail contained in the study – available at the Free Our Data blogsuggests it was hurried and in a number of ways incomplete. The study refers a number of times to limited time allowed to perform it. It does not include its own terms of reference, and – as noted on the Free Our Data blog –does not examine the mapping strategies of a number of countries with comparable GDP per capita, which OS has said was one of its key metrics for comparison of mapping agencies.The countries studied for the survey – New Zealand, Australia, the US, Canada, the Netherlands, UK, France, Sweden and Norway – have comparable GDP per capita (New Zealand the lowest, Norway the highest). But a number of other developed countries fall between those thresholds, including Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Cyprus, Japan, Hong Kong, Monaco, Isle of Man, New Caledonia, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Greenland, Sweden, Germany, Austria, Spain, and Switzerland. None appears to have been studied, even cursorily, to establish what models for national mapping they use.OS said that substantial parts of the study had been redacted in the version passed to the Guardian because it had not established whether the mapping agencies consulted considered that data commercially confidential. It says that once it has established from them that the ­information can be made public, it will release it. However, parts that the OS considers commercially confidential are likely to remain redacted.Nevertheless, the Guardian was able to find all the details about land mass, ­population and GDP per capita with a few brief online searches – suggesting that OS may have an exaggerated sense of what information is "commercially confidential" in the age of the internet.OS has also withheld the name of the "internationally recognised expert" it said had looked over its study to verify it, saying it was seeking their permission to make their name public. (Steven Feldman, formerly of MapInfo, who is presently consulting for OS, said independently it was not him.) More than a week after the study's release, five weeks after the Guardian requested the publication of the study under FOI, and more than six weeks after Margetts proclaimed the study's findings, the expert has not been named.The conclusions the report leaves unredacted are that "no national mapping agency provides up-to-date large-scale data for free" and that "free data is a by-product of statutory activities and is collected to meet a specific need". A third conclusion, on "cost of geographic information (GI) data and usage", is entirely redacted.The study is notable too for its failures, such as an attempt to match the method by which mapping agencies are funded (free, part governnment-funded or fully charging) with "innovation", measured as the OECD's estimate of the amount spent in each economy on research and development. (The Free Our Data campaign ­suggests this is as likely to be correlated as national consumption of plums with car manufacturing output.) An attempt to measure usage of GI data in each country and correlate that to charging methods also fails because the study used – by Daratech in 2006 – is not nationally segregated.This means OS's attempt to demonstrate that its own charging system fosters innovation fails. The only conclusion it can find is that "there is a correlation between the percentage of government funding for statutory activities and the pricing policy of NMAs [national mapping agencies]" – in effect, that subsidies result in lower prices, which is unlikely to surprise economists.The study then, in paragraph 6.2.1, attempts to correlate government grants and NMAs' investment capability – but says "it is not possible to say there is a correlation between the two of them".Paragraph 6.2.3 of the study then notes that "it is not possible to accurately measure [GI data] quality" – making comparisons between NMAs "not easy". Yet in the next paragraph it asserts that "pricing policies and data quality are also correlated for the reasons presented in 6.2.1 and 6.2.3" – which have both failed to find such correlations.Feldmancommented on his blogthat the redacted version "tells us very little and leaves me wondering why so much that is already in the public domain has been excluded in this version. Hopefully the next version, which will be less redacted after OS has got permission from the other mapping agencies, will make a better read."A speech Margetts made to an invited audience at the launch of the OS's new strategy is worth reexamining. He said the estimated cost to the government "wasn't the only reason" the free data model was rejected. "We did, with outside help, a review of equivalent organisations around the world … We wanted sustainability and high [data] quality and came to the conclusion that at nearly every organisation that had gone to a free data model, the quality had declined and that users and customers were increasingly dissatisfied with the product."Shot downBut users seem notably dissatisfied with this version of the report. Michael Nicholson, managing director of Intelligent Addressing, a private-sector company that has frequently clashed with OS, says it was "unfortunate" the government, "having chosen to ignore its own independent reports" – such a Cambridge University study that suggested that shifting OS and other government-owned "trading funds" to a free model would bring substantial economic benefits – "has allowed Ordnance Survey to analyse a solution for itself".He adds: "The OS comparator countries may have broadly similar GDPs per capita but they have very different population densities – a key component in calculating relative value as the report acknowledges (all but the Netherlands having a fraction of the density of GB). As market value comparators the countries therefore appear unhelpful. The report goes on to compare business models for the mapping agencies – one small sector – to overall national expenditure on R&amp;D; again this is comparing apples and pears."So what is OS trying to prove here? I hope the report did not in any way influence the reframing of the OS business model by Treasury and the shareholder executive. The only thing I can say with confidence is that competition regulators in Europe are increasingly concluding that the cost of regulating public sector information providers such as OS effectively may be so high that it would be better to allow basic/raw data to be available at the marginal cost of distribution. Does this sound familiar?"Ed Parsons, the former OS chief ­technology officer who is now Google UK's ­geospatial technologist,dismissed the report on Twitter: "OS's 'Research' Report on NMA's reads like a poor MSc thesis. Why no user ­perspective?" The Free Our Data campaign will continue to seek the publication of the full report.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog
Thought-controlled wheelchairThe BSI-Toyota Collaboration Center in Japan has demonstrated a wheelchair controlled by a BMI (brain-machine interface).Second AndroidT-Mobile has introduced a second mobile phone, the G1 Touch, based on Google's Android software.Pixel perfect pre-RaphaelitesBirmingham Art Gallery has made more than 2,000 works available, exploiting "deep zoom" in Microsoft's Silverlight.New FlipsFlip has launched second-generation versions of the Flip Ultra and Flip UltraHD in the UK.DVD for netbooksPhilips &amp; Lite-On are launching the eTDU108 (&pound;35), a slimline external DVD-Rom drive aimed at netbook owners.User-generated picture bookIndependents United is producing Festival Annual 09, including photos from festival-goers who upload their pics to its MySpace page.TV to SDThe UK's Cello Electronics plans to sell a Freeview TV set with a personal video recorder (PVR) that records to SD cards rather than a built-in hard drive.Cute network computerNivio is taking pre-orders for its "cute" nivioCompanion network computer, which costs &pound;99 plus &pound;5 per month and runs Windows remotely.
Last week, at the low-key GameHorizon conference in Newcastle, Sony laid out its ambitious vision for Home, the PS3 online virtual world. This ever-changing environment, accessible for free via a PS3 and broadband connection, features mini-games, a shopping arcade, a cinema and a big public square. Launched as an open beta last December, it now boasts 7 million users, 3 million of those in Europe. And, apparently, this is just the beginning.Right now, the creators of Home, based at Sony's London and Cambridge studios, are working on the Game Launching component. Instead of going into online multiplayer mode from a game's menu screen, users pop to Home first, get together with friends, plan some action, and then boot up the game together. With the sci-fi shooter Warhawk, players gather around a virtual battle map, planning tactics like a bunch of military generals. After the mission, the players return to Home so they can discuss the action. "It's a bit like going to a five-a-side match," says Peter Edward, director of the Home Platform Group. "Instead of just turning up at the pitch, playing the game and going home, you usually play your match, then go to the pub, have a couple of pints and talk about your bruised knees and what a letdown you were. It's a much broader, fuller experience."The pub analogy is important. The way console owners play online games has changed radically over the past two years. Previously, most simply jammed in a disc, selected the multiplayer option and let the matchmaking system find them a bunch of strangers to play against. Others might have opted for an invite-only session with mates, but it was still essentially about competition. But for a growing number of console and PC owners, online gaming has become an essentially social experience, with the game providing a backdrop to the real business of meeting up with friends. This is why Microsoft redesigned its Xbox Live online service to include avatars and online parties, and is soon bringing in Facebook and Twitter support. The game level has become a social venue, like a pub, but cheaper, and you don't have to leave the house.Slowly, but surely, this is being legitimised. In Hollywood there's a group called Nerd Poker, a bunch of junior execs who meet online to pitch deals while playing first-person shooters. I've heard from friends in the comic book industry that Marvel writers and artists do the same. This is handy to know if you're caught by a non-gaming partner at three in the morning playing Call of Duty. "I'm in a business meeting!" you can insist self-righteously. In a few years' time this won't sound ridiculous.
The internet's relationship with books, it is fair to say, has been a tumultuous one. Ever since the digital revolution started changing our relationship with information, the printed word – one of the most successful technologies in history – has been on the back foot.Amazon has altered the face of the industry twice – first in the 1990s by changing the way books are sold and then, more recently, the way they are consumed, with its Kindle electronic book reader. Google has caused its own earthquake in the print world with its Book Search scheme – a plan to suck the text of millions of books into its search engine that has raised the hackles of publishers and authors alike.Talk to workers at either of these technology companies and there is a feeling of technological inevitability: that the printed book is a stepping stone in the evolution of information, and now lies ready to be devoured by its hi-tech successors.Not everybody thinks that way, however, including theOpen Library– a project with an audacious goal that it hopes can bring the web and books closer together.The scheme is to create a single page on the web for every book that has ever been published; an enormous, searchable catalogue of information about millions of books. It is still in beta, but already more than 23m books are in its system, drawing information from 19 major libraries and linking to the text of more than 1m out-of-copyright titles.That is admirable work for just a handful of staff at the library, an arm of the non-profit Internet Archive (which itself has the vast objective of trying to keep a historical record of the web for future generations). But with information about books already being processed by hugely popular websites such as Google and Amazon, the question remains – why bother?George Oates, the newly installed project leader, says it's a way to preserve book records for history and, crucially, make the information usable by anybody."It's remarkably difficult to unify this information," she says, when we meet at the Internet Archive building in San Francisco's leafy Presidio park, a former military outpost that is, rather aptly, historically preserved. "As much as the libraries attempt to have similar standards and orders, there are always gotchas and nooks and crannies that have to be worked out."The locus positionMore than simply bringing together cold lists of books from isolated libraries, however, she also believes OL can breathe life into books by grabbing information from around the internet."Imagine books more as a networked object, rather than a single entity," she suggests. "We start with this kernel and then we see what we can pile onto it … it's a locus for all the information about a book that's on the wider web."In a way, it's like a Wikipedia for printed material (indeed, it runs on wiki software, allowing anyone to add their own notes on different books or editions). And Oates, who took over the project this year, is hoping to turn it from a skilful attempt to ingest vast amounts of data into something that is useful to ordinary people.The site can potentially pull information from all over the web – retailers, reviews, book clubs, forums and enthusiast sites – as well as from social networks that already exist for bibliophiles, such as LibraryThing or GoodReads."It is about sharing as openly as possible – and that's really liberating … we're almost a non-threat to the rest of the web, because we're not keeping the property."Oates knows a thing or two about sharing objects online. For the past few years, the Australian was one of the leading lights at the popular photo website Flickr – spending four years as lead designer, before moving to a role that included projects such as the Commons: a scheme to use Flickr as a window on publicly held photography collections.Journey of discoveryThe lessons from her previous work are carrying through to the project in obvious ways – a redesign is being mooted to make more palatable to those who don't have a degree in library science. But she is also hoping to introduce some of sense of serendipity or exploration to the records."Right now it's about search and retrieve, and there's no sense of browsing or skipping around," she says. "In the future we can start to do queries like 'show me all the popular subjects that were written about in 1934'. You can start to trend that over time, look at peaks and troughs in areas of interest. The data's all there, but it's about making connections that are inferred by the data itself – I'm really excited by that."Propagating that idea could be made more difficult by Google, which last week revamped its book search to make it a more sleek and social experience. Oates says she doesn't see that in adversarial terms, however."The book search on Google is awesome – they've thrown a shitload of computing power at it, and you can see books that mention things, websites that mention those books and books on a map. It's useful, but it's really clinical." Oates won't say any more about Google, but her colleagues are less reticent. Peter Brantley, the archive's director of access, has been a vocal critic of the company's plans – even going as far as calling Google's attempt to gain exemption against future copyright claims as ­"disgusting".There is certainly a tension between the two schemes, partially because their intentions are so similar while their approaches are so different. But, while Google has the backing of many publishers, who see the chance to make some extra cash in the deal, one crucial ally for Open Library may be the academic world.If the scheme gives researchers and students the chance to use Open Library in their work – referring to an OL page as a citation source, or building a bibliography using its tools – they could get a core audience that spreads the concept. Plus, of course, the idea is that Open Library will remain just that – open – for ever. "The longevity of the work that we're doing is a bit of a culture shock, and a really curious solution to provide," she says. "How do we write stuff to disk that's going to be retrievable in 1,000 years? This is a very new problem for my brain – not that the systems I've worked on before would go up in smoke, but this is designed explicitly not to."Neutral success?Still, regardless of long-term vision, the scheme's success is not clear cut. Despite its meek appearance, the library world is big business – and it is not clear that big libraries are particularly keen on giving away the keys to anyone just yet. Organisations such as the British Library have their own projects to archive their vast collections for the web.Still, Open Library is hoping that it can succeed by being a neutral space, without agendas or commercial imperatives."I want it to be a place where people can love books and contribute information about books," Oates says. Perhaps, in the face of the onslaught of digital ­information, the printed word has found a new way to evolve.
Last year, Nick Carr wrote a forceful article for the Atlantic magazine, arguing thatGoogle was making us stupid. It's not just Google, of course, but the whole chaotic wave of technology that seems to be sweeping us into the future, surrounded and sometimes battered by the flotsam and wreckage of old certainties. And that was before Twitter hit the big time.This month's issue of the magazine has a riposte by Jamais Cascio, who has spent a long time in the future, and who believes thattechnology has already made us enormously smarter. This won't happen, he says, because of the kind of dramatic stuff that crops up in conventional speculation, like digital brain implants. No, it is all around us already, in the web and all the things that it lets us do. The trouble is the things the web lets us do aren't actually all that intelligent. Cascio gets round this by redefining intelligence as "fluid".Fluid intelligence, he says, is defined as: "The ability to find meaning in confusion and to solve new problems, independent of acquired knowledge. Fluid intelligence doesn't look much like the capacity to memorise and recite facts, the skills that people have traditionally associated with brainpower. [But] the information sea isn't going to dry up, and relying on cognitive habits evolved and perfected in an era of limited information flow – and limited information access – is futile. Strengthening our fluid intelligence is the only viable approach to navigating the age of constant connectivity." We've heard this before, and more pithily, when the borg queen said resistance was futile. But it doesn't have to be boiled down. You can get a detailed version into something scarcely longer than a tweet: "Sure, we can't read or write complicated sentences, and nobody can remember anything for longer than it takes to cut and paste but what does this matter when we have 'fluid intelligence?'"This kind of optimism depends on a number of assumptions and stereotypes. It depends on an absurd view of intelligence, as if there were nothing between automation and intuition. Of course there are circumstances in which following the old procedural rules no longer work. But they are the times when we need most to cultivate the habits of disciplined thought, to master the confusion. This kind of problem crops up constantly in armies, where disciplined and stereotyped behaviour is both essential and sometimes lethal. Armies value two qualities in their officers besides leadership: initiative, and the capacity to recognise the problems that need a new kind of solution – and distinguish them from those that don't. Those are the skills that do the jobs that "fluid intelligence" is supposed to and neither skill depends on computer networks nor is much nourished by them.The real problem with Cascio's optimism is deeper and appears in his justified dismissal of most futuristic hype about brain implants and the like. Who would put the 2009 chip in their brain when in three years competitors would have upgraded to the 2012 version? This is a good question, but it should be carried further. We don't have to put chips in our brain to change the ways we think. All we need do is form new habits, and this in fact is something that we can't avoid doing, for good and ill. Children brought up in front of the television have in effect rechipped their brains compared to those brought up only with books; and children brought up in front of computers are different again.It follows that if we've been dumbed down by technology, we may be unable to recognise it. Students copying from Wikipedia think they are smarter than their parents, in the same way drunks think they are able to drive. But it's important here to worry about the right things. It's not the technology that damages our ability to think. It's the habits of mind that technology promotes. The habits of disciplined, careful thought that linear reading promotes are more useful for understanding a changing world than the ability to pay superficial attention to five different streams of information. I don't think computers make it more difficult. It has always been difficult. But if they allow us to pretend we don't need it any more, then they are really helping us to become a lot more stupid, fluidly or not.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
There's nothing unusual about pictures ofcheerleadersin microskirts and bikini tops, but it's still slightly surprising when the girls are sporting red stars and the racy photos are credited to the Red Army. That's part of the charm ofEnglish Russia.The site says: "English Russia is a daily entertainment blog devoted to the events happening in Russian speaking countries, such as Russia (Russian Federation), Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Kazakhstan, etc. Everyday something interesting happens in the countries occupying 1/6 of the populated world."English Russia picks up "cool stuff" from other sites in the area and republishes it with a commentary – sometimes serious, often not – in slightly imperfect English. Typical fare includes embarrassing old adverts and album covers, building disasters and collections of odd people.It's gratifying to learn, for example, that some Russians like todress up as "medieval warriors", even to the extent of building and burning down wooden castles. It's not really any different from mock battles betweencavaliers and roundheadsor re-enacting battles from theAmerican Civil War, but it has a freshness that comes from unfamiliarity.English Russia also has a cutting edge that comes from the rivalry between East and West that followed the second world war. Dozens of American and European web sites publish the same sort of stuff, and nobody is bothered. In English Russia, however, it becomes subversive. You wouldn't expect state controlled media to publish a big selection of pictures of theabandoned and trashed AZLK factorywhere Moskvich cars were built, and it's still striking when English Russia does it.Not everyone likes the see the "Soviet dream" in ruins, and only 5% of the site's visitors are from Russia. One reader,Anton, complains: "The site is full of negative info about my native country. Looks like an American anti-Soviet propaganda of Cold War times. Have you guys seen anything in Russia except drowned tractors, street fights and drunk subway bums?"Of course, it's not meant to be a realistic portrayal of Russian life. Indeed, in a telephone interview in 2007, "Tim" refused to give The Moscow Times (and thusThe New York Times) his full name, saying that "as a serious Web designer, he did not want his name associated with the site".However,English Russia does sell advertising, and it has the potential to make money. According to Compete, the site gets 185,385 US visitors a month, so its audience could be around 500,000 people, and it claims 200,000 daily page views. Whether it will ever be able to exploit its potential remains to be seen.For now, the best way to explore English Russia is to ignore the category tags such as Business, Culture and Economics and hit the tag cloud. The biggest tags include Russian People (303 items), Russian Art, Russian cars, Russian girls, and Moscow. It's tagging is so random that what you'll get is pot luck, but you'll probably find at least a few entertaining things.
Fancy playing Spore or the latest Need for Speed on your web browser? Veteran game designer Dave Perry hopes so. Perry has beenshowing offhis latest gaming tech. The server-based streaming service – called Gaikai – appears similar toOnLivethough Gaikai is purely a tech demo. The games are running on a standard Vista setup with the latest Firefox – the all important ping is 21 millisecond. An impressive video is one thing but will streaming gaming ever catch on?
Former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzieput the boot into DAB, the UK's obsolete digital broadcasting system, in Monday's Media Guardian. He points out that DAB has not been successful in attracting buyers, that switching off analogue radio would make up to 150m radios obsolete, and that "20% of the country will never be able to receive DAB unless another £100m is spent on building out the networks". He says:There are two further nails in the DAB coffin. The quality is certainly no better than FM and in the commercial arena DAB is simply a simulcast of the present radio offering, as there are no new ideas around and certainly none that anybody wants to risk with their shareholders' money. The bold UTV management couldn't even make the talk format work in Edinburgh. There ain't no Murdochs around in radio.DAB was, is and will be a disaster. The careers of a number of radio executives have perished backing digital. The truth is the hamster is dead but the wheel continues to turn.And it's not as though turning off FM will instantly make valuable bandwidth available for more important purposes. The Carter plan (PDF) is that "a new tier of ultra local radio … will occupy the vacated FM spectrum." I'm not entirely sure what "ultra local radio" means, apart from live broadcasting from Tesco checkouts. As Carter sees it, you're getting "an upgrade from FM to DAB and from MW to FM".But will that happen? AsGrant Goddardhas pointed out,even if digital platforms do succeed in accounting for more than 50% of radio listening by the end of 2013, which station owner (either commercial or BBC) is going to be prepared to switch off their analogue signal and lose 50% of their listening at a stroke? In the case of a commercial station, losing 50% of listening would mean losing 50% of revenues, an idea that nobody will entertain. In this way, regardless of the speed with which the 50% criterion is reached, the outcome is the same – stations will have to simulcast on both analogue and digital broadcast spectrum for many years to come, a necessity that is almost doubling transmission costs during a period when sector revenues are falling precipitously.This looks like a pending financial disaster for commercial radio. It's somewhat less of a problem for the BBC, which can assign funds to DAB, and which has already subsidised the massive cost of DAB's progress through free TV advertising.For listeners, the obvious answer is a campaign toSave FMfor national broadcasting, and Steve Green fromDigital Radio Techhas duly started one.The precedent, as Grant Goddard points out in a comment to his own blog post, is the campaign to save Radio 4 on the long wave, in 1992. As he says:Seventeen years later, switchoff has still not happened. If Long Wave (with only one UK station) is still with us, what's the chance that FM will still be with us a long while. FM is cheap, it works well, and it's as close to 'universal' coverage and set penetration as we will ever get. It makes no sense to replace it with something that is worse in all those departments.Still, Carter's Digital Britain does contain at least one much-needed provision for radio. While more or less rubber-stamping the BBC/Ofcom devotion to DAB, the report adds:in the future, broadcasters may want to explore the potential to upgrade existing networks to take advantage of more advanced compression technologies, particularly once the overall economics of digital are more robust. We will also need to consider the most appropriate technology for upgrading the ultra local tier of radio to digital. To prepare for any such change or additional upgradewe will work to ensure that digital radio receivers sold in the UK are at least compliant with the WorldDMB receiver profile1; which includes DAB+ and DMB-A. However, any such change will need to be run alongside DAB for at least the foreseeable future. [My emphasis]UK radio wouldn't be in such a dreadful position if it hadn't sold consumers millions of dead-end DAB radios that can't be upgraded to current world standards. Moving the industry to support the WorldDMB standard will at least allow an upgrade to the more efficient DAB+ in the future.Why it's unacceptable to make 9m or so DAB radios obsolete but perfectly acceptable to make 120m-150m FM radios obsolete is an interesting question.
Ourinteractive map of internet censorshipgives you some of the picture - but there's still too much grey (or gray) for our liking: too many countries where we have "no data" about the sorts of censorship that (almost certainly) goes on.So it's over to you. Whatgovernment-levelcensorship happens in countries such as New Zealand, or the western parts of South America? Is Scandinavia really a free-for-all?And just as important, are there categories that we've missed off?Remember, we're looking for government action (which might involve twisting the arm of ISPs to make it look like "voluntary" action when it's anything but). Let us know in the comments - or fill our our Google Form, below
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Mobile phone charges will fall for millions of holidaymakers across Europe from today, after new regulations come into force to drive down the cost of roaming.A mandatory single tariff, which covers all European Union countries, will make it significantly cheaper for those who use their phones while outside of their home territory. The changes –which were originally approved in 2007– are an attempt by officials to end what they have called excessive charges."The roaming rip-off is now coming to an end," said EU telecommunications commissioner Viviane Reding in a statement. "Expect the new roaming rules to make it much cheaper to surf the web on your mobile while abroad in the EU."After years of experiencing high prices for making phone calls abroad – or receiving them - the new tariffs are radically lower: sending a text message, for example, will drop from an average of 28 Euro cents to just 11 cents. The move should end the well-worn fear of opening a huge phone bill when returning from holiday or business abroad.The new tariffs include the following maximum costs:- making a call while abroad will cost 37p per minute- receiving calls will cost a maximum of 17p per minute- sending a text message from another country inside the EU will cost 10p- Data transfers will also fall dramatically, with a megabyte of data costing 85pMore examples of specific costs are available at theEuropean Commission's website.The initial decision to enforce cuts was attacked by mobile phone operators and industry bodies who called it "bad for competition and innovation".Some of the prices are reductions of up to 60%, but the commission plans to enforce further cuts over the coming years and will be measuring the impact of the changes."The commission and national regulators will monitor data roaming charges very carefully and assess next year whether the roaming market is finally becoming competitive," said Reding.The new charges are the second piece of good news for European phone users this week – after handset manufacturersagreed to adopt a common standard for phone chargers.
&bull; News that alegally blind hacker from Massachusetts has been sentenced to 11 years in prisonfor computer intrusion comes fromWired. Something relevant, perhaps, to the case of Gary McKinnon, who has been lobbying against his extradition to the US on the basis of beingdiagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome?&bull; Also in the courts, the case against Darryn Walker, the blogger charged under Britain's obscenity laws after writing a disturbing slashfic story about pop group Girls Aloud,has collapsed, says theIndependent.&bull; Our friends atSchulze and Webbhave developed a nifty little app for iPlayer fanatics calledShownar: see what shows other people are talking about and then go and watch them.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts).
Online video providerJoosthas beenstruggling for a while- but it's really bitten the bullet now, by saying it's going to remake itself as a white label video provider, cutting a significant number of jobs andlosing chief executive Mike Volpi."In these tough economic times, it's been increasingly challenging to operate as an independent, ad-supported online video platform," said Volpi, who stay as chairman.While Joost isn't completely dead - white label services are often highly profitable endeavours, after all - the news of a shift in focus means that the site has abandoned its hopes of becoming a broad consumer proposition.So what went wrong? Back in 2006, Joost was known only as themysterious "Venice Project"- a new scheme by the founders of Skype and Kazaa that could, they said, revolutionise video online. What we got was a peer-to-peer desktop player that piped video straight to our machines; but without top quality programming to suck viewers in, it struggled.Then the rise of web video hit it hard. Why download an application and go through a lot of hassle when you can watch video in your web browser? By 2008 the writing was on the wall, andJoost dropped its application entirely, in favour of a web-based player.But the real thorn in Joost's side was the TV companies. While YouTube, flush with money, trampled over the rights of telly producers first and asked questions later, Joost wanted to make money from deals with the broadcasters. But the broadcasters didn't really want to give away the rights to show their programmes - they had bigger things in mind. And so Joost was stuck in a strange hinterland where it was neither part of the establishment or popular enough to force the issue: and without strong commitment and large audiences, it couldn't bring in licensing deals or advertising to make the model work.And then came the onslaught of broadcaster-backed services:iPlayerfrom the BBC,Huluin America and others that probably couldn't have succeeded without Joost trying to blaze a trail first. I know that plenty of big video sites learned a lot from the company's mistakes.But does this mean the broadcasters have won, or that YouTube has taken first prize? I'm not so sure.Although the investment of the big TV companies may insulate the likes of Hulu for some time, there is a good chance that they will soon find themselves facing the same problem as Joost: that online video doesn't make enough money to cover the costs of production or licensing.The iPlayer, of course, has the BBC's license fee to back it up. But Hulu, despite all its good press, struggles to get high value advertising. I've just clicked on three videos and been presented with a deodorant spot, a public service announcement and a house ad. That's not the big money.And does YouTube make money? Thenumbersareup for debate- but it's certainly not swimming in cash, despite being one of the biggest sites on the web.And there's the rub. Right now, TV is about to hit the same wall as other forms of media - the same sudden realisation that there's just not enough money in the pot any more.Online video will certainly never be as profitable as traditional television, which makes enough to support high salaries and vast commissioning budgets. As more people migrate to online viewing, Hulu - or any other commercial player - is left with the prospect of trying to support the same high-cost programming with a huge but low-priced inventory of online ads.With all these vested interests and declining revenues perhaps, in hindsight, Joost's model never really had a chance.
You spend years idly berating the non-specific powers that be for their failure to organise the world in accordance with your own estimable common sense, and then one day they read your mind and comply with your wishes. And so it came to pass that mobile manufacturers finally agreed on a single universal connection for their phone chargers. It only remains for you to figure what to do with that drawer full of old chargers. Here are a few ideas.Disposable slingA charger with a heavy plug end makes an excellent weapon. Hold it by the cord, whirl it over your head a few times and let fly in the direction of oncoming attackers. No need to retrieve it afterwards - just grab another one!Unscented plug-in air freshenerPlug any old charger into a spare socket and leave it there, where it will release the fresh clean smell of nothing all day, every day.Replacement chargerWe all have small appliances lying around the house that have been rendered useless because we've lost the charger. But chances are at least some of your redundant phone chargers will fit them if you push hard enough. You may need to get out the scissors and reattach plug ends to different connectors. Experiment! If you're worried about the danger of severe electrical shock, then you simply don't want it badly enough.Child's practical jokeHide under bed or sofa, holding the connector end of a phone charger, with the cord extended across a nearby doorway and the plug resting with prongs up. Wait for an unsuspecting adult to walk through the door, then pull the plug into his path so he steps on it. Retrieve plug, repeat.
Nasa is to refuel the external tank of Endeavour today to discover whether efforts to fix a fuel leak have been successful. The leak frustrated two earlier attempts on June 13 and 17 to launch the shuttle on an assembly mission to the International Space Station (ISS); a third attempt may be scheduled for about 00:39 BST on July 12.The ISS itself is now a spectacular sight later in the night as it soars across our sky, sometime passing overhead at London's latitude. For Manchester it may climb only a little more than 60&deg; in the S, while from Edinburgh its best is only 35&deg; or so. Our BST predictions use asterisks to flag the directions in which it emerges from eclipse in the Earth's shadow.
A negative review might once have prompted a stern letter to the editor of the relevent publication. Today, the weapon of choice for an angry author appears to be Twitter.Novelist Alice Hoffman was so enraged last weekend by a lacklustre review in the Boston Globe - her new novel, The Story Sisters, apparently "lacks the spark of [her] earlier work" - that she tweeted furiously: "Roberta Silman in the Boston Globe is a moron. How do some people get to review books? Now any idiot can be a critic." She completed a comprehensive act of revenge by tweeting Silman's phone number and email address so her followers could "tell her what u think of snarky critics".She's not the only author talking back - Alain de Botton defended his latest book, The Pleasures and Sorrows of Work, following a bad review in the New York Times. "The accusations you level at me are simply extraordinary ... You have now killed my book in the United States, nothing short of that," he wrote on the reviewer Caleb Crain's blog. "Don't worry, it hopefully won't be pistols at dawn. But bear in mind that Proust fought a duel over a review," de Botton then tweeted. "I'm trying out an eye for an eye - the accusation was enormous." Curiously, de Botton yesterday removed those tweets.UCL's professor of English, John Mullan, thinks we can "expect more of the same. People complaining on Twitter is a safety valve." But despite the immediacy - and accountability - the internet offers, "a dignified silence is best" following a negative review says philosopher AC Grayling. (He was recently the victim of an outraged online response from novelist Charlotte Greig after he said that the best thing about her debut, A Girl's Guide to Modern European Philosophy, was its title.) Controversial award-winning children's author Melvin Burgess, who saw his novel Doing It described as "vile [and] disgusting" in the Guardian, agrees. "I've managed to resist temptation [to respond] so far," he says. "You'd just come out of it with no dignity and your pants in tatters."
Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Just when you were thinking, 'why oh why are there no drama-documentaries about rivalries in the burgeoning home computer sector?' BBC Four has only gone and announced one. Expected to be broadcast later this year, Syntax Era (get it?!) charts the rivalry between Sir Clive Sinclair and Chris Curry, the former colleagues who went on to launch the ZX Spectrum and BBC Micro respectively.From The Guardian's report:Written by Tony Saint, the 90-minute drama will use archive footage to illustrate the buzz around Sinclair and Curry's inventions, with classic clips from programmes such as John Craven's Newsround.Alexander Armstrong from comedy show Armstrong and Miller will take on the role of Sir Clive, while Martin Freeman is set to play Curry.Of course, from a gaming standpoint, it could be argued that the real battle of the time was between the Spectrum and the Commodore 64 - with the BBC Micro, Acorn Electron, Dragon 32 and Amstrad CPC peeking in from the periphery. But of course, the Sinclair/Curry story has an intriguing human angle; Curry originally worked for Sir Clive'sSinclair Radionicscompany, before developing the BBC Micro computer.Let's hope this kicks off a trend for tech rivalry dramas - there are certainly quite a few in the annals of videogame history. Here are three possibilities...Peter Moore vs Kaz HiraiMoore went up against Sony, first as president and COO of Sega of America, then as head of Xbox. When Iinterviewed him last yearhe made no secret of the fact that he saw his battle with SCE chief Hirai as personal: "The idea of being upfront, getting after Phil Harrison, getting after Kaz Hirai and then later getting after John Riccitiello… I think the consumer loves it, it adds publicity and it adds fire around the industry."John Romero vs Mike WilsonThe two worked together at Ion Storm, but it doesn't seem to have been a harmonious relationship. Wilson left to set up indie publisher, Gamecock, and in early 2008, Romeroblogged, "he pretty much just partied all the time and after the whole thing got reined in by Take 2 he went underground for a while, waiting for his next victim/investor so he could go hogwild all over again." Wilson countered in an open letterposted on Kotaku: "your unparalleled work ethic and strong character has (just in the time I've known you) left only a bloody trail of ex-wives, fatherless kids, and ill advised breast implants strewn across this fair nation." Ouch.Jack Thompson vs the videogame industryThe attorney-turned-activist has been a thorn in the side of the American games industry for over a decade, fronting several lawsuits against the makers of violent shooters (or 'murder simulators' in Jack's own parlance) and lobbying hard in favour of legislation banning the sale of such content to minors. He wasdisbarred last year,the court document noting, "he does not proceed within the guidelines of appropriate professional behavior, but rather uses other means available to intimidate, harass, or bring public disrepute to those whom he perceives oppose him." Would make a cracking TV series, perhaps with Philip Glenister in the Thompson role?
The record industry gave a cautious welcome on Tuesday to the news that the Pirate Bay website – the subject of a recent high-profile trial in Sweden in which its founders were found guilty of facilitating illegal filesharing – is to be acquired by a Swedish software company which says it will make it legitimate.Global Gaming Factory X, which runs a worldwide network of internet cafes and online game centres, is acquiring The Pirate Bay in a deal worth 60m Swedish krona (£4.7m). Hans Pandeya, GGF's chief executive officer, said in a statement that "GGF will have a strategic position in the international digital distribution market. The Pirate Bay has a global brand and holds a key position with over 20 million visitors and over one billion page views per month."The payment will be half in cash and half in shares, "primarily subject to GGF obtaining financing for the acquisition," the company says.Pandeya said GGF wanted to introduce new business models such that "content providers and copyright owners get paid for content that is downloaded via the site." Previously this was not been the case: the Pirate Bay was notorious among copyright owners of audio and video as the source of millions of illegal downloads for which they were not paid.John Kennedy, chairman of trade body IFPI (International Federation of the Phonographic Industry), which was involved with the prosecution of the men involved in the Pirate Bay in Sweden in April, said: "We don't know the details and there are many questions to ask about how this will work in practice, but we would be delighted if this resulted in The Pirate Bay turning into a legitimate licensed service."The Pirate Bay provides information for peer-to-peer file downloading using the BitTorrent system, which may include files of CDs and movies. In April the four men behind the site, Frederik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, Carl Lundström and Peter Sunde, werefined over £2m and sentenced to a year in jail. They say they intend to appeal.Mark Mulligan, an analyst with Forrester Research, reckons the prospect of converting Pirate Bay users to a pay system is much smaller than converting general internet users, which is already hard. However, he speculates that it could possibly be converted into something like Sharman Networks' Kazaa, "a network filled with adware, running adverts on top of publishers' inventory." But he doesn't think this would make enough money to satisfy content owners, who now have outlets such as Apple's iTunes and Amazon.Reaction from users was mixed: some said they would not use the site if it required them to register and pay.The Pirate Bayposted a notesaying "Yes, it's true," the site "might get acquired" by GGF. It was less specific on who would get the money, saying: "The profits from the sale will go into a foundation that is going to help with projects about freedom of speech, freedom of information and the openness of the nets. I hope everybody will help out in that and realize that this is the best option for all. Don't worry – be happy!"On Twitter,Peter Sunde Kolmisoppisaid: "so either there is 60M in a fund, or there is no site and no money. What's the preferred deal? We have no energy left."The music industry has been criticised for attempts to close down Napster, which made MP3 music downloads popular a decade ago, rather than trying to convert it into a paid-for service, though that's what it eventually became.However, there is scepticism about the possible "Napsterisation" of The Pirate Bay. Many alternative Torrent trackers exist, and users who were attracted by the site's swashbuckling image – which included virtual thumbing of its nose at the many lawyers' letters from content companies – may not like one that aspires to become a mainstream, paid site.
Five years ago, the earth shifted underneath the internet market: Mozilla came out with Firefox, a browser that could challenge Internet Explorer and give people the sort of web experience they'd been asking for.Fast forward a few years and Firefox is pretty popular, though not wildly so (it's responsible for around 22% of all web use). The last major release, 3.0, was criticised for being too bloated and buggy - leading to today's release of thelatest version 3.5 build: one that Mozilla says will fix the problems and get people back on board.Does it work? I'm using it and so far, so good. I switch between different browsers a lot, but FF3.5 appears to run smoothly and is less tricksy than the previous version. The intermittent crashing that I'd become inured to appears to have gone, and nothing appears to have broken in the meantime. It'd be interesting to hear if anyone has found any bugs or problems in use.Elsewhere, people are enthusiastic: Harry McCracken at Technologizer says that FF remainsthe best choice for the widest array of folks. Slate's Farhad Manjoo, meanwhile saysit's not withering from competition.In a wider sense, though, I'm interested in the idea of the browser wars in general. Is it an anachronism to think of a major conflict? Or are the browser wars hotter than ever thanks to Apple, Google and others?I came in for a little stick recently when Iwrote about Opera, and why I wasn't convinced that it would ever break out beyond a tiny niche of users. It appeared that a few people did use Opera, and loved it. Maybe I'm just out of touch, or maybe that niche stood up to be counted.The truth is that browsers today are such a vast improvement on the software we had to use a few years ago, that it's hard to pick out one program that stands head and shoulders above the opposition. Each has its benefits, but the market seems able to bear the weight of them all - for now. In that sense, I suppose, Firefox has done its job. Do people even care about their browsers any more?
Russia is not China. And so far there has been no attempt by the Kremlin tocrack down on the web, which is the last remaining source of free information for ordinary Russians in an otherwise controlled media landscape.The authorities keep an iron grip on television, ensure that most newspapers toe a pro-government line, and keep critics off the airwaves.Recently, however, there are signs that the Russian government is reconsidering its laissez-faire attitude towards the internet, especially in the wake of Iran's web-driven "green revolution".Several Russian bloggers who have posted critical articles have found themselves charged with extremism. One is in jail. Another was arrested after comparing Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin to a penis.The Kremlin also uses other darker strategies for getting its PR message out, employing dozens of young, patriotic bloggers to flood chatrooms with a pro-Kremlin message, and to attack its enemies.Writing in last week's Moscow Times, the economist Yevgeny Gontmakher revealed how he came under "massive attack" from government bloggers after criticising Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue.He concluded: "The modern Russian propaganda machine permeates nearly every major media outlet and even extends to the blogosphere." As well as the Russian language blogosphere, bloggers are also active in the western press, including the Guardian.Overall the picture is fairly dismal. "Today's Russia is an authoritarian state where a corrupt and illiberal ruling elite maintains its power through media manipulation and the subversion of the democratic process," the US-funded watchdog Freedom House said in a report this month.Still, the situation in Russia is better than in former Soviet central Asia. According to Oleg Panfilov, director of Moscow's Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations, former Soviet countries can be divided into three categories.The first includes Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia and probably Azerbaijan, where the internet is absolutely free. The next includes Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, where the web is largely or partly free. In the last category are Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, Central Asia's most repressive, and generally paranoid, republics. Here, there is severe censorship. In Uzbekistan even the BBC's website is banned, although you can watch BBC World TV in upmarket Tashkent hotels.The country's secret police maintain a vigilant watch on net use, and have arrested users in internet cafes. There are ominous signs that more countries across the region are beginning to follow the Uzbek example.Journalists, human rights groups and the Organisation for Security and Co-Operation in Europe (OSCE) have all decried recent proposals by Kazakhstan to introduce a new law on the internet. Under the law the government will be able to regulate forums, chats, blogs, and even online shops. Eight months ago Kazakhstan banned LiveJournal, the most popular social networking website among Russian-speakers, as well as a dozen opposition sites.The restrictions have spilled over into neighbouring Kyrgyzstan, which uses the same web servers. Enterprising Kazakhs are getting round these restrictions by using proxies, but the overall picture is not an encouraging one.
If the Iranian regime hesitated over tactics when protests erupted over the "theft" of the presidential elections by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, it was well prepared on one front:internet censorshipis both routine and highly developed in the Islamic Republic, so when the crackdown came it was swift and – fairly – effective.Iran uses what the OpenNet Initiative calls "one of the most extensive technical filtering systems in the world". Internet providers are required to go through state-controlled gateways. Reformist websites, Flickr, foreign blogs and social networks such as Facebook were all sporadically blocked before the elections, but censorship intensified once the unrest began.Filtering has become much heavier in the last fortnight. "It is very bad," says a keen internet user in north Tehran. "They're tightening the circle." The internet is said to be running at less than a tenth the speed it usually does."The authorities are aware that almost every internet user knows how to get around the filtering and they don't care much about it," said Mehrdad, a student. "But once there is a danger the internet may undermine the political system, they intensify censorship so it gets very difficult to get access to blocked websites even with anti-filter software."Crucially, all internet traffic in and out of Iran travels through one portal – the Telecommunications Company of Iran (TCI) – though a few service providers operate below it. This makes it easier to monitor traffic. Sophisticated software allows officials to look at a website or tweet and see the IP address it came from. Decisions on blocking are made by a committee of government officials, members of the judiciary and intelligence services. Filtering is done by the telecommunications ministry."The authorities can filter a new website within 24 hours," said Mahmood Enayat, an Iranian expert at the Oxford Internet Institute. "They monitor very intensively. It's not really that sophisticated as they use domain names rather than key words, but that's still enough to stop users' access."Yet unless the authorities are prepared to damage vital economic interests such as banking, access to the internet can never be totally blocked. And tech-savvy users can buy anti-filtering software, encrypt messages or, increasingly, use proxies – servers set up in other countries which allow Iranians to hide their computer's IP address from prying eyes.Another method used by the state is deliberately to reduce bandwidth to prevent the transmission of mobile phone-recorded video. Still, that didn't stop the world seeing the now iconic 40-second film of Neda Agha-Soltan bleeding to death on a street in Tehran."If you put 65 million people in a locked room, they're going to find all the exits pretty quickly, and maybe make a few of their own," commented James Cowie on theRenesys internet intelligence blog.
In a last-minute climbdown, the Chinese government announced today that it will delay the launch ofcensorshipsoftware that was supposed to have been sold in every computer from tomorrow.The postponement comes after an unprecedented wave of online opposition, protests by foreign governments and calls by prominent bloggers for Chinese netizens to climb, attack and demonstrate against the "great firewall".Xinhua, the state news agency, reported the change of plan four hours before the software launch was due."China will delay the mandatory installation of the 'Green Dam-Youth Escort' filtering software on new computers," it said in a terse statement attributed to the ministry of industry and information technology.The authorities looked likely to miss their deadline for the rollout of the software that blocks pornographic, violent and politically sensitive content.The Guardian struggled to find a single retailer who had Green Dam either installed or bundled with computers.Adding to the mystery, Lenovo, Sony, Dell and Hewlett Packard refused to comment on whether their PCs are now being shipped with the software, as the government ordered them to do last month.The government says the software is necessary to clear the Chinese web of "harmful content". But critics say it is a misguided attempt to put the internet genie back in the bottle by a Communist party that now has to answer to about 300 million web users."Green Dam is a mini-great firewall placed inside every personal computer," saidMichael Anti, an influential blogger. "The real logic behind it is that China is a big kindergarten in which even adults are treated as children that need to be 'protected'."Isaac Mao, a prominent internet commentator, believes the government has made a big mistake: "I think this is the tipping point between the people rising up and those in power trying to suppress them. The great firewall is overloaded and that is why the authorities are trying to move the focus of control to the desktop. But it has annoyed a lot of people. Not just liberals who want free speech but the young who see it as an intrusion into their personal lives."Although the plan has at least temporarily failed, it succeeded in mobilising people against the censors. Wen Yuchao, a journalist and blogger who goes by the online name North Wind, said more than 1,000 netizens have signed up to his campaign to "climb" the firewall by signing up to proxy servers that bypass the government's controls. He said 15,000 people are joining TOR ‑ one of the most popular proxies ‑ every day, about double the normal rate. Freegate, a proxy that was developed by Falun Gong, has also reported a sharp rise in demand.Ai Weiwei, a prominent artist and freedom of expression champion, called for an internet boycott tomorrow."Thousands of netizens have said they will join the boycott. People are starting to realise how important it is to tell the government what they want," said Ai. "There is nothing the authorities can do [to stop us]. That is what is great about this. It is personal but widespread."A group of bandit hackers, known as Anonymous, declared "war" on Green Dam and threatened to attack it tomorrow.According to a source close to the group, they plan to create a remote computer 'bot' that pummels Baidu, Kaixin and other mainland websites with data requests containing forbidden or sensitive terms, such as expletives, Falun Gong, Dalai Lama and "Fifty-cent party member" (the derogatory name given to people paid to post pro-government comments online). They hope the volume of dirty traffic will clog up the keyword filters.It remains to be seen whether the government will go ahead with Green Dam or a watered-down version of it. But bloggers and free speech advocates say the long-term trend is positive."More and more people have accepted 'internet-era values' such as freedom of speech, access to information and participatory democracy," said Michael Anti. "These liberalised people or 'netizens' are changing the social institutions, step by step. In 10 years, more people will be [on the net] which will increase the chance of China having genuine democracy."
Wild West games have been inexplicably rare over the years, given our fascination with the period.The second instalment of Call of Juarez demonstrates that justice can be done to the subject matter in a videogame, although you shouldn't expect Sergio Leone standards.The storyline is great, focusing on brothers Ray and Thomas McCall. Starting off in the American Civil War, it features the obligatory girl, treacherous Mexicans, a vengeful ex-boss, Native American tribes, a rather wet bible-bashing younger brother and a quest for treasure. You can choose which brother to play as for most missions: Thomas is more agile, has a lasso and can wield knives and arrows, whereas Ray is more damage-resistant and can chuck sticks of dynamite.There are several clever slo-mo modes in which each brother can take out multiple enemies, classic OK Corral-style duels and imaginative on-rail sequences. Some multiplayer modes are good, too, and, at last, we can star in our own facsimile spaghetti western. With Rockstar Games readying the free-roaming Red Dead Redemption, this may soon be eclipsed, but this is way better than a mere stop-gap.
The Overlord series returns, its wayward dark humour an antidote to the recent cluster of more sober action releases. Destruction or domination are your cheery choices as you don the armour of the evil leader and march forth from the Netherworld, massive axe in tow.Essentially, gameplay is unchanged: think Fable merged with Pikmin. A combination of action and entry-level strategy sees you lording it over various breeds of minion, each having specific battlefield skills. For example, deploy an advance team of "reds" to burn down obstructions or command your "browns" to engage in close-quarter combat with their heightened melee skills. Minion abilities are enhanced from the original and progression involves employing sophisticated tactics.The addition of a mini-map is welcome, but there are times where you can still feel lost. Controls are smoother, however camera angle issues are still prevalent. Despite its faults, being evil has never been more pleasurable. A game full of personality and that can't be taken seriously, Overlord's wicked style is an enjoyable way to experience immorality.
This combat role-playing franchise is almost single-handedly keeping the PSP relevant in its home market of Japan. Sony is hoping it can repeat the trick here, too – although cultural differences make this unlikely – asking a PSP owner on the Tube if they want to team up to battle virtual beasties is probably not a wise move – but for game-starved PSP fans Monster Hunter Freedom Unite certainly fills a gap.It's an intense affair, with the kind of detail normally found in massively multiplayer online games such as World of Warcraft. What on the surface seems simple – create character, grab weapon, get quest and go kill "monster" – becomes a compulsive mix of weapon upgrades, armour construction and inventory ­management. Improving your gear is the way to bag harder trophies. Teaming up with other players is what really makes the game come alive, which makes the lack of online play such a shame. Find some other players – possibly by moving to Japan – and you'll get the best multiplayer ­experience on your PSP.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Summer slump? Not this year. In the last couple of weeks the release schedule has included the excellentOverlord 2and Fight Night Round 4 as well as the dumb but entertaining Red Faction Guerrilla and the intenseMonster Hunter Freedom Unite. It may be a heatwave in the UK but there is plenty of gaming to keep us inside. And frankly that's a good thing. Too often releases get kept back till October and November. This is fine for Modern Warfare 2 or FIFA 2010 but if – say – Overlord 2 had arrived in November rather than last week it would likely have got ignored. In fact any new IP is likely to suffer if released in the pre-Christmas rush. Look at Mirror's Edge and Dead Space last year. Two new potential franchises from EA, both above average quality but both suffered disappointing sales. EA's president of games Frank Gibeau hasnow admittedthat the timing was wrong.I would have spread them out and found better windows for them. I would have had longer marketing for them. The marketing cycles were fairly short. We didn't have enough assets to really build the fanbase, build the community, and get that long lead demand built. SO I probably in hindsight would have picked a couple different windows for Dead Space and Mirror's Edge. It was kind of unknowable at the time, because a lot of IP gets created in those times. Big traffic, lots of volume.It all seems obvious in hindsight, although Gibeau candidly admits there was little choice other than to release the Mirror's Edge and Dead Space when they did.But to be honest with you, we didn't have a lot of sequel product laying around. So, it was a strategy that we had to embark on, which was to, you know, reload with intellectual properties.Does this mean we can expect sequels to Mirror's Edge and Dead Space released away from the Q3 rush? Let's hope so. Anyway, what do you think abot summer games releases? Glad to see good stuff like Overlord 2 and Fight Night 4 released now? Or are you too busy on the barbeque to pick up a controller?
Faced with the prospect of an underground virtual economy developing inside internet games, the Chinese government is cracking down on those who use virtual money to buy real-world goods.With millions of young Chinese regularly playing online games, the practice of trading in-game currency or virtual credits for real goods is growing in popularity - and is even so profitable that it has led to the creation of a virtual sweatshop industry known asgold farming.But according to a joint statement from the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Culture, new rules will be put in place to stop the trade of virtual currency for real items."The virtual currency, which is converted into real money at a certain exchange rate, will only be allowed to trade in virtual goods and services provided by its issuer, not real goods and services," it said.Media reportssuggestgovernment officials are largely concerned with the creation of an uncontrollable black market that operates in parallel to the Chinese economy, rather than in closing down traders themselves. And although this is being reported insome placesas a potentialdeath knell to gold farmingentirely, players will still be able to buyvirtual goodswith virtual cash.Earlier this year wereported on the business of gold farming- an industry that seems almost too surreal and postmodern to be true:Workers can expect to earn between £80-£120 a month which, given the long hours and night shifts, can amount to as little as 30p an hour. After completing his shift, Li is given a basic meal of rice, meat and vegetables and falls into a bunk bed in a room that eight other gold farmers share. His wages may be low, but food and accommodation are included.These virtual industries sound surreal, but they are fast entering the mainstream. According to a report by Richard Heeks at Manchester University, an estimated 400,000 Asian workers are now employed in gold farming in a trade worth up to £700m a year.This new law appears to be the latest step in trying to bring the legal systems of thereal world and virtual worlds in line with each other. It will be interesting to see where things go from here: GamePolitics suggests the first result may be todrive up the price of virtual goodsinside games like World of Warcraft.
&bull; The government has confirmed that it will be helping create a£1bn venture fund for investing in startups. The announcement comes after we reported last Decemberthat the government was backing a plan by Nestato help boost UK entrepreneurs.&bull; The never-ending saga ofSteve Jobs, part 764: He'sback- but only for part of the week, reportsBloomberg. "Steve is back to work... we are very glad to have him back," said Apple.&bull; Forget the big match-ups at Wimbledon this week, the best as  pop-business writers, asMalcolm GladwellandChris Andersonbegin trading opinions over the Long Tail author's latest opus,Free. Gladwell landed the first blow with a long review of Free in theNew Yorkerthatquestioned Anderson's thesis. Anderson has dealt a responseaccusing Gladwell of feeling threatened. I'm not sure their positions are entirely antithetical, but, hey, the shots are being traded.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
