Filesharing site The Pirate Bay has clocked up more than 1m downloads of its PirateBrowser web browser in the two months since itlaunched in mid-August.The desktop application was released as a response to the growing number of ISPs blocking access to The Pirate Bay and other filesharing site, although it was also pitched as an anti-censorship tool.The 1m milestone wasrevealed by TorrentFreak, which notes that although The Pirate Bay hasn't said how many of those people are actively using PirateBrowser, it's currently accounting for 0.5% of the site's visitors."I guess that a lot of people want to see the websites their governments and courts are trying to hide from them," one of The Pirate Bay's admins tells TorrentFreak, which in the absence of official stats, estimates that the browser has "hundreds of thousands" of active users.PirateBrowser is based on the FireFox Portable Edition web browser, adding Tor client Vidalia to anonymise data connections and the FoxyProxy proxy-management plug-in. When it launched,The Pirate Bay described itas "a simple one-click browser that circumvents censorship and blockades and makes the site instantly available and accessible".The Pirate Bay is blocked by ISPs in an increasing number of countries, including the UK, where Sky, Virgin Media, TalkTalk, O2 and Everything Everywhere wereordered by the high court to stop their customers accessing itin April 2012, after a case brought by music industry body the BPI.PirateBrowser may not be the most popular tool used to get around such blocks and visit The Pirate Bay, however. In May this year, the site claimed that8% of its page viewswere already coming through its dedicated proxy IP-address.
Digitally native teenagers can spot market opportunities that older entrepreneurs can&apos;t, 17-year-old app millionaire Nick D&apos;Aloisio has said, encouraging young people to use the internet to start their own projects rather than pursue traditional jobs.Speaking at the first Wired 2013 Next Generation conference in London on 19 October, D&apos;Aloisio – who sold his news app Summly to Yahoo for an estimated £18m in March this year – encouraged teens to be creative and use the internet as a learning tool.“The whole world of knowledge is literally in your pocket and that wasn’t there years ago,&quot; he said. &quot;It means as a young person if you’re ever curious about something you can literally type it into Google and learn about it, because everything is there for free. Sometimes it takes me to sit down and think what that means and implies about the world.”The London-based entrepreneur developed his own programming skills using open-source software online and the bookC for Dummies. He encouraged attendees to break away from the school curriculum and to be creative whilst exploring the possibilities of education via the web.“It’s exciting because we’re net natives,” he told the audience. “We can see gaps others can’t.”Jamal Edwards, founder of online music channel SBTV, claims 6.3m monthly views on his YouTube channel aloneand was once described as &quot;Grime&apos;s Simon Cowell&quot; by Dazed and Confused.“I used to film foxes in my back garden and my mum making macaroni cheese,” he told the audience. He progressed to creating videos of rappers freestyling and uploading them to YouTube, but admitted his mum only understood the scale of what her son had achieved after his appearance on a Google Chrome advert a couple of years ago prompted phone calls from her friends.Designed to open up the digital industry to a younger generation, the one-day event for 12- to 18-year-olds was inspired by a talk between Wired editor David Rowan and English actor Natasha McElhone following the annual Wired summit last year.“I spent most of my time filming the speakers to send onto my kids. My only regret about sitting in the audience was that they weren’t with me,&quot; said McElhone, who approached Rowan afterwards.“You’ve got this wrong,&quot; she told him. &quot;All these people here, they all have access to this kind of inspiration. The real place you should be working is for the next generation.”McElhone said that her teenage years were when she felt innovative and at her most “visionary” but that teenagers need to know “how tools are now in their hands&quot;.“I wish there as something like this when I was younger,” said Moshi Monsters creator Michael Acton Smith. “It’s so inspirational for all these young people to hear these amazing speakers and get to meet each other and discuss the projects they’re working on.”Over soft drinks in the interactive zone to creative huddles outside the workshop rooms, the attendees brim over with creative ideas and enthusiasm.Twelve-year-old neighbours Maddie Clarke-Jones and Leticia Marsh, who travelled from Oxford for the event, are keen to learn more on how they can make their ideas into reality.“It’s quite cool to think we can start our own business,” says Clarke-Jones, explaining that the pair already have plans for an app designed to translate baby cries into meaningful suggestions for mothers.Jordan Earle and James Anderson of Thinkspace, both aged 16, are hosting a workshop on building a social network. Both are keen to stress the importance of such an event for those of their age group.“It brings together a lot of like-minded individuals,” says Earle, adding that he wants to dispel the “nerdy white boy” stereotype associated with coding.“It really gives them a platform to connect and collaborate with.”The Wired conference featured a variety of speakers from across the tech, science and digital industries including Studentbeans.com co-founder James Eder, urban cyclist entrepreneur Emily Brooke and Twitter chief media scientist Deb Roy.The event also included an interactive zone featuring Topshop’s digital garden in association with Chirp and workshops by Thinkspace, Mozilla and Freeformers alongside app clinics that ran throughout the day-long event.• MeetNick D&apos;Aloisio, who was once an ordinary teenagerwith £40 on his debit card
It's Monday and we're at GameCity in Nottingham. Don't forget to tune in here at 1pm for a live stream of Cara and Keith's Power Lunch!
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHere's why isoHunt deserved to die &gt;&gt; The Switch (Washington Post)It's easy to avoid running afoul of the inducement standard. If an entrepreneur is sincerely not trying to profit from infringement, then she won't encourage her customers to infringe, and so plaintiffs won't be able to find evidence of her doing so.In contrast, the court found clear evidence that isoHunt was trying to profit from infringement. For example, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals wrote that for a time, "isoHunt prominently featured a list of 'Box Office Movies,' containing the 20 highest-grossing movies then playing in US theatres. When a user clicked on a listed title, she would be invited to 'upload [a] torrent' file for that movie." Since the top-grossing movies are almost always copyrighted, this feature shows clear evidence of infringing intent.In other cases, the founder of isoHunt "posted numerous messages to the isoHunt forum requesting that users upload torrents for specific copyrighted films; in other posts, he provided links to torrent files for copyrighted movies, urging users to download them."Legitimate entrepreneurs wouldn't have behaved this way.Statement of the week.I'm with the Band (and their Private Jet) &gt;&gt; Messy Nessy Chic Messy Nessy ChicWelcome aboard the Starship I. And yes, that's a fireplace (an electric one). For their 1973 and 1975 concert tours, Led Zeppelin hired a former United Airlines Boeing 720B passenger jet built in 1960 to fly them from gig to gig. For $2,500 a day, or $5 a mile, the airplane was specifically modified to cater to the biggest band in the world.Purchased from the airline by Contemporary Entertainment for $750,000, owner Ward Sylvester spent almost $200,000 transforming the commercial plane to include rock star amenities. An all important cabin bar was installed complete with a built-in electric organ.$750,000 in 1973 is $3.8m in today's money. ($2,500 is just $12,000. Not that much when you're a top-line rock band.) You do have to see the pictures of the bar, though.Apple might be making a new iPad keyboard &gt;&gt;Jamie RyanI've been speaking to a couple of people at Apple for the last few days and they have told me that a case for the full size iPad that mimics Microsofts touch cover has been prototyped. It's not clear whether the process is far enough along to make this Tuesday's event but they did say a few different styles had been in testing for a while.BlackBerry faces dogfight as firm returns to its corporate roots &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailA Canadian perspective on the corporate struggle:While employees at Ritchie Bros., for example, can choose whatever device they want, there are 200 salespeople who can access the company's sales tools through protected mobile portals only on Apple or Android devices. That won't be possible if they choose BlackBerrys because BlackBerry won't let Fiberlink offer that expanded functionality. Even if they want a BlackBerry Z10 or Q10, it would make little sense for any of Ritchie Bros. salespeople to get one.BlackBerry says it is the only device manager that can offer full support for all manufacturers' devices. But Samsung, the world's biggest seller of smartphones, won't give BlackBerry access to APIs for two of its key enterprise-oriented software programs, which are designed to offer BlackBerry-level security on its phones. BlackBerry says it can still provide the same level of management abilities and security on Samsung devices as other Android devices, and Jefferies analyst Peter Misek dismissed the slight as only a "mild impairment."But a former senior BlackBerry executive with knowledge of the situation said Samsung's withholding "is enormously costly to BES10 adoption in the U.S." as it enables BlackBerry's rivals to offer an increased level of security, cutting into a long-standing competitive advantage and improving Samsung's already formidable position in the smartphone market.7 types of Windows 8 users and non-users &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:When I was in Seattle earlier this month I visited the Microsoft Store in Bellevue. I nearly bought a Nokia Lumia 1020, but also observed an enthusiastic salesperson showing off Surface 2 (a pre-launch demo unit) to an older customer. She watched patiently while he showed how it handled pictures, SkyDrive, Office, Email, Facebook and more. At the end she said. "I don't need any of that. Show me your cheapest laptop."Yes, it's tough for Microsoft. The incident got me thinking about computer users today and whether or not they are in the market for Windows 8 (or the forthcoming Windows 8.1).HTC Kindle smartphone for Amazon Prime users? &gt;&gt; Tech-Thoughts by Sameer SinghSameer Singh:Since carriers control pricing, a smartphone OEM's direct customers are not end consumers, but the carriers themselves. Therefore, Amazon needs to offer carriers a device that generates high ARPU [average revenue per user] with a low subsidy burden - Xiaomi may follow a similar strategy to eventually enter subsidised markets. Amazon's pitch to carriers becomes much stronger if sales of their smartphone are restricted to Amazon Prime members. Media streaming would increase data usage and hence, data revenue for carriers, which would motivate them to invest in marketing Amazon's Kindle smartphones. Once penetration reaches critical mass and carrier support is certain, Amazon could always attempt to expand sales to non-Prime members.Based on this, my guess is that Amazon is likely press ahead with this strategy with or without HTC. HTC may be little more than a "carrier relationship manager" from Amazon's perspective.Apple introduces revolutionary new laptop with no keyboard &gt;&gt; The OnionDamn product leaks.The only speed that matters is subjective &gt;&gt; if connectedIan Fogg:All users care about is how fast something feels. Not what the hardware specs say.The examples he (and commenters) quote are fascinating. So what does that make the people who *do* care about specs, if not users?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple's GarageBand has been one of the best-selling paid apps for iOS since its launch in March 2011 as a £2.99 download. Now it's set to follow the dominant App Store trend by switching to freemium.Apple let the news slip on its own website, after updating the text and icons on itsBuilt-in Apps page for the iPhone 5ssmartphone, where GarageBand sat alongside other "iLife" apps iPhoto and iMovie."GarageBand is free on the App Store for all iOS 7 compatible devices; additional GarageBand instruments and sounds are available with an in-app purchase," explained the text, which has since been removed, but wasspotted by Mac Rumors.Apple had alreadyannounced at its 18 September press eventthat iPhoto and iMovie will be switching from paid apps to free downloads for anyone buying a new iOS device, alongside its "iWork" apps Keynote, Pages and Numbers.GarageBand hadn't been mentioned during that launch, calling into question future support for the iOS version of Apple's music creation software. Now those questions have been answered: it's making a similar shift from paid to free, but Apple is hoping to capitalise on the booming freemium market on iOS.In October, research firm IHS estimated that people will spend $15.5bn on smartphone and tablet apps in 2013, withmore than 80% of those revenues coming from in-app purchases.Meanwhile, in July mobile analytics company Flurry claimed that90% of iOS apps are now free to download. Influential iOS developer Marco Arment alsoaddressed the trend publicly in a blog postin September:"The market for paid-up-front apps appealing to mass consumers is gone. If you have paid apps in the store, you've probably seen the writing on the wall for a while," he wrote. "Paid-up-front iOS apps had a great run, but it's over. Time to make other plans."A strategy that seemingly applies to Apple as much as it does to its community of developers.
The Microsoft Surface 2 is the company’s second iteration of its Windows RT tablet computer, which improves on itspredecessorin almost every way.It is a 10.6in tablet with a sharp high-definition screen packed with Microsoft’s Windows 8-style modern user interface and comes equipped with a full Microsoft Office suite when work calls.DesignThe Microsoft Surface 2 continues the very strong and solid, almost industrial build quality that defined the original Surface tablet. There is no flex in the body, and the strong frame feels like you could use it as an offensive weapon, if a mugger came a knocking.That solid, reassuring build means it is relatively heavy for a tablet; slightly heavier than the 652g iPad 4 at 676g. The 16:9 formfactor, however, makes it easier to hold in portrait one-handed due to the Surface having a smaller moment pulling the tablet out of your hand.Unlike the original Surface, and theSurface Proline of full Windows 8 tablets, the Surface 2 is only available in silver, which is apparently the naked colour of the magnesium used to construct the tablet’s frame.The Surface 2 is pretty thin for a 10in tablet, and is 0.5mm thinner than the iPad 4 at 8.9mm thick, meaning the Surface 2 will easily slip into most briefcases, messenger bags or backpacks.Microsoft Surface 2 review - kickstand with two anglesThe back of the Surface 2 sports a kickstand, which supports two angles making using it on a desk or your lap a lot easier than the original Surface.Stereo speakers are fitted in the left and right-hand sides of the tablet, which are loud and clear for a tablet, making watching TV or movies satisfying, even if they aren’t truly room filling.The 10.6in screen is the biggest visible change from the first generation Surface. It is bright, clear and crisp thanks to its higher, 1920 x 1200 resolution.While on paper the screen is beaten by the iPad 4’s 9.7in 2048 x 1536 resolution “retina” display, photos look colourful and detailed while text appears pin sharp and easily legible on websites and ebooks – a trademark of Microsoft’s “ClearType” technology, which produces clear text even on relatively low-resolution screens and makes the text on the Surface 2 really shine.The screen also has good viewing angles making sharing video with others easy, while decent blacks and colour range make said video look great.SpecificationsScreen:10.6in full HD 1080p LCDProcessor:1.7GHz quad-coreNvidia Tegra 4RAM:2GBStorage:32/64GB SSD plus microSDXC slotOperating system:Windows RT 8.1Connectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Compass, USB 3.0, micro HDMICameras:3.5MP front-facing and 5MP rear-facing cameraDimensions:274.6 x 172.5 x 8.9mmWeight:675.9gPower/Hardware ExperienceMicrosoft’s given the Surface 2 the latest 1.7GHz Nvidia Tegra 4 quad-core processor, which provides plenty of multi-tasking and general processing power to make sure Windows RT 8.1 runs smoothly.Web browsing, Office duties, listening to music, watching video and browsing pictures are all fluid and lag-free, even with multiple tabs and apps open simultaneously. The only slight bit of lag I experienced in my testing was during app installs, which is a common issue with tablets, phones and computers based around the relatively low-power ARM processors like the Tegra 4.Like any other ARM-based tablet such as the iPad or Google’s Nexus 10 Android tablet, the Surface 2 instantly wakes from sleep, and boots from completely turned off in seconds.The touchscreen is responsive and accurate, although it will only recognise five-points of contact at any one time – more than enough for almost all uses.Unlike most other tablets like the iPad or Google’s Nexus line, the Surface 2 comes with a full-sized USB 3.0 port, which makes connecting to external devices and storage as easy as it is on a desktop or laptop computer.The Surface 2 can connect to your TV or monitor to display movies or make it second screen for work, but you’ll need an uncommon micro HDMI to HDMI cable to do it.Battery life is rated at around 10 hours of video playback, which by my testing seems accurate. Microsoft also reckons that the Surface 2 will manage between seven and 15 days standby – a 25% improvement over the Surface 2.Software ExperienceThe Surface 2 runs Microsoft’s latest version of Windows RT 8.1, a small feature update on the previous iteration of Windows RT, which shipped on the original Surface tablet.Windows RT 8.1 includes all the features and additions that Microsoft recently shipped inWindows 8.1, and looks and behaves exactly the same as Microsoft’s full desktop operating system.For a rundown of the modifications and enhancements Microsoft&apos;s made to Windows 8.1, read ourfull Windows 8.1 reviewThe only thing that Windows RT does not do, which is certainly large limiting factor, is run full Windows applications. That means RT is not capable of running applications like Adobe Photoshop, any web browser other than Internet Explorer, music software like iTunes, as well as syncing cloud-storage services such as Dropbox.Windows RT relies on applications downloaded from the Windows Store. Some of these, like Dropbox, have feature-limited versions available from the Windows Store, but they often pale in comparison to their full Windows desktop experiences.Microsoft has included a full Windows RT conversion of its Office suite, which looks and behaves exactly like the latest version of Office on desktop Windows. Windows RT 8.1 even includes a full version of Outlook for accessing your work email, address book, calendar and contacts.For the most part Windows RT works very well. Its touch-driven interface suits a 10in tablet screen, with big, bold icons to on which to tap.Microsoft Surface 2 review - high-resolution 1080p 10.6in screenMost tasks are completed by swiping gestures, with hidden bars for things like browser tabs and the address bar accessible with a swipe up from the bottom. Likewise the options menus with settings and search are accessible with a swipe from the right-hand side of the screen.Once you understand that menus and actions are hidden off the edges of the screen, the interface becomes fairly intuitive, and makes good use of the screen real estate available on a 10in screen.Since Windows RT 8, Microsoft’s added better window management, which makes multi-tasking on the Surface 2 a really great experience.Up to three Windows can be open and on-screen at any one time, arranged in resizable panes arranged side-by-side when the tablet is held in landscape. It means, for instance, that you can be browsing the internet while still having your Twitter feed accessible at a glance on one side of the screen.Likewise, if you’re reading email, you can launch attached photos directly into the photo browser in another pane and still see your email while you flick through them.It’s a very solid, and effortless experience. Some windows come pre-defined with an optimum width when launched, but they’re all resizable by just dragging the vertical bars separating each app on the screen.CameraMicrosoft has improved the cameras on the Surface 2 dramatically. The rear 5-megapixel camera shoots decent, if not spectacular photos.The front-facing 3.5-megapixel camera has vastly improved low-light performance. The result is that Skype video chats look great in the kind of poor lighting conditions you get in homes.KeyboardThe Surface 2 has a range of accessories of which the black, backlit Touch Cover 2 is the most notable.Unfortunately it doesn’t come in the box with the Surface 2, but extends the usability of the tablet by providing a full sized touch keyboard and attaches to the bottom of the Surface 2 by a strong magnetic clasp.The keys are touch-sensitive, and while they don’t actually move when hit by your fingers, provide enough tactile feedback to allow for touch-typing.Microsoft Surface 2 review - Type Cover 2 ultra-thin keyboardBelow the keyboard is a trackpad, for when touching the screen isn’t accurate enough or you need a traditional mousing setup for productivity like selecting text.When not in use the Touch Cover 2 provides a hard cover for the screen, and will automatically put the Surface 2 to sleep. It’s only 2.75mm thin, so won’t add bulk to the tablet.Microsoft will also offer the Type Cover 2, which acts like the Touch Cover 2, but has slim-profile traditional Chiclet keyboard keys with a very small amount of travel, and the Power Cover, which adds a battery to the Type Cover 2 to extend the battery life of the Surface 2.PriceThe Surface 2 comes in two storage variants: 32GB of built-in storage for £359 or 64GB of storage for £439. The tablet also has a microSD card slot that will accept cards up to 64GB for additional storage.VerdictThe Microsoft Surface 2 is a marked improvement over theoriginal Surface. Its faster processor, increased battery life and dramatically improved screen make the Surface 2 a compelling option.The biggest problem with the Surface 2 is its operating system. Windows RT looks and operates like Windows but without access to the large legacy software library. The Windows Store has over 100,000 apps available, but many of those apps are poor imitations of their full desktop Windows counterparts.Microsoft has, however, developed Windows RT versions of its Office productivity suite including Outlook, which look and operate identically to the full Windows variants of Office and come included free with the Surface 2.Overall, the Surface 2 is a solid tablet and is a good option for those that spend most of their time interacting with Office or a web browser.Star rating: 4/5Pros:Microsoft Office as standard, solid build, great screen, decent battery life.Cons:Windows RT, lack of apps, heavy, Touch Cover 2 doesn&apos;t come as standard.
Apple launches its new iPad on Tuesday. But since it first appeared in 2010, the market for tablet computers has been flooded with rivals of different sizes, brands and specifications. Which one should you choose?Full-sized tablets (typically about 10in wide)Best for readingThe fourth-generation iPad (£399) dominates the market for bigger tablets and boasts the famed "retina" display – a super high-quality screen. Huge choice of apps and magazines in the Apple app store.Best for travelThe Sony Xperia Tablet Z (£380) is super-thin and even claims to be waterproof. It has a high-quality screen and a fast processor running on Google's Android software. An impressive piece of kit.Best for techiesThe Nexus 10 (£319) is made by Google, and therefore well integrated with the Android operating system – updates are immediate. It is fast and well built.Best for beginnersAmazon's Kindle Fire HDX (£329) has a high-resolution screen and fast processor, but runs a custom version of Android that locks the user into Amazon's music and books services. It does have "Mayday" support – a real person on video to assist you.Smaller tablets (typically about 7in&nbsp;wide)Best for appsApple's iPad Mini (£269) is still the one to beat: small and beautifully formed. And like its larger brother it has full access to Apple's apps and services. It is little&nbsp;surprise this one has sold 7m&nbsp;units.Best for gamingGoogle Nexus 7(£199), one of many cheaper Android options, wins on power: it has a fast processor, high-resolution screen and solid build.Best for booksThe 7in version of Amazon's Kindle Fire HDX (£199) has the same high-resolution screen and plenty of processing power, but similarly lacks access to Google's Play Store and the full range of apps.Best for kidsTesco's 7in Hudl tablet(£119 – or as little as £60, if you can pay in Tesco Clubcard points) has a&nbsp;decent screen, good build quality and access to all the normal Android apps and services. Tesco cut a few corners (the camera quality is terrible) but the Hudl is an ideal first tablet.And one to avoid ...Argos's MyTablet (£99)might be the cheapest, but it feels it – creaky, a poor-quality screen and a very slow processor.
Price: £215,000MPG: 20.8Top speed: 155mphDeep in the vaults ofPalais Coburg, a dizzyingly lavish Viennese palace which was once the gaff ofFranz Ferdinand(the archduke not the band), we are greeted by clouds of dry ice and sepulchral music. The launch of a new model is always a special occasion, butRolls-Royceclearly decided something extraordinary was needed for itsWraith.We are led along a corridor of trees which reach 40ft up to the curve of the ancient barrel ceiling. It's like a&nbsp;hammy production ofMacbeth.And then there it is, the mighty Wraith glowering in the half light. What an entrance this vehicle makes. It is a statement car; the ultimate get-me for the look-at-me generation. But whether you like it or not is another question. Its very singular style (not to mention its colossal price tag) means there will be as many who think it's foul as fair. To the haters those pinched eyes, slab sides and brutal architecture conjure up nothing more than an Insignia on steroids; to fans it's a contemporary interpretation of the 1938 original – bold, purposeful and unique.In essence the Wraith is a two-door, four-seat coupé version of its bigger and squarer sister, the Ghost. Its whopping 6.6-litre V12 engine makes it the most potent and technologically advanced Rolls-Royce ever. It weighs in at an elephantine 2.4 tonnes yet it will still top 62mph in five seconds.Star performer: the roof of the Wraith can be studded with twinkling lights. Photograph: Mark BramleySo much speed in such a stately body is perplexing – like a granny hoiking up her skirts and giving Usain Bolt a&nbsp;run for his money. Surely the point of a&nbsp;Rolls-Royce is to waft, to glide from one banquet to the next, rather than thrashing down the autobahn like some jumped-up member of the vulgar classes.But this paradox is exactly what Rolls has in mind, and it's a duality that goes back to the marque's two founding fathers: goody-two-shoes Henry Royce, the perfectionist engineer, and Charles Rolls, the boy racer of his day. The choice of the word Wraith hints at this. Rolls-Royce likes to recycle names from its family tree, it gives a sense of continuity and perseverance (and alongside Phantom and Ghost, it maintains the current spectral theme), but a&nbsp;"wraith" has an edge of wickedness, a dark side, and that's what this car has, too – a&nbsp;streak of naughtiness.You won't initially notice the endless ornate detail as the awesomeness of the first impression sweeps over you. The absent B-pillar, the recessed grille which references the mouth of a&nbsp;jet turbine, the rear-opening coach doors, the self-righting centres of the huge wheels…Inside, it manages to be both grand and naff all at once. The carpets are inch-thick sheepskin, the seats look like they've been stolen from a&nbsp;gentleman's club and the doors close themselves. But the open-pore wood veneer would be more at home in a 70s sauna and the light-studded "star" ceiling is pureX Factor.Technologically it is a&nbsp;masterpiece: wireless hotspot, touchpad multimedia, voice-activated controls. It boasts Satellite Aided Transmission, which uses GPS to scan your route and engage the right gear to ensure a&nbsp;"magic carpet" ride. It's like a&nbsp;butler leaning over and whispering: "Sir, I've selected 7th for the corner ahead."Overwhelming and unignorable, the Wraith conjures up a real sense of show time. But it's not a performance many of us will get to see…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk. Follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
From personalised searches of Google to the seductive experience of driverless cars, from educational robots that hone your French to prosthetics that are stronger and faster than our own limbs: artificial intelligence is poised to revolutionise our lives.Now scientists, legal experts and philosophers are joining forces to scrutinise the promise of intelligent systems and wrangle over their implications. This week in Brighton, thefourth EuCogIII members' conferenceis set to tackle these issues head on. "Fundamentally we're interested in considering the ethical and societal impact of such systems," says Alan Winfield, professor of electronic engineering at UWE Bristol. It is time, he says, to make some crucial decisions. "If we get it wrong, there are consequences right now."It's a point well illustrated by IBM's intelligent system, Watson.Two years after thrashing human contestants at the quickfire quizJeopardy!, Watson has graduated from gameshows to medical school and could soon be diagnosing diseases.  This year commercial products based on Watson were unveiled for clinical use, harnessing the system's ability to crunch through swaths of medical information and make decisions."There is a huge amount of knowledge now that doctors can potentially have. Obviously they can't absorb all of it and they can't necessarily remember all of it," says Tony Prescott, professor of cognitive neuroscience at the University of Sheffield. With access to the latest developments  as well as the medical records of patients, systems such as Watson could suggest an accurate diagnosis faster and more often, as well as predicting an individual's health risks.But there is a hitch. With intelligent systems accessing medical records comes the fear of compromised privacy and security, as many will be connected via the internet. Could we, or even should we, be allowed to opt out of such an intelligent system? "It is a decision we have to make as a society," says Prescott. "Whether we want to give up some of our privacy in order to get improved services like better healthcare."But how far can we trust such systems? Putting your faith in a "black box" may seem at best naive, at worst reckless. It is an issue that boils down to trust, making it essential that doctors are closely involved in training such systems, understanding how they work and confirming the diagnoses are spot on.At the heart of the revolution is you, the consumer. With computers getting smaller, more powerful and more energy-efficient,  few areas of our lives will remain untouched by intelligent machines.Driverless carsare expected to cause a storm. "The technology is ready," says Winfield. "The problem is insurance and legislation." While driverless cars could offer many benefits, from bringing independence to the elderly to  reducing the number of road accidents, disasters could still happen. Who then pays the damages – the owner, or the car producer?Last year a European research project, RoboLaw, was created to tackle such legal conundrums and will deliver its guidelines on regulations to the European commission in the spring. One question is whether it's time to rethink liability to ensure safety and justice without compromising the incentive for companies to develop the technology – "for instance, through the usage of compulsory insurance schemes or by assessing so-called 'safe harbours' to shield, in some cases under certain conditions, the liability of the producer of the car," explains Andrea Bertolini, a post-doctoral fellow in private law at the Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna in northern Italy and a member of the RoboLaw team.And it is not just issues of liability that could be reformed. Fallible humans are constrained by speed limits to reduce the number of crashes, but with an all-encompassing knowledge of road layout and road users, intelligent cars could themselves decide how fast they travel, banishing the need for fixed limits.One of the greatest issues, says Bertolini, is that there are many types of robots each posing different legal problems. State of the art prosthetic devices – essentially wearable intelligent robots – could soon outperform our natural limbs, raising new concerns that the technology could become available to individuals who may wish to trade in their healthy body parts for a prosthesis. "Should this be regulated, and eventually if it should be regulated, how should it be regulated?" asks Bertolini.The questions become even more pressing when the possibility of implants are considered – imagine a brain chip that could let you check your email, search the internet or tap in to GPS. It's the ultimate "hands-free" device.This possibility of becoming "bio-hybrid" may sound futuristic, unlikely even. But when technology develops, it develops quickly. "It is moving way faster than legislation can keep up and yes, it's a problem," says Tony Belpaeme, professor of cognitive systems and robotics at the University of Plymouth.And the issues are international. "The trouble is that your data is now globally spread and legislation isn't the same across various regions across the planet," says Belpaeme. With recent revelations over the access anduse of data by various government agenciesstill reverberating, issues of data storage, privacy and security need to be aired openly. "How much worse would it be if there were such external and covert constraints on cognitive technology?" asks Dr Ron Chrisley, reader in philosophy at the University of Sussex and one of the conference organisers. With the possibility of technology becoming intertwined with our very bodies, the threat of unauthorised access looms large.Running scared is not an option. Intelligent systems offer us the chance to hone many fundamental areas of our lives, including education. It's an effect Belpaeme has seen firsthand through his research into use of social robots in education. While current computer systems can support learning, robots, particularly those sporting a face and personalised conversation, evoke a stronger response. "What we found is that if you have a robot there taking you through exactly the same exercises, the children learn faster and better," says Belpaeme."I can just see a future where you have one or two robots sitting in the corner of a classroom," he says. "If you just need a little push or you want to be challenged, you get 20 minutes or half an hour with a robot." According to Belpaeme, hospitals could benefit from such technology, with robots teaching children how to manage their medical conditions, while in care homes such robots could help the elderly with their daily exercises.With such technological leaps set to transform our lives we, the public, need to be involved in the discussion, shaping policy and priorities from the outset. "I think that the greatest risk with these kinds of technologies is that they come along and they are a big surprise to people," says Prescott. Which is why, before the conference, you are invited topost questions for experts to discuss. You can also follow the eventon Twitter through the hashtag #robotsandyou.Intelligent machines could turn  education, healthcare and daily life into optimised, tailored experiences. Getting society on side is big, and it's clever.
Take a tram journey through Leipzig in the former East Germany and you might pass Bertolt-Brecht-Strasse, or Karl-Liebknecht-Strasse, named after the communist revolutionary. Or you might see a name more familiar from your internet browser: Amazonstrasse.Added to the map in 2006, the street is home to the enormous grey shoebox  that is the Amazon distribution centre – covering an area the size of 11 football pitches. Here 2,000 workers package orders for the US online retailer and send them off to buyers across Germany. It's a four-stage process, with the army of workers divided into "pickers", "packers", "receivers" and "stowers".Amazon's logistics centres have come under increasing scrutiny in recent years. A much-sharedMother Jones reportdescribed the dehumanising working conditions at another, but similar, US firm; inaFinancial Timesarticleone employee likened Amazon's centre in Rugeley, Staffordshire, to a "slave camp". In January, German television screened a documentary showing that one centre employed security guards with neo-nazi backgrounds.In the US, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos did respond to reports of temperatures approaching 40C in its warehouses witha $52m investment in air conditioning, but avoids paying benefits by calling staff "independent contractors".Leipzig, the city with the highest poverty rate in Germany, is unusual in that it is the first place where the debate has been played out inside an Amazon centre. Along with another site in Bad Hersfeld, in the central Hesse region, this summer it became the first of Amazon's sites to see repeated strike action over pay and working conditions.Earlier this month the service workers' union Verdi warned that there could bemore strikes before Christmasafter Amazon refused to enter negotiations about a collective wage agreement that would comply with standards in the German retail sector. Mail order businesses are supposed to pay workers between €11.47 and €11.94 an hour, at least €1 more than Amazon's German workers earn.The following day, Amazon confirmed rumours that it was planning to open three new logistics centres in Poland – two in Wroclaw and one in Poznan, less than three hours' drive from Berlin; Polish business dailyPuls Biznesuclaimed that they were intended to take over work from strike-hit Germany.Amazon said the announcement was "not intended as a counterstrike", but workers in Leipzig are now nervous: has the union overplayed its hand?On an industrial park in the north-east of the city, next to the largest brothel in the eastern part of the country (prostitution is legal in Germany), Amazon Leipzig looks exactly like any of Amazon's 90 other logistics centres around the world.Workers enter and leave via a yellow building they call the "banana tower", each time passing through airport-style security checks to confirm that they haven't stolen anything. The size of the building and the security measures mean that at least 10 minutes of their two breaks of 20 and 25 minutes a day are taken up with walking and queuing, according to the&nbsp;union.On the day I visit Amazonstrasse 1, the smoking area inside the compound is closed because of building works. About 50 workers in high-visibility vests stand huddled in groups in the car park. Security staff in yellow vests watch over them from the banana tower.The first group I ask about the situation at the centre respond with nervous shakes of the head and tightly closed lips. It is the same with other groups around the car park. Nobody will talk.Martin Smith, national organiser with Britain's GMB union, describes Amazon as "aggressively anti-union" and has spoken of "an atmosphere of fear" reported by those who have tried to get workers to sign up. A spokeswoman for the union refers to the few Amazon employees in Britain who are union members as "the French resistance", because "they get shot down as soon as they put their head above the parapet".In Germany, the situation is different mainly becauseBetriebsräteor works councils – shopfloor organisations that complement national labour negotiations – are legally protected. Preventing a works council election or obstructing a meeting is punishable by law. At Amazon Leipzig, a works council was started in 2009 against the wishes of the management. Now, a local Verdi rep tells me, around a third of the workforce is unionised.Recruitment takes place discreetly – not by handing out flyers outside the building, but by members putting up sticky notes with thought-provoking questions. "Isn't the walk to your lunch break too long?" or "All the other local retailers got pay rises this month – why didn't&nbsp;we?"Via a local journalist I eventually manage to contact one Amazon worker, who eventually agrees to meet me in Leipzig city centre, but will only speak on condition of anonymity.A self-described "all-rounder" in his twenties, he has worked as a packer, picker and receiver, insisting he is "proud" of the work he does at Amazon and crediting the company for helping him back into regular employment.Having finished an apprenticeship, he had failed to find a job and ended up homeless. After he had been on the street five years, Germany's federal employment agency – much criticised in the wake of the labour market reforms of the early 2000s – placed him on a labour leasing scheme with Amazon. After a few months, he was one of the few workers to be put on a permanent contract."There's a social side to Amazon that a lot of people don't see," he says.Nevertheless, he joined the union and took part in the strikes in June and September. The reason, he says, is that he couldn't otherwise address any of the problems with working conditions. Managers are often rotated between units every two months, and he doesn't feel he can trust them."Amazon deliberately moves workers to different parts of the company when they sense a bond forming between them. They like passive workers – they are the ones who are usually hired. The more critical ones, less so." He points to the union's achievements: in 2010, the starting wage at Amazon Leipzig went up from €7.76 to €9.55 an hour. Spontaneous cancellations of shifts have become rarer; there are even rumours about Christmas pay for the first time this year.Amazon now supplies workers with special belts that don't trigger the alarm during security checks, and people are allowed to bring their own lunch in see-through boxes – although chocolate bars are still forbidden, since Amazon stocks them.The possibility of Amazon closing down in Leipzig doesn't worry him, he says. Union reps have assured him that the new centres in Poland are more conveniently located for supplying the growing markets in Eastern Europe than those in Germany. "They are trying to flex their muscles and intimidate us. Why wouldn't they?" The previous strikes in June and September "didn't hurt Amazon one bit", he reckons – the company just temporarily moved work to other centres.He is convinced, however, that there will be more strikes before Christmas, when demand will be too high for it to repeat the manoeuvre. "We hope to shake things up a bit."A spokesperson for the company said: "Amazon maintains a culture of direct dialogue with employees. We have employee representation in all our locations – either as works councils or as employee forums which represent the interests of employees and regularly meet with the senior management."We cherish an open discussion culture and want our leadership teams to foster an open communication at all levels – if there are issues, we will work on those jointly."
It was on the eve of this latest generation of consoles thatFifatook over the mantle astop football game; with the PS4 and Xbox One around the corner, Konami has its sights firmly set on EA's juggernaut.PES 2014feels like a real step forward and a statement of intent from the Japanese studio. It shares a game engine withMetal Gear Solidand players look better than ever&nbsp;as a result – but it's the "Trueball Tech" and "Mass" (motion animation stability system) that really make a difference. These apply real-world physics to the virtual ball and players, making sophisticated control and the first touch crucial to success, while allowing satisfyingly meaty clashes between opponents. The off-field elements still lag way behindFifa– the menu system is dated and the options not as plentiful – but on the pitch the football is smooth and nicely realistic. EA had best be on its guard asPESis ready to challenge for top spot again.
Gaming has very few genuine legends – Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto comes to mind – but Ron Gilbert, creator of the Monkey Island games, is one. So the arrival of his latest,The Cave(Double Fine, iOS, £2.99) should be cause for celebration.A favourite at E3 in 2012, it's finally made it to mobiles. A platform-puzzler in the style of the aforementioned simian series, it gives you control of three adventurers (there's a choice of seven) as they journey into the Cave.Each has their own skills and back stories, opening up character-specific sections – for example the creepy young twins can access a ghostly house. This motley crew must then be used in tandem to solve puzzles and progress further into the abyss.The puzzles will be familiar in style to any Gilbert fans and the typical wit is in place, especially in the disembodied voice of the eponymous cave, commenting snarkily on the action. Tasks can sometimes be a little simplistic, but it's the tone and style, along with the lush visuals, which make it a pleasure to play.Sadly, the touchscreen controls are poor and often have characters plunging to painful, repetitive deaths. However, if you can get over those niggles it's a joy.
Just Dance 2014prides successful execution over innovation but still does what it's always done well: provide the chance for friends to mimic popular dance routines in a playful setting. An eclectic tracklist features everything from faithful recreations of pop moves such as Psy's Gentleman to novelties such as theGhostbusterstheme. The addition of karaoke is welcome, but feels more like window-dressing than a fully-fledged feature. ToJust Danceenthusiasts this is a simple playlist update until the inevitable 2015 edition and is unlikely to convert anyone who hasn't already got up off the couch.
After capturing all 649 battling critters onPokémon Blackyears ago, I swore I'd kicked the Poké-habit. ThenPokémon X/Ycomes along, addressing just about every criticism I'd had with the series and proving to be an absolute must-play. Basic gameplay remains the same – catch and trade Pokémon, train them up and win countless battles against rival trainers. However, rather than simply pack the game with hundreds of new creatures (there are a relatively paltry 69 additions, bringing the total to a still-daunting 718), Nintendo has focused on new game mechanics. "Super Training" presents the biggest change – a selection of mini games that allow you to boost each Pokémon's base statistics (attack, defence, etc), which has huge ramifications for your team's success. Elsewhere, "Mega Evolution" lets already powerful characters become even stronger – a deciding factor. Add in a significant graphical upgrade and audio improvements andPokémon X/Yis the series' zenith.
Zoe Williamsshould have driven this one, no? They should do it like that: just get the writer with the most appropriate name. Solast week's reviewwould have been taken by our music critic (another frequent carjacker of this column),Alexisin a Lexus. Land Rovers byJonathan Free(d)lander, obviously.Brooker Cand the MG. The DaihatsuToynbeepick-up… shut up.Anyway, electric Zoe's arrival couldn't be worse timed. We're off to north Devon for the weekend, about 220 miles from home. On arrival, Zoe's battery gauge indicates there is 74 miles of juice (the maximum is about 90 miles). Now I'm looking at the map of charge points on the internet, and it might just be possible, with several stops, some of which are slow points (six to eight hours to fully charge), others fast (three to four hours), some even rapid (80% charge in 30 minutes). That's still going to be a lot of hanging around service stations, with maybe one night at the Best Western Tiverton, if we're lucky. Not exactly what I had in mind. So Zoe stays at home.Of course, that's not entirely fair, because driving to Devon is not what's Zoe's designed for. She's for short, emission-free journeys, probably around town. And for that she's brilliant, probably the best – and most practical – electric vehicle to date. Certainly the best value (though you do need to factor in an extra £70 a month for battery hire).Zoe is a proper car, with room for the kids in the back and the shopping behind them, and a five-star Euro NCAP crash-test rating, none of which you'll get from aG-Wiz. She's very pleasant on the inside, and a lot of fun to drive. Silently sporty even. Nought to 60 may not be up to much, but nought to 30 is a different story, and I'm leaving other cars for dead at the lights. Well, some other cars.I can see that there are people for whom a Zoe could make sense, but I'm not one of them. I do live in a&nbsp;city, but I don't use a car to get about it. I cycle and take public transport. I could very easily do without a car in town. The one time I&nbsp;do want wheels is to get out of it from time to time. And I want to be able to get, without stopping, if not to north Devon, then at least to the seaside. Brighton say…Puts home-to-Brighton into a route planner, Brighton Marina, because I&nbsp;like the beach down that end and there are naked people to look at.Hmmm, 88.87 miles! I wouldn't risk it: too nerve-racking. And Brighton is a stupid example, because it's easy to reach by train. Plus it's also possible, in the spirit of this new commission-an-article-based-on-the-name-of-the-writer journalism, that there is someone else here better qualified to visit a Marina.Renault Zoe Dynamic ZenPriceFrom £13,995 (after government grant)Top speed84mphAcceleration0-62mph in 13.5 secondsRange between chargesAbout 90 milesEco rating9/10Cool rating6/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewBased on the 80s single-player board game, Chainsaw Warrior sees your nameless super soldier take on an army of darkness, with one hour to save New York. Originally played with cards, dice, pen and paper, these days all the tedious admin is taken care of, letting you concentrate on tactics in a game whose hard mode gives you infinitesimal chance of victory. Despite its granite-like difficulty, it's a hugely engaging process, each turn of the dice bringing you closer to removing the city from peril, or more likely your own unmarked grave. Perfectly judged, brutally demanding and almost impossible to put down, it's what tablets were made for.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewCombining Skylander figurines with the onscreen action, you're responsible for dropping monsters on to the Portal of Power, a colour-shifting mock-stone circle that brings them to life on your telly. The catch is that certain sections can only be accessed by Skylanders of a particular element, which you need to buy separately, enforcing the start of a long and highly addictive collection task. This outing looks even lovelier than before, its heroes having a tactility that further reinforces the link between screen and nightmarishly expensive stockpile of plastic figures. It addictive, compelling and could suck hours out of your life.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDivided into Sonic's usual forest/desert/tropical/snowy zones, stages vary between traditional 2D and outrageously vertiginous 3D that delights in showing off its shiny, beautifully presented worlds by bouncing Sonic among multiple pinball-style bumpers. If you've ever enjoyed a Sonic game this will bring back some of those memories from those heady, halcyon Mega Drive and Master System days, but for all its visual flourishes, risible sassily humoured cut scenes, interaction between 3DS and Wii U versions, and secrets only revealed by going back and playing early levels, it somehow still feels a bit uninspiring.
Early adopters ofGTA Onlinewho are still smarting from tech disasters that resulted in lost characters, vanished guns and a total inability to play, will be receiving their own personal stimulus package by way of an apology. Developer Rockstar has promised that $500,000 of in-game currency will be deposited in characters' bank accounts this month, a piece of news likely to bring joy to Los Santos estate agents.Nintendo has revealed the trailer for upcoming 3DS game,The Legend Of Zelda: A Link Between Worldsdemonstrating hero Link's new ability to merge with scenery, flattening himself into the walls of Hyrule, and disappearing through cracks to discover the new dark world of Lorule (do you see what they've done there?). It's the first new Zelda since 2011's Skyward Sword and therefore a rapturous occasion for the series' many fans. The due date for the latest Link launch is 22 November.
Whisper it, but it looks like Sir James Dyson – creator of the bladeless fan and bagless vacuum cleaner – is building a silent hairdryer.When Dyson, now 66, became frustrated with his wheelbarrow, he invented the Ballbarrow – replacing the wheel with a ball so it would turn more easily. When he had to vacuum the house, his annoyance at conventional bag cleaners led to the invention of the Dyson cyclone cleaner.Possibly Dyson has become annoyed at the time – and especially noise – involved in drying his full head of hair.Diagrams that have surfaced at the UK's patents office show that his company has filed patents for "a hand-held blower with an insulating chamber" – in other words, a hairdryer, which is already being dubbed the Hairblade, playing on the name of its Airblade hand dryer.Crucially, he seems to be aiming to make it much quieter than current models – rather as the Dyson bladeless fan is almost silent.Standard hairdryers are extremely loud, reaching up to 75 decibels – as loud as a vacuum cleaner, but held beside your head.The patents, which became public earlier this week, are surprisingly detailed, and show what looks like a hairdryer with an air chamber linked by two smaller cylinders to a smaller base unit. The air would flow through the two cylinders and into the base."The present invention provides a hairdryer," the patent application begins baldly.The design works by combining air pulled in through the motor element and from the sides of the machine, which would mean the motor could be smaller and lighter – and, perhaps crucially, less noisy. "This can result in&nbsp;a&nbsp;smaller and or more compact hairdryer which uses less power," the application says.The idea of a hairdryer has intrigued retailers, as they are a low-cost item with little to distinguish them. Dyson products tend to be more expensive – but also offer better profits. "Dyson is a popular brand at John Lewis," said a spokesperson for the retailer. "Our customers love the unique designs and innovative technology."The patent publication is a rare slip-up by Dyson, which goes to extraordinary lengths to keep its new products secret. It shrouded the launch of its most recent product – acombined tap-and-hand-dryer– in secrecy, demanding journalists sign non-disclosure agreements.Key among the phrases used in the56-page applicationare that it would have "sound absorbing" and "vibration absorbing" properties "tuned to the resonant frequencies of the appliance".Dyson has also focused on the safety aspect of hairdryers, where anything that gets sucked into the air intake can come into contact with the electrically heated wires that warm the incoming air and cause a short circuit. It moves the warming element away from the air intake: "if something is inserted into the appliance, it cannot contact the heater directly," it says.Dyson is one of the UK's biggest engineering firms, reporting profits in September of £364m on revenues of £1.2bn in 2012, and announcing that it wants to hire another 250 engineers in the UK.Dyson himself is not listed as an inventor on any of the related patent applications, which have been filed from the company's headquarters in Malmesbury, Wiltshire.A spokesman would only say: "We're constantly working on new inventions. I don't really know what our engineers are working on."But the spokesman agreed that Dyson's biggest inventions had, indeed, been born out of his annoyance with previous products. "A lot of innovations are inspired by frustration," he said.
Facebook has defended its decision to make the posts of its teenage users more visible, claiming that “teenagers are expert at controlling who they share things with”.The social networking site says that it has tightened privacy settings for users aged between 13 to 17, restricting the sharing of posts to friends only by default. The previous default included friends of friends, who might not be directly known by the user.The company has also introduced “additional tools to help educate teens on the implications of sharing a post with a public audience, with reminders as they post”, explained a Facebook spokesperson.“This means they have to make a conscious choice before they share publicly. When teens choose ‘public’ in the audience selector, they’ll see a reminder that the post can be seen by anyone, not just people they know, with an option to change the post’s privacy.“We think it is better that teens can choose to share publicly on Facebook than spend time elsewhere on the web where safety tools and resources are limited.”Since December 2009, younger users of the site have been able only to share posts, pictures and updates with a limited selection of the social network: friends, friends of friends, and other members of their school, college and verified networks. This applied even if the young person told the site to share certain updates with “everyone”.Those restrictions have now been removed, allowing teens to have the same control over their privacy settings as everyone else, so that photos and status updates can be made fully searchable.A little under 10%of users don’t change the privacy settings applied when they sign up at all, and so the default setting has a great effect on the amount of data they share. Even for those who do change their settings, the default plays a role in anchoring perceptions.“The National Crime Agency welcomes the announcement in relation to the default sharing setting,” said Facebook&apos;s spokesperson, adding that it “will help young people understand the need to manage their privacy settings carefully and to control who they share their information with&quot;.Around 20% of Facebook’s UK users are aged between 15 and 24, according to an analysis by the firm ComScore, but the exact number affected by the changed settings isn’t known outside Facebook.“While we don&apos;t believe all our young people will necessarily choose to post public updates,” said anti-bullying campaigner Alex Holmes, “we know that being able to do so on Facebook as on other platforms is important to them.”Tony Neate, the chief executive of Get Safe Online,concurred. “Kids have been asking for this functionality because the way they use social media is fundamentally different to older generations, even those just three or four years older. And of course Facebook is going to give their users what they want.”The company remains one of the few social networks to offer any extra privacy features at all to younger users. On the vast majority of networks, including Twitter, Instagram (owned by Facebook) and Google Plus, privacy settings are the same no matter what the user&apos;s age is. Some, such as Twitter, don’t even ask how old a new member is.“Obviously they have to be able to compete with Twitter,” said Lizzie Dean, a secondary school student from Manchester who has been on Facebook since she was 14. “I actually use Twitter more, but you know the views are going to be shared publicly there.”She also argued for an understanding of the rights at stake. “Why shouldn’t teenagers have the ability to share as much as adults do? We’re predominant users of it. We know what we’re doing.”Dylan Collins, an entrepreneur who creates digital products for children, agreed. “We generally see kids being pretty cautious with this stuff. They&apos;ve grown up with these platforms as digital natives, so I think they absorb the changes with less drama than older generations.”“The way young people use the web has changed dramatically,” said a Facebook spokesperson. “We know from their use of Facebook that teenagers are expert at controlling who they share things with. In recent years we’ve seen the rise of services that enable teens to share with a public audience – often as a default setting.&quot;We’re giving teens the choice to share some of their posts with public audiences if they want to, so that they can join public conversations that might range from politics and activism through to sport or television.”All major social networks require users to be at least 13 years old, thanks to a requirement under a US law called the Children&apos;s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA. That law vastly increased the regulatory burden involved in letting children sign up for accounts online, with the result that most websites simply changed their terms of service to prevent people younger than 13 from signing up.“Creating good, practical legal frameworks for kids online is a huge challenge,” said Collins. “I think it&apos;s made even more difficult by the experience gap between the people creating the law and the people [children] whose activities it tries to protect.”•Facebook&apos;s changes may have come too late to save its market: the site is losing millions of users per month
Having spotted that tablets are anexploding area of consumer electronics, and selling a million of the touchscreen computers in the UK last year from its own stores alone, the catalogue retailer Argos cleverly decided to design and build its own tablet under its Bush brand, as Tesco did with theHudl tablet.The result, the MyTablet, is its first entry into the tablet market. It&apos;s cheap – but not cheerful.Argos hasclearly built the MyTablet to a set price, and has cut far too many corners in pursuit of that £99 price tag.Designed in BritainProudly emblazoned on the brushed metal back are the words “designed by Bush in the UK”, and from a distance it looks well designed and attractive – like a giant white iPhone 5S. (Remember when people called the iPad a &quot;giant iPod Touch&quot;?). Once you get up close, though, you realise the resemblance is only skin deep.The metal back is available in pink or silver and it&apos;s solid enough, but the front of the device is certainly not. The screen doesn’t fit into metal body: there was a gap clearly visible on the bottom edge of our review unit.Argos MyTablet review - obvious gapping between the body and screen.The top layer of the display was also warped, and suffered from a very clear separation gap between the top touchscreen layer and the screen below it. Screen taps felt inaccurate and disconnected, which was particularly annoying when attempting to type on the virtual keyboard.The screen also flexed badly when tapped or pressed; and the review unit came with dustactually embedded under the screenthat couldn’t be removed.It is possible that the poor build quality is an issue isolated to the samples that Argos distributed for reviews. But it&apos;s unlikely, given the overall fit and finish of the device. Argos has clearly cut corners to keep the price down, and build quality is certainly one that has been cut too sharply.The display itself is also low resolution (1024 x 600, 169ppi), which makes text on websites and ebooks look slightly fuzzy. Images also lack detail, while the colours are washed out and dull.The screen’s horizontal viewing angles are also poor, meaning it can’t be read at an angle, and the odd, elongated aspect ratio makes the display elements look warped. Circles - including the analogue clock display - distractingly appear as ovals. It seems as though the screen pixels themselves aren&apos;t square.Then there&apos;s the odd button placement. The power button is on the bottom left-hand side of the device, while the volume buttons are on the bottom right-hand corner. All are easily pressed by accident, yet awkward to reach on purpose.SpecificationsScreen:7in LCD with 1024 x 600 pixelsProcessor:1.6GHz dual-core processorRAM:1GB of RAMStorage:8GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 32GB cardsOperating system:Android 4.2.2Camera:2-megapixel rear camera, 0.3-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, mini HDMI, micro USBDimensions:193 x 111.5 x 9mmLaggy and slowThe MyTablet’s dual-core processor certainly isn’t powerful, which coupled with its limited 1GB of RAM means multitasking suffers.Webpages are slow to load. Scrolling lags badly. Watching video on services such as BBC iPlayer is an experience full of frustrating stutter on the tablet’s low-resolution display. (It probably wouldn&apos;t drive a standard, let alone high-definition, TV display.)Argos rates the battery life at around five hours. My testing suggests that&apos;s an overestimate – I got around four hours of general use sending emails, browsing the web and watching 30 minutes of video.The MyTablet comes with a proprietary small pin power adapter, but can also be charged via micro-USB – although the fit and finish of the micro USB port is (surprise!) loose and not quite flush with the edge of the device, making plugging in the cable difficult.Standard AndroidUnlike other 7in Android tablets such asAmazon&apos;s Kindle Fire family, Argos decided to make only minor additions to the standard Google Android ‘Jelly Bean’ experience.That means users have unadulterated access to the Google Play Store, including its 850,000 or so apps, plus movies and music services.For reasons best known to itself, Argos chose to include a screen capture soft key with the rest of the standard Back, Home and Multi-tasking buttons at the bottom of the screen. (Why would you want this on a £100 tablet?) This can be turned off in the settings.Argos MyTablet review - screenshot button.In all, 19 applications come pre-installed on the tablet, including the Argos Android app, a task manager, DoubleTwist music player, a battery saver app and a couple of small games.Argos has also included a Bush Support app, which contains a user manual and will run hardware tests if there’s an issue.Strangely, Argos has also pre-installed the 1Mobile Market, which provides an additional way to install apps, although app installations from 1Mobile Market are blocked by default by the tablet’s security settings.Camera: outlook fuzzyThe 0.3-megapixel front-facing camera produces a relatively narrow field of view, which makes video chats difficult, as the tablet has to be moved to arms length to fit your face into the frame.The rear 2-megapixel camera shoots so-so photos and video: they&apos;re washed out, dull, lack detail and the video isn&apos;t particularly smooth.Price: CheapArgos has clearly made the MyTablet to hit a £99 price point, which makes it one of the cheapest Android tablets on sale on the British high street. It&apos;s also one of the worst.The Argos MyTablet is a budget 7in own-brand Android tablet that's available in silver or pink.Verdict: One to skipThe MyTablet is a missed opportunity for Argos. Unlike theTesco Hudl, it has cut far too many corners to hit its target £99 price tag.There are low-cost tablets, and then there are cheap and nasty tablets. Unfortunately the Bush MyTablet falls into the latter category. It&apos;s best viewed from a distance, turned off. Then the British design - the metal back in particular - looks attractive.Pick it up and turn it on, though, and you discover that the build quality is shoddy, the screen is terrible, the CPU is underpowered making the device frustrating to use, and the odd button placement makes the tablet awkward to handle.At this despairing point you may say &quot;but it&apos;s cheap for the kids&quot;. It could be - but one can&apos;t recommend something with such poor build quality. Children (especially young inquisitive ones) could use the gaps around the edge to prise the screen away from the main body, exposing themselves to the internal electrical components.In all, your £99 is probably better spent elsewhere. You could save up another £20 and buy a Hudl, for example. It&apos;s more than £20 better.Star rating: 1/5Pros:cheap.Cons:poor build quality, bad screen, frustrating to use, stretched aspect ratio, poor battery life, slow, poor placement of buttons.
Billionaire tech entrepreneur and investor Elon Musk has bought James Bond's iconic Lotus Esprit vehicle from The Spy Who Loved Me, with the intention of making its movie transformation from car to submarine a reality.The car wasbought for £616,000 ($997,000) at an auction in Londonin September, but the buyer's identity wasn't made public at the time. Automotive blog Jalopnikreported that Musk was the buyer last night, andsubsequently confirmed itwith the PR team from Tesla Motors, his electric cars company."It was amazing as a little kid in South Africa to watch James Bond in The Spy Who Loved Me drive his Lotus Esprit off a pier, press a button and have it transform into a submarine underwater," said Musk in a statement. "I was disappointed to learn that it can't actually transform. What I'm going to do is upgrade it with a Tesla electric powertrain and try to make it transform for real."That may well be a tongue-in-cheek comment, but Musk's determination to tackle daunting technological challenges is undoubted. Besides Tesla, Musk founded payments firm PayPal and space exploration firm SpaceX.Earlier this year, hepublished plans for Hyperloop, a public transport system to shuttle passengers between Los Angeles and San Francisco at 800 miles per hour. Figuring out how to make James Bond's submarine car transform for real doesn't seem so outlandish by comparison.The car had been lost since its appearance in the 1977 Bond movie, but wasrediscovered in 1989after someone in Long Island paid $100 for a storage container and found the vehicle – wheel-less and dented – covered up by blankets.The Lotus Esprit submarine car in 1977 James Bond film Spy Who Loved Me. Photograph: Sportsphoto/Allstar/Cinetext CollectionDescribed as "Wet Nellie" on set, the restored car has been occasionally exhibited at museums in the last 24 years, before being offered for auction in September. It works as a submarine, but not as a car, as the auction listing explained:"It moves forward via a bank of four propellers, with their electric motors being driven by batteries housed in a water-tight compartment. The articulated fins are adjusted with mechanical levers that are operated by its driver.Underwater, the Lotus has a turning circle of around 20 feet. Its dive and climb performance is regulated by ballast tanks, and it has been described as "crisply argonautic".Contrary to what movie magic suggests, there is no semblance of a road car interior in this Lotus; instead, inside one will find its underwater motors, batteries, levers, and other control apparatus, with only a platform seat for its driver."The car was thought to have cost more than $100,000 to build in the 1970s. If Elon Musk can figure out how to make a fully-transforming version now, its potential value will be considerably higher.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Bob Dylan Bootlegs (Free)Bob Dylan is back, Back, BACK! with his latest compilation of bootlegs: this time focusing on recordings between 1969 and 1971. There's an official app for this one too, promising video interviews, interactive lyrics, photo galleries and more content related to the rare songs.iPhone / iPadDevice 6 (£2.49)With previous games like Year Walk and Beat Sneak Bandit, Simogo is one of the most talented and intriguing developers making iOS games in 2013. Device 6 is the latest reminder: part book, part game, it's an inventive, engrossing example of interactive narrative that sticks with you long after you've put your device down.iPhone / iPadMicrosoft Remote Desktop (Free)This is a remote-desktop app from Microsoft for logging in to your Windows computer from an Android device. It's getting generally positive reviews so far, with room to improve in updates over the coming months.iPhone / iPadOyster (Free)Already available for iPhone, Oyster is now on iPad – and it's nothing to do with London tube trains. Instead, it's a subscription-based e-books community, where you pay $9.95 a month for unlimited access to its catalogue of more than 100,000 digital books. Social features are built in too, to help you see what friends are reading, and provide recommendations for what to read next.iPadRoom on the Broom Games (£2.99)This fun children's app is based on the Room on the Broom book by Julia Donaldson of Gruffalo fame. It's not a story, mind: it's eight mini-games with the book's Witch, Cat, Dog, Bird and Frog characters. It's full of character, thanks partly to the wonderful illustrations from the book by Axel Scheffler.iPhone / iPadHop (Free)This was going to be called Ping before a run-in with a golfing firm. Hop is an attempt to make email a bit more like instant messaging, with added document and photo sharing, as well as voice and video calls. It's early days to tell whether it'll make a dent in the tyranny of many people's inboxes, but it has potential.iPhone50 years of the National Theatre (Free)One for theatregoers, this, produced to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the National Theatre here in the UK. It's divided between 50 "seminal" productions from that history, with an interactive timeline of posters, photographs, video interviews and archive recordings, among other content.iPadLonely Planet Fast Talk Phrasebook (Free)Here's a useful tool for travellers from Lonely Planet: an app to quickly find useful phrases and their translations in five languages: French, German, Italian, Latin American Spanish and European Spanish, with the packs sold as £1.99 in-app purchases for £1.99 each.iPhoneMarvel Creativity Studio (Free)In theory, this app is for children. In practice, there are plenty of parents who'll love it too. It's based on Marvel's universe of heroes and villains, teaching kids how to draw the Avengers, Spider-Man, Hulk and co, while also offering digital colouring scenes and animated stickers.iPadHMV Music (Free)British retailer HMV may have sailed close to the grave last year, but it's still going – with a new app to prove it. The emphasis is on downloads rather than Spotify-style streaming: you can browse and buy its catalogue of MP3s, then download them to your phone. Features include the ability to scan album covers or identify music playing in the real world.iPhoneSeene (Free)This is something for the early adopters out there: an app for taking "shareable 3D photos" that can be moved around. You take them by moving round an object (or person) while taking the pic, then share the results to Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr, as well as with other Seene users.iPhoneBatman: Arkham Origins (Free)More superheroes, but here in a more grown-up game for fans of Batman. It's a fight-fest where you brawl your way through a series of battles with foes, unlocking new batsuits as you go, and upgrading Batman's skills.iPhone / iPadRogets II: The New Thesaurus (£2.49)No fighting here: this is all about the words (phrases, terms, lexicon etc) in the latest app from the Roget's Thesaurus team. It's the entire content of the latest book, with powerful search features, and the ability to create your own flashcards, or post to Twitter and Evernote.iPhone / iPadDragon Shapes: Geometry Challenge (Free)The App Store is flooded with children's apps, but the high-quality ones still stand out. Dragon Shapes is one of those: a collection of geometric puzzles for 6-10 year-olds designed to develop their problem-solving skills. 50 are available divided into four difficulty levels: the first level is free with the download, but a single £1.99 purchase unlocks the rest.iPhone / iPadCSR Classics (Free)The original CSR Racing was one of the first attempts at a free-to-play racing game on iOS, and it did very well. This follow-up offers similar gameplay: drag racing, with upgrading handled by a mixture of grinding and in-app purchases. This time, the focus is classic cars though, with Audi, Ford, Pontiac and other manufacturers all represented.iPhone / iPadHelp for Heroes : Hero Bears (£1.99)Hero Bears is a fun endless-runner game where you guide the titular animal over tyres, under fences and over barrels and trenches, but that's not all there is to it. The game israising money for British armed-forces charity Help for Heroes, so £1 of every purchase will go to the charity.iPhone / iPadRuntastic Six Pack (Free)Fitness startup Runtastic's latest app has a single goal: to help you get a six-pack (of abs, not beer, sadly) through a series of video workouts. There are more than 50 animated videos included here, with a choice of male or female virtual trainers, and a 10-week plan to steel up your stomach.iPhone / iPadNew Statesman Magazine (Free)Politics and culture magazine the New Statesman is the latest publication to hit Apple's Newsstand, with this app. It offers weekly issues for £2.99 a pop, as well as monthly and annual subscriptions.iPhone / iPadThingiverse (Free)If you're new to Thingiverse, it's a community of people sharing 3D-printable "things" run by MakerBot, which makes 3D printers. This is its new mobile app for browsing the weird and wonderful stuff that MakerBot users have been printing, with features to share your own (if you have one).iPhoneF1 Challenge (£1.99)Finally, one more game – this one from Codemasters, its latest official Formula One simulation. It's comprehensive too: a mixture of full races and shorter challenges, with real teams and drivers from the F1 world, and some very impressive graphics.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Good news for some, bad for others: Rockstar has issued a new downloadable patch for GTA Online, which fixes some issues but also solves a glitch that was allowing canny gamers to make millions by reselling the same car over and over again. The multiplayer persistent world adventure, which is free to owners of  Grand Theft Auto V, has been beset by technical difficulties since its launch on 2 October, but the development team is slowly getting through its long 'to do' list of repair tasks.Importantly, the publisher claims that problems with disappearing cars and customisations have now been fixed. Players were often finding their hard-earned (or carefully stolen) vehicles going missing, or would spend thousands on new upgrades, only to have those new pieces of kit mysteriously disappear. Now whole fleets can be safely stored in garages around the city.And yes, the well-known used car exploit is now gone. Several YouTube videos appeared last week showing how to drive a car into a custom shop, sell it, and then tweak the menus to make it appear again – and naturally they were getting thousands of views. That rich-quick scheme is now at an end.There are two other interesting additions. The character customisation system has been altered, "to make better-looking default characters with the 'random' option". Clearly there are too many ugly randoms strolling the streets of Los Santos. Furthermore, Rockstar has capped the cost of death in "Freemode"– ie the part of the game where you can just drive around the city streets meeting – and usually shooting – other players. Previously, an unsuccessful shootout could result in thousands of pounds of medical fees, but now the most you'll lose is $500.This death tax reduction could  take things in one of two ways: either the streets becomemoreviolent as players take greater risks in order to experience the thrill of totally random virtual urban violence, or they become more peaceful, as players learn to interact without immediately reaching for a submachine gun in the fear that they're about to get wasted. So far, my experiences suggest the former.
Security researchers say Apple’s messaging service iMessage is not as secure as the company claims and that Apple, the NSA or US government could intercept messages.Cyril Cattiaux, a developer for penetration testing companyQuarkslab, claimed that Apple’sassertion in Junethat iMessages are encrypted end-to-end and that not even Apple can decrypt them was “just basically lies” at theHack in the Box security conferencein Kuala Lumpur this week.&quot;Apple can read your iMessages if they chose to, or if they are required to do so by a government order,&quot; the researchers said. &quot;The weakness is in the [encryption] key infrastructure as it is controlled by Apple: they can change a key anytime they want, thus read the content of our iMessages.&quot;Thepaper(PDF) from Qualcast describes how they were able to add a fake security certificate to an iPhone, which meant they theoretically could grab the owner&apos;s Apple ID passwordApple’s iMessage system, introduced in 2011, has around 300m users and replaces text, photo and video messaging over SMS, allowing users of its iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Mac computer users to communicate over data paths rather than SMS or MMS paths. According to some reports - quoted by Quarkslab - Edward Snowden used iMessage to evade NSA surveillance.Impossible to know if messages are being sent to the NSAiMessage uses public-private key encryption systems. That means that a public key for a user is stored on Apple&apos;s server, and a private key on each device linked to their account. The private-public key pair is generated when the user creates an iCloud account with Apple.When someone chooses an addressee for an iMessage, the recipient&apos;s public key - which works like a padlock - is retrieved from Apple&apos;s servers and used to encrypt the message. That can in theory only be unlocked by the private key held by the recipient. Messages sent to multiple recipients are encrypted using those recipients&apos; public keys.But Quarkslab says that Apple’s management of the initial security key is obfuscated – and so it is impossible for the user to know if messages are being sent to a third party such as the NSA.“The biggest problem here is you just cannot control that the public key you are using when you are ciphering the message is really the key of your recipient and not, for example, the public key of some guy in Apple,” Cattiaux saidspeaking to MacWorld.‘No one but the sender and receiver can see or read them’After theGuardian&apos;s revelations about the NSA&apos;s Prism programin June, Apple originallyclaimed that conversationsthat take place over iMessage and FaceTime &quot;are protected by end-to-end encryption, so no one but the sender and receiver can see or read them. Apple cannot decrypt that data. Similarly, we do not store data related to customers&apos; location, map searches or Siri requests in any identifiable form.&quot;But Rik Ferguson, vice-president of independent security company Trend Micro, told the Guardian: &quot;The research demonstrated that Apple could decrypt the data, proving the categorical statement that &apos;Apple cannot decrypt that data&apos; untrue.&quot;Quarkslab&apos;s researchers point out that they cannot tell if Apple or anyone else is intercepting iMessages, but it is possible for someone inside Apple, or someone with access to keys from the public encryption key server, to decrypt messages. Apple might be required to hand over those keys if it was subject to an order from a US government court.End-to-end encryption is a very good thing&quot;The fact that Apple offers end-to-end encryption for communication services is a very good thing,&quot; said Ferguson.Other popular messaging services such asWhatsAppand Line messenger are equally vulnerable to interception, but most lack any sort of encryption; they are sent as plain text, like the majority of email services.Ferguson said he preferred Apple&apos;s approach: &quot;Somebody has to control the keys, and who would you rather trust with that control? It&apos;s Apple&apos;s service and Apple&apos;s encryption so that means whoever holds the keys will be able unlock the locks. Apple, like any other organisation, has to comply with legal requests, and so there&apos;s always a residual risk using an encryption service provided by someone else.&quot;Secure messaging applications which employ encryption methods, such as PGP, can ensure that the security keys used are only held by the sender and the recipient, although most are not consumer-friendly service-based like iMessages or Google Hangouts.“We do not provide any government agency with direct access to our servers, and any government agency requesting customer content must get a court order,” said Apple in a statement.UpdateApple has clarified its position on iMessage encryption, explaining toAllthingsDthat it cannot read encrypted messages sent across the service:“iMessage is not architected to allow Apple to read messages. The research discussed theoretical vulnerabilities that would require Apple to re-engineer the iMessage system to exploit it, and Apple has no plans or intentions to do so.”• Apple&apos;s newiPad and iPad miniare expected at an Apple event on 22 October.
The GameCity festival kicks off on Saturday, promising a whole week of fun, interesting and innovative events, celebrating the brilliance and diversity of modern video games. But if you can't come, you don't have to despairentirely.From Monday, fellow Guardian games writer Cara Ellison and I will be presenting a daily lunch time chat show, speaking to some of the big-name developers and rising indie starlets taking part in this year's proceedings. And it's all going to be live-streamed across the internet.Yes, every day, from Monday 21 October to the following Saturday you'll be able to come right here at 12.30pm and watch Cara and I interrogate the games industry. We're still finalising the guest list, but you can expect GoldenEye co-creator Martin Hollis, Thomas Was Alone designer Mike Bithell (with his ace new project Volume) and MANY MORE.•GameCity website•Gamecity schedule•Our GameCity preview•Aim for Love – the astonishing new project from GoldenEye co-creator
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. Although this time round, it covers the last fortnight, due to no roundup appearing last week.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Clash of Clans (Free)It took a while, but Supercell's popular iOS game Clash of Clans has finally rampaged onto Android, just as its publishergot a $1.5bn investmentto pursue its ambitions of becoming the next Nintendo. The game involves building up a village and army, sending them out to attack others, and planning your defence for when people attack you.Microsoft Remote Desktop (Free)Something more serious here: a remote-desktop app from Microsoft for logging in to your Windows computer from an Android device. It's getting generally positive reviews so far, with room to improve in updates over the coming months.Twitter (Free)Twitter? That's been on Android for a long time. But this is Twitter's first native tablet app for Android, redesigned for their bigger screens. The catch is that for now, it only runs on Samsung tablets, starting with the latest Galaxy Note. But this limited release hints at wider availability in the weeks and months to come.Malwarebytes Anti-Malware (Free)Android security is a heated topic: some people (Apple among them) stoke the idea of Android as a malware-ridden Wild West, but others see this as scaremongering. Even if you're somewhere between the two, you'll likely see the appeal of Malwarebytes' new app, which detects spyware, Trojans and other digital naughtiness, scanning apps for malicious code and letting you know which of them are tracking your location.Where's My Water? 2 (Free)Disney's first Where's My Water? game has been very popular, and has already spawned spin-offs starring Mickey Mouse and Perry from Phineas and Ferb. Now it's getting a fully-fledged sequel with original hero Swampy and his friends Allie and Cranky. Water-based physics puzzles is still the focus, but this time it's fully freemium.Mercury Browser (Free)Android users are well stocked for web browsers as alternatives to Google's Chrome. Mercury is the latest, focusing on speed and privacy. Gestural controls, tab previews and easy history-clearing add to its appeal, but the competition is tough.Champ Man (Free)Football Manager Handheld may be the bigger brand nowadays, but Square Enix's Champ Man still has a fair few fans. Its latest version on Android is free to play and funded by in-app purchases, offering familiar football management with 21 playable leagues around the world.HMV Music (Free)British retailer HMV may have sailed close to the grave last year, but it's still going – with a new app to prove it. The emphasis is on downloads rather than Spotify-style streaming: you can browse and buy its catalogue of MP3s, then download them to your phone. Features include the ability to scan album covers or identify music playing in the real world.Grand Theft Auto V: The Manual (Free)There's still no sign of Rockstar'siFruit companion app for GTA Von Android, but it may be edging closer judging by the release of the console game's official manual app. Why would you want the manual on your Android device? The interactive map is the main reason.Runtastic Six Pack Abs Workout (Free)Fitness startup Runtastic's latest app has a single goal: to help you get a six-pack (of abs, not beer, sadly) through a series of video workouts. There are more than 50 animated videos included here, with a choice of male or female virtual trainers, and a 10-week plan to steel up your stomach.Haunted House (£1.49)In good time for Halloween comes this children's app from developer StoryToys: a virtual pop-up book with a series of interactive activities, from spotting hidden pumpkins and riding a ghost train through to mixing magic potions and building monsters. Colourful and fun for kids.evo (Free)This magazine-app comes from Dennis Publishing: the official Android app for its Evo magazine. The subject is performance cars, with a mixture of motoring news, reviews of new cars, group tests and features on what owners are doing in their shiny motors.The Blockheads (Free)"Explore, mine, craft and build in this giant and detailed sandbox game," explains the Google Play listing for this marvellous game, with the two key words being "mine" and "craft". It's inspired by Minecraft, but is played in a huge 2D world, where you have to keep your Blockhead characters happy and healthy, while exploring their environment.Type:Rider (£2.28)Another inventive game for Android: this time based on the history of typography. It sees you playing as two dots travelling through time (and fonts) from the prehistoric era to the modern-day, with Garamond, Helvetica and YES Comic Sans all starring. Beautiful, but also a fun game that's not just for design buffs.Dessin (£2.99)From design to Dessin, this is a really intriguing app that claims to be a "combination of mind map and phone automator". So on the one hand, you can create notes and mind-maps of your thoughts, but on the other you can then use those "nodes" to control your phone.Light-bot (£1.99)This one's a very good bet for parents keen on their children using Android devices for more than just playing games. Light-bot is a game, partly, but a game that aims to teach kids basic programming concepts. Procedures, loops and other commands are all introduced through the medium of a robot exploring 40 puzzly levels.Help for Heroes : Hero Bears (£1.99)Hero Bears is a fun endless-runner game where you guide the titular animal over tyres, under fences and over barrels and trenches, but that's not all there is to it. The game israising money for British armed-forces charity Help for Heroes, so £1 of every purchase will go to the charity.Cluster (Free)Is there still room for new photo-sharing apps, given the popularity of Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and others? Cluster Labs hopes so: its Cluster app aims to be "the easiest way to collect and share photos". Its focus is on groups, helping them create on-the-fly albums around a particular event or theme, so everyone can upload and see what others have uploaded.Rabbids Big Bang (£0.75)Ubisoft's new mobile game based on its Raving Rabbids characters sends its rabbity anti-heroes into space for a physics-action game. You thwack them into space using a baseball bat, then control their trajectory using simple touchscreen controls. A bit like Yeti Sports meets Thrust meets Angry Birds Space, you could say.Transport Tycoon (£4.99)Finally, a famous old game revived for modern devices. The task remains building your own transport company, moving cargo and passengers through a mixture of road, rail, sea and air transport. It remains as engrossing and challenging an affair as the original PC game.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Users should not trust closed-source services like Apple&apos;s iCloud with their personal data, said the chief executive of Open-Xchange, a cloud software firm which provides app suites to some of Britain&apos;s biggest service providers. &quot;Really paranoid&quot; users should consider switching to phones running the Firefox OS, he added.Rafael Laguna, who co-founded the open-source software firm after having previously worked with Suse Linux, an open-source operating system, says the best way to guarantee security is to let users choose – even if only theoretically – where to host their software, and let them examine the code for flaws and back-doors.Open-source software makes its source code, the set of instructions which make the program work, available for public inspection and enhancement. The vast majority of commercial software is closed-source, and users must take the integrity of the code on trust.The philosophy behind open-source programming began as a radical attempt to ensure “that users had rights with respect to their computer programs”, inthe words of cyber theorist Evgeny Morozov, but increasingly the security aspects have come to the fore.If the source of a program is made available, skilled users can examine it to check the promised security is actually attainable. Laguna argues that the same should be true of hardware.“I feel much better if I can think that some people check whether the stuff that’s being done with my data is decent,” he told the Guardian. “What do I know? I mean, do you know what your iPhone does? You don’t, right, because it’s a closed stack. And it’s doing crazy stuff, you know it’s doing crazy stuff, but you’re still not worried enough to not use it anymore.“Something that’s going on, and people know it but nobody really captures what it means, is the fact that these guys know all wireless networks, passwords, over the world. So even your closed, Guardian, private, intranet wireless, right, once you log in, it’s on an Apple server. And the same for Google, of course.“Yeah, they can tell me it’s only for backup purposes, and I love the restore function [to set up a new handset from old settings] too, it’s great, and yeah, it’s encrypted on their servers – yeah, yeah, yeah – but what do we know? What do we know?”Laguna says: “Trust is personal. Maybe you don’t trust Wordpress.com, and I do – or vice versa. You may not trust BT, but you trust IOMart. Or you trust no one, so you get your own machine and run [Open-Xchange], or put up a virtual machine on your laptop. And you run Linux on the machine, and if you’re really paranoid it’s an open hardware machine, and then you access it on a Firefox OS phone instead of an iPhone.” (Google&apos;s implementation of Android is not completely open-source because users can&apos;t review the code Google uses for its Mail, Maps and other offerings, though the Android Open Source Platform – used by many Chinese handset makers – is available for download, review and update.)Open-Xchange attempts to use some of the security features inherent to open-source software to provide a cloud-based app suite without the risks associated with using something like Google Apps, which stores users’ data on servers vulnerable to government seizures.Users of the apps, which include a calendar service, email, file storage and a text editor, can host their data with any company they feel comfortable trusting – and if they lose faith in one provider, it’s easy to port not just data, but the entire software suite.“The reason Phil [Zimmermann]shut down his service[Silent Circle&apos;s encrypted email] is that he was the only service provider that could provide it. And since he was a US company, he said ‘I’m not worth the trust that people have in me, because the NSA could walk in my door at any time and get the data’. And I told him: ‘Phil, the problem is that you had a model where there only is one service provider.’ You could still run this service and tell people: ‘Look, guys, if you’re not worried about the NSA walking into my room, continue using my service. If you are, here’s others that are maybe not based in the US and so forth. And if you’re really paranoid, here’s the software, install it, run it yourself, and be done with it.’”Laguna argues that cloud applications were beginning to break the natural security features of the open web. “To do what we’ve done so well for the internet, by building it on open source and open protocols … we need to do the same for applications. We’ve been doing it all wrong when it comes to cloud applications, because most of them are only available from one provider. So rule one is make sure you get a service that’s available from many providers.”The problem with using so few companies to control nearly all of our online presence is that “from a genetic perspective, this is in-bred pure bullshit, this stuff can’t survive … it’s almost like feudalism. You get these inbred kings.”There are other benefits to moving more of our data to open-source software. “We may never be able to stop websites from crashing or keep bugs from creeping into code. But opening the process would expose what went wrong and why,”argues Paul Ford in Bloomberg Businessweek.Ford made the case for opening the source code the software behind the disastrous US launch of healthcare.gov, the national site for the American healthcare exchanges.Laguna’s words come as the cabinet secretary, Francis Maude, wasrevealed to have bypassed government securityin order to create a Wi-Fi network in his office.The Cabinet Office minster was fed up with the “rubbish” and “clunky” – but secure – network in Westminster, and so started his own, leading security researcher Rik Ferguson to condemn his “willingness to endanger the security of the parliamentary network, systems and data”.•Even open-source software couldn&apos;t have saved Mat Honan, who nearly lost his entire digital life after his iCloud account was hacked.
In the early 2000s, a hugely entertaining new game genre emerged. Taking elements of the platformer and the old arcade adventure, titles like Ratchet &amp; Clank and Jak &amp; Daxter brought humour, imagination and structural innovation to the usually dire family gaming sector. And while the previous Skylander titles no doubt drew plenty of inspiration from these legendary releases (the series has its roots in the old Spyro the Dragon adventure platformers after all), it is Swap Force that really re-captures the magic.Admittedly, the formula of the series has not exactly been revolutionised here. You still control a selection of bizarre fantasy superheroes, battling to save the floating Skylands from an evil portal master named Kaos. In the style of all great cartoon villains, he is an ineffectual bully surrounded by clottish henchmen, though this time around he has help from a new super enemy, hinted at in the final moments of Skylanders Giants. The story mode, then, is a parade of missions that build toward thwarting Kaos' latest plan – to find the ancient guardians of Skylands' magical powers and turn them evil, thereby ruling the kingdom.The major new gameplay addition is the ability to jump, which sounds trivial, but instantly opens up a range of new level design challenges. Suddenly the world becomes more interactive, more multi-layered, more interesting to explore. Every location in Swap Force is richly painted and extravagantly structured, filled with hidden alcoves, branching lanes and secret pathways that lead over, under and beside the main routes. From Wild West-themed canyons to misty, glistening tundras, the surreal landscapes are loaded with treasure chests, smashable objects, and collectable items. And like the best 3D platformers – like Super Mario 64 and Sonic Adventure – these floating islands are structured so that the player can often glimpse coming hazards or concealed treats from much earlier in the level, building suspense and bringing a sense of depth and complexity to each realm.Split personalitiesThe RPG elements of the game are back and similarly expanded. Each Skylander can be upgraded as the adventure goes on, adding greater force to their key combat moves, or enhancing defensive capabilities. The starter pack comes with two of the new Swap Force characters, which can be split in half and their parts exchanged, allowing players to experiment with new combinations.Blast Zone is a hulking furnace knight who throws bombs and draws flaming lines in the sand, while Wash Buckler is a sort of pirate octopus, with a cutlass and a bubble gun. While weapons are governed by each figure's top half, specific motion skills are provided by their lower portions: some have jets, some are climbers, some can spin. Naturally, there are areas of each mission that can only be opened by Swap Force figures with these specific skills; add in the fact that there are also still elemental gates (only accessible to Skylanders with the correct element icon), and you'll be continually reminded about the figures that your collection lacks.This, of course, is the major criticism of the series, especially when you add in the Soul Gem collectables that provide you with little preview videos of forthcoming Swap Force figures. In an increasingly familiar post-modern twist, the game is effectively an interactive advert for itself. How much we should yield to this is a call every parent is going to have to make. If you want to get 100% completion in this game, you're going to have to buy more figures than the starter pack provides. But of course, the innate love of collecting is something toys have exploited for many years. Skylanders is no more cynical in its exploitation of this than trading cards or Lego City sets. The important thing is, with the starter pack's three figures (you also get a new standard Skylander, Ninja Stealth Elf), I saw all of the narrative content of the story mode; plus, my sons have been able to use their old figures to open up many of the other elemental gates. There's plenty of game here – and lots of replay potential – even if you don't have a vast collection of figures.• Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision, on the future of toys and games• Skylanders twinned with Isle of SkyeAnd while, by now, this game could easily have been a cynical exercise in brand reaffirmment, it is actually a carefully crafted adventure, filled with fun, and driven by a very decent script. One minute you may be plummeting down a mine track as it whirls through rocky island mountains, the next you are doing some first-person blasting on a bobsleigh run, or beating giant Fire Viper bosses by shooting sink plungers at their heads. What I love about this series is its kleptomaniac approach to childhood fascinations. Kids love cowboys, they love pirates, so what the heck, let's have a Western level where cowboy critters are being terrorised by sky pirates. Within the fantastical logic of the Skylanders universe, it all makes sense.Amid the colour, the sound, the ridiculous fanfares every time a collectable object is discovered (a motivational trick developer Vicarious Visions has clearly learned from Peggle-creator, Popcap), the mechanical intricacies can get lost. For most players at the two lower skill settings, the differences in abilities between the characters will be of negligible importance – enemies go down pretty fast. Deciding on upgrade paths and kitting your characters out with different hats allows you to develop your own approach to play, but it isn't an intrinsic requirement of progress. I ended up maxing out Blast Force because I like his ranged combat approach, but then Wash Buckler comes into his own later in his upgrade tree when his squelchy forward roll 'octolash' move becomes weaponised with an ink spray.All the time, the player also ranks up as a portal master, bringing an extra dimension to the process. It's hidden a little too well at first, but there is a decent action RPG in here, disguised as a kid-friendly platformer. And once the story mode is completed, the Nightmare mode opens up where, players reallywillneed to master the different abilities of the Swap Force warriors.We are the modesElsewhere, there is a range of Arena modes including Solo, Team and Rival Survival options, which are essentially kid-friendly takes on the familiar Horde mode from shooters like Gears of War. Participants must fight off infinite waves of enemy troops, either helping each other or competing for the best scores and items. There's also a Battle Arena, which offers straight-up combat action within trap-filled environments. All good fun, especially when your children have a few friends around, allowing you to arrange epic gladiatorial tournaments (it's fine, honestly – as long as you don't bet on them).Swap Force is the best Skylanders game yet, and a good entry point for newcomers. There is enough entertainment in the basic package for most players, and more opens up with only a couple of extra purchases. There are plenty of game stores selling second-hand Skylanders now, as my own sons have discovered to my relief, so you don't have to play the collecting game by Activision's rules. Admittedly, part of the fun is in swapping different characters in and out, and the co-op capabilities of the story mode allow kids to do that together, even if this feature is not quite as well implemented as it is in the masterful Lego titles. The lack of split-screen means characters have to stay close to each other causing some vicious arguments in our house. But then, we've also had days of enjoyment, fighting over characters, swapping bits, figuring stuff out, exploring together.Outside of Nintendo (and Sega in its early 90s pomp), it has often been almost impossible to find children's games that aren't soulless movie tie-ins or half-witted edutainment bore-fests. Now we have Skylanders and Lego Marvel Superheroes – games of craft and guile that believe in themselves and their players.• Version reviewed: Xbox 360The Skylanders system: how it works and how much you will have to paySkylanders is a combination of video game and action figure collection. If you purchase the Skylanders Swap Force starter pack for £52, this gets you the game, a 'Portal of Power' and three compatible figures: Blast Zone, Wash Buckler and Ninja Stealth Elf. To play the game, you need to select a figure and place it on the Portal – this peripheral reads the information contained within the figure via RFID technology and a digital representation of that character appears on screen as the playable avatar. Players can swap figures at any time and the onscreen character changes accordingly.All the characters have different abilities, and are separated into different 'elemental' types, for example, air, earth and tech. Certain areas of each game can only be opened using the specific type of character required. This means that, to see all of the Swap Force world, you will need to purchase extra figures – although most of the figures that you may have bought for previous Skylander games will also work.For Swap Force Activision is bringing out 16 figures with swappable legs and torsos, as well as 16 new 'core' Skylanders figures (with no swap features) and eigh new 'light core' figures (which light up when placed on the portal). These will range in price from £8-16 when bought separately. Activision also sells multiple figure packs. Many video game stores sell second-hand Skylanders for around a fiver each.To see most of Swap Force, then, you'll need the starter pack at £52, plus one giant figure and several core figures of different elements. There are eight elements altogether, three of which are covered by the starter pack figures, so you'll need five more. To seeallof the game, you'll also need to buy more of the special Swap Force swappable characters, which also have different skill challenges to unlock, based on their specific abilities.However, it is possible to finish the story mode and play all the other modes without buying any extra characters. There are elements of the map you won't see, but none will prevent you from following the main adventure.• Click here to see the video trailer for Skylanders Swap Force
Black Market Reloaded, a darknet marketplace in the vein of the now-shuttered Silk Road, briefly closed itself overnight following a code leak.On Thursday, backopy, the administrator of the site which is thought be based in Russia, posted on its forums that his code base had been stolen by the admin responsible for hosting the marketplace on a virtual private server.In the post titled “The end of the road”, backopy wrote: “This means I can&apos;t operate anymore … I&apos;ll put up in a few days a system to allow you to recover your BTC [Bitcoins], they went nowhere and I&apos;ve all needed data to refund them.”Six hours later, however, the administrator updated the post saying that “after reviewing the code and what could be compromised, I decided to re-enable BMR.”Backopy then posted a new address for the site, but confirmed that Bitcoin transactions would still be down for a day while they checked whether the code leak had left any potential holes open.“I hire hits on nobody, it&apos;s just sad that someone is running a VPS to peek its contents to pretend to be a hacker,” backopy added, referring to the allegations that Dread Pirate Roberts, the administrator of the Silk Road, hadtried to pay an undercover police officer to kill a disgruntled employee.Black Market Reloaded is one of a number of sites, including Sheep and Project: Black Flag,attempting to corner the market in underground bazaars for illicit productsnow that Silk Road has been shut down.•The man alleged to be behind the Silk Road says he is not &quot;excessively concerned&quot; about his future
Google’s highly anticipated Nexus 5 flagship Android smartphone was brieflylisted on Google’s Play Store, ahead of its expected release in the coming weeks.The listing, which has since been pulled down, featured a US price of $349 (£215) for the 16GB version of the Nexus 5.The Nexus 5 is expected to replace the popularNexus 4 Android smartphone, which was the work of a partnership between LG and Google to make a high-end smartphone at an affordable price.Official product shots of the Nexus 5 were also included, confirming a series of leaks and rumours that have surfaced within the last few months, including the replacement of the default Android SMS app with Google Hangouts, and a redesigned Gmail icon.• Afull video run-throughof an alleged leaked prototype Nexus 5 device claimed to show the smartphone running Android “KeyLimePie”, which was recently renamed to Android 4.4 “Kitkat”Google Nexus 5 Google Play Store listing. Photograph: Marques Brownlee/Twitter
Shigeru Miyamoto's career and that of his most famous creation, Super Mario, have remained entwined for 30 years. Every Mario game is checked and tweaked by Nintendo's prize designer, whose fingerprints and aromatic genius can be sensed in even the most throwaway spin-off.Sonic the Hedgehog, by contrast, has an absent father. Sega's mascot – designed by the artist Naoto Oshima at the behest of Sega's CEO (who recognised the company's need for a digital poster-boy) – was trained and defined by Yuji Naka, who left the company nearly a decade ago. He was the last of the original Sonic team to depart (Oshima left in 1999, while Mark Cerny, one of the original game's programmers is currently the architect of Sony's PlayStation 4). Perhaps for this reason, in recent years, Sonic the Hedgehog has tripped and floundered, where once he streaked and tore. His appeal has skewed towards an ever-younger audience, as his games have come to rely more on character and attitude than on ingenuity and creativity of design.Sonic Lost World is an expensive, bolshie attempt by Sega to redefine the character as more than a mere mascot, to reinstate him as the lead of an artistically rich, fidgety and important game series again. Drawing together the cream of Sega's remaining talent, the team has chosen its benchmark wisely: Sonic Lost World is perhaps best described as a cover version of Nintendo's Super Mario Galaxy titles, a pair of games that remain the finest expression of their type yet made.Sonic Lost World turns 3D into 2D and switches back again; it sends its character screeching through the air between floating landmasses, some of which are laid out like long, verdant cylinders, others much closer to Galaxy's globes, which can be circumvented in seconds. Finally, it launches Sonic off some powerful spring or squinting cannon to the next land mass in sequence.Gambling on ambling?Sonic's approach to navigating his world has always been blunt: a sprint or a blurry tumble, down and around pre-laid loop-de-loops at trainer-ruining speeds. For this world, however, which demands much more precise jumps from platform to platform, he's been slowed down and taught some new tricks. Sonic now naturally walks at a sedate pace; you'll need to hold down a trigger to squeeze him into a sprint. Another button press tucks him into his buzz-saw roll, which can be revved up and finally used to launch him off in a straight direction.Sonic can now run along walls, bounce on the ground three times in succession, gaining height with each bump (a move directly lifted from Mario's repertoire) and, crucially, he can quickly attack any nearby enemy that's highlighted by a targeting cursor. This allows you to automatically streak between enemies with deadly ease.Finally, Sonic's 'Wisp Powers', introduced in Sonic Colors, can be triggered when you find the appropriate item, shifting play to the Wii-U's touchscreen as you, for example, burrow down into the earth for a subterranean excursion, or aim a cannon's trajectory to launch Sonic towards a specific location. The combined effect of these additions is to increase the speed, style and exactness with which you can move through the world. It's fussier than Mario's easy-going moves, but nevertheless, for Sonic, it's remains a novel triumph.The Lost World itself (known as Lost Hex) is an orb composed of hexagonal tiles that represent new stages and minigames. Divided into a series of themed areas, you work your way across these tiles, unlocking new ones as you go.Your task is to free small fluffy animals that antagonist Dr Robotnik has imprisoned. The game keeps a tally of the number of animals you've rescued and you must pass certain thresholds before some new stages open up. This core objective is supplemented by all manner of bolt-on tasks, from collecting coins, to finding five secret tokens in each stage to completing random feats. Each of the game's main stages is intricately designed, with many routes to its conclusion. It will take multiple playthroughs to uncover every secret and, with an online leaderboard for each stage, there's added incentive to perfect your approach.Shakespeare it ain'tSonic's kitschy but irritating Saturday morning kid's cartoon storyline persists, with regular expositional cut-scene interruptions featuring the belligerent Sonic and his tittering sidekick Tails, Dr Robotnik and the so-called Deadly Six, a group of native villains, coerced into fighting on Robotnik's side who also provide the boss battles in each area. These cutscenes will grate for all but the youngest players, the awful dialogue ("Some lessons can only be learned at the end of a boot … It is time to teach you those lessons") only partially offset by the assured animation.Mario's plotlines may be equally tiresome, but at least they have the decency to limit their intrusion to the opening and close of the game.With so many elements, shifts in perspective and dynamics, Sonic Lost Worlds can feel, at times, like it's struggling to hold together into a cohesive whole. There is unevenness in the quality of those elements too, something that its primary influence avoided. But this is nevertheless the finest Sonic game in years, a riot of ideas that at times approaches the quality of Nintendo EAD's work. It may not provide much insight into where games are heading, but as a Sonic-themed celebration of the past few years, it's a surprising delight.•Sonic The Hedgehog 4 – review•Sonic Generations – review• The 12 best Sonic the Hedgehog games – in pictures
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony holds fire on confirming DriveClub delay | CVG UKThere are persistent rumours that Sony is set to delay the release of its massively multiplayer racing game, DriveClub:A statement on the matter, expected to confirm that some plans for the project have changed, was unavailable at the time of going to press. The wait for official communication on the matter could take more than a day.On Wednesday, two separate publications claimed that the online-centric PS4 racing game has been delayed into 2014. The first was from the games blog The Same Coin, while a Kotaku report claims that "a person familiar with goings-on at Sony" has confirmed the rumour's veracity.As speculation continued to circulate, DriveClub design director Paul Rustchynsky told his followers on Twitter that he could not provide any information.Evolution's globetrotting racer is an ambitious project, using a lot of the fresh infrastructure of the PlayStation 4 online system. The reports come at the same time as Ubisoft's decision to delay the release of similarly complex next-gen driver, The Crew.Grand Theft Auto 5 has reached 3 million in sales in the UK according to GfK Chart-Track | VG247This one sort of speaks for itself:Grand Theft Auto 5 has reached 3 million in sales in the UK according to GfK Chart-Track figures. The game is on its way to becoming the biggest selling game in UK history.What does Activision have to say on the matter? Thisfrom MCV:"Congratulations to the team at Rockstar for their success," said UK senior brand manager Kevin Flynn. "We look forward to getting the record back before the next GTA title."Okaaaaay...Cyan launches Kickstarter for spiritual successor to Myst | PolygonRemember Myst – the classic cross-over adventure hit? Develop Cyan is kickstarting its 'spiritual success'...Obduction — which the page notes means "the act of drawing or laying over" — will be a first-person adventure focused on player immersion that "harkens back" to the spirit of Cyan's Myst and Riven and builds on what the creators learned during development.Cyan is asking for $1,100,000 to develop Obduction and is currently planning to publish the title to Windows PC and Mac, with a mid-to-late 2015 launch window. The title is being developed with a "flexible scope," meaning the developers will add more content and allow the game to grow in scale if the appropriate funding levels are achieved.After one day it's on $113,896.You Might Need Your 3DS If There's Ever A Legend of Zelda Movie | KotakuWhat was the key problem with the infamous 1993 Super Mario Bros movie? It seems Nintendo's answer may be that it lacked interactivity. And they won't be makingthatmistake again, according to Kotaku:When I spoke to [Zelda chief, Eiji] Aonuma this past week, he told me that that ideas for a Zelda film adaptation have been batted around. "This is something that me and Mr. Miyamoto talked about," he began. "If we were to make a Zelda title, if we had interest in doing that, I think really what would be most important to us is to be able to play with the format of a movie, make it more interactive, like you're able to take your 3DS into the theater and that leads you into participating in it somehow. We wouldn't want to make it the same as any other movie. We want to somehow change what a movie is."Let's hope it's not just "press 'A' to skip cut-scenes" or cinema-goers could be in for a short evening.Naughty Dog has no plans to port The Last of Us to PS4 | VideoGamerWould you like to see Joel and Ellie struggling through their apocalyptic nightmare in more intricate visual detail on PLayStation 4? Tough luck.Discussing the idea of a PS4 port with a fan on the PlayStation Blog, Naughty Dog community strategist Eric Monacelli explained: "We have no plans to do that".Early this year,Naughty Dog told Eurogamerthat it produces its graphical assets at higher resolutions than the PS3 can handle, leading to hopes for a next-gen update – but actually most developers work in this way. And besides, that game is wrenching enough as it is.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Stockholmers can now support their city’s homeless population in the most technologically sophisticated way possible, thanks to an initiative by Swedish payment firm iZettle.The firm has been working with Situation Sthlm - Sweden’s answer to the Big Issue - supplying the magazine sellers with smartphones and card readers that allow debit and credit card payments to be taken on the spot.iZettle provides a small unit that plugs into the smartphones, allowing cards to be swiped. The card owner then writes then signature on the screen, or enters their pin in the reader.A successful month-long trial saw five sellers, each equipped with a smartphone and iZettle card reader, sent out onto the streets of Stockholm to sell their Situation Sthlm magazines, costing just under £5 per issue.Situation Sthlm, like the Big Issue in the UK, publishes professional writing in a magazine sold by the homeless or disadvantaged on the streets of Stockholm. It is the first organisation of its kind to offer card payments.The phones and card readers are kept and charged at Situation Sthlm’s main offices, and are collected each day when sellers pick up their magazines.Sweden’s cashless societySweden is edging closer to a “cashless society” where barely anyone below the age of 40 carries cash on a routine basis, said iZettle chief executive Jacob de Geer, who said that the public were happy to trust their card details to homeless people because they trusted the credit card chop system.“The banks have done a great job with the card infrastructure so that it is so robust, secure and trusted, that people don’t really mind where they use their cards these days with the chip,” said de Geer. “It was extremely well received. All the phones were returned safely and are still in use.”EMV smart card technology, better known as Chip and PIN in the UK, was trialled in Northampton in 2003 and rolled out nationwide in the UK in 2004. It replaced the magnetic swipe and signature authorisation previously used with a secure chip authenticated by the input of a user’s PIN.Who are iZettle?iZettle is a market leader for mobile payments in the UK with a Bluetooth chip and PIN card machine, which started life in 2010 in Sweden releasing its first mobile payment solution in 2011. Since then it has rolled out to nine markets including seven in Europe, as well as Mexico and Brazil in South America.iZettle launched in the UK in 2012 after meeting regulatory requirements and being certified as a payment providers both in the EU and UK.“Simplify, simplify, simplify is our core ethos,” explained de Geer. “Regulation is the biggest challenge to mobile payments in most countries – we spend a lot of time and effort meeting criteria and gaining certification. We’re regulated almost like banks.”The UK is one of iZettle’s strongest growth markets with thousands of card readers and accounts being set up every month.Changing the payments marketThe UK is being used as a test bed for iZettle’s progressive simplification of payments. It recently rolled out a new smart rate system, where the percentage of each transaction kept by iZettle is variable from 2.75% to 1.5% dependent on how many transactions you’ve had over a month.“We’re trying to change the payments market,” said de Geer. “We first started with the mobile card reader that could accept payment anywhere, but we also tackled the highly complex fees that traditional card processors and banks charge merchants.”After an initial set-up fee of £99 for each reader device, iZettle charges a percentage of each transaction in commission. There is no long-term contract or monthly fee.“We want to help our customers grow their businesses. From electricians and carpenters, everyone should be able to take card and make money,” said de Geer.• Mobile payments -they’re doing our heads in• This article was amended on 12 November 2014. An earlier version of the headline referred to donations rather than payments.
Isohunt, the third most popular search engine for Bittorrent files, will close and pay the Motion Pictures Association of America (MPAA) $110m, ending a long-runng legal battle.The move comes just ahead of a formal court battle which Isohunt, set up by Gary Fung of Canada, was certain to lose. The MPAA has been trying to shut Isohunt down since February 2006, when it issued a press release saying it would sue the site for copyright infringement. The site will close by 23 October under the settlement.The closure is the latest win for copyright industries which have fought a cat-and-mouse battle with torrent sites including The Pirate Bay which make copyrighted content available at no price.Supporters of Bittorrent sites making films available claim that they help revenues for filmmakers overall even if they don't directly generate revenue as online stores such as Google Play, Amazon or Apple's iTunes do. One academic paperclaimedin September 2012 that the closure of sites alleged to have been used for piracy, such as Kim Dotcom's MegaUpload, actually hurts the makers of independent films, while helping blockbusters. However the quality of that study has beencalled into question, with researchers at Carnegie Mellon Universitysayingthat immediately following the MegaUpload shutdown "that for each additional 1% (lost) penetration of Megaupload the post-shutdown sales increase was between 2.5% and 3.8% higher."Fung's decision to close the site and pay the MPAA the huge settlement comes amid claims that the site "induced the pirating of movies and TV shows". A US federal court issued an injunction against the site in 2009, but it kept operating via servers in Canada."t's sad to see my baby go. But I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, and I have remained faithful," Fungwroteon his blog. "10.5 years of isoHunt has been a long journey by any business definition, and forever in Internet startup time."He told Torrentfreak: "I think one worry I want to address is at no time have I compromised privacy of any user on isoHunt, in terms of your IP addresses or emails."A US court had ruled against a defence offered by Fung in March, using the same finding that had led to the closure of the peer-to-peer music- and film-sharing system Grokster. In that case, the US Supreme Court determined in 2005 that Grokster couldn't show that the non-infringing uses of its site were "commercially significant" compared to those which did infringe copyright, and so it had no protection under the copyright laws.In a statement, the MPAA's chairman Chris Dodd said that the settlement "sends a strong message that those who build businesses around encouraging, enabling and helping others to commit copyright infringement are themselves infringers, and will be held accountable for their actions."In aformal documentfiled by the two sides on 16 October, Isohunt agrees not to seek to appeal its decision. However it had already filed an appeal to the Supreme Court, which is now in process.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEFF files challenge with US Patent Office against troll's podcasting patent &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) today filed a formal challenge to the so-called "podcasting patent" used by a patent troll to shake down podcasters big and small for licensing fees. The petition for inter partes review, presented today to the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), is the first legal filing in EFF's "Save Podcasting" campaign launched in May.In January 2013, Personal Audio, LLC, began suing a number of podcasters, including comedian Adam Carolla (The Adam Carolla Show) and three major television networks, claiming they infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,112,504. In addition to filing these lawsuits, Personal Audio has sent demand letters to a variety of podcasters demanding that they pay a license fee. Because Personal Audio's business model is entirely based on leveraging its patents and it does not do any podcasting itself, the company fits the definition of a "non-practicing entity," or—as everyone from EFF to the White House calls these entities—a "patent troll."US patent office confirmed all 20 claims of the Steve Jobs patent: bad for Samsung, Google &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsLast December, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)issued a first Office actiontentatively rejecting all claims of the "Steve Jobs patent",U.S. Patent No. 7,479,949on a "touch screen device, method, and graphical user interface for determining commands by applying heuristics", which has been referred to by many people,including Apple's own lawyers, as "the Steve Jobs patent". First Office actions are of some, but actuallyrather limited, relevance.As we speak, the Steve Jobs patent is even stronger than it was before someone (presumably Samsung and Google) challenged it anonymously. On September&amp;nbsp;4, 2013, the USPTO issued a reexamination certificate confirming the patentability of all 20 claims because the prior art neither anticipated this invention nor renders it obvious.As patents go, it's pretty fundamental (but not, note, standards-essential) to touchscreen operation: detecting one or more finger contacts, determining commands for the device, processing the demand.This is one of the patents asserted against Samsung as part of the US import ban on some of its devices which came in last week. (Via Carl Howe, vice-president at Yankee Group)Toward a solution for the iPhone 5S accelerometer problem &gt;&gt; Mobile Spatial SensingAccelerometers have two key numbers that tell you the quality of their outputs. Note: in the spec sheets, and the next couple paragraphs, the abbreviation mg refers to milli-g, or one one thousandth of standard gravity, not milligram. The first key spec is the noise density (ST) or output noise (Bosch). This tells you how much random jitter you will see in measurements. At first it looks like the spec for the Bosch part is much worse, but this is deceiving as these numbers are reported for a specific measurement rate (bandwidth), and the ST datasheet doesn't specify that rate. In our measurements, the noise output of the accelerometer in the iPhone 5S is reasonably similar to that of previous iOS devices.The second key spec for accelerometers is the zero-g offset, or bias. This indicates the range for a roughly constant offset that will be added to every output sample of data due to manufacturing variance. This can also change over time due to mechanical stress or temperature variation. This is where we find the problem: the typical bias for the ST part is +/- 20mg, while the Bosch part lists +/-95mg. This almost 5x greater offset range is confirmed by our measurements, and is absolutely consistent with the failures being reported by users and the media. Specifically, a +/- 20mg offset range would translate to around a +/-1 degree accuracy range in tilt detection, and a +/-95mg offset translates to +/-5 degrees in tilt.Jorma Ollila feels grief over sale of Nokia phones – admits to mistakes &gt;&gt; Helsingin SanomatOllila is now speaking publicly for the first time since the events. What exactly went wrong?Ollila sighs. The coffee cup on his table shakes.In his view there is no single cause, event, or culprit behind the problems of the company's mobile phone business. Many things link up with each other.But if some ultimate cause needed to be named, Ollila says that it would be the problems that Nokia experienced in software know-how. The problem was recognised already in the 1990s. There were plans to fix them, but they were not implemented."The Mobile Phones Unit once had 1000 people in Silicon Valley, with the task of picking up on new trends of software development. But we were not successful in the way that Google and Apple were later. This is the key failure for Nokia."A prisoner of the carriers, and its own software failings.Windows 8 finally starts to reconcile its two worlds &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue has praise for the improvements in what he calls "TileWorld" - formerly Metro. Then..These are all wonderful and welcome changes. What you may have noticed, however, is that virtually all of them are changes in TileWorld. All of them are designed for touch screens. These changes are solely for the benefit of people who've bought Windows 8 tablets and touch-screen laptops — all nine of them.On the other hand, almost nothing has changed for people who use the real Windows, the desktop Windows.And none of the changes listed above address the elephant in the room: the jarring juxtaposition of TileWorld and the traditional Windows behind it.Fortunately, Microsoft has taken a few steps toward reconciling these two wildly different worlds.The big news is that the Start button is back at the desktop, in the lower-left corner. Yet incredibly, despite the wails of the masses, clicking it still doesn't open the Start menu. Instead, it just takes you back to TileWorld.His conclusion:Unfortunately, all of it is a giant exercise in rearranging crackers on plates on deck chairs on the Titanic.His suggestion: split it into separate desktop and a tablet OSs. But who would dream of having different OSs for desktop and tablet?Signs your Android device is infected with malware (and what to do about it) &gt;&gt; CITEworldThe easiest way is to run a scan using one of many free or paid anti-malware programs. However, before we get to those, let's look at some of the signs that your Android device is infected.As with infected PCs, mobile devices that have downloaded malware can develop noticeable performance issues. Is everything taking longer than usual? Are you using up data at a faster rate than before? Does your battery seem to be running down much faster than previously? Are calls being dropped or interrupted with weird noises?We heard the other day of someone who got their first smartphone, and whose first question was which antivirus they needed for it.Budget electronics firm Coby went bust over the summer, kiss your warranties goodbye &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe company had been pushing its budget slates on consumers since the end of 2010, reliably introducing more and more (... and more) tablets, until it finally settled on the "Google Play + 7" + $150" formula many of its competitors continue to seek success through today. The company's last press release was published on February 7th, announcing that said $150 tablet had shipped.It now seems likely that this device was the last, dying effort to get Coby turned around, though, as for the last eight months the company has gone utterly silent. Lo and behold, about six weeks ago, a press release was quietly published by an investment firm known as the Gordon Brothers Group indicating it had acquired Coby and all of its assets for an undisclosed amount, presumably from sole proprietor Young Dong Lee.Samsung's Galaxy Round is a prototype device; will be available in limited quantities &gt;&gt; Android Beatit looks like even in Korea, the Galaxy Round will be available in limited quantities. According to one of the insiders of SamMobile, Samsung will only be producing limited quantities of the Galaxy Round. The Round is apparently a prototype device for Samsung to test its curved screens and gain some public feedback.Samsung had earlier taken the same route with the Galaxy S II HD LTE and the SCH-W850. This reason also explains the extremely high retail price of the device in Korea.Except the curved display, the Galaxy Round packs the same internals as the Galaxy Note 3 minus the S-Pen and its software tricks. It might very well be possible that we can see Samsung employ its flexible display technology in the Galaxy S5 or the Note 3′s successor.Do any other phone companies do this?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Wolfram Alpha, the search engine which bills itself as a “computational knowledge engine”, has introduced information about all 649 Pokémon into its database.The data includes the height, weight, and pokédex number of every Pokémon except those introduced in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y, the two games just released for the Nintendo 3DS console.Writing on the Wolfram Alpha blog, Michael Feltes explains that the introduction was spurred by the popularity of the Pokémon &apos;planar curves&apos; on the site.Wolfram Alpha has long had a feature which allows users to generate polar equations which, when entered into a graphing program, will draw a picture. Characters such asBatmanandSuperman, as well real individuals includingAlbert EinsteinandElvis Presley, can all be generated.But Pokémon planar curves, from well-known species suchPikachuandMeowthto more obscure ones (only true fans will have much affection forWailord) were consistently popular.And so, as well as information about individual Pokémon, the site now contains much else about the franchise, includingdata about the moviesandcharacters from the animé series.The most important additions (for a certain value of important) are those which can leverage Wolfram Alpha’s computational side, however.Unlike many search engines, Alpha can perform functions on the search terms, allowing users to search forthe shortest Pokémon(Joltik, the 4in long electric bug),to list all Pokémon weighing more than 500 lb(there are 34, with the shortest being just under 5 feet) orto find out how many Jigglypuffs one would have to stack to reach from the earth to the moon(749.9m).Feltes promises that “there’s a great deal more that we can do with Pokémon”, and asks users to let the site know what they would be interested in.• InPokémon, we present an idealistic world, the series&apos; director told Simon Parkin
Twenty five of the most promising UK-focused startups, including Zoopla, Moshi Monster creators Mind Candy and the taxi-hailing app Hailo are to receive targeted support from the UK government to help grow their businesses, it was announced today.The 25 companies were selected as part of the first Tech City “Future Fifty” project, which aims to find 50 high-growth companies with a substantial British interest and provide them the help they need to become the next Facebook.Tech City, set up by the UK government in 2010 to help East London tech companies into an international competitor to Silicon Valley, argues that such companies are crucial to Britain’s development.“Six percent of our companies generate 54% of our high-value jobs”, says Joanna Shields, the organisation&apos;s chief executive, “The tech sector is 8.3% of GDP, and it’s growing at 11% a year, the highest of any G20 country.”The companies in the first cohort of the Future Fifty will received tailored support from Tech City, as well as the UK government more broadly, to help them scale up their business as rapidly as they can.That could include advice on how to bid for government procurement contracts, or access to the network of British consulates and embassies to help overseas expansion.“The Future Fifty programme is action that will help these businesses to grow and achieve their potential, and help us to compete and thrive in the global race,” said prime minister David Cameron.Applications for the second phase of the scheme are open now. “What’s great is that in December we’ll be able to say that we&apos;ve got 50 phenomenal companies on our books”, says Shields.The make-up of companies in the first cohort are varied. As well as those based in London itself, there are British companies from Belfast and Edinburgh, and international members from Italy and the US. Box, which was born in Washington state, is one such business.The application criteria calls for a substantial investment in the UK and a significant management presence in the country as well. While the Future Fifty is primarily homegrown companies, it can also be seen as a reward for those, like Box, who made the decision to base in London rather than follow Google and Facebook to Ireland for tax reasons.When pressed on a particular stand-out member of the 25, Shields demurred. “You know what, we all had different choices. They’re such varying business that for me it’s the awareness that there’s such a great pool of companies out there. Really we&apos;re spoiled for choice.”Philipp Stoeckl, the programme lead for Future Fifty, pointed out that even though some companies may be less known than others, they are just as important to the British economy. “[Insurance software service] Acturis is different from Mind Candy in that they might not be as visible, but they’re equally as exciting.”The launch of the Future Fifty comes on the back of the news that Tech Cityis to welcome its first mainland Chinese firm, mobile gaming business Rekoo. As the area matures, its make-up of company’s will naturally change, from mostly home-grown start-ups to a broader mixture of new, old, foreign and British.Eventually, some of the Future Fifty companies may go public, and when they do, they will leave the project. The dominance of the London Stock Exchange helps that, and gives Shields confidence for the future.“I think the quote from last week which says it all is that Michael Bloomberg isn’t looking at Silicon Valley as the competitor to New York when fighting for new businesses,he’s looking at London. We’ve got great representation from large established organisations, who see the ecosystem as crucial for them… but also recognition that tech as a sector is crucially important for the UK.”•Tech City&apos;s doing well – but is it getting disproportionate attention?The full Future Fifty first cohort●Zoopla Property Group -owns and operates leading online property brands includingZoopla.co.ukand Primelocation.com. Its websites attract over 40 million visits each month.●Skyscanner– the world’s fastest growing international travel search company.●Onefinestay–a service that helps city travellers stay in beautiful homes appointed with all the creature comforts of a hotel in London, Paris, New York and Los Angeles.●Omnifone– an independent business-to-business provider of global cloud-based digital music services.●Neomobile– a global Mobile Commerce Group providing mobile payment and advertising services.●Mind Candy– an entertainment business delivering experiences both online and offline including toys, books, magazines, music, trading cards and movies.●MADE. COM– an online designer furniture retailer working with 40 world-wide established designers and collaborators to create exclusive designs.●Lyst– a personalised fashion marketplace that gives millions of people that personalised shopping experience every month.●Just Eat– a site which uses proprietary technology to offer an efficient on-line ordering service for the restaurant industry in 13 countries around the world.●HouseTrip– one of the largest holiday rental websites in the world, offering holidaymakers and holiday home owners a safe and easy-to-use platform to find, book and list holiday apartments, houses and villas.●Green Man Gaming– the fastest growing social commerce platform for core gamers which combines an automated game tracking community with a robust digital e-commerce platform.●Farfetch– an online fashion brand and shopping site which brings together a network of global partners including European and North American multi-brand designer boutique.●Box– a cloud based data provider that makes businesses more competitive, productive, and powerful by connecting people with their most important information.●Acturis– an innovative, cloud based Software as a Service platform transforming the commercial insurance industry.●Calastone Limited– an independent cross-border transaction network for the global funds industry.●Hailo– a free smartphone app which is revolutionising the way taxis are ‘hailed’, putting people just two taps away from licensed taxis at all times.●Horizon Discovery– a UK biotechnology company that combines a long scientific heritage in translational research with a world-leading gene-editing platform.●Huddle– a cloud content collaboration service used by government organisations and enterprises worldwide.●Lumimobile– employs world class patented technology to empower business insight and engagement through mobile devices.●Mimecast Services– delivers cloud-based email management for Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft Office 365, including archiving, continuity and security.●Repknight– the fastest open source intelligence (OSINT) platform in the world, sold only to government security services and police forces.●Zopa– the UK’s leading peer to peer lender, matching smart borrowers looking for low rate loans with savers who want higher interest rates on their returns.●Secret Escapes– the UK’s largest flash sales site for luxury travel, saving members up to 70% on luxury hotels and holidays.●Skimlinks– creates native monetisation solutions for publishers, rewarding them for any e-commerce they drive by turning product links and product references into easily tracked affiliate links.●Synthesio– a leader in global social media monitoring, helping brands and agencies listen to, understand and engage with consumers.
Samsung has offered a five-year pause in seeking European sales bans against rivals over standards-essential patents (SEPs) as it seeks to evade a huge fine from regulators.Rivals including Apple, Ericsson and Nokia will now be able to tell the European Commission - whose antitrust unitpublicised the proposals on Thursday- whether they agree with it or feel that it is too weak, a process called "market testing". Apple didn't comment on whether it would submit a response.But Samsung's proposals were described as "full of loopholes" and "sneaky" by analysts and observers of the smartphone patent wars between Apple, Samsung, Nokia and others. Florian Müller, a patents blogger who has consulted for Microsoft and Oracle, said that the proposed deal is worse than that imposed by the US's Federal Trade Commission (FTC) on Google's Motorola subsidiary over the similar use of SEPs to try to impose sales bans.And Boris Melodiev, senior analyst at Yankee Group, called the proposal "sneaky" and suggested that the EC will reject it.Joaquin Almunia, the EC antitrust chief, is already considering whether to levy a fine against Samsung for "abuse of dominant position" because it sought injunctions to stop Apple, Ericsson and other companies from selling their products in Europe, on the basis that they hadn't licensed its SEPs on terms it demanded. Rivals said the terms Samsung demanded broke the "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) terms on which SEPs must be licensed.Almunialast year issued a "Statement of Objections" against Samsungas it was attempting to ban sales of the iPhone and iPad in Europe over SEPs. Such a move by the EC often presages a substantial fine, which can be up to 10% of a company's global revenues. In Samsung's case that could be nearly £10bn. Just before the EC's move, Samsung withdrew its European SEP-related court cases against Apple, apparently to avoid further problems with Almunia.Samsung is also being investigated by the US Department of Justice for its aggressive use of SEPs to seek sales bans against rivals.Samsung and Apple in particular have tussled over patents and designs of their phones and tablets in courts around the world since 2010. Apple won a key battle in California in summer 2012, being awarded damages of $1.05bn against the South Korean company, which now dominates the smartphone space.Almunia emphasised that Samsung had abused its position as the holder of SEPs in order to obtain commercial gain: "The Commission considers on a preliminary basis that Apple was willing to enter into a licensing agreement on FRAND terms for Samsung's SEPs. However, Samsung started judicial proceedings seeking injunctions against Apple."Müller said that Samsung's proposals fell short of what the situation required. "Five years… is ridiculously short because there is no reason for which the abusive pursuit of SEP-based injunctions would be any more legal in five years' time than it is today," hewrote. He suggests that if the EC accepts Samsung's proposal, it would make the Commission "a supporter, not a fighter, of FRAND abuse."Samsung's 27-page proposal includes the suggestion that there should be a "negotiation period" of up to 12 months and that if no agreement is reached, that a third party - either a court or an arbitrator, as agreed by the two sides - should be used. If the two sides cannot agree on whether to go to court or arbitration, then they would have to go to arbitration.Melodievcommented: "I in no way anticipated Samsung would try to push through such a sneaky proposal to the EC. First, the SEPs Samsung has been accused of failing to license on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND) basis have no expiration period, meaning that abusing them will not be any more right or wrong after five years than it is now.""Second, if Samsung doesn't reach agreement with the company using its SEPs within the proposed 12 months, which seems very likely, it gives Samsung carte blanche to pursue injunction. I fully expect the EC to reject the proposal, which will leave Samsung with very little room to maneuver. Eventually, it must accept that it needs to stop using SEPs as a bargaining chip in its court battles."Müller criticised this suggestion too: "parties must always have access to a court of law, with or without agreement," he argued. "Anything other than that would be irreconcilable with the rule of law." In the US, court-determined payments have seen demands by Motorola against Microsoft over SEPs relating to Wi-Fi slashed from Motorola's demand of around $4bn per year to $1.8m, determined by a judge. Apple and Microsoft have previously pledged in Europe and the US not to use seek sales bans over SEPs they own.Standards-essential patents are key to the functioning of phones and computers to implement standards such as the wireless Wi-Fi, 3G, 4G and GSM standards, and the H.264 video coding and decoding standards.However the rules governing SEPs declare that they must be licensed freely on a "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) basis - so all licencees are offered the same terms. The basic value of SEPs has also been the source of dispute. Judges in the US have upheld the idea that SEPs should be valued on the inherent value of their function - which may be nothing more than calculating a mathematical formula for a frequency - rather than the usefulness of the standard which incorporates them. Using the latter can lead to a "hold-up" where a patent owner demands a large amount from a licensee because not implementing a standard could be disastrous to the licensee's business.•Samsung and its lawyers face sanctions in the US after a secret licensing deal between Apple and Nokia was leaked to Samsung executives.• Puzzled by SEPs, design patents, patent exhaustion and what you can do about it? Read ouressential guide to essential (and other sorts of) patents.
Amazon launched its UK assault on the highly competitive Christmas tablet market today releasing pricing and pre-order for its two latest tablets.TheKindle Fire HDX Android tabletswill cost between £199 and £489, depending on size and storage. Pre-order is available on Amazon&apos;s site and the tablets will start shipping from 27 November.The ad-supported 7-inch version costs £199 for 16GB of storage with wifi only, increasing to £339 for the 64GB variant with 4G and without ads in the US.The larger 8.9-inch Kindle Fire HDX with the same 16GB of storage and adverts costs £329 with wifi, and reaches £489 for 64GB of storage and 4G without ads.Removal of ads from the lockscreen and homescreen costs £10.Amazon&apos;s tablet will face stiff competition this Christmas fromGoogle’s £199 Nexus 7and £319 Nexus 10, and Apple&apos;s iPad Mini, which sells for upwards of £269.Arriving 13 NovemberThe new tabletsare now available for pre-order on Amazon’s site, with the wifi-only variants shipping on 13 and 19 November for the 7in and 8.9in sizes respectively.The 4G-connected tablets will start shipping on 27 November for the 7in HDX, with the 8.9in LTE variant arriving later on 13 December.The smaller 7inKindle FireHDX sports a full HD, 1920x1200 display – matching the resolution on the new Google Nexus 7 – and a 2.2GHz quad-core processor (upped from last year&apos;s dual-core 1.2GHz) and 2GB of RAM. Amazon claims its battery will last for around 11 hours of mixed use.The larger 8.9in Kindle Fire HDX also has a high-resolution display which at 2560x1600 pixels matches theGoogle Nexus 10&apos;s screenand betters the &quot;retina&quot; AppleiPad&apos;s 2048x1536.Combined with a smaller screen size - 8.9in versus 9.7in for the iPad - that gives it a resolution of 339 pixels per inch (ppi) compared to 264ppi for the iPad, which should make images sharper.It has the same processor and RAM as its smaller sibling, and claims a slightly longer 12-hour battery life. Both tablets come with 16GB, 32GB or 64GB of built-in storage.Mayday maydayThe Kindle Fire HDX tablets run a customised version of Android that lacks access to Google’s Play store and its 850,000 Android apps, restricted only to Amazon’s own app and digital media stores with a smaller selection of around 75,000 Android apps and content.Chief executive Jeff Bezossaid at the launchof the new Kindle Fire HDX tablets that he aimed to &quot;revolutionise customer support&quot; with a new “Mayday” service, which provides a video link to its customer service system where users who are having problems on their tablet can summon help by pressing a red button.•Tesco&apos;s new Hudl tablet is a £119 Android tabletwith more to offer than you&apos;d expect for the price• Tablets are expected tooutsell PCs in the run up to Christmas, and outsell PCs worldwidewithin two years
Everything about developer/publisher Blizzard Entertainment, the studio behind World of Warcraft, Starcraft and the Diablo series, is enormous.Its Californian HQ is guarded by a huge iron orc, the employees have giant personalities (often matched by beards), and even the cafeteria's portions seem otherworldly. It's a studio that operates on a scale beyond almost any other. Which is why it seemed a little surprising that, earlier this year, Blizzard announced its next title would be a card game: Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft.The name drives home a point. The old idea of a hearth as a place of friendship and warmth, a promise of an intimate world rather than a moonshot at the universe. "First off it wasn't just you," says Jason Chayes, the production director of Hearthstone. "We've had a lot of feedback about that. Hearthstone began like all our other games which is to say we start with the games we are excited about here, what are the games we're playing in our lunchbreaks or with our buddies at the weekend, and for a very long time now Blizzard has been a place where there are a lot of collectible card game players."Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft: 'We wanted you to almost feel those cards'"So there was always that thought of doing our own on the back burner," says Chayes. "A few years ago there was an idea to set up a new development team we're calling Team 5. There was an awareness that we have all these large teams working on huge projects, and we don't really have the capacity to jump on cool new opportunities as they come up. So once we committed the resources to that and began kind of spinning up development it became what they call a 'no-brainer' – it coupled our passion for card games with this smaller more scrappy team size. So that's where Hearthstone came from."CCGs head onlineCollectible card games (CCGs) are those in which a basic set of cards is supplemented over time with expansions containing new cards and strategies – both an exciting prospect for long-term players, and a killer business model. CCGs are a $2bn market worldwide and, though at the moment the money is still mainly in the physical realm (think Magic: The Gathering), the digital slice is ever-growing. Indeed, online is an area where the traditional big hitters have left the field open to a host of newcomers such as Cygames' Rage of the Bahamut.Blizzard is a new calibre of entrant. "With Hearthstone we knew from the start this would be a game to be played online," says lead designer Eric Dodds. "We realised over the course of development that a lot of the old physical conventions of card games just don't work so well online – so one example is turn flow, where you have actions that respond to actions which are then responded to and so on. That works pretty well when you're sitting at the same table as someone, but online that adds a lot of complexity and a lot of staggering – starting and stopping constantly, which doesn't feel good. So there are things common to all CCGs, but overall Hearthstone is its own thing."Eric Dodds: 'We knew from the start this would be a game to be played online'The most striking aspect of Hearthstone, initially at least, is the feel of the thing. Blizzard are masters of making a player's inputs feel crunchy and connected to the in-game action. Hearthstone starts with your opening a tactile box, and during matches the cards waver and move in your "hand", before slamming down on the board with great thumps. Even if Hearthstone wasn't a good game – and it's a very good game – the simple act of toying with it feels fantastic."I guess one of the things we talked about a lot while designing this game is making sure that it felt physical," says Dodds, "because when you're talking about card games that are in the real world we talk about opening the packs and shuffling and the new card smell and all these very visceral responses. So when we started working on the online game we wanted to keep the soul of that which is why we made the box, and the cards in the way they sway as you're moving them through the environment, and the buttons that feel and respond like physical buttons. We wanted you to almost feel those cards and that box in your hands even though it's a digital construct."Business modelHearthstone is currently in beta, an increasingly common way for online multiplayer experiences to be stress-tested before hitting the wider audience, but already feels like a finished product – Chayes says players can expect "one more level of polish" before release. At that point Blizzard will give away the game for free, and hope to make money from selling additional card packs and expansions."In terms of business model we normally start with the game concept first," says Chayes. "So Hearthstone began as making the best card game we could make. And when you have something you're happy with you start looking at your options in terms of business model, and in Hearthstone's case one of the aims was to keep it accessible – so with free-to-play people can try it for nothing and more importantly have the option to continue playing it for free. We don't have any paygates, there are no portions of the game impossible to access without real money. What spending money really gives you is the opportunity for quicker progress, so we have the Arena where you can either pay to enter or you can earn the currency in-game."The Arena is the only slight downside I found to Hearthstone's business model, and rather counter-intuitively this is because it's the best mode in the game. Upon entering the Arena you construct a new deck from pre-selected cards (different every time) then use this deck to battle other Arena opponents – each win makes your eventual prize better, while three losses means you're out. This costs either £1.49 or 150 gold to enter, the latter being an in-game currency gradually accumulated through completing challenges and winning games.Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft: will players be happy to pay to enter the Arena?The problem being that the drip of gold from playing is too slight to fund regular Arena entries – so you end up paying. This is always a delicate balance in free to play. Speaking as a consumer I'm happy to put money into Hearthstone for card packs at intervals, but not so happy to have to pay every time I want to play my favourite mode. In Blizzard's defence your Arena prize always includes at least one pack anyway, but such an argument pre-supposes you'd only play Arena for the prizes. Still, worth remembering this is not yet the final product.Chayes's point about keeping Hearthstone accessible is broader than the business model anyway: "This is a genre that hasn't really had the chance to break out to a mainstream audience. And that's a big focus for us internally, we believe there's such a fun core compulsion there in CCGs and maybe that fun's been buried a little deep. So with Hearthstone we want to peel some of that back a little, keep the depth of the game, and expose it to a much broader audience. We really think anyone can play this."Hearthstone is certainly a game that explains itself well, and the visual language is exceptionally clear, but the facts suggest Blizzard will have a tough time broadening this particular market. In the US, at least, just under 90% of digital CCG players are male andthe average age is 21 to 22. One could call this an extremely traditional market for digital products.'Perfect fit' with WarcraftI wonder whether, if accessibility is a core goal of Hearthstone, a fantasy world like Warcraft is necessarily the best choice of "wrapping". "Warcraft is a world that an awful lot of people know about," says Chayes. "So many people have become so immersed in the Warcraft world, and there's hundreds and hundreds of characters and places to draw upon. That's very important when you're making a CCG because not only do you want lots of different characters and locations players are familiar with, but you want them to have a connection too – and we've been seeing that as people have been playing Hearthstone, many are having this wonderful sense of nostalgia and getting super-excited about characters they remember from back in the day. It's a very rich and broad world to draw on that has tonnes of people already excited about it. So it seemed the perfect fit."The emphasis on character also feeds into one of Hearthstone's key design decisions – making your avatar a part of the action through "hero powers". In games such as Magic you basically play as a disembodied health bar summoning monsters, but in Hearthstone your chosen character can intervene in the game directly, by for example taking out an enemy minion with a fireball or sacrificing some health to draw an extra card.Jason Chayes: World of Warcraft is 'a very rich and broad world to draw on'"When we were working on the game initially we wanted to make sure that the heroes felt like they were concretely connected to their Warcraft counterpart," says Dodds. "So [the powers] make you feel that the priest is a healer for example, or the rogue stabs people, or the warlock is draining his own life for power. And while you have this stack of cards, that power really defines and helps that hero work – and from a design point of view are important, because when a player is choosing what action to take they look at their cards and the cost of their cards, then they look at their hero power and its cost."Hearthstone is not the first CCG to embody the player character in this way, but it remains a risk for the game's balancing – as you play more, there are cases where hero powers swing the balance in a manner that can feel frustrating. "The powers are all built at cost two because that means you can often combine them with cards," says Dodds. "So the combinatorics and complexity of the game become much more interesting with that hero power, because it's no longer 'Oh I have five mana so I'll play this five mana card.' Now you might play a card with cost three and use your power, and that might make for a better tactic. So it makes for a deeper game. And while our goal is to make a game that everyone plays, it's also very important that it retains depth because this is something we intend to support and want to see played for years to come."Typical Blizzard – this is a company known for not only the outstanding quality of its games, but its ongoing commitment to their communities and content. Hearthstone will be no exception and, despite the intimate name, already feels like a top-in-class CCG. A brutish comparison this may be, but none of the competition is even in the same league in terms of look and polish – a metric that carries more weight with players than any designer likes to think about. Add in the fact it's free and anyone who thought of this as a small project for Blizzard may well be eating its words ... soon? "You can expect one more meaningful patch [for the beta] with some cool features," says Chayes. "But we're getting pretty close now – we've said in the past it's our goal to get the game out this year, and we're feeling good about hitting that."
I build my own PCs, so I pay for the hardware, the Windows operating system, Microsoft Office and an internet security suite. All the other software I use is free: CCleaner, Exact Audio Copy, TrueCrypt, Anvir, ClassicShell, Dimension 4, xxclone, xxcopy, Firefox and Firefox add-ons Adblock Plus and NoScript etc.I use these all the time, and I couldn't do without them, but I've only ever donated to TrueCrypt. I feel that I should be contributing to them all, say on an annual basis.Some free software is a free (reduced functionality) version of a product that one can buy. Does one donate less for such software compared with open-source software where there's no product for sale?How do you decide how much to donate, and how often?  Is there some sort of norm?  What do you suggest?ChrisTricky question! There are a few simple cases, which I can cover, but there isn't a single answer.Some software publishers – whether companies or individuals – would like to be paid. The usual approach is to have a free version and a paid-for version with added features and/or support. Examples include AnVir, AVG and Malwarebytes. Some companies offer programs free for home use andcharge for commercial use, so you can buy the commercial version even if you're a home user. In all these cases, donations aren't really appropriate.Some publishers offer "donationware", but if so, they should make that clear, and make it easy to pay. They can do this by putting a donation button on their website, or inside the program. For example, if you click Help in Paint.net, the dropdown menu has a PayPal option: Donate. This takes you to aweb pagethat says: "We ask for a donation of  $12.00 US, but of course we appreciate any amount." Exact Audio Copy also has a donation page.I think $12 is a reasonable sum for Paint.net. You could donate up to $5 for a browser plug-in, $10-$15 for a utility, and $15-$20 for a more substantial program, such as a video editor like Avidemux, depending on the quality and usefulness of the software. You might want to be more, or less, generous but those are ballpark figures.The problem is that lots of free software suppliers don't have paid versions and don't solicit donations ... and they may not want them. They would need to set up a PayPal or Visa account or whatever banking system. Also, I think donations would count as income for tax purposes, so they have to be accounted for. Accepting money has overheads, and maybe they just don'tthink it's worth it.However, if you look atDimension 4, the website doesn't ask for money but it does say: "We love reading and responding to emails from our customers. On any topic ..."So the answer in this and many other cases is to drop the publisher an email, tell them what you really like about their product, and perhaps suggest a feature they might add. Everybody likes getting appreciative emails, and they may be valued more than the anonymous $5 you might have sent instead.In your email, you can ask if they have a system for accepting donations, or if they have an Amazon wishlist, so you could buy them a book or CD or whatever. (I don't think they'd feel obliged to declare the odd personal gift to the taxman.) You could also offer to make a donation to their favourite charity.It would be fantastic if we all donated even $5 a month as a regular thing. Even a small percentage of 1.5 billion PC users making donations would make an impact. But I don't think it's going to happen.PSAdblock Edgeis a fork of Adblock Plus without the "acceptable ads" feature.Not paying for Microsoft OfficeI recently bought a new laptop and needed some kind of office software, so I read your article headedMicrosoft Office: which version should I buy?In the article you state: "The good news is that under the new system, most home users don't need to pay anything for Microsoft Office: they can use the free, cloud-based service in the form of Microsoft Office web apps." I created a document in SkyDrive, as you said, but when I saved it to the laptop, it wouldn´t open and said I needed to buy the office software. Sorry, but I am confused!TriciaThe Microsoft Office Web Apps allow you to create Office documents online, save them, and email them to people without buying a copy of Office. But, usually, online services only work while you are online. If you want to edit the documents on your own PC, then your PC needs to have software that can handle them.If you only want to do word processing, all is not lost. Microsoft Windows includes a free, lightweight word processor called WordPad. Run WordPad, click in the top left to open an existing document, and you can load and edit the document you downloaded from SkyDrive. You will get a message that says "WordPad does not support all of the features of this document's format. Some content might be missing or displayed improperly." However, if you're just doing ordinary stuff, you're unlikely to see any difference.WordPad lets you save your documents in several different formats including plain text (.txt), Rich Text Format (.rtf), Microsoft Office Open XML (.docx), and OpenDocument format (.odt). RTF is a good format to choose as you can use different typefaces and almost any word processor can read it, but it isn't very efficient if your documents include pictures or diagrams.Many people find it useful to have a copy of Microsoft Office Home &amp; Student both to create documents and to read documents they download or receive in emails. But if you don't want to buy a copy, Microsoft provides free viewers that enable you to view and print these documents on your laptop. You can download theWord Viewerand use it to read and print, but not edit, the document you created in SkyDrive.There are also viewers for MicrosoftExcelandPowerPoint. Again, these will work on your PC.You could also try one or two of the free open source word processors.AbiWordis buggy, has an old fashioned interface, and has limited compatibility with Microsoft Office, but at least it's fairly nippy (or was, when I last tried it). There's alsoLibreOffice Writer(from the old OpenOffice suite), which is more powerful but slower and even buggier.
Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, is so frustrated with the state of government IT that he has installed his own Wi-Fi network in his Westminster office.Maude had the wireless network set up “so he can use his phone and iPad in his office”, according to a source close to the ministerquoted by the Daily Telegraph’s Georgia Graham, who quotes a source as saying the Cabinet Office’s systems are “clunky” and “rubbish”.Those &quot;rubbish&quot; systems cost about £7,000 per employee, and are designed with government security in mind.But four of the six levels of security classification are to be depreciated in an effort to allow Cabinet Office staff to use more off-the-shelf hardware.Only &quot;secret&quot; and &quot;top secret&quot; labels will remain unchanged, with 90% of documents reverting to “official” classification.Security researcher Rik Fergusondescribes Maude&apos;s “willingness to endanger the security of the parliamentary network, systems and data” as “incredible”.“If he really has ‘installed his own Wi-Fi’ … then that network segment will not be configured, managed or audited by security experts in the House of Commons, rendering them blind to the the risks it represents,” Ferguson adds. “Actions like those of Mr Maude demonstrate, yet again, that it’s not only the bad guys you have to worry about.”•The last government&apos;s IT overruns ended up costing £2bn
Apple, which was named the world's most valuable brand earlier this week toppling Coca-Cola, has higher store sales per square foot than any other retailer in the world. But can Apple's store portfolio cope with the demands of millions of new iPad and iPhone owners.Angela Ahrendts, Burberry's chief executive,has been poached by Apple to run their retail empire from next summer. And the hope is that her experience of creating a global network of stores for Burberry, will help push Apple's in-store service in the right direction.Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, has said that Ahrendts "places the same strong emphasis as we do on the customer experience."The last person to run Apple's retail empire, former Dixons boss John Browett, was fired after less than six months in the role in October last year.Do you work in an Apple store? What changes do you think Angela Ahrendts needs to make to improve Apple's in-store customer experience and meet demand?
Power plants across the US and Canada could overheat, shut down or be caused to malfunction because of vulnerabilities that leave them open to hacking,according to new research.If exploited, the vulnerabilities could be used to crash or potentially hijack the servers controlling electronic substations, water utilities and power plants.Adam Crain, Chris Sistrunk and Adam Todorski, who are working with industrial consultants Automatak, found 25 zero-day vulnerabilities – flaws which have never before been seen in the wild – in the protocol by which power plants and other parts of the electricity grid communicate internally.Such protocols are rarely examined by security researchers because they are isolated from the internet, the usual source of hacking attacks.In addition, the specificity of the protocols, known as supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, means that the are thought to have a sort of security through obscurity: if few know how they work, then it is hoped no one will have the knowledge to exploit them.Crain warns this is a false comfort. “If someone tries to breach the control center through the internet, they have to bypass layers of firewalls,”he told Wired’s Kim Zetter. “But someone could go out to a remote substation that has very little physical security and get on the network and take out hundreds of substations potentially. And they don’t necessarily have to get into the substation either.”Project Robus, the name for the team’s ongoing search for vulnerabilities, has so far reported nine of the potential exploits to the vendor who designed each one, as well asthe US Department of Homeland Security.Most of the vulnerabilities allow potential attackers to send controlling servers into infinite loops, rendering them unable to respond to commands from controllers. That isn’t the same as rendering them unable to control the utilities, but it could mean that the operators in charge of sections of the power grid are blind to conditions on the ground.The worst of the vulnerabilities exposed so far enables a potential buffer-overflow attack, whereby code stored for one purpose “overflows” its container, and can end up being executed when it shouldn’t be. At its most serious, this allows for code to be injected into servers, which could allow attackers to take over the whole system.• This is thecyber equivalent of a nuclear strike– and yet our electricity grid is more vulnerable than ever
The Sony Smartwatch 2 is the third iteration of Sony’s smartwatch platform that acts as a second screen for almost any Android 4.0 smartphone.With its upgraded interface, slim hardware and waterproof body, Sony has improved its smartwatch in almost all areas, while maintaining its functionality as a solid timepiece.Designed to look like a watchThe Sony Smartwatch 2 strikes a fine line between looking like a nerdy gadget on your wrist and resembling a regular watch.Sony Smartwatch 2: designed to look like a watch.It is square, but as its aluminium body is only 9mm thick it is not that much chunkier than an oversized watch and will fit comfortably under a shirt cuff.Following the lead of recent Sony smartphones such as the Xperia Z and Z Ultra, the Smartwatch 2 is waterproof with an IP 57 rating, which means it is watertight at up to 1m deep for 30 minutes.In reality that means you can wear it day to day without having to worry about getting it wet while washing your hands or running through the British downpours, as long as you’ve ensured the micro USB protective cover is properly closed.Sony sells the Smartwatch 2 with black rubber strap; however, it also offers a range of coloured rubber and leather straps. The Smartwatch 2 also uses a standard 24mm watchstrap fitting, meaning you can customise the strap with one of your own and aren’t tied to Sony’s options.The top of the device is dominated by a 1.6in transflective touchscreen LCD which – unlike most LCD displays currently in use – allows you to see the display without a backlight by reflecting ambient light.Sony Smartwatch 2: persistent time display. Photograph: /SonyThat means the Smartwatch 2 has a persistent, readable display that shows a watch face by default and makes it very easy to use the smartwatch to actually tell the time, something that’s important if you’re replacing a regular watch with it.Unfortunately the display is decidedly low resolution, which means text from notifications, as well as pictures and even the watch faces, look pixelated at times.The screen is something you can and do get used to, but compared to the high-resolution, pixel perfect screens of most smartphones today, it has noticeably lower fidelity.SpecificationsScreen:1.6in transflective LCD with 220 x 176 pixelsProcessor:280MHz single-core processorOperating system:Modified bespoke variant of AndroidConnectivity:Bluetooth 3.0, NFC, micro USBDimensions:42 x 9 x 41 mmWeight:122.5gWater resistance:IP57Intuitive to use, just like AndroidPairing and setup of the Smartwatch 2 is pretty straightforward using NFC and Bluetooth – one tap of an NFC-equipped phone and the software takes care of the rest, prompting you to download any software you need from the Google Play store.For those using an Android phone without NFC – any phone with Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and up with Bluetooth will work with the Smartwatch 2 – you simply have to pair the phone and watch via Bluetooth.Sony has given the Smartwatch 2 a low power, single-core processor in an effort to balance battery life with the physical size of the device. Processor power is always a trade-off, and for the most part Sony’s Smartwatch 2 performs well enough.Unfortunately that doesn’t mean the experience completely lag free.Sony Smartwatch 2: slim profiled aluminium bodyBattery life is relatively good, and I got a good four days of usage out of the Smartwatch 2 with quite a few alerts and apps running. You would probably need to charge it once every three days to be on the safe side, but a full charge takes about an hour.The Smartwatch 2 runs a bespoke variant of Android, which resembles the regular platform with a homescreen full of app icons and the usual Home, Back and Options buttons below the screen. There’s even a slide-down notifications tray, just like Android on a smartphone or tablet, which is where the lag creeps in.The Smartwatch 2 can hang when a notification is being accessed, failing to respond to taps and swipes for a second or so. It’s not every time, and seems to be linked to the watch’s Bluetooth connection to your smartphone, but it can be annoying.The watch vibrates to notify you of incoming actions, including phone calls which pop up and allow you to dismiss or answer them, if you have a Bluetooth headset connected – there are no speakers or microphone hidden within the Smartwatch 2.Navigating the interface is relatively intuitive using swipes and taps, which again resembles the way an Android phone or tablet is operated. A long tap brings up an options menu, which is unique to the particular app that’s currently in use. Often that can be a bit confusing, as some apps allow you to clear notifications, and others, such as the Twitter app, allow you to, for example, retweet.Sony Smartwatch 2: NFC pairingApps galoreSpeaking of the Twitter app, out of the box the SmartWatch 2 comes with limited functionality, offering built-in apps that allow you to set timers or alarms. Everything else needs to be installed from the Sony SmartConnect app, which handles the management of the smartwatch and is available for free in the Google Play store.Sony has produced apps for handling calls, reading text messages, email, Facebook and Twitter updates, as well as calendar alerts, photos and music control.Beyond that, users are reliant on existing Smartwatch apps, available from previous iterations of the Sony platform, which kicked off with the LiveView in 2010. Three years later there are about 300 apps available for the Smartwatch 2.Unfortunately, it would be unfair to say there’s an app for everything – there is no app for handling Google Hangouts for instance – but developers are actively producing apps for services such as WhatsApp.PriceThe Smartwatch 2 starts at £149, which comes with the standard black silicon rubber strap and a Runtastic Pro application.Sony Smartwatch 2: digital watch face.Verdict: A great second screen for your smartphoneThe Sony Smartwatch 2 is more of a second screen for your Android smartphone than a true smartwatch. It has very limited functionality without being paired with a phone.It does, however, function very well as a timepiece, which some other smartwatches certainly don&apos;t, and it is readable in any lighting conditions thanks to its transflective display.Sony has managed to foster a relatively large third-party app collection for its Smartwatch range, which bolsters its functionality significantly. Sony says the Smartwatch 2 is a work in progress, and it is actively listening to customer feedback and updating the watch with new software and features.Twitter notifications are handy, as well as having access to your text messages or email on your wrist, but the Smartwatch 2’s low-resolution screen, limited functionality beyond notifications and £150 price make it more of a novelty than a must-have item.Having said that, if you&apos;re after a smartwatch that works with any Android phone with version 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and above, then the Smartwatch 2 is arguably your best option right now.• Star rating: 3/5
Russia’s go-to search engine,Yandex, has launched a free and open-source challenge toGoogle’s App Enginecalled “cocaine”.The open-source platform as a service (PaaS), allows creation of custom cloud-hosted web apps, such as theGoogle-owned Panoramiolocation-based photo service, supporting C++, Python and JavaScript programming languages, with Java and Racket support in development.The tool is available fordownload on GitHub, and can be installed on most custom hosting web servers, providing an automatic scalable platform to manage custom web apps and their processing demands.The difference between Yandex’s cocaine and Google’s App Engine is that Google’s offering solely provides web app hosting on its own servers.Cocaine can be run on personal web hosting anywhere in the world – and crucially, following theNSA revelations– not necessarily routed through the US.• In July, Yandex&apos;s 48-year-old Russian founderdied in Londonafter losing his battle with cancer
Kim Dotcom may be seen as a villainous pirate-king by the creative industries, but his Mega cloud storage service is attracting white-collar professionals, according to its chief executive Vikram Kumar."The segment that seems to be most interested in Mega, and in paying for space, security and privacy tends to be professionals," Kumar told the Copyright and Technology conference in London this morning, beaming in for his keynote interview via Skype."Accountants, lawyers, financial advisers, architects... These are people that want to use the internet, are concerned that their confidential client information may get compromised, and who are willing to pay for security and privacy online."Dotcom launched Mega in January 2013, a year after his previous companyMegaUpload was taken down after a police raid. He recruited telecoms exec Kumar in February as CEO of the new company, leaving Dotcom to continue fighting US charges of criminal copyright infringement, while working on a digital music service called Baboom.Kumar was keen to stress Mega's credentials as a law-abiding service. "The simplest explanation of Mega, particularly for those people who've used Dropbox is that its a secure and faster Dropbox," he said. "It's essentially a cloud storage company, but in the future it wants to become more of a cloud collaboration and communication company."He also stressed that the service, which has 5m customers so far, is currently attracting a very small number of copyright takedown notices from rightsholders. "Mega has on average about 2-3m files uploaded each day, and we get around 100 takedown notices for alleged copyright infringement every day," he said."That's a very very small number for any online service provider. In comparison, YouTube gets 15m takedown requests every month, so the numbers tell us that Mega is not being used for wide-scale copyright infringement."One of Mega's main selling points is its end-to-end encryption technology, with the company promising users that since their files are encrypted on their devices before being uploaded, Mega never sees the decrypted versions – and nobody does unless the uploader gives them the decryption key.The obvious question is whether this is the real reason Mega gets so few takedown requests: copyright owners can't see infringing files being shared on the service if they don't have the keys, unlike the technologies and partners they use to detect infringement on other online services?Kumar suggested that if rightsholders' main concern is their music, films or TV shows being shared, they'll still be able to spot this infringement, since it requires decryption keys to be shared publicly. However, he added that Mega intends to crack down on external search engines claiming to index files stored on the service."Let's be quite clear: Mega doesn't want that happening. We don't think search indexes or anything that encourages copyright infringement or illegal use of the service should exist," he said."We don't want those websites out there, and to the extend that we can do anything about it, if they're using 'Mega' in a way that conveys the impression to people that it's linked to the company, we are able to take action either for trademark violation, passing off or fraud."Mega CEO Vikram Kumar Skyped in for his Copyright and Technology interviewMega isn't planning to add features that could be seen either as facilitating copyright infringement, or which would require licensing deals with copyright owners: for example, the ability for people to stream music or films directly from their Mega storage, even if they own them."We are quite clear that we don't want to have files that are uploaded stored and that can be streamed as an audio or video from Mega, because that's not Mega's purpose," he said.Kumar criticised rightsholders for their approach to copyright takedowns with other companies, suggesting that the automated nature of both sending takedown notices (for rightsholders) and acting on them (for services like YouTube) leaves the process open to false positives."There are a large number of copyright notices being sent that would truly not stand up to scrutiny in a court of law," he said. "Most service providers are so afraid, they act on every copyright notice. So I think there is a fair amount of files being taken down which, if they were examined individually, would not stand up to scrutiny as meeting the bar for takedown."Kumar hinted at big plans ahead for Mega to provide storage for other web services, apps and even consumer electronics devices, citing the example of an unnamed manufacturer that's using Mega as the cloud storage provider for its connected TVs."It has no storage, it has no place to keep any files. So what they do: the apps connect with Mega in the back-end, for storage," he said."If you have a digital video recorder, which time-shifts recordings, the TV can't store the time-shifted recordings anywhere, so it stores them on Mega's cloud storage, and pulls them down whenever it needs it."Kumar smiled at a follow-up question on how pay-TV providers might respond to this kind of feature, if it starts to disintermediate their own services and hardware."I think there's a lot of industries that have got disintermediated by the internet and cloud systems," he said. "There hasn't been that much shakeup in the TV industry. I see that coming in the next 2-3 years. Am I concerned? Probably not. As a customer, I would enjoy that."
