Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's that? The latest instalment of ourTech Weekly podcastnot only features Jemima finding out more about the BBC's Kingswood WarrenR&amp;D facility, but also an interview with DIY digital media ubermenschAdam &amp; Joe- heroes of the YouTube generation? Wow!I should go and listen right now!.
Sony have confirmed thatPlay TV- the rather nifty Freeview TV tuner for the PS3 - will be released in the UK on Sept 19th. Play TV - which will cost 69.99 GBP - allows users to record Freeview TV onto their PS3 and will offer most of thestandard PVRfacilities that users of Sky + and Freeview equivalents from the likes of Humax will be used to. Think pausing, scheduling etc. PlayTV has two tuners, meaning you can record one channel while watching another, and games can apparently be played at the same time. Of course you have to think that most people who have a PS3 are early-ish adopters who are likely to already have a digital TV service of some sort. For me the clincher is the ability to easily transfer your recordings onto PSP* Anyone who tried this with standard PVRs will know how fiddly this can be. So PlayTV should make the morning commute a little more bearable. Expect more details from Sony at next week's Leipzig Game Convention. PS3 owners - tempted by PlayTV?*Sony have told me that the only way to watch on your PSP is via Remote Play and not via direct transfer. Hmm. Remote Play is fine - and rather impressive - when you have a wifi connection but will be pretty useless for catching up with Eastenders on the bus or train to work. I'm hoping to get a PlayTV demo in the next couple of weeks but clearly the lack of direct transfer is a big big blow.
The Bristol-basediglabis running an evening of pervasive gaming fun on Thursday 14 August in advance of its forthcoming weekend-longigfest, happening 19-21 September. Some of the games on parade this week include:i'm dead famous me, a celebrity based treasure hunt challenge collect your shocking secrets before the paparazzi expose you.Sneaks and Blaggers, life sized snakes and ladders played in a car park running up the stairs and down the slopes.The Zone, Three explorers enter the Zone, a seemingly normal landscape, tragically transformed into a physically and mentally dangerous environment. They must stay together because they each have a unique sensing device that can alert the others to the menace around, by themselves they will not survive.These are all games that have been submitted to the Lab for the Festival, so head down to try out what the creative types are playing at. The fun kicks off at 7:30pm on Thursday at thePM Studio.
Bath-based web developer-turned-publicity hound Ryan Carson has been persuaded - by Digg's fratboy-in-chief Kevin Rose, no less - toshave his head for charity. All sounds like jolly hockey sticks and all that, but I have one question. How will anyone know if henevertakesoffhisubiquitoushat?
There has always been something massively disingenuous about Eidos celebrating each new episode of Tomb Raider - a series ostensibly based around a strong iconic female character - with a raunchy photoshoot featuring some anonymous ingénue. But anyway, the company has revealed the latest real-life Lara - and, hey, in tune with the series' move away from its big-chested past - she's not just a thrusting young model-turned-actress. No, she'sAlison Carroll, 'a BGA accredited Club Coach in Tumbling, Sports Acrobatics, and General Gymnastics', according to theofficial site. From GameDaily:As part of the role, Carroll is now "studying" the movements of Lara Croft and she's training in survival, combat and semi-automatic weapons. She's also taking archeology coursework to better understand the mythology and exploration themes present throughout the Tomb Raider franchise.This will no doubt prove invaluable as she spends the year posing awkwardly with dual pistols at a series of photoshoots and disturbing live appearances.But of course, as we all know, it's been a long time since anyonereally, reallycared about Lara Croft. Yeah, Underworld looks pretty impressive, but it's going to take the mother of all archeological adventures to make us forget some of the wretched slop Core Design served up before Eidos bundled Croft into the back of a fast car and dropped her off at Crystal Dynamics.Thing is, for a long time, developers failed to find something - or someone - to fill the Lara-shaped vacuum in the release line-up. I wasn't sure about Nariko, whose terminal status ensured she retained the victim complex so often prescribed to female characters. Meanwhile, ongoing DOA and Soul Calibur installments have been mere exercises in lascivious wish-fulfillment.But now there's something resembling an embarrassment of riches - rather than just an embarrassment. Against the new generation Lara is looking rather dated. Take for example,Bayonetta, the insane witch hard-ass and titular star of Sega's forthcoming hack 'n' slash odyessy. She clutches two pistols but she also has revolvers bolted to her ankles and attacks enemies with her Medusa-like hair, which transforms into weapons to beat enemy monsters to horrible death. She's not a trite feminist icon, she's an elemental, mythical force, part harpy, part Grendel's mother. Which is a lot more interesting and challenging than an ex-public school girl in shorts.Faith from DICE's futuristic free-running adventureMirror's Edgeis interesting both for her narrative role as a dissident activist operating against a totalitarian regime, and for her physical presence. It's a first-person title, but the view is skewed so that in combat and acrobatics, body parts fling into view. There's a sense of ownership, of identification with the character, that Lara's third-person viewpoint actively avoids. Her ambiguous ethnicity also globalises the character - she is much more 21st Century than Croft.It's a little too early to speculate on Sheva Alomar, Chris Redfield's African partner in Resident Evil 5, but again, her background as a mentally scarred anti-terrorist operative brings her into sharp contrast with Core's primly conceived intellectual princess.Ultimately, Lara Croft symbolises the hope, the empty confidence, of the late-nineties. She's a new Labour poster girl. She's a Blair's babe. But we know that's all vacuous and empty now - and as a feminist icon she's always been on shaky ground. Faith and Bayonetta, on the other hand, are interesting embodiments of Donna Haraway'sCyborg manifesto- transgressive, post-race, post-human. A long way from posh pouts and pistols.
On this week's Tech Weekly,Aleks Krotoski,Bobbie JohnsonandJemima Kisschat withAdam BuxtonandJoe Cornish– the comedy duo collectively known as Adam and Joe – who have been promoting user-generated content on television since the mid-1990s.They offer their insights into what makes content producers tick, and a few suggestions on how to make the most of the web as a platform for distribution.JemimainterviewsAndy Bower, acting Head of Broadcast Research and Innovation at Kingswood Warren, the BBC's locus of new technological developments.Over the years Kingswood Warren has brought the world colour TV, Freeview and Ceefax, among other things. With the land set to be sold and the team set to be relocated to Salford in 2010, we find out whether the move threatens the corporation's R&amp;D output, and whether licence fee payers should be better informed of the work it does.All this plus the latest on the Apple iPhone, the hackers bringing down Microsoft Vista and your views on these stories and more.Don't forget to:•Comment on the show•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Andrew Chenhas used Google'sInsights for Searchsystem to plot the use of websites such as MySpace, Facebook, Digg and Twitter on a US map. Some cover the various states pretty well, and some are concentrated in California. Of the odd chart above, he says: "Twitter has a surprising profile - it's very strong within the states where it has any presence, but is basically dead outside of it."Update: As Ciaran Norris points out in a comment (thanks!),TechCrunchhas redone some searches with dramatically different results. TechCrunch's Erick Schonfeld comments:Based on this data, there actually seems to be pretty broad-based interest in Twitter across the US -- with the possible exception of Wyoming. So what gives? It turns out that Chen included the ".com" at the end of each site's name when he created his maps ("techcrunch.com," "twitter.com," etc.). I can see why he might have done that -- to filter out any searches that were not for the sites themselves. But I think that method also cuts out a lot of relevant searches as well. Only nerds add the ".com" in the search box when they are looking for a site.
Former Microsoftie turned BBC big cheese Erik Huggers has decided the future is not only bright, it's open. Today Huggers has said that Auntiewill be dropping proprietary standards: "I believe that the time has come for the BBC to start adopting open standards such as H.264 and AAC for our audio and video services on the web. These technologies have matured enough to make them viable alternatives to other solutions." How kind of him. Behind the scenes the BBC has been making these versions of media for some time (the iPhone version of iPlayer has used H.264 all along), but it's worth it... if only to dump the incredibly irritating Real Player.
Photograph: Brooke WilliamsBlink, the 2005 book by Malcolm Gladwell, the New York-based writer and author of Tipping Point, explored the value of 'rapid cognition' - tapping into the unconscious to make snap decisions.His rough thesis was that offhand decisions are often better than those made with reams of data to hand: that our instincts are more important than we would like to believe. (The subtitle of the book was "the power of thinking without thinking").Since then, Gladwell has moved on and is currently writing a book about how innovation happens (a subject touched on by John Naughton on guardian.co.uk just this Sunday). The subject could be incredibly interesting, even if some of the material he's published along the wayhas left me a little cold.So - three years later, and with a new book in the pipeline, you'd think Blink might be history. However the academic world moves slowly, and researchers at the University of New South Wales, led by Dr Ben Newell, aresuggesting that 'think' might beat blink after all:In the new study, to be published in The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, scientists ran four experiments in which participants were presented with complex decisions and asked to choose the best option immediately ("blink"), after a period of conscious deliberation ("think"), or after a period of distraction ("sleep on it"), which is claimed to encourage "unconscious thought processes".In all experiments, there was some evidence that conscious deliberation can lead to better choices and little evidence for superiority of choices made "unconsciously".It's a contentious issue, of course, but worth pondering (or, depending on your position, perhaps not).Does more data mean better decisions? Or should we go with our immediate feelings? Or, perhaps, are we taking the Blink argument too literally by putting the two in conflict with each other?
A tip of the chapeau toEric Filiol, head scientist at the French Army Signals Academy's Virology and Cryptology Lab. At the Black Hat conference in Las Vegas on Thursday, he "demonstrated what he called the Windows Jingle Attack, a method for encoding a user's password into audio data and concealing that data into the Windows startup tone, a publicly audible sound that can be read from afar with a local or remote microphone and then decoded," reportsInformation Week.
The British hacker who broke into the Pentagon's and Nasa security systems today won a two-week stay on his extradition to the US.Gary McKinnon, 42, lost his House of Lords appeal against the extradition last month, but today he was granted a stay until August 28 by the European court of human rights.McKinnon, dubbed "the world's most dangerous hacker" by the American authorities, faces up to 70 years in prison and his solicitors say he could even be given "enemy combatant" status, the same as that applied to terrorist suspects held at Guant&aacute;namo Bay.A brief statement released by McKinnon's lawyers said he had been granted "interim relief" until August 28 "for his application to be heard before the full chamber".His application to halt his extradition will argue that his human rights would be infringed if he is sent to the US.McKinnon argues that he cannot be granted a fair trial in the US, after American officials involved in the case allegedly told him they wanted to see him "fry".The unemployed UFO fan hacked into 97 computers belonging to the US military shortly after the attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon in 2001, using the codename "Solo".American officials claim he infiltrated systems belonging to the department of defence, the US armed forces and even Nasa - causing $700,000 (£354,000) damage and threatening national security.McKinnon has consistently argued that he was just a "bumbling computer nerd" who caused no damage and was merely searching for evidence to prove his theories that the CIA had covered up the existence of aliens.He has never denied that he infiltrated the military security systems, but has always maintained that he was motivated by curiosity and only managed to get into the networks because of lax security.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Everyone seemed to agree that theOlympic opening ceremonywas impressive - even if Chinafaked the fireworks. But it proved a little more troublesome for the tech teams in charge - with part of the display crashing and showing the infamous Blue Screen of Death. While TV viewers might have seen the BSOD flashed on screen for a millisecond, people in the stadium got a better view... and a blogger called Rivercoolcooltook photos. (viaWaxy)
TheEdinburgh InteractiveFestivalmay still be going strong north of the border, but sights are already set on what will be forthcoming with theFringeassociated with theLondon Games Festival. TheFringe-yevents, held 25 October-2 November, are this year going to be decided byyou. FromTheDaveGreen's email:You don't need to be a shop or a software company, you don't even need to know much about video games - all you need to take part in this year's London Games Fringe is a good idea for a games-related get-together. And a venue to hold it in, ideally.You can bet your bottom bumpkin that The Guardian will be there in spades; rumours about that there will be both another GameCampanda Have I Got Games News For You Pub Quiz Spectacular. But why should we do all the work? Eh? Eh? After all, the organisers are looking for a few good event ideas fromyou, and we wouldn't want to let them down, now would we.Here are more details from thewebsite:This year, the Fringe is particularly interested in crossovers with other creative industries - film, TV, design, theatre, and others - to explore their differences, similarities and collaborative possibilities in the multi-platform digital future.... if you've got an idea for a Fringe event (whether it's during the last week in October or not), please send a brief outline as soon as possible to: events@londongamesfringe.comYour event will receive marketing and publicity support from the LGF team, and will be in the company of other user-generated events likethe Soho Project, which will be running during the Fringe for the second year in a row.
Computer Weeklypoints out that Transport for London isending its £100m contract with Transys, the company that runs the Oyster card. Why? Not directly because of a software glitch last month thatwiped 40,000 cards- or an investigation by Dutch researchers that found the system washackable. Apparently, London mayor Boris Johnson simply thinks he can get more for less - or, in press release speak, "enhanced services for less money".
Georgia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still getting out information, despite Russia adding a cyberwar to its invasion of the tiny country: it's using Google's Blogger:http://georgiamfa.blogspot.com/Other posts are at theState Minister For Reintegration's Blogger site, which is standing in forhttp://smr.gov.ge/when that's not working.There's alsoRussian Georgian War, which has an interesting "flag counter" that shows the biggest number of visitors come from Russia.Fear is evident. Georgia shares a border with Chechnya so it probably has a good idea ofwhat Russia is like.
Rod Cousens - MD of Codemasters - has just given an interesting speech at the Edinburgh Interactive festival, detailing the pitfalls of outsourcing work to foreign studios instead of investing in British talent. (Morehere.)For those out of the loop as far as modern development practices go, outsourcing is a common solution to rising staff costs which involves hiring an external studio, often based in the Far East where labour is cheaper, to produce in-game elements. Recently, I visited several studios in the North East of England for Edge magazine and found that most already owned small studios in places like China and Vietnam, or were in the process of getting them organised. With 'next-generation' development costs so high, it's sometimes the only way UK companies can compete.But it seems Cousens would like them to think again, warning that overseas outsourcing has hidden costs, including high staff turnovers and rising salaries. "UK development is worth investing in," he declared, "It is strong, vibrant and creative, and as far as I'm concerned, it's a case of Rule Britannia".Rousing stuff. But it will no doubt prove interesting to Vietnam-based studioGlass Egg, an outsourcing specialist which counts Codemasters as one of its clients. It may also confuse the chaps at Indian companyDhruva Interactive, which has contributed art to the Colin McRae and TOCA games. And what of Codemasters' own Malaysian studio, set up in 2006 via a deal with local company Vision New Media? It would seem cheaper labour was very much on the agenda back then, ifthis news reportis anything to go by:[Codemasters International chief financial officer Dave Wilson] said with the opening of Codemaster's first Asian base in the Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC), the company expects to be able to strengthen its hold on the high-end racing genre by being able to deliver high-quality art and animation at theright price.When I visited Codemasters earlier this year to get a look at the excellent Race Driver GRID, I mentioned the seeming paucity of art staff working on the project. I was told by a senior member of the team that a lot of the car modeling had been, yes, outsourced. I didn't ask where to. Perhaps it was to a great British studio?
Officially announced at the Star Trek Convention in Las Vegas and endorsed live onstage by Leonard Nimoy, Star Trek Online is set to take Gene Roddenberry's sci-fi series into the realm of the massively multiplayer online RPG, finally uniting the geekiest space fiction brand of them all* with gaming's geekiest genre. Yes, if there is a geek version of the Richter scale, there must have been needles twitching like freshly splattered roadkill on Sunday night, whenCryptic Studiosprovided more juicy details of its intentions, after first mentioning the project back in July.Set in 2409, several decades after Star Trek Nemesis, the game provides players with a starship and a crew, and allows them to indulge in both ship-to-ship and person-to-person combat as they explore the universe undertaking missions and trading with aliens. The lead character and spaceship are customisable, and you can choose from various familiar species - Vulcans, Klingons and Endorians among the launch offerings.So, having laid on the geek thing pretty thickly, effectively alienating both the Trekker community and the vast MMORPG fanbase,isthis the geekiest game of all time? Does Warhammer Online have it beat? Or perhaps Sim City? Or Microsoft Flight Simulator? Which videogame is history's biggest digital dork?*This comes from someone who once worked in a video shop and watched Next Generation episodes for several hours every day. Every day. (Favourite episodes: 'Cause and Effect' and the brilliant It's a Wonderful Life-referencing, 'Tapestry'.)
· Scientists in the US say they are one step closerto making an 'invisibility cloak'(BBC) · Microsoft hopes that making deals with Hollywood willboost sales of the Zune(Reuters) ·Barack Obama has enlisted Rick Astleyin his race for the White House (YouTube)
Thomas Hawk is the pen name of a photographer, blogger and web startup CEO who operates in the San Francisco Bay Area, and he is widely admired both for his blogs and his participation in "photo walking" -- as documented on video by A-list geek blogger Robert Scoble. Within that field, it's hard to think of anyone who has freely given more to more people, and in a gift ecomony, this means he has enormous influence.However, someone clearly not aware of Hawk's stature -- and who didn't care about it -- had him thrown out of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. This is not really a problem for Hawk, but it looks like becoming a major problem for the Museum, and its staff.Hawkblogged about the event, as he'd said he would, calling the Director of Visitor Relations at the museum anasshole, later reduced tojerk).Hawk's friendJeremiah Owyanghas pointed out that the online reputation of the individual referred to is now toast. Since he doesn't have anything like Hawk's online presence and widespread support (via blogs, Flickr, Zoomr, Twitter etc), the incident is likely to dominate any related searches for the foreseeable future. Two of Owyang's seven conclusions are:* Bloggers with large social media platforms are incredibly powerful, and must recognize the long term impacts of their actions. * Businesses should assume every customer (and employee) is capable of impacting an individual or company's online reputationIn a comment (#28) to this post, Hawk has responded as follows (in part):The SF MOMA does not belong to Simon. He is merely a hired hand entrusted to help manage it for the public benefit. Yelling at paying members from the atrium floor, accusing people of taking down blouse shots, all of these things are entirely unprofessional. Even here though I was willing to let the situation go. But when Blint refused to examine my photographs, refused to discuss the matter rationally, refused in any way to diffuse the situation and simply insisted on throwing me out of the museum with the help of two security guards, I felt blogging the incident was the correct thing to do.It was at this point that I *told* Blint that if he ejected me that I'd be blogging this. It was at this point that I told him that this would affect his online reputation. He told me he did not care. I gave Blint *every opportunity* to diffuse the situation and ample warning of what was coming his way.Having the physical power to throw someone out of a museum is trivial and fleeting. Having the power to destroy someone's online reputation is decidedly non-trivial, and may well last.SF-MoMA is proably just starting to wake up (on a Monday morning) to the problem it now faces -- not just the threat to its image, but ultimately the threat to its finances. It will be interesting to see how it tries to handle it.
Forget the rather paltry 20GB hard drive shipped with the standard Xbox 360, Microsoft has confirmed that the console will now come with a 60GB hard drive as standard. The new system will remain the same price - RRP 199 quid - and will available from this Friday. With the amount of decent stuff on Live now -Braidis my current fave - you can see how the space is needed. Although you have to feel sorry for current owners who want to get a bigger hard drive. No price is available for the standalone 60GB drive yet, but if it is anythinglike the 120GB versionit is unlikely to be cheap. And you have to wonder where this leaves the other 360 variations. The Arcade 360 - the console with no hard drive, aimed at "casual" players - now seems pretty poor value at 160quid while the 120GB Elite seems a little overpriced at 259. And of course, changing the hard drive size has no impact on the technical problems which have plagued the console. Anyway, larger hard drive then - is it enough to tempt you to buy a 360?
There are thousands of websites covering the Beijing Olympics, and many people will turn to the ones run by theirfavourite newspaper, TV channel or local Olympic association. In the UK, for example, we have theBritish Olympic Association's site for Team GB supporters. But over the course of the games tens or even hundreds of millions of people will visit the official Beijing Olympics site. Is it up to the job?It should be. The first conference on the site's design was held in 2003, where the focus was on accessibility. The official site has to cope with several languages – for example English, French and Spanish, plus Arabic and Chinese. It has to cope with people who cannot see, or cannot hear, or have limited movement. Ideally, it should also be able to work with different hardware, operating systems and browsers including PCs, terminals and mobile phones.This creates a lot of tension. For maximum accessibility, you can't beat plain text. However, web designers generally want their sites to be colourful and compelling, with lots of images and videos. Finding a balance involves lots of compromises.A large part of the official site also has to be functional. Visitors want to know what's on where and when, and how to get to it. They want to know which athletes are competing for which teams. They want to know who won, whether the Olympic record was broken, and so on. This is not a trivial task when you have more than 10,000 competitors appearing in 37 venues.Given the size of the challenge, Beijing 2008 doesn't do badly. It has a traditional menu on the left that covers the obvious categories such as news, schedules, athletes and venues. On a horizontal menue across the top are Olympic days, but no dates. The numbering runs from -2 to 16, with the opening ceremony (Friday) on day zero. Monday August 11 is therefore day 3, not day 4.The site does havelots of videos. Most of these seem to be in Windows Media Video (wmv) format, which offers fast streaming with WMP9 or later; some are in Real Media format. Even before the games opened, I found videos were already having to stop for buffering.For Olympic video, YouTube may do better.Beijing 2008 isn't attempting live video, but there is a box headed Olympic Video on the right hand side. Select your country and it pops up a new browser window that offers some coverage. The UK link leads toEurovisionSports.tv, while the USA links to NBC'snbcolympics.com.There are some annoyances. First, I couldn't get theOlympics E-mapto work at all. Second: you need to allow popups because Beijing 2008 frequently opens content in new browser windows. Third, it doesn't offer a "text larger" feature for Internet Explorer, and the default text is quite small.It will be interesting to see ifLondon 2012can do better. There are only 1,479 days to go!
Three MIT students who worked out flaws in Boston's transport ticketing security have had their talk at theDefconhackfest blocked by a judge. According to theBoston Globe, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority issuingZack Anderson, RJ Ryan and Alessandro Chiesa - and MIT itself - accusing them of, well,being rather bad.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
I didn't have time to ask all your Fallout 3 questions in myrecent interview. But Pete Hines at Fallout 3 developer Bethesda has come up trumps and now answered the ones I missed. So read on and found out - amongst other things - about Fallout pacifism and how melee combat works.Will weapons require a minimum Strength? Or only a minimum in its governing attribute? (Perception = Energy, Endurance = Big, Agility = Small).Weapons do not check for minimum stat values, you can use any weapon you want, the skill/stat just makes you better or worse with the weapon.How will Attributes be weighted in regards to the Skills they govern? If you want to max out your Big Guns or Speech skills, but don't spend the SPECIAL pts bumping up Endurance and Charisma, how effective will those skills be? Would a 100% skill level in Speech be ineffective if you only had a Charisma of 4, etc?They provide a boost or bonus to the skills they govern. I don't think we'll get more specific than that as far as exactly how they integrate with Skills. If you put extra points into a SPECIAL, it'll help those Skills beyond what level they're currently at. If you spend all your time leveling up a Skill to a very high level, it's safe to say you'll be very effective at using those skills outside of what the governing SPECIAL is.Is the Intense Training Perk (permanently raise one SPECIAL) a one time use Perk for one attribute, or one time use PER attribute, meaning you could spend 7 Perks/Levels upping each of your SPECIALs?You can use it more than once, so yes you could keep upping each of your SPECIALs, but that's going to come at the sacrifice of being able to do quite a bit of other stuff with available Perks, skill boosts, etc.Is the steal skill really gone, or is it just merged with something else?It's part of Sneak.Though Oblivion looked gorgeous on the PS3, there was a noticable dip in framerate when things got busy. Has the work you did converting the PC original of Oblivion to the 360 and subsequently the PS3 assisted you in developing Fallout 3 for the same target platforms, and allowed further optimisations in performance?Well, it didn't work that way. We didn't convert the PC to the consoles, but the gist of your point is whether working on all that has helped with Fallout 3, and it absolutely has. We have WAY more detail on the screen, loading is faster, and so on. I would imagine you'll see a noticeable difference.In Fallout 1, there were only three key locations that you needed to visit to complete the game - The Cathedral, Military Base and Necropolis (the last one being optional, actually) . These places could be done in any order, creating Fallout's exceptional nonlinearity. Is Fallout 3's main quest structured in similar fashion?Hmm, parts of it are, parts of it aren't. There are several large sections of the main quest that you can actually skip if you do things right.Specific body parts cannot be targeted when fighting with melee weapons or in hand to hand combat. What is the reason behind this decision? Does melee/HtH fighting offer something else to compensate?We tried many ways of doing melee with VATS, and having messed a lot with "missing" in melee, it just felt really bad. So once we changed VATS melee to "always hit", assuming you are in range, the body part selection became a bit unbalancing, so now it's a "whole body attack", but you still do end up hitting a specific body part when you swing, but it's based on what you actually contact with, as opposed to what you aim at. This avoids the "always punch in the head" problem, whereas with guns, we can balance out certain body parts with hit percentages, like the head.Charisma influenced the speech skill, NPC's responses and how many followers you could have. Since Fallout 3 allows only two followers, has Charisma's role expanded to some other region?Even though you have only one follower, having a higher Charisma definitely helps in Speech challenges and successfully using special dialog options you have when talking to folks. Also it's very helpful in bartering with people.Can you tag Medicine, Repair and Barter, and focusing on those skills, still be able to complete the game?Sure. We recently had someone play through the game and finish it while only killing one thing very early in the game...a Radroach. I'm not saying I recommend everyone run out and try to play the game as a pacifist, but if you want to give it a try, it has been done.Will damage effects be area specific? Like if I shoot the arm, the arm gets bloody/blown to bits. So far the demos show *head gets shot, leg gets blown off*.The demos look like that when the character in the demo has the Bloody Mess perk. Bloody Mess randomly makes parts fly off that aren't related to what gets hit. You should recognize that aiming at a part (eg, head) doesn't always mean that's the only part that either does or doesn't get hit. A shot at a head can hit an arm, or an arm shot can hit a leg. But yes, damage effects are area specific. Each body part has a status bar that lets you know how much damage that part has taken. Once that bar goes down to zero, that part is considered crippled and the enemy will suffer the effects. Incidentally, it works the same way for your character and you'll also suffer those effects as your body parts get crippled.Can I gain reputation with Supermutants? Or ghouls? Or even Raiders? Can I work with them instead of against them?We're not really talking about that yet.Can we 'skin animals' to make/sell stuff?"Mostly" no. There are a few instances of using animal parts to make and sell stuff.
Whether team GB hits its target of bringing home 41 medals from the Olympic games will depend on more than just the talent and hard work of the athletes. Winning at the top level also means having the most advanced kit and the best training strategies.In the run-up to the games ministers were keen to point out that the government had put far more money into elite sport compared with previous Olympics. Since 2004, top athletes and their coaches have received £265m, compared with £84m ahead of the Athens games and £63m before Sydney.Whether that will translate into more medals remains to be seen, but much of this money has gone into developing new technologies that should give British athletes the edge over the competition.TrainingCompetitors will be eyeing up their rivals for advances in the equipment they use – more aerodynamic bikes, more powerful kayak paddles and the like. But many of the technological advantages will be invisible once the events start."The biggest gains are certainly in the training period," said Dr Scott Drawer, research and innovation consultant with UK Sport. He has been funding university scientists and companies to develop technologies that will allow coaches to assess the performance of their athletes more accurately and more quickly so that they can give more effective feedback. "Developing measurement technologies to understand how people perform is an absolutely fundamental part of coaching," he said.His researchers have borrowed innovations from Formula One, aircraft design and the defence industry and have made a particular impact in kayaking, rowing and sailing. For example they have fitted miniature sensors to kayak paddles and rowing blades to measure the force applied in each stroke. That information can be combined with accurate data on the boat's speed from a GPS sensor."By putting all those sensors together you get a really accurate picture of how an individual is performing. You can then relay that information in real time to a coach ... and they can see, for example, what the athlete is doing and how they can change their technique," said Drawer. Much of the innovation has come in the software to combine the information in real time.DivingAnother sport where new training aids could make a difference is diving. Previously, competitors practised new, more complicated dives over a trampoline. But the step up to doing it for real in the pool was a large one. Getting a new dive wrong could result in a belly-flop and a serious injury.To prevent this, researchers have developed a harness worn by the diver that is attached to the ceiling of the training pool. The harness gives them the freedom to perform twists and somersaults, but by holding the other end of the ropes the coach can control the diver's descent and slow them down if necessary. The harnesses have been used at elite diving centres in Sheffield, Southampton, Plymouth and Leeds.The harnesses were built by Dr Dave Richards, team leader in engineering design at Fraser Nash Consultancy. He said the device helps the athlete learn the feel of the dive more safely. "It's for when you are first learning and you are trying to visualise what you are going to see," he said. "It is to help the athlete learn orientation as they are doing the dive."The difficult part was fitting the harnesses. "The challenge for us was putting them up in swimming pools that weren't designed to take them," he said. That meant using corrosion-proof, lightweight materials.Heat adaptationAlthough Beijing's 32C to 33C is positively balmy compared with the raging heat of Athens, adapting to the conditions is vital for athletes in every event. More difficult to deal with at these games is the 70% humidity which means that the body's natural mechanism of evaporative cooling via sweating is less effective."We are looking at other ways other than evaporative heat loss to remove heat from the body," said Prof Mike Tipton, an expert in human physiology at the University of Portsmouth who has been working with the Olympic team.At its most trivial this means pre-cooling kit, for example the protective clothing that fencing competitors wear during a bout, by putting it in a freezer. Other strategies include ice vests, cold hand baths and clothing containing cooled water or glycol. Another strategy is to help athletes acclimatise to the heat in advance by training in an environment that mimics the heat and humidity they will experience on the big day.Improvements in one aspect of a sport, for example reducing drag by changing the shape of a cycling helmet, might cause other problems, perhaps because the new design retains more heat."The aerodynamics, particularly in the cycling events and triathlon events, can make quite a significant difference to the amount of effort that's expended," said Tipton, "but if the cost of that is that body temperature reaches the level at which heat exhaustion is likely then it is not a trade-off you are going to accept." Tipton has been involved in assessing other new equipment to check it will not affect the athletes' physiological performance.CyclingTeam GB hopes to boost its cycling performance from the four medals won in Athens to six this time around. Most of the innovations to the bikes are top secret to stop other teams copying them. Only the competitors and a small group of engineers and scientists – whom Drawer calls the "secret squirrels" – know what they are.One training aid that has been revealed, though, is a more sophisticated cycling simulator or "ergometer" that can be more easily tailored to different cyclists to give a realistic ride while remaining stationary in the lab or in the training room. "It is very adjustable to different people, but it also much better mimics the track cycling event," said Richards.The innovation was to include a large flywheel with a fan in it that mimics the change in resistance that a cyclist experiences during acceleration. Because the ergometer always reacts in the same way – unlike cycling on the track which might be affected by different air pressure or temperature – the cyclist and coach can accurately compare the effect of different training regimes or acceleration strategies.&middot; This article was amended on Tuesday August 12 2008. We meant to accredit Dr Scott Drawer to UK Sport, not Sport England. This has been corrected.
You might not have heard ofKingswood Warren, a stately pile in Surrey, but you've used the technologies they've pioneered there in the 60 years that it's been the home of BBC research and innovation: colour TV, Ceefax and Freeview for example. But, as Jemima explores in a feature today, the site is getting ready to moveas the Beeb cashes in on the land. A move for the better? Few are convinced, it seems, aside from the bean counters.
It's a fact of life that Internet users won't pay for anything unless they have to -- some evenprefer to steal thingsthey can get free -- but Salon magazine is hoping that readers will chip in small amounts to read good blog posts.Open Salonis a sort of co-operative blog landing page, and readers can leave tips usingRevolution MoneyExchange, a micropayments system backed by the "father of AOL", Steve Case.Salon says:We will also be featuring a specific type of content every day on part of the home page. Our current schedule is:Monday: A great travel photo (Tag: Roadie).Tuesday: A review, recipe or post about food or wine (Tag: Foodie).Wednesday: A stellar personal narrative (Tag: True Story).Thursday: A response to an Open Call.Friday: Our favorite pet photo (Tag: Aw).Saturday/Weekend: The Big Stories: Your posts on/summaries of the big stories of the week (Tag: Big Story).It looks good for Salon: it will increase its traffic, and it should get some good stories that it can incorporate into its online magazine. Whether bloggers will make much money, if any, is open to doubt. Web users typically bitch about whatever they get for nothing. The idea that a significant number might part with real money for blog posts sounds very unlikely to me.
If you've got the Monday morning blues, this might not help - apart from, perhaps, causing a stifled laugh: IBM is preparing to releaseLotus Notes for the iPhone. The software,despisedbyzillionsof users, will be out later this year, calledLotus iNotes Ultralite. (ThanksBill)
One of the dotcom boom's great survivors will today take the plunge with his latest venture, an internet incubator and its first offspring, a web operation that helps small and medium-sized businesses find the professional services they need.Maziar Darvish's most recent dotcom business, AIM-listed Internet Business Group, merged with online marketing group TMN this year. Now he has started Neutron Ventures, one of the first internet incubators in the UK since the bubble burst. Incubators, which promised to take ideas and turn them into multimillion-pound online businesses, failed to live up to the hype in the late 1990s.Neutron, which is funded by Darvish and a number of private investors, will take majority stakes in its companies, with its first venture, AssuredTrade.com, going live today. It helps small and medium-sized businesses buy everything from accounting and legal services to office cleaners by putting a tender on the website that potential suppliers can view. Suppliers who want to bid for the tender pay a small fee for the contact details.
"The municipality of Hengelo and the University of Twente (UT) are paving a test road section in Hengelo with air-purifying stones. The top layer of the concrete stones converts nitrogen oxide from exhaust fumes into harmless nitrates,"says the university.The top layer of the paving stones is made of air-purifying concrete. This concrete contains titanium dioxide, a photocatalytic material which uses sunlight to convert the nitrogen oxides in the air into harmless nitrates. The rain then washes the streets clean.The stones are being made byStruyk Verwo Infra, based on a Japanese invention.ViaCNet
One of the half dozen versions of the great Slegehammer on YouTubeFormer Genesis front-man Peter Gabriel has been profiled inThe New York Timesfor helping to pioneer commercial music downloads with OD2 (On Demand Distribution) in 1999, though it wasn't such an outrageous idea, given than Napster was already popular. But according to Gail Colson, his former manager: "He seemed to be able to see the future of music and technology at least a decade before anybody else."Gabriel's other ventures include Real World Records,Womad(World of Music, Arts and Dance), investing in Solid State Logic (SSL), "a leading maker of high-end recording studio consoles",Mudda(Magnificent Union of Digitally Downloading Artists),We7, an advertising-driven music site, andTheFilter.com."He's very technically savvy," says Tom Teichman, chairman of Spark Ventures, which is a partner with Mr Gabriel on We7. "He carries all the latest gadgets, understands what the artistic involvement can be and is very clued up on the business model. That's an extremely unusual combination, and he does it in a chummy way."Those attributes set Mr Gabriel apart from most musicians and, indeed, from most record executives. "Technology has always shaped music," he says, "be it 78s, 45s, LPs or CDs, it changes the shape of the music. With downloading, the artistic change hasn't really hit yet. But it's turned the economic model on its head. The major record companies have some smart people looking at digital models. But the question is, will the people at the top be willing to turn the business upside down?"The story ends:"I don't believe in the death of the major record companies," Mr Gabriel says. "But as an artist, I'd love to see them reinvented as service companies."
We don't have room in print for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but do here. Energy policy turns out not to be so boring after all...LITHIUM FUTURESElectricity as it exists in most countries is a highly polluting form of energy. It is clean at the point of use (which is why you, Panorama and lots of other people presumably think it is environmentally friendly) but mostly it is generated using fossil fuels - and this is the problem. Somewhere, typically miles away from the user, is a power station belching out CO2 and NOx. Typically, electricity is no more than 20% efficient because of losses in the power station and distribution losses so 80% is wasted. So it is worse than gas and an electric car is far worse, for example, than a diesel in terms of CO2 emissions expressed as grams/km. So please stop perpetuating the myth that electricity is a clean fuel. Global warming is such an important topic that the public deserve to be well informed. John Miles, Professor School of Engineering, Cardiff University&gt;&gt; A lot of time and blather is being spent trying to figure out what the car of the future will run on. It would be much better spent if we'd admit there isn't a future car and that our basic assumptions about society and economics need examination.nakedcapitalism.com&gt;&gt; Part of the setback has been the historic volatility of the electric car market and sequels to "Who Killed the Electric Car" playing in the nightmares of auto industry execs, which have hindered investment in lithium source exploration. A powerful assist could come from a sharp reduction in the cost of making those lithium-based batteries--that would make the cost of developing and manufacturing the vehicles significantly cheaper, and therefore less risky to the carmakers.plentymag.comMOJAVE&gt;&gt; Microsoft's 90% stranglehold on operating systems is perfectly OK on the trust-o-meter, even though it gives Europe fits. Which would be all right, if it were any damned good. But Microsoft's operating system underpins a whole menagerie of functionalities that don't function -- at least not well. What can be said about a system so vulnerable that it writes pothole-filling patches at the rate of 60 last year alone? Five a month? You can choose to call them 'security updates' or any user-friendly name you dream up, but they're still holes in the road.opinion-columns.com&gt;&gt; In a study that was anything BUT scientific or double-blind, Microsoft presented a display of Vista's assets in a carefully orchestrated dog and pony show that wowed the audience. Microsoft will hopefully garner support and sales of Vista for its efforts; however consumers must realize Microsoft controlled the entire demo - from hardware selection to choosing specific elements of the software for demo.onsitenola.wordpress.comWIKIA CHANGES&gt;&gt; That's right, we're tired and shocked and bewildered by [Wikia's] new ads that obscure and move around and basically ruin our content, and so we're in the middle of a planned move to our own server. It's funny that we've caused this much of a stir. Oh, Wikia. Oh, dear, sweet Wikia.shortpacked.livejournal.com&gt;&gt; Looks like I got quoted in the liberal media again. I'm a little less angry - in part, because Wikia has left WikiFur alone for now - but yes, those words had teeth. I really do own the mark, most links have been changed, and our new server is being readied for deployment. I don't make empty threats...just promises. :-)greenreaper.livejournal.com&gt;&gt; The struggle between community and platform is but one modality however, and the TFWiki initiative points to an alternative, which is for peer producers to build their own platforms and not to rely on the goodwill of the platform owners.blog.p2pfoundation.netSHORT URLSThe article in today's Technology Guardian ("Pointing the internet in a new direction") and Jack Schofield's response to a letter on this topic, fail to consider the user experience. I can understand that the user statistics are interesting to you, but there are better choices than bit.ly, which has two major flaws. First, using mixed upper and lower-case letters means I can't read and memorise the short form then type it into my browser. Second, if I set up a bookmark to bit.ly, the webpage which appears has an additional "/go" appended, so I can't just type the short URL on the end. XRL is worse. It replaces the bookmarked URL by an entirely different one which doesn't accept the short URL at all. Notlong is also out, since you have to type the short URL before "notlong.com". In short, if you don't like TinyURL, only Qurl, ElfURL and SnipURL (not in fact case-sensitive, as far as I can tell) are really user-friendly. Please, please consider using one of these! Romilly Bowden, Bognor Regis [In response, we're creating simpler URLs with bit.ly - Tech.Ed]&gt;&gt; I remember several years ago when the right answer to this was given wrong on University Challenge; but you'd think that, after all this time, The Guardian's Technology section would know what URL stands for. Tip: it's uniform, not universal.devilgate.orgCAN TOUCH THISWith regards your discussion on whether or not touchscreen technology will take over from the mouse (or keyboard) you did not even touch (excuse the pun) on the reason touch technology has become so popular. This (in my humble option) is simply down to the emergence of "cheap" multi-touch displays. Multi-touch has lead to a slate of new ideas on how one can interact with modern technology, with computers unusually being one of the last to join in on this new approach (phones are way ahead at the minute) mainly for practical reasons which are currently being addressed. I agree with you when you say it is unlike to over take the keyboard in most workplace environments (at least in the near future), given you can already use your 10 fingers to work with a keyboard. This is the subtle difference between why I see touch becoming a "mouse-killer" and not a keyboard-killer. A mouse is so annoying and I don't know about you but it gives me a terrible pain the my "mouse-finger"! A touchscreen display (with an adjustable arm to move it closer to you and into a suitable position) would be far more superior given with multi touch you would now have 10 pointers to manipulate the screen rather than just the one with the mouse (imagine using a keyboard with one finger,annoying!!!). When the hardware and software is in place to take advantage of multi=touch on a PC, the touchscreen will be a "mouse-killer" which is already taking over accessible areas like handheld devices (i.e. mobile phones &amp; laptops). I could go on further about were I see it being used in workplaces and the likes but I won't as I've written enough already! Michael Ruddy, Nava, IrelandGAMES PIRACY&gt;&gt; Like everything else tho' the economic wheels keep turning and it sounds like a saturated market in which it's difficult to succeed. The potential not merely for revenue but as a platform to forge one's skills as a designer is attractive tho'. How do you get started?e-m-e-r-a-l-d.livejournal.com&gt;&gt; It boggles the mind how one industry can so clearly get it and work with it, whilst another stumbles aimlessly around trying to justify its current existence. However, if you go sideways, there are some intriguing parallels to this. Freeing data and knowledge sets allows an individual to come up with and explore new ideas. It also means that potentially some revenue will be lost if there are charges involved. Well, it's going to happen any way but one might as well accept this and work on ways of making the original source more appealing and useful.austgate.co.ukDEAR GORDON, ENERGETICALLY YOURSYour article today in the Guardian is pure plagiarism - I have been saying that for at least five years!!! I shall send a copy of your article to no 10 and ask what the PM intends to do about it. I think Miliband understands what is required slightly better than Brown. John Ellis, LlandysulGood letter, and similar to one my father wrote to me thirty years ago. This is the galling thing, all this has been known about for decades. I picked up a geography text book printed in '84 just recently and it pinpointed all the human problems back then, about which we have done virtually nothing: overfishing, habitat destruction, overpopulation, finite material sources, water care. The list is scary. Personally I've never had much truck with a society that puts consumerism at the top of the list and from which our wealth is apparently subservient to and quite frankly, being a bit of a part-time doom merchant, I'm reasonably happy this is all kicking off at last. After the Twin Towers were dropped one of the first things [George] Bush said was, "keep on spending". It rather gave the game away. You're right about [David] Cameron. Silly me, I wrote to the Tories five years back that they had to absorb environmental policies to get anywhere, so sucking the life out of the Greens and Liberals. And Labour has been such a crashing failure I find myself in a situation where I am considering a vote for the blues next time around. Saying that I shall have to sign off anonymously. Paul Scott, EastbourneFinally someone who speaks a bit of common sense. We should have been acting 10 - 15 years ago on this issue. We have the greatest 'natural' resources in wind and sea power and refuse to utilise them. David Alford (no post town given)Why doesn't the government want individuals to generate their own energy? Because if all of us were generating our own energy from solar imagine how much revenue the government would lose from the decline in profits from the energy companies. Unless of course they come up with some clever way of taxing us for sunlight........... Paul Wake, LondonGreat article, it's a shame you didn't write that to Thatcher/Major when they were destroying our energy infrastructure during their last term. Anthony Burton, Leamington SpaLike your drift, but the fact is that the only real solution is to go largely nuclear, urgently - I'm not against solar panels or tidal barriers, but wind farms are ugly, low-yield and pathetically unreliable. You need to be a bit more realistic in advising the "immovable object" on what has to be done. Investment should be put into finding a best-of-breed solution for nuclear waste storage/recycling/etc, which is the only issue worth addressing on energy policy. Oh, and the planners need to be told to stop forcing builders to install gas-fired central heating (!) and to insist on electrically-driven systems. Brian Crabtree (no post town given)May I just add a few thoughts to your brilliant article (I genuinely hope Gordon Brown will read it). Simply swapping coal-fire plants to renewable/green energy sources will not be enough solve the UK's energy-problem. It is the culture and the attitude that should be changed, while installing alternative energy sources. This country has been generous with energy since the industrial revolution. Once the UK was abundant in coal, wood, cheap labor in the colonised territories and industrial goods imported from its colonies. But the good, old days are over and British people seem not to realise it. Almost half of the food we buy ends up in the bins [and] Jeremy Clarkson, prophet of fuel-burning is more popular and known than any scientists or activist who design or promote green energy. Buying dirt-cheap clothes from Primark and not thinking about the consequences (where the clothes come from and who suffers from the consequences) is acceptable and a norm. Wasting energy is the very part of the UK's culture and lifestyle. I came to the UK to fulfill my dream, to study music and become a musician. After two years of living here I am full of fury and anger. You have choices and alternatives which I do not have where I am from (Hungary): with my partner we use eco-detergents and washing powder, switch of electrical devices before leave home, use public transport instead of cars, will change energy provider soon, etc. Most people in London, where I live, never get to this stage. It is the culture of 'I-want-it-and-I-want-it-now-whatever-the-price-is'. It is the culture of the Beckhams, Rooneys and Jordans. I work with poor, young people who want cars advertised on TV, fancy clothes, iPhones and gadgets. Many of them become criminals to get these goods. Again, I am full of anger. With my partner we will get married soon and want children and it is the British and Western culture that screws up my children's future. Once an excellent Guardian article about green lifestyle stated clearly: positive changes of a society start from the people, never from the government. We should not expect Gordon Brown to save us. The countdown has started and if the British society keeps wasting energy and resources, no wind farms and solar panels will save the UK. Greg Lorincz, LondonBrilliant! Couldn't have put it better myself!! Brown's only hope is to grasp the nettle and do something decisive on this critical front. Who do you blame most for this mess - the Thatcher dash for gas, energy privatisation and destruction of coal mining? Or the subsequent Labour dithering over nuclear and lack of "carrot" for renewables - esp solar. Surely solar panels should now be obligatory on all new housing? Is our planning permissions process so labyrinthine than nothing ever seems to get done? e.g. I remember talking about the prospect of a Severn barrage when I was at school 35 years ago. Can't see it happening until people are actually starving! Are there worthwhile pressure groups people can join? (not just Greens - I want a realistic, coherent national energy policy that includes Nuclear) Are other countries doing much better than us....think I can guess the answer! Do you think new technology can feasibly make coal fired stations Carbon neutral (ish) or is that just wishful thinking? BTW..... How do the French dispose of their nuclear waste? Anyway thanks for an inspiring and thought provoking article. Paul Sherrard, BathHere are some of the major issues. 1: Energy is the nation's lifeblood and should have its own Minister of State like Defence, Health and Transport. It is quite absurd that with all the challenges to our energy supply, national &amp; international, Energy has been hived off as a subsidiary of the Department of Business, Enterprise &amp; Regulatory Reform. 2: Given that gas supply, like oil, is likely to remain in the hands of private speculators there are vital issues such as the provision of adequate gas storage facilities and the infrastructure to import store &amp; distribute LPG which need urgent review. It is by no means axiomatic that these facilities are best supplied by 'the market'. We do not, for example, expect the transport industry to build our roads. 3: Electricity is a secondary fuel but is of equal or even greater importance to oil and gas in terms of security of supply at the point of use. It is largely generated by carbon-emitting processes - about 70% of our electricity is generated in this way and despite all our efforts to develop renewables is likely to remain thereabouts for the foreseeable future. We therefore need to reduce demand for electricity. 'The market' is unable to achieve this objective. 4: Virtually all our electricity generating capacity will need to be replaced in the next 2/3 decades. Will 'the market' oblige? 5: The major primary fuels available to us for electricity generation are coal (indigenous or imported), gas (ditto) and nuclear. These all have technically feasible but very expensive waste disposal problems (CCS in the case of coal &amp; gas). Are these to be left to 'the market' to resolve? 6: The national electricity grid was built by the nationally owned Electricity Council and is now in the hands of a private company ("National Grid") which is responsible for the management &amp; refurbishment of the system including new connections to off-shore wind farms. Who picks up the bill? 7) In the longer term there are possible developments such as solar-generated hydrogen from North Africa which may be best coordinated by the EU but will require major government input. David Hayes, BristolThat was a welcome call for some more visionary leadership, but there is one aspect which needs bringing to the forefront. Invariably articles on energy seem to get trapped into comparing the alternative forms of energy resources and the methods of harnessing them and do not put the use of energy in the context of conservation, recycling and control relative to the need for energy. We have people like E-ON making a case for burning coal on the basis of false claims that otherwise our energy requirements will not be met - virtually trying to blackmail us into accepting their use of coal CO2 energy capture 'or else' - and claiming that energy conservation will not reduce demand sufficiently to avoid enduring reliance on fossil fuels. 'We cannot conserve our way out of the energy crisis or global warming' seems to be their mantra. The truth is that we have simply build our lives around a profligate use of primary energy from fossil fuels that everything is designed without thought of conservation or recycling of heat and power or the use of freely available ambient energy sources. Since in order to survive, let alone enjoy a sustainable civilized way of life, we are going to have to learn to operate within the limits of resources and without spoiling our habitat, we still have to abandon on sustainable energy systems and adapt to the use of infinite clean energy resources, and to simply stop wasting heat and power. The technology is there - it has been keeping space stations operating for years now - but it is not space science, and more importantly after the initial capital investment it is virtually free. Because highly energy efficient products, buildings and processes are relatively new, and there is no established sustainable development industry at this stage, that initial capital investment is going to be relatively expensive. There are no fundamental reasons though why they should be more expensive than current systems - there are no particularly rare or expensive materials or processes involved and most of them are readily available and in use already. As far as buildings are concerned for instance the basic conservation measures of thermal insulation, air-tightness, ventilation control can be met with cheap materials and good detailing - and almost remove the need for space heating altogether and together with the use of energy efficient lighting and equipment reduce heat and power requirements by 70% to 90% - putting the energy demand well within the capability of alternative energy systems. Keith Lodge, Chairman, ECOZEST Ltd, Ruthin&gt;&gt; sensible advice.jebin08.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; It will fall on deaf ears no doubt. If any notice is taken, it will be time to plough another £100million into consultancynavitron.org.ukWI-FI TO THE MAXJack Schofield's article heralding the benefits of WiMAX and hinting that it will have the same success as Wi-Fi fails to acknowledge that Wi-Fi used an unlicensed band so anyone could set up wireless hotspots to get internet access out to users. Companies holding licenses to operate WiMAX at the moment are simply not showing the imagination and drive of the first Wi-Fi operators which made that technology such a success. The result - people will miss out on technology that really could make a difference to them. Daniel Heery, AlstonTV AND FILESHARINGI was shocked to just read your article equating TV show filesharing with music filesharing. It smacks of jumping on the bandwagon and dangerously stoking flames of an issue that is already ridiculously misunderstood and manhandled. It's inaccurate and poorly argued. "Did you notice how The Dark Knight came out at the same time all over the world?" It didn't. You argue for half the article that TV filesharing is terrible for creators and TV channels, and then sulkily admit that it may help shows after all. The issues are different. I disagree music piracy has the impact it's hyped to have, but I'll play along for now. With music, you get a lossless copy. With TV shows, you get a TV recording with TV channel icons littered over the screen. So it's not exactly the same product. TV piracy is out of a certain necessity, music is not. You acknowledge that TV has borders, and that's the main reason for most people's piracy. Music is usually released at the same time, so there is less excuse for it. TV piracy does not cause viewing figures to drop. In my real world experience, buzz created by people who've seen a show before it airs on TV has led other to watch. I myself started a long chain of people to have an interest in Lost, back when I first heard about it after seeing a preview on an American DVD I bought. All the people I told about it watched it when it was on terrestrial TV and bought the DVDs, and they told more people. Every show I've pirated, I own the DVD of, and watch on TV when I get the chance. The Battlestar Galactica reboot owes its success to piracy. This is acknowledged by the producers. The people who care enough about TV shows care enough about them to purchase them on DVD and watch them when they come on TV in their country. Last year, and maybe this year, producers admitted they leaked pilots to generate buzz. Why are new shows leaked but somehow episodes of new seasons manage to stay in the can? Piracy would still occur if TV was borderless, but people would download them at a fraction of what they do now. The piracy of TV in the UK would be dramatically reduced if shows were aired simultaneously, and everyone could access legal streaming sites like Hulu. But no, there are artificial borders. The entertainment site Digital Spy has forums, on which one viewer of Heroes created a topic called "No more downloading" because the BBC had secured rights to air the new series a couple of days after the US. "Doctor Who is very popular in the US". It's also one of the few British programs that US people like to pirate. Why is it popular then? Surely it shouldn't be popular by your estimations of the effect you think piracy has? Your conclusion that there are going to be more reality programmes is possibly correct, but not for the reasons you give. Unfortunately, people still watch them and the credit crunch means channels will have smaller budgets. If they believed people would watch them as much as drama, soaps etc, Channel 4, 5 etc would make all their programmes reality-based. More cost-effective. Nothing to do with piracy. Your ultimate conclusion I agree with, that TV needs to stop with its borders, but most of everything else is inarticulate and going in different directions. You suggest they should release low quality versions so they'll want the DVD... but that happens anyway; anyone who cares enough to download gigabytes of a TV shows will want the DVD. Oh dear. M Rodriguez, Newcastle
Audi A3 Cabriolet&pound;20,750Miles per gallon:55.4Seats:4Good for:Top marksBad for:Crass remarksA lot can happen in nine seconds. It's the time it took Bayern Munich's Roy Makaay to score a goal against Real Madrid in the 2007 UEFA Champion's League. It's the time it took Usain Bolt to run 100m in New York in May. It's the time it took Harris Chan to break the world record for doing the Rubik's cube earlier this year. It's also the time that a student named Rich took to unclasp the bra straps of seven women (thank you, YouTube) and, if you are a quick reader, it's the time you have taken to read to this point.More importantly, it's the time it takes the fabric roof to fold neatly into the boot of Audi's sporty new compact cabriolet. That's quite a jump in the record stakes. It takes the BMW 1 Series convertible, the A3's only realistic competitor, a gasping and red-faced 22 seconds to convert - if that's the right word. The Astra Twin Top limps in at 30 seconds, while the Ford Focus CC takes a semi-comatose 35. You could open and shut the roof of the A3 almost four times in the aeon of finger-drumming boredom the Ford takes. The latter two are folding hard tops rather than cloth tops, which give you the flexibility of an all-weather saloon and a convertible, but I've always found the lack of boot space, the swollen rear end, the cramped back seats and the complexity of the opening mechanisms give you all the flexibility of a sergeant major at a passing-out ceremony.The A3 can also cleverly open and shut its roof at speeds of up to 18mph. Many convertibles can do it at a crawl; plenty can only do it at a standstill. It may seem an unnecessary perk, but it's surprising how useful it is, especially in the city. On the basic model, the roof is only semi-automatic: you have to clamp and unclamp it yourself, which is only really a problem if you have just had a set of 3in false nails stuck on. But the model I drove was fully automatic, so all you have to do is concentrate on not decapitating the kids. Or maybe that would be another bonus.Audi is on a mission to become the country's biggest-selling premium marque. Last year it sold 30,936 models compared to BMW's 33,326 and Mercedes-Benz's 23,003. And this new A3 will only confirm Audi's status. The build quality is outstanding. Week in, week out I am lucky enough to find myself behind the wheels of some very posh cars, but slipping into the A3, you immediately sense that the benchmark has been raised. From the lush interior's tactile surfaces to the emotive, sophisticated design and the exhilarating drive, Audi ensures you feel you are in the poshest of company.There are four engine options - two variants of the FSi petrol and two direct-injection turbo diesels - and they all drive the front wheels. The Sport version with the 2-litre 200bhp engine will do 0-60mph in 7.3 seconds and has a top speed of 144mph.So is the A3 cab for you? It is, Audi believes, if you are middle-aged, have children under 18, are more than likely a woman, and have a high level of education and income and other cars within the household. So step forward, all you Ulrika Jonssons.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Going, going, gone? Furious fans have accused eBay, the website that brought auctions to the internet, of betrayal. They are upset by a decision to lurch away from the website's original format and instead allow major retailers to list thousands of products at fixed prices.The trend, they warn, marks the beginning of the end for the online auction - leaving eBay looking less like a car-boot sale and more like a shopping mall.'Auctions in some categories are already pretty much dead,' said Chris Dawson, an eBay seller from Thatcham, Berkshire, who runs a blog about the site. 'Not many people bid for rechargeable batteries, Gillette razor blades, toothbrushes or even mobile phone handsets or DVDs - the kind of commodity items you pick up in a supermarket. EBay started out for the collectors' market but it's been overtaken by the business market. Buyers have become used to instant sales on the internet, and they expect eBay to be no different.'Randy Smythe, a former eBay seller who now runs an e-commerce blog, said: 'I believe eBay's drive for growth has killed the auction format. They are trying to compete with Amazon and the rest of e-commerce by giving you everything in the same search. "Buy it now" and "fixed price" added growth at first, but they've killed the golden goose.'The changes have led some small sellers to accuse eBay of betrayal. Growth of the site's worldwide active user base slowed to a relatively modest 1 per cent in the past year. Smythe, speaking from southern California, added: 'Sellers have decided they're not going to eBay any longer. I've seen a lot saying that they're going back to the things they did before eBay - the flea markets, the trade shows. It means those rare items aren't on eBay any more.'In the 13 years since it was first set up, eBay has become famous. But as it pursues more users, its owners have struck highly profitable deals with a string of major firms. Retailers such as Argos, Littlewoods, Orange and the online shoe shop Schuh now offer thousands of items on eBay at fixed prices. These compete alongside items offered by independent small sellers through auctions which can take days.Buyers are showing a preference for fixed prices, with the promise of a reputable brand and instant delivery. Fixed-price sales on eBay have grown by 60 per cent over the past six years, eating away at the auction side of the business. They now comprise 43 per cent of the value of all goods sold on the site, up from 39 per cent a year ago. Analysts say that it is only a matter of time before auctions are in the minority.The shift has enraged eBay's many fans. There was fury in America after eBay signed a partnership with Buy.com, which allows the web retailer to sell millions of books, DVDs, electronic goods and other items on eBay without paying the full listing fees. Buy.com's presence has hurt many smaller sellers which compete in the same categories.It is one of several changes made by eBay's new chief executive, John Donahoe. A spokesman for the company in the UK said: 'Today fixed price accounts for over 40 per cent of the value of all our sales. We'll continue to innovate to bring parity to selling in fixed price alongside auctions and choice for buyers to shop whichever way they want.'Website with a history of controversyColumbia space shuttle disaster, 2003Within a day of the disaster, 'space shuttle debris' was being sold on eBay, starting at $10,000. Widely condemned, eBay reacted quickly to ban such sales.Live 8 concert, 2005The free event was massively oversubscribed, but tickets appeared on eBay at &pound;1,000 a pair. Bob Geldof called eBay an 'electronic pimp' for allowing it to happen.Fake Blue Peter badges, 2006The appearance of fake Blue Peter badges on eBay provoked anger. The original badges were sent to viewers as a reward for their charity work or artistic endeavour.Munich air crash commemorative scarves, 2008Free souvenir scarves from Manchester United to mark the 50th anniversary of the disaster were put on eBay, attracting bids of nearly &pound;100. EBay blocked the sales. A spokesperson said: 'The decision was taken in line with the policy not to allow users to profit from human tragedy.'Jason Rodrigues
Namco, &pound;49.99Soul Calibur IV, the latest instalment of Namco's weapon-heavy beat-'em-up franchise, arrives on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 looking jaw-droppingly pretty. Its cast of cartoonishly-proportioned characters is joined by Darth Vader on PS3 and Yoda on Xbox, both wielding lightsabers if not really adding much beyond familiar looks, sound effects and pre-fight pronouncements about enemies' relative strength with the Force. Its range of single-player games incorporates the warm-up grade story mode and the distinctly more challenging Tower Of Lost Souls survival challenge, with arcade mode taking care of unlocking all those other bonus fighters. Perhaps the biggest departure in this outing is the character creation facility that lets you customise fighters to a level where going into battle online using an appropriately armed Mary Poppins or R Kelly is a real possibility.
'Laptop machines", by one of those preposterous twists of circumstance that make you wonder who is running things and why they haven't got anything better to do, just happens to be an anagram of "Apple Macintosh". If an anagram is a derivative rearrangement of essential elements, then one might be disposed to argue that such has been their rise in influence and prestige that almost every new digital product seems to be an anagram of Apple.The MacBook Air, a superlight machine with solid-state hard disk, no CD/DVD drive and only one USB port, caused something of a splash when it landed in the laptop lake a few months ago. Designed as a travelling wireless subnotebook, Apple seems to have timed its emergence better than poor Palm, whose ill-fated Foleo now looks to have been a great idea just six months (which is one and a half digital years) ahead of its time. In February, I wrote enthusiastically about the Asus Eee, like the Foleo an Open Source, solid-state machine weighing less than a kilo. As the misguided fad for PC Tablets fades into memory, subnotebooks seem to have become the Next Big Thing.Toshiba joins the fray with the Port&eacute;g&eacute; R500 (&pound;1,599, toshiba.co.uk/computers). The version I was sent for review weighed 1.7lb, being the most cut-down model, lacking the optical single-layer CD/DVD drive included in other lines. All variants come bundled with Windows Vista Business edition and the usual slew of proprietary wizards, assistants and guides. Somehow, the geniuses at Toshiba have found room for a fingerprint scanner, three USB ports, an SD card reader, an iLink (FireWire) connection, microphone and headphone sockets, and what I took be an ethernet port but turns out to be for an RJ-45 phone jack. Wi-Fi and Bluetooth wireless come as standard, and there is in option for 3G WWAN wireless, too. The killer blow is the availability of a massive 128GB of solid-state storage. Toshiba's doubling of capacity (Apple's very expensive SSD is only 64GB), quintupling of connection sockets and inclusion of a CD drive make the Port&eacute;g&eacute; a very attractive alternative to the Air. The keyboard feels rattly and cheap, the 12-inch display, despite also being a 1280 by 800 backlit LCD, seems less crisp than the Air's, and the whole package lacks Apple's trademark beauty and feel, but this is certainly not an ugly object, and the business community has every reason to welcome such a relatively cheap, truly light and powerful machine.I am also impressed byLenovo's entry into the ultraportable market, the ThinkPad X300 (about &pound;1,800, lenovo.com/uk). You may be aware that IBM, once the colossus of computing (unfortunate epithet, I apologise to the ghosts of Alan Turing and Tommy Flowers), was humbled into selling its PC division to the Chinese company Lenovo in 2005, along with brand names ThinkPad, ThinkVision and Aptiva. The IBM ThinkPad had been one of the most popular business notebooks in history, especially prized for its security features and black solidity. The Lenovo X300 is so closely allied in look and feel to a "proper" ThinkPad that one soon forgets that we are in the ultra-lightweight arena. The display, keyboard and chassis are all as solid as a rock, the bright, clear LED screen is 13.3 inches, like the Air, but at a functionally higher resolution than the Apple or Toshiba. There are three USBs, a fingerprint reader and a Gigabit Ethernet, but no SD card or FireWire capabilities. The 64GB SSD can be doubled, I believe, but at a price.Toshiba has produced the lighter, cheaper, higher memory machine, but for those who value build quality and durability, the Lenovo will probably be preferred.Acronym of the weekSSDSolid-State Drive. A hard 'disk drive' that isn't a drive at all. Without platters, styli, heads and other moving parts, SSDs use less power, read and write data more quickly, and generate less heat than conventional hard drives. At the moment they're dearer, but look out for future generations of 'Nand' and 'Dram' flash memory that will supersede the HD as surely as it superseded Winchester drives and floppies.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
My Wi-Fi router seems to get 'tired' - every second or third time I go online, internet access is denied, meaning I have to turn it off and on again before it will establish a signal. What's wrong?If you use a separate modem, it may be that the two pieces of hardware conflict with each other. Borrow a different model, or Google your model numbers, to see if there is a common issue. If your router has a built-in modem, the chances are that one of the settings is at fault. Working out which one is often a case of trial and error, but if you log into your router's settings (check the manual if you don't know how), you'll be able to dig around. My initial advice is to switch off Universal Plug and Play (UPnP), which can cause issues.&#183;We recently offered advice on Mac-friendly webcams, and several readers wrote in with their own suggestions. Lee recommends the Logitech QuickCam Pro 9000, about &pound;40 from Amazon. He says that the built-in microphone means that 'both picture and sound are generally superior to the onboard devices on the MacBook upon which I am typing'. Phil also uses a Logitech, and says his webcam didn't need any drivers installed.email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
SEGA, &pound;5.99The monkeys haven't changed - you still choose among AiAi, Gongon and friends - and neither has the transparent ball in which they roll around a series of mazes suspended over a bottomless precipice. The big change here is that rather than using an analogue joystick to tilt the maze delicately in the right direction to steer your monkey of choice around increasingly testing holes, ramps and obstacles, you simply tilt your iPhone. Initially confusing in that flat (ie the position in which your monkey stops rolling) is actually very slightly angled towards you for better visibility, it quickly becomes clear what the game wants you to do: use microscopically fine movements to guide your simian friend to its goal. Total lack of camera control is a problem, as is the movement of public transport, which will happily pitch the most cautiously rolled monkeys into infinity thanks to inconsiderate braking on the bus or train. Despite these small failings, iPhone Monkey Ball is an elegantly rendered handheld game with remarkably effective controls.
Using your mobile's built-in motion sensor,Marble Madness(Midway) is the evil, cellar-dwelling mutant sibling of iPhone Monkey Ball, a dreadful, near-unplayable travesty of lurching motion detection and a camera so tightly zoomed that finding your goal is a fatuous game of Blind Man's Buff. Not much less awful isThe Dark Knight(Glu), with its expansive context-sensitive control scheme boiling down to pressing forward and repeatedly stabbing OK, Batman's jerky platform-hopping escapades and the inconceivably dull beatings he issues to countless henchmen make this an ordeal of tedium. InGet Cookin'(Glu), you play chef by hitting buttons at the right time to mix pizza toppings, shake cocktails and knock away bad ingredients from your soup terrine. With its simple, bite-sized heart in the right place, its individual mini-games just aren't enough fun to make the game compelling or even interesting. Mobile games, why do you hate us?
Historically the VW Passat has gained a reputation as a car that's comfortable, smooth, easy to drive and inoffensive to the eye. In short, everything that a manager of a car fleet company could want. Its single, inescapable problem has been that it isn't an Audi.It didn't matter how much it resembled its stablemate, or how many components it shared, it was never quite an Audi - in the way, for example, that Avram Grant was never quite Jos&eacute; Mourinho. The new Passat CC is also comfortable, smooth and easy to drive, but it doesn't look much like an Audi. Indeed, it doesn't look much like a Passat.What it looks like is a classy version of the kind of vehicle that American car hire firms seem to stock in their "mid-range" to the exclusion of all else. They are ostensibly saloons with a reclining rear that seeks to appear sporty but actually just looks like a truncated trunk. With American hire cars, the impression is accurate because there's usually only enough room in the boot to fit your passport. By contrast, the Passat's boot could take your luggage and still have room for a dead body.It's a roomy car all round, with generous rear seat space, but only for four. There's no central seating area in the back. Instead there is sufficient drink-holding space to host a neighbourhood coffee morning, or perhaps a board meeting.And, as you would expect, there's all manner of Germanic safety designs, from "whiplash-optimised head restraints" to multifaceted collision protection. Along with GPS, push-button ignition and Bluetooth phone link, these features are all deemed executive essentials nowadays. After all, the busy middle manager doesn't have time to turn a key, much less look where he or she is going when getting down to the real business of driving - talking on the mobile phone.And no longer does a tight schedule allow for unnecessary stress in parking. Thus the Passat CC comes with Volkswagen's "Park Assist" system. You press a button, stick the indicator on for which side of the street you want to park, and sensors alert you to when to stop. From there all you have to do is stick the gears in reverse and the steering goes on to autopilot.Like those drugs that enable you to eat without putting on weight, this is really a form of cheating. The only driving skill left in the era of automatics, powered steering and cruise control is parking. Any fool can drive a car. It's parking that matters. That's what separates the men from those who get their exercise by walking from the car to the pavement.Volkswagen's intervention in the contract between driver, machine and society at large is surely a step too far. At the moment, one of the main obstacles preventing many people from driving is parking. Not because they'll get a ticket. There are legions of drivers who dream of manoeuvring themselves into a position - ie, a parking space - whereby they'd qualify for a ticket. Do we really want these people on the road? Volkswagen seems to think so.As a result, driving the new Passat CC is an experience almost entirely devoid of anxiety. Except, of course, the niggling knowledge that it's not an Audi.VW Passat CC 1.8 TSIPrice£21,065Top speed138mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.6 secondsAverage consumption37.2mpgCO² emissions180g/kmEco rating6.5/10At the wheelAngela MerkelBound forCentral LondonIn a wordUntroublesome
Tiscali reduced its sale and profit forecasts yesterday because of the weakening economic climate, as it announced that it had lost British customers over the past three months.Tiscali's failure to attract and retain customers means that Sky could overtake the company to become Britain's fourth-largest internet service provider some time this quarter.The move is likely to increase pressure on the management of the company to reduce their expectations of what it is worth. Based in the Sardinian capital Cagliari, Tiscali has been up for sale for six months, but a succession of bidders have walked away because the price tag is too high. Vodafone counted itself out of the bidding, and BSkyB and Carphone Warehouse have also both gone cool on making an offer. Last month an Italian rival, Fastweb, controlled by Swisscom, was seen as the most likely buyer of the business.In Britain, Tiscali has built itself up by buying a series of businesses including Pipex and HomeChoice, the broadband TV operation. But it has been losing out to Sky and BT, with customer numbers falling 37,000 to 1,838,000.Tiscali reported a first-half net loss of &euro;57.2m (&pound;44.9m), down from &euro;73.4m last year, dropped its outlook for full-year revenues to between &euro;1bn and &euro;1.1bn from its original forecast of &euro;1.3bn and revised its expected profits before financial charges from &euro;290m to &euro;220m-&euro;230m.
MondayFallout 3 interviewPS3 catch-up: Siren and The Last GuyTess and Vernon: the future of game advertising?Mega Man and the making of real retro gamesTuesdayBelieve - the battle between Halo and Viva PinataWednesdayAchievements are the future of gamingHmmm Del.icio.usPS3 developers only using 30 percent of machine's powerPressure group targets America's ArmyThursdayOlympic GamesDr WiiBrighton's turn to Hide &amp; SeekMicrosoft exc says Wii Fit is a gimmickFridayBest of ChatterboxGame Pitch: War Tw*t
My bad habit, on Friday afternoons, was often to hit theFake Steveblog. I'm still trying to make the transfer toThe Real Dan, which replaced it after Apple decided it didn't like being satirized. The two blogs have a lot in common, obviously, butnot everyoneis prepared to cut a real journalist the same kind of slack as a fake CEO. Well, someone might take Dan seriously.That also appears to include Mac cultists, for whom just being a Mac lover is not enough: as with any pseudo-religion, you have to drink the Kool-Aid, or at least give your integrity a suicide pill. Now he's on the hate list with the rest of us, Dan protests:Also striking in this whole fiasco around Steve's health is the response from the Apple faithful. Check out the comments on this blog for a representative sample. Criticize the PR operation at Apple, or Dear Leader himself, and the Apple faithful swarm out in droves to call you a traitor or worse. My email inbox has even worse stuff.....I can even understand why Apple faithful overlook the shortcomings of a new Apple product, or look the other way when Apple produces a dud. But it's another thing to put up with being lied to and insulted. The reason Steve Jobs and Apple get away with this behavior is that nobody has ever held them accountable for their actions.At the moment, Dan is working the Steve Jobs Patent Chatup Line to death:"It's Jerry Yang. You think I'm an inept nerd who doesn't know how to run a company, and I think you're sleazier than a used condom. Got a minute to chat?""This is Sergey Brin. You think I'm a spoiled hypocritical billionaire who talks smack about energy conservation while commuting to strip bars in a jumbo jet, and I think you're an argument for making abortion retroactive. Am I catching you at a bad time?"This is Kevin Rose. You think I'm a self-absorbed lothario who is secretly only seventeen years old and who once bragged to BusinessWeek about being worth $60 million even though I didn't have a dime, and I think you're a parasitic low-life who should be mopping booth floors with your tongue at the Lusty Lady in North Beach. Could I bend your ear for a moment?""This is Michael Dell. You think I'm the uninspiring leader of a has-been PC company that's never created a single original product in its entire 24-year-history, and I think you're a pus-filled fistula on the ass-crack of humanity. Got a minute to catch up?"But Dan still links to things like the sob-filled video plea,Leave Steve Jobs alone!and the aptspoof of MobileMecalledFailMe.Problem is that Fake Steve would be a tough act for anyone to follow. Real Dan isn't as good, but do you think he's still worth the trip?
After the success of Alex Tew I got a lot of emails from people who, it so happened, had had exactly the same idea as him, only three months later. You're wondering: Alex Tew? Yes, you remember – the guy behind theMillion Dollar Homepage. Ah, now you're remembering: back in January 2006 he became an overnight celebrity for his idea of selling each of a million pixels on a page for a dollar each. (Smart timing – the exchange rate has got a lot worse since then.Then it was the £568,000 homepage. Now it's worth about £44,000 less.)For months afterwards I was plagued with emails from people who wanted me to write about their idea, for a page that would sell each of a million pixels for something like 99 cents, or would have 500,000 pixels selling for $2 each, or where the advertising would be free but you'd pay a $1 subscription ... and so on. For some reason they all thought they'd found the motherlode.One challenged me by asking, semi-rhetorically, of their idea: "Is it the new Million Dollar Homepage? ... Or even better?" To which I responded: "If you're asking my opinion, no and no.""Wait and see," the person responded. I couldn't tell if they were affronted or not. But I do know that looking at their website, Payittome.com, it has not been what you'd call a runaway success. In fact, not even a crawling success. At the time of writing it had received 16,912 page views (or visitors), judging by the ticker at the bottom of the page. In two and a half years?The launch last week of Cuil (pronounced "cool"), the would-be new search engine,gave me a exactly the same feeling of déjà vu. I can't tell you how many emails I've had over the years from people who have had – OK, keep it quiet, right? – the brilliant idea ofa new search engine to rival Google. And they're always offended when I do the written equivalent of rolling my eyes. "But it'll have results ordered by date/length of URL/charitable status/your preferred websites!" they almost wail.Tough. Network effects have long since determined that Google is in an impregnable position when it comes to ordinary search, just as Windows is in desktop operating systems. It's got the history, it's got the enormous investment to provide a service that is world-spanning, and two people in a shed aren't going to challenge it any time soon. (The fact that Cuil's servers fell over when the mob rushed to try a bit of ego-surfing is indicative. The last time Google went down was 2003, when it was targeted by PCs infected with a virus.)It's strange that we often talk about the internet unleashing a wave of inventiveness, and yet so often we also see it unleashing a wave of completely uninspired copycatting. Does the world need two (let alone 20) million dollar home pages? Does it need another general search engine besides the big four (Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, Ask)? No, not really. Steve Ballmer clearly thought that it only really needed two big search engines – Google and Microhoo (or whatever the merged company was going to be called). And theMicrosoft CEO hasn't given up on the idea of buying Yahoo's search business; let's see where Carl Icahn, now heading for the Yahoo boardroom, takes that. (Let's make it a meme: imagine Ballmer with a big think bubble saying "Icahn haz search engine for sale?")People who build the next big thing usually do it without the expectation that it will be huge. Tew was unusual in that he set out to make himself rich.As Paul Carr notes in his book Bringing Nothing to the Party: Confessions of a New Media Whore, Tew wrote on a piece of paper "I want to be a millionaire". But I doubt you've looked at his site in over two years. Hardly what you'd call a transformative innovation.By contrast,when Shawn Fanning wrote the original peer-to-peer Napsterin his college dorm, he just wanted a way for his friends to share music – not to destroy the music industry. Facebook, I'm sure Mark Zuckerberg would tell you, just seemed like a neat way for college alumni to stay in touch electronically, not a means to turn the world's population into virtual zombies and get periodic lumps of dosh from Microsoft. Blog software was just a way of using a database to avoid the hassle of updating an entire web page each day, not a means to smash the iron grip of the mainstream media. YouTube began as a convenient way for people to upload dating videos without having to bother about which of the alphabet soup of video codecs they were using. Twitter just seemed a clever way of keeping in touch.What all these ventures have in common is that absolutely none of them tried to be the same as something that was already there. They built on existing needs and desires, sure; but then they spun off into their own orbit.While Cuil's staff might think they're onto something, what with all the publicity they've had this week, the reality is that in two years' time we'll visit their search engine about as often as people play their old Hear'Say CDs. (Yes? Popstars winners 2001?) And yes, that is a prediction that's near-term enough that you can take me up on it.So if the guys at Cuil really are as smart as they seem to want to be, maybe they should jack in the search engine game – hard, I know, if there are millions of dollars in venture capital sitting in the bank – and find our unfulfilled need, the aspect of our daily or weekly or minute-to-minute lives that gets in the way of knowing or doing what we'd like to. For while it's true that necessity is the mother of invention, it has a father too. I think it's observation: spotting where that necessity is. And right now, observation and necessity don't merge to make a search engine. Somewhere, though, someone is splicing them together to make the next revolution.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My MacBook.How has it improved your life?I no longer have to wait for the PC shutdown noise before closing the laptop. Petty, I know, but so much more fun just to open and close as desired. I am easily pleased.When was the last time you used it, and what for?For writing my answers to this interview, updating my schedule, checking Google Docs, for my Heathrow Express barcode and for writing the intro to my new book. Being a woman, all this was done at the same time, of course.What additional features would you add if you could?Voice recognition, although not sure how it will fare against a good Scottish brogue.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Not obsolete, just moved on to a whole new level.What one tip would you give to non-MacBook users?Macs are more fun.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I flail in between. I am battling my way out of a Luddite gene pool, but I am not a nerd. I am a lover of someone who is "good with computers" but also not a nerd. So that's not a nerd, twice removed.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A Toshiba handwriting recognition PC that had no CD drive and therefore was useless. My writing is also terrible, so it had a hard time. It was a nerd's idea.Mac or PC?Mac, but a recent conversion.What song is at the top of your iPod's top-25 most played list?American Idiot, byGreen Day, because it has become my running song. I like the routine of the same music — I can tell if I am doing well or not by what track I am on by the top of the hill.Will robots rule the world?Nah.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A time machine so I can avoid airports. Never have we as a society been so hoodwinked into thinking that somehow flying is remotely glamorous.Amanda Hamiltonco-presentsSomething For The Weekend, on BBC2 Sunday mornings
Wired's Wikiis compiling a list of places where users can watch the Beijing Olympics online. This includesNBC, theBBCandYouTube, though access will vary by country. There's also a link on the right hand side of theBeijing 2008 official site: look for the box that says Olympic Video.TV Tonicis offeringUS usersa high quality service (from 840 x 480 progressive scan to 1080i HD), NBC Olympics On The Go, that does downloads in the background. It only works with 32-bit Windows Vista Home Premium and Ultimate, which have the Windows Media Center built in.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
