Eyes right!This squadron of great white pelicans was captured at the Ma’ayan Zvi fishponds in Israel. Around 5,000 pelicans gathered at the ponds for a migratory pit-stop and lingered for a month to feast, causing much consternation among the pond guards. To get the perfect shot, Yossi Eshbol used a Nikon D3 with a 600mm f4 lens set at 1/200 sec at f18 (-1.3 e/v) and ISO 640 with a Gitzo tripod ... and then waited for the crucial moment.This image, together with other stunning photographs, can be seen at the Natural History Museum’s Wildlife Photographer of the Year 2013 exhibition which opens on 18 October.Feeling inspired? We want you to embrace the theme of “clusters” and join a Tech Monthly GuardianWitness project to capture visually compelling group shots rooted in science or technology.Honey bees walk on a moveable comb hive at the Bee Research Laboratory, in Beltsville, Maryland, USA. Photograph: SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty ImagesCables connect server racks in the computer centre of the Cern, the European Organization for Nuclear Research, near Geneva. Photograph: MARTIAL TREZZINI/ASSOCIATED PRESSWhether it’s a parliament of owls, a bundle of iPads or a mass of data gathering behemoths we want you to share the perfect shot and how you took it, complete with technical details.To submit your images click on the blue Contribute button or, if you&apos;re out and about, you can download theGuardianWitness smartphone app. We will print our favourite in the next issue of Tech Monthly and compile an online gallery to boot.Closing date is 23:59 3 November 2013•GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Forced student labour used to build PS4s at Foxconn - report | MCVElectronics manufacturing giant, Foxconn, has reportedly been using student labour to assemble and pack PlayStation 4 consoles:GamesInAisa cites reportsemerging in China claiming that "thousands of students from an IT engineering program at the Xi'an Institute of Technology are being forced to work at Foxconn's Yantai plant assembling the Sony PlayStation 4".It is claimed that what is being advertised as an 'internship' is in reality nothing of the sort, with students instead being given jobs on the manufacturing lineThe report adds that: "Students have been told if they refuse to participate, they lose six course credits, which effectively means they will not be able to graduate" and that "students say that their working hours are exactly the same as regular workers – the only difference is that unlike the workers, the students aren't being paid".Sony issued a statement to MCV, claiming that Foxxcon, "fully comprehend and comply with this 'Sony Supplier Code of Conduct'." However, Foxconn seems to haveadmitted the use of student labourto digital news outlet, Quartz:Foxconn told Quartz that after an internal investigation it determined that the XIT students at its Yantai factory complex were assigned to night shifts and overtime, in violation of the company's policies. "Immediate actions have been taken to bring that campus into full compliance with our code and policies," the company said in a statement, including "reinforcing the policies of no overtime and no night shifts for student interns, even though such work is voluntary, and reminding all interns of their rights to terminate their participation in the program at any time."Foxconn is of course well-known for its manufacturing work on Apple products and has been the subject of much controversy, regarding allegedpoor working conditions and long hours.Xbox One expected to outsell PS4 - UK retailer | GamesIndustry InternationalA bunch of the specialist game sites picked up on thisTrustedReviews piece, interviewing Jonathan Marsh, head technology buyer at John Lewis. Lewis had this to say about the forthcoming next-gen console war:"We are expecting more interest in the Xbox One," Marsh said. "We are stocking both the PS4 and the Xbox One but if we were to back one, we are thinking that Xbox One will appeal a bit more to our customers in terms of the experience it creates."Marsh also cited the Xbox Live service and the Xbox One's lineup of launch software as factors working in Microsoft's favor, saying the games should hold considerable appeal to the store's customer base "based on what we've experienced in the past."Interesting. After all the controversy at E3, the dust has settled and apparently its now down to good old games, price and services...Can Nintendo Do Free-to-Play Right? | IGNNintendo is introducing free-to-play mechanics to the 3DS with its baseball-themed mini-game collection Darumeshi Sports Store. The company is bringing some new concepts to the controversial model:Haggling the price down is a fascinating idea - a defiantly untraditional, very Nintendo take on micro-transactions. And with the ability to earn money-off vouchers by filling up your card with stamps, the more you play and the better you do, the stronger your chance of getting the other games much cheaper. It's not an approach that would work for every game, of course, but it's one of the most unique ways to approach freemium gaming I've seen so far.If anyone can bring charm to F2P it's Nintendo.Spec Analysis: the Steam Machines prototypes | Eurogamer.netRoch Leadbetter provides a characteristically robust and in-depth analysis of Valve's living room PC offering:CPU-wise, Valve hasn't skimped in its prototype line-up - for the most part. We're looking at the latest Intel "Haswell" parts, specifically the 3.2GHz quad-core i5-4570 and the 3.5GHz i7-4770. These are highly capable processors, but with a price-tag to match. Compare and contrast with AMD - its current enthusiast flagship, the FX-8350, is around £80 to £100 cheaper than the 4770K, and actually matches or even beats it on highly threaded games like Crysis 3 and Battlefield 4, where it easily beats the similarly priced i5-4570.Leadbetter says you could build your own for a similar price, but it's the form factor and cool controller that give it special appeal.AusGamers Titanfall Interview with Respawn's Abbie Heppe | AusGamers.comThe Titanfall community manager speaks about how she hopes the game's enthusiastic reception will prompt more new IP in the coming year:I know people want what is established and what's known, but I hope that if nothing else, it encourages larger scale new IP. It's so cool to be able to work on something new and different, and also to just have that kind of freedom. It's hard to have that freedom. That's the other side of it though: it's really hard to have that freedom. Because when you can kind of do anything, and there's competing ideas within the studio, so see this giant world in front of you where you can do anything, but then you have to be able to scale that back and take something out of that. It's not easy, and so I see why doing stuff in a franchise way is… I don't want to say easier, but you already have your world established for you, and a lot of that stuff is hard.Can't help but think it's only going to get harder at the major studios as team numbers rise and middle management fattens.To Oddworld and back: Why Lorne Lanning quit games and returned with a plan | CVG UKFantastic interview with Lanning, a charismatic and likeable industry veteran, about Oddworld and what he's working in now:"I'm working on some stuff, at a design level, that is going to be more traumatic. I'm not sure I'm going to able to make it. I'm designing stuff and I'm like, wow, this might be really intense, at a basic core level. I'm really trying to think it through. But part of me wants it. That intensity"Go for it, Lorne!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Over the past couple of years, I've read more books than my flat can hold. I judged the Orange Prize for Fiction in 2012 and the Man Booker Prize in 2013 and the latter alone had a submissions list of 151 books. Throw in the rereading of the longlists, the re-rereading of the shortlists and the reviewing I've done on the side and the whole thing adds up to a number which makes my eyes ache, just thinking about it.I'm often asked whether I read on e-readers or prefer paper books. The short answer is: both. If I'm at home, I almost always choose paper. If I'm reviewing, or judging, I like to tag pages to remember phrases or moments. I have yet to find an e-reader that makes that an easy process: I don't just want to tag a page, but a sentence or even a clause.Also, I like flipping through pages to remind myself of the feel of a book and e-readers don't have that licked either. But not every physical book is a pleasure to read.One book on this year's Man Booker longlist is 1,004 pages and holding something that size to read it is a genuine physical effort. And if I'm travelling, I much prefer an e-reader, as it's lighter and doesn't get dog-eared.Kobo Aura£120, 4GB storage (expandable with a MicroSD card), 174g, 6in screen, two months' battery life (e-reader battery life is normally calculated on the basis of 30 mins use per day). Download more than 3.5 million titles fromkobobooks.com. Has an edge-to-edge surface display, meaning there is no ridge where the screen meets the frame.I have made it this far through the Kobo's existence without realising it is an anagram of the word book. It weighs very little and it's tiny: pocket-sized, like paperbacks once were. It's easy to hold one-handed, so good for commuting/reading50 Shades of Grey(I imagine). The store has plenty of books, including the Richard and Judy booklist.Perfect For:People with pockets or tiny handbags.The Kindle Paperwhite£109, 2GB, 206g, 6in screen, two months' battery life. Download titles from theKindle StoreJust released, it is an upgraded version of Amazon's widely lauded e-reader, with a faster processor and whiter light. This weighs a similarly tiny amount and looks particularly good and easy to read when the screen light is on. There's a decent browser, but I'm in this for the books. The font is clean and crisp and the pages are well-margined: it's perfect for reading a thriller. The only problem is that it still shows your progress in terms of percentages rather than page numbers, which makes me feel like I'm downloading a book to my brain rather than reading it.Perfect for:Anyone who wants a huge range of books to buy.Sony Reader PRS-T3£89, 2GB, 200g, 6in screen, two months' battery life. Download titles from Sony'sReaderStore.Unlike the Paperwhite, this e-reader relies on ambient light and comes in three different colours: red, white or black. This comes with a cover attached: it looks smart but weighs a paltry 200g. The battery life is good, but that's because it is the only e-reader here which doesn't have a light (though you can buy a different cover with a light attached). It has cute silver buttons at the bottom, which slightly makes up for the fact that the screen isn't super-responsive. It's rather blinky when it loads a page, which makes me blink in sympathy. I really should book that eye-test.Perfect for:Anyone who keeps their e-reader in the same pocket as their keys.iPad Mini£269, 16GB, 308g, 7.9in display, 10 hours' battery life (difficult to compare with e-reader battery life since you are likely to be using it for other more power intensive applications also). Apple would prefer you download titles fromiBooksbut Kobo and Kindle are also accessible via their apps. Not strictly an e-reader, more of mini-computer.This is my e-reader of choice, though I can't deny the internet is a temptation for a person reading against the clock. It's the heaviest of the lot, at 310g, but that isn't heavy, considering I can also write this column on it and then flit back to reading.It's the priciest, and if you only want to read, then it's poor value. But for me, it's probably the most useful piece of tech I have ever owned. Plus, it gives you page-numbers, and allows you to convert that to a percentage in your own mind, which I much prefer. Also, it allows you to download Kindle and Kobo apps and buy books from there as well as from iBooksPerfect for:Anyone who wants a shiny, pretty thing.Nook Glowlight£49, 2GB, 197g, 6in screen, battery life one month. Download titles from theNook Store. Barnes &amp; Noble's bargain basement device includes a backlight.This has rubberised edges and a squishy back, which makes it feel bouncy, though I suspect it isn't.The touch screen is pretty responsive and the Nook shop is rammed (2.5 million books, newspapers and magazines). The categories are a bit arbitrary: Crime is divided into Crime Thrillers, Underworld and Crime Stories and Criminal Mind – Mystery and Crime. What if it's an underworld thriller, likeThe Long Firm? I feel warmly to the Nook, because they sell them in Barnes and Noble in the US, which are lovely bookshops – the missing link between Waterstones and the late, lamented Borders. And this is an interactive fellow: keen to have you sharing your reading habits with friends (it even allows you to make a temporary loan of a book).Perfect for:sociable readers and book club members.
Her twerking, hammer-licking, ball-swinging antics have made Miley Cyrus a controversial figure in recent months, but unsurprisingly, they're proving hugely successful on YouTube.Cyrus' was the most-watched YouTube channel in the world in September with 270.1m views according to industry siteTubefilter's monthly Top 100 chart, with her monthly view-count leaping 222% compared to August.The main reason for that growth was theofficial video for her Wrecking Ball single. Released on 9 September, it has since been viewed more than 211m times, although that includes views from 11 days in October too.The popularity of Miley's channel saw her overtake YouTube's biggest star, Swedish gamer Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg, whosePewDiePiechannel has long dominated Tubefilter's chart.He had an impressive September too, with 215.6m views on YouTube, 54.5m behind Cyrus. However, PewDiePie retains a more loyal audience on Google's video service, with nearly 14.3m subscribers compared to her 2.9m.Music is still one of the top categories on YouTube, accounting for four of the five most popular channels in September. Turkish music videos channel Mü-Yap (179m views) and the official channels for Katy Perry (162.1m) and Avicii (105m) round out the top five.Tubefilter notes that music videos service Vevo, which hosts many of those official channels, accounted for 22 of the 100 most popular YouTube channels in September.Another three belong to major label Warner Music Group, which is the only major label not to work with Vevo. Multi-channel networks Maker Studios and Machinima have six and five channels in the chart respectively.The popularity of music videos is backed up byresearch published this week by the Pew Research Centerin the US, which claims that 50% of adult American internet users watch music videos online, but that this rises to 81% for 18-29 year-olds.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRumour: To combat weak Galaxy S4 sales, Samsung to unveil the Galaxy S5 in January &gt;&gt; Android BeatSourced from a Korean newspaper quoting inside sources at Samsung:What if I told you that the Galaxy S5 was just 100 days away? As crazy as that sounds, it kind of makes sense when you consider that CES would be the perfect venue to suck all the attention out of the room. Mobile World Congress would be a venue for the Chinese handset players. And the iPhone 6 would be three quarters of a year away.What do we "know" about the GS5? The Korean website goes on to say it'll have a 16 megapixel camera with optical image stabilization, it'll use a Samsung made Exynos processor instead of one from Qualcomm, and that's pretty much it.Well, it gets the ball rolling. Definitely file under "rumour". But an interesting one.Gartner Symposium/ITxpo Orlando 2013 FactoidsA hundred or so fascinating facts from Gartner's recent symposium, such as "A video on your home page? 53% more likely to be on page 1 of Google." We're not quite sure how the Wikileaks one was figured out, though.Chrome steals a march on Windows &gt;&gt; BBC NewsAgainst this background [of falling PC sales] though, the Chromebook is surging ahead. Gartner reckons two million will be sold this year, over five million in 2014, and 12 million by 2016. Now that will still leave the Chrome OS with just over 3% of a PC market where margins will grow ever slimmer and profits will be harder to find.But for Google that's not really the point.Good to have some estimates in there. The 2016 figure equates to 3m per quarter, amid PC sales while will probably still be anywhere north of 60m (more likely 70m) per quarter. This year's equate to 500,000 per quarter. A helpful reality check.Microsoft sold out of Surface tablets in the UK... YEP, all 2,000 units &gt;&gt; The RegisterMicrosoft may have sold out of Surface devices, but if the experiences of the UK channel are a measure for the rest of Europe, that's not saying a lot.Sources tell us that fewer than 2,000 units landed at the shores of Blighty since Redmond cleared the way for a select band of nine resellers to start peddling its wares from 15 August, three-quarters of which were the RT version.Back orders are growing, our contacts tell us, and demand has not been overwhelming, but clearly Microsoft is forecasting more conservatively.Once excess inventoried, twice shy.The Future of Microsoft – Part 1 &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson is a former Microsoft general manager:The next CEO has to be sufficiently visionary in the technology space to return Microsoft to thought leadership. This was obviously one of Bill Gates' strengths. Indeed one could argue that he was so good at it that he drove Microsoft to get into things too early, before the technology or market was actually ready for them. Think Tablet PC as a prime example. I think Bill is a far better (and much broader) visionary than was Steve Jobs, for example, but Jobs was better on driving execution excellence.  Jobs had better timing than Gates. As a huge company Microsoft doesn't need, nor can they probably find, someone with the qualities of either industry "god". And they don't need to. But they do need someone who gets the "vision thing" and both sees the future themselves and creates a culture that values it.Second, Microsoft needs a CEO who will tolerate nothing less than execution excellence.Berenson makes the point that the next CEO needs to be able to hold up a project because it's not ready, even if it's gigantic. He's completely right about Gates as a visionary: he sometimes saw too far ahead, but hardly ever wrongly. He grasped the full importance of the internet in 1995 in ways some people still haven't.This is how a Helsingin Sanomat journalist tried to save Nokia &gt;&gt; Kuukausiliite - Helsingin SanomatThe journalist wrote, inter alia:half a year ago a friend of mine at work showed me a device manufactured by Apple called the iPod Touch. I fell in love instantly. I wanted an iPod, and with that device I could also have convenient access to the internet and much more. I ordered my own iPod touch, turned it on, and knew immediately how to use it. I have used the device now on a daily basis for over six months, and I have not even thought about any manuals. The logic of the device opens up right away. It is no wonder that it is a huge success all over the world.My new Nokia telephone model is called the E 51. Unfortunately the phone has not been designed in so that just anybody could learn to use it easily.On the contrary, I think that it has been designed as if its most important mission would be to advertise itself to people who are interested in telephone technology. All kinds of amazing functions are offered on the display, but as I do not understand what they mean, I guess that I will never use them.But keep reading to find out about the Nokia executive who visited the author of the letter, and what he said.Kinda fixing badge truncation &gt;&gt; David SmithSmith had an iOS dev problem.I got to wondering which values get truncated and which do not. It turned out that not all values greater than 10k get shortened, any number that happens to include two 1 digits is shown in full.So that led me to the workaround solution that will be shipping in version 1.1.1. Whenever the step count gets over 10k I will change the step count to force it to include two 1s.Go for the full post, stay for its postscript. (Via @alexhern.)Going beyond vulnerability rewards &gt;&gt; Google Online Security BlogMichael Zalewski of Google's security team:We thought about simply kicking off an OSS bug-hunting program, but this approach can easily backfire. In addition to valid reports, bug bounties invite a significant volume of spurious traffic - enough to completely overwhelm a small community of volunteers. On top of this, fixing a problem often requires more effort than finding it.So we decided to try something new: provide financial incentives for down-to-earth, proactive improvements that go beyond merely fixing a known security bug. Whether you want to switch to a more secure allocator, to add privilege separation, to clean up a bunch of sketchy calls to strcat(), or even just to enable ASLR - we want to help!Prizes range from $500 to, of course, $3,113.7. (Thanks #Knowles2 for the pointer, which we dereferenced.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Kevin Systrom might be the luckiest man in technology. That's not to say he hasn't worked extremely hard, but the stars have aligned in an astonishing way for Instagram, the photo sharing app he co-founded almost three years ago.Reclining on a sofa in theObserver's London office, the very tall Boston-born software engineer has the conviction and calm self-assurance you'd expect of someone who sold his business for $1bn at the age of 28. He is well rehearsed, particularly on how Instagram is going to start making money. But what really excites him is plotting the future."We have 55 million photos a day posted to Instagram, so exploration and discovery is the main concentration for us," he says. "If you're seeing something interesting happening in Syria, or Egypt, we want to give people a voice so they can broadcast to the world. The balance between editorial and algorithmic is going to be really interesting because there's no one person that can figure out what you should be looking at."This is all more high minded than most people's experience of Instagram – the heavily saturated, faux-nostalgic photo filters and countless versions of moody sunsets, latte art and grinning children. Systrom acknowledges some "filter fatigue" but says it allows users to editorialise their own lives."The way I look at filters, it's the tone and voice of the moment, so we allow you to editorialise the perception," he says, giving the example of the filmTraffic, which used different film treatments to distinguish three different stories. "We're allowing the consumer to do the same thing to their life. Increasingly, any new filters we make a bit more subtle because if you do too much to that photo you're not necessarily going to want to look at it in 20 years. We want to make sure that people are investing these assets in Instagram so that five or 10 years down the road they feel they've got something really useful, not saccharine or overbearing in any way."Instagram's popularity is notable because it has managed to reach mainstream users who don't care about Silicon Valley hype. Its simple way of sharing pictures has pulled in 150 million users at a dizzying rate of growth, but that rise has been powered by the wider popularity of apps and mobile-first content.Instagram's mobile -first service was a key factor in its success, and in Facebook's interest in buying it, given that it needed to show its readiness for the consumer switch to mobile. "It wasn't a choice," says Systrom. "Instagram just would not work on the web if we'd asked people to sign up for a service where they can upload a photo of what they did five hours ago. Instagram is special because it's in the moment and the photo you're seeing from your friends is live."Instagram filter editing: 'We allow you to editorialise the perception.' Photograph: InstagramSystrom also says the constraint of the mobile screen – often described as a problem for advertisers – is a creative advantage. "There is beauty in constraint, and the fact it is so small and on your screen. An unconstrained space feels overbearing or too challenging, but we give you this little space and say 'just participate in this little crop of a photo'. It makes it really easy and approachable, and that's what people like it so much."Even at the heart of Mark Zuckerberg's engineering-centric world, it seems, there's no algorithm that can determine a beautiful photo based on the golden section. "I don't think it's algorithmic. It's more about the signals the community gives, about looking at the influencers and understanding the network effects." At the moment, the photos of those 150 million users are sifted through by only six community staff. Their collections have included artisan Polynesian skateboard makers STRGHT, and Qingming, the Chinese tomb-sweeping festival.What makes the UK audience of 6.9 million users stand out? "If we are too focused on San Francisco then we don't understand the sensitivities of different cultures. The idea of the NSA [the US National Security Agency] being able to look at people's data, that affects folks here, so we are here to understand those different things and have those different conversations."Isn't it time to put to rest that Silicon Valley cliche about building a huge audience first – and then working out how to make money? "Most of the companies I interact with worry more about getting something that works with consumers, because if you don't get consumers no one will want to advertise with you," he says. "If we were to just build a product for advertisers we would have no consumers."It's a fair point but Instagram is in a curious position. The speed and scale of its acquisition by Facebook in April 2012 took the industry by surprise, even though a dramatic drop in Facebook shares pushed the final value of the deal down from $1bn to $715m. Billion-dollar acquisitions are not uncommon – but Zuckerberg had just paid $1bn for a company with no revenue.Eighteen months later, there's still no revenue but now, owned by the publicly traded Facebook, there is a discreet but intense operation at work to commercialise the service. It is led by rising Facebook star Emily White, now Instagram's senior business development manager. Her role alongside Systrom has seen them cast as "the new Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg", which is some measure of the ambition involved.Instagram introduced video in June 2013, though was beaten to the punch by Vine, a rival video-sharing service launched by Twitter. Systrom won't give numbers to illustrate his point that video is hugely popular with users, and he's careful not to create too much expectation around the commercial importance of video. For advertisers who still feel TV is the best medium, both Instagram and Vine offer a constrained video format of, variously, three-15 seconds or six seconds that seems designed for advertisers, though Instagram's first formal advertising products won't roll out until later this year.However intense the strategising inside the company, there's a carefully composed calm on the outside designed not to scare the horses. One thing Facebook has more than a little experience in is the sensitivity of users to new advertising formats, and with Instagram there's a particular intimacy to the relationship users feel they have with the site. In the wake of the acquisition – and perhaps with fresh access to legalease – Instagram faced its own uprising in December 2012, eventually having to reverse a change in terms that asserted the right to commercially exploit users' photos."Advertising potential is perfectly fine as a philosophy but we would never introduce a product just because of advertising," Systrom says. The format that Instagram hit on – a seemingly endless stream of square images with comments – has been repeatedly copied for mobile apps that do everything from sell classified adverts to let users show off their outfits for the day. "It's a very compact way of transmitting information, and you can build a pretty good business around it."Instagram is growing its audience by looking at international markets and trying to reach new, less traditional tech audiences, courting both Hollywood and fashion brands this year. It also encouraging designers and developers to build their own tools for the service with Open Platform, which gives developers "under the bonnet" access to key parts of Instagram's engine. "Once you build a community of developers, they create the apps that consumers want, and then more people want the product and you can invest again in the developer community. It's a virtuous circle."We get on to talking about Google Glass, the internet-connected tool that augments your view of the world with relevant information, such as maps, and includes a built in camera for both video and stills. This instantaneous documentation of life  is  a gift to Instagram, once the Glass app store opens in 2014, surely? Systrom looks beyond that, five years ahead."Well, we will be everywhere – on every platform, on every kind of phone and tablet and on wearables, which will be a core component of sharing," he says, though he sounds as if his judgment is reserved until developers get to grips with Glass next year. Once they do, is there any limit to the photo and video streams that Instagram could power? "In five years, I want to see not just content from my friends but my morning news on Instagram, from  multiple channels."I want Instagram to be the place I learn about the world."
It's Friday.
The US government violated the Fourth Amendment right to protection from unreasonable searches when it demanded that Lavabit, NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden’s email provider, hand over the encryption keys to its service, lawyers said in court filings on Thursday.Lavabit founder Ladar Levison closed his secure email service in August after the US authorities demanded he hand over the encryption keys – a move he said would have compromised the personal details of all his 40,000 clients. He iscurrently fightingthe subpoenas and charges of contempt.“General rummaging through all of an innocent business’ communications with all of its customers is at the very core of what the Fourth Amendment prohibits,” Jesse Binnall, Lavabit’s lawyer, said in the court filing made in the eastern district of Virginia.“The Fourth Amendment requires a warrant to be founded on probable cause that a search will uncover fruits, instrumentalities, or evidence of a crime. But Lavabit’s private keys are none of those things: they are lawful to possess and use, they were known only to Lavabit and never used by the company to commit a crime, and they do not prove that any crime occurred,” he said.Levison was subject to a “blizzard of dubious court orders”, the court documents claim, as the FBI tried to force it to hand over the keys to its service. Lavabit proposed a compromise – the company would collect the “metadata” about the target (whose name is redacted) for the government, including “login and subsequent logout date and time, the IP address used to connect” and “non-content headers … from any future emails sent or received using the subject account”.The court documents state: “This solution — though more than Lavabit thought the law obligated it to do, and one with which the company felt profound discomfort — would have given the government the information to which it was entitled without requiring the company to turn over its private keys, thereby protecting the privacy of its other customers.”But the government refused, wanting “real-time access” to the target customer’s data. The government then secured a warrant under the Stored Communications Act and ordered Lavabit to hand over its private keys while gagging the company from telling anyone the government had done so.“Mr Levison made it clear that he had no objection to the government’s lawful installation of the pen-trap device [to record the IP address and the email metadata]— only to the provision of his company’s private keys, &apos;because that would compromise all of the secure communications in and out of my network&apos;,” the documents state.He did hand over the keys – at first as a printout that the government said was illegible. He closed the service shortly after.Lavabit’s lawyers claim the government overreached in its use of the Stored Communications Act and the Pen Register Act, which allows it to install monitoring equipment on a company’s service.Lawyers also argue that the grand jury subpoena also overreached, leading to the closure of his business.“To commercially ruin a third-party small business using a grand jury subpoena is per se oppressive— indeed is close to the Platonic ideal of an unreasonable demand that ought to have been promptly quashed, especially in light of Lavabit’s ability to provide the government with the information to which it was entitled by other, far less intrusive, means,” Lavabit contends.Lavabit has raised about $88,000 in anonline fundraising driveto finance its appeal.
Ziggy Switkowski's appointment as the executive chairman of the National Broadband Network Company has sparked a shareholder revolt over his commitments to numerous other directorships.Switkowski wasinstalled by the Coalition last weekto head a new, slimmed-down NBN board, ahead of a strategic review of the network.Despite the appointment, Switkowski has confirmed that he will remain chairman of insurance group Suncorp, a role he has held since 2011.The former nuclear physicist also holds directorships at Tabcorp and Oil Search. He is also on the board of governors of theCommittee for Economic Development of Australiaand is chancellor of the Melbourne university RMIT.Ian Curry, the chairman of theAustralian Shareholders' Association, told Guardian Australia that the association would urge Switkowski to step down from the board of Suncorp because of his new NBN role."We oppose anyone holding a chairman and executive director role at the same time because it creates a conflicted situation," he said. "It may be OK in the US, but it's certainly frowned upon here."We have a pre-AGM meeting each year with executives and we'll certainly raise this. He really should think about stepping down from the board, rather than waiting. It's a critical year for the NBN and he has work to do at Suncorp too, so there is a concern it will impinge upon his role."Curry said that if Switkowski did not step down the ASA would vote against his re-appointment as Suncorp chairman when his term expires in 2015."We take a strong stand on things like this and in all probability we'd vote against his re-election," he said."He's a very capable person so I'm not criticising him as an individual. But he'll clearly be overloaded and his first obligation will be to the NBN. CEOs justify their often astronomical pay by citing the hours they work, which indicates they shouldn't really have time to sit on lots of other boards."Denis O'Sullivan, a mid-level Suncorp shareholder, told Guardian Australia that he thought Switkowski was a "tad over-committed"."The share price is reasonably buoyant so shareholders aren't too concerned at the moment, but he is certainly on the cusp of being overloaded," he said. "One would hope if he had pressures on his time that he'd relinquish a couple of his directorships."According to Suncorp's latest annual report,Switkowski is paid $570,000a year as non-executive chairman of the business.He also receives abase salary of $172,500 from Tabcorp.A spokeswoman for Suncorp said Switkowski's NBN appointment would not impact upon his work with the company."The chairman met all of his 32 committee meeting requirements in 2012/13 in addition to the range of meetings and events such as the AGM, investor roadshows and other commitments associated with his role at Suncorp," she said. "This will not change."Switkowski is set to remain as executive chairman of NBN Co until a permanent replacement for departed CEO Mike Quigley is found. Quigley was paid an annual salary of $1.95m.NBN Co, which turned down a Guardian Australia request to speak to Switkowski, said there was "no timeline" on the appointment of a new CEO.Telecommunications analystPaul Buddesaid that the issue of Switkowski's position needed to be resolved swiftly if the government was to radically overhaul the NBN."If the government wants to go ahead with fibre to the node you will need a full-time CEO working 16 to 18 hours a day because there will be massive changes and armies of lawyers involved," he said. "Things could run off the rails very quickly if the hawks in the government want to change things around."Switkowski was previously CEO of Telstra and Optus but spent just a year at Optus. Budde said his record was mixed but that he brought experience to the role."Ziggy has a high level of understanding of telecoms and he will have authority – he's very composed and a bit of a nerd," he said. "But I don't think he's a visionary. He was at the helm at Telstra and Optus at a time where there were major changes in the internet and mobile market and those companies were slow to grab opportunities under his leadership."
Two co-founders of the troubled smartphone giant BlackBerry said on Thursday that they were considering making an offer for the company.Mike Lazaridis and Douglas Fregin confirmed in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that they are considering an offer for the company they set up in 1984. Between them, the duo have an 8% stake in the company.Lazaridis left his role as vice-chair of BlackBerry’s board in May, about a year and a half after stepping down as chief executive. At the time, Lazaridis said: &quot;I believe I am leaving the company in good hands.” Fregin was vice-president of operations until he retired in 2007. The pair founded venture fund Quantum Valley Investments earlier this year.“In light of the issuer’s recent announcement that its board of directors has formed a special committee to explore strategic alternatives to enhance value and increase scale, the reporting persons are considering all available options with respect to their holdings of the shares, including, without limitation, a potential acquisition of all the outstanding shares of the issuer that they do not currently own, either by themselves or with other interested investors (an “acquisition”),” the pair said in the filing.BlackBerry, once the dominant smartphone player, reported a quarterly loss of close to $1bn last month. Sales have plummeted as smartphones powered by Google’s Android mobile platform and Apple’s iPhone have come to dominate the market.The company is currently soliciting bids after agreeing last month to a tentative $4.7bn offer from its largest shareholder, Fairfax Financial, and has until 4 November to consider other proposals.BlackBerry announced it was shedding 4,500 jobs last month, about 40% of its workforce. The company blamed &quot;more intense competition&quot; following poor sales of its latest devices, the Z10 and Q10, released in January and April.Lazaridis founded BlackBerry as a company called Research In Motion in a Canadian strip mall with Fregin, a childhood friend, and Jim Balsillie, who served as co-CEO. The company had over 14% of the US smartphone market in 2011. According to research firm IDC, it now has under 3% and trails in fourth place behind Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone brand, devices powered by market leader Google&apos;s Android system and Apple.BlackBerry shipped 3.7m smartphones in the last reported quarter, its lowest since summer 2007. Last month Apple reported it sold over 9m of its latest iPhones in the opening weekend. Samsung sold 384.6m phones in 2012, over half of which were smartphones.
An Illinois-based digital artist has created a Gmail plugin that automatically adds blacklisted words to every email in an attempt to protest against online surveillance.Ben Grosser has designed the ScareMail plugin in a way that, he says, will be ensure that even benign emails are picked up by the security filters of America&apos;s National Security Agency.Grosser&apos;s idea takes the opposite tack to encryption tools including PGP and Silent Text, and to the IP-masking service Tor, which are designed to hide the contents of messages or the sender.&quot;One of the strategies used by the US National Security Agency’s (NSA) email surveillance programs is the detection of predetermined keywords. These “selectors”, as they refer to them internally, are used to identify communications by presumed terrorists,&quot; said Grosser.&quot;Large collections of words have thus become codified as something to fear, as an indicator of intent. The result is a governmental surveillance machine run amok, algorithmically collecting and searching our digital communications in a futile effort to predict behaviours based on words in emails.&quot;ScareMail generates a chunk of text to append to the end of every email sent, containing as many selectors as possible.&quot;If every email contains the word &apos;plot&apos; or &apos;facility,&apos;&quot; Grosser writes, &quot;then searching for those words becomes a fruitless exercise. A search that returns everything is a search that returns nothing of use.&quot;The text is deliberately gibberish to a human eye, but formatted in such a way that it can&apos;t easily be discounted by a computer. A sample paragraph reads: &quot;&apos;I&apos;m sorry. One crashes to fail careful.&apos; He mutated but had not important, we mustn&apos;t vaccinate Palestine Liberation Organisation, seem it!&apos;&quot;The plugin warns recipients by prefacing the text with the warning &quot;Following Text Generated by ScareMail&quot; — which would make it trivial for the NSA to ignore it in its current form.&quot;The ability to use whatever words we want is one of our most basic freedoms, yet the NSA’s growing surveillance of electronic speech threatens our first amendment rights,&quot; said Grosser.&quot;All ScareMail does is add words from the English language to emails written by users of the software. By doing so, ScareMail reveals one of the primary flaws of the NSA’s surveillance efforts: words do not equal intent.&quot;ScareMail is available as a pluginfor Chrome, Firefox and Safari, and thesource code is free for all at Github.•Three MIT students wrote a program to generate gibberish – that gets accepted by academic conferences
My father is 82 and has early-stage dementia that affects his short-term memory. He has a difficult time remembering instructions and tasks. Too much information, whether visual or verbal, confuses him. (In addition, his eyesight is not great, nor is his touch sensitivity.) I am looking for a bare-bones laptop that would allow him to send/receive email and look up information on the internet. Can you recommend a laptop, tablet, or netbook that would be appropriate?I've been doing some research and there are options, but they are not as much related to hardware as to software, such as PawPawMail and Eldy. The thing with memory loss is that the person can't recall how to perform a task and they need a reminder, or someone to walk them through the process each time. I have taken to writing up numbered instructions for all kind of tasks, including checking mail. The problem is when he clicks on something on the desktop that he shouldn't, and then he's onto some other window, and has no idea how to get back to mail.The fact is that my father can, with help, still communicate, but only if I make it very, very obvious how he should do so. The idea of learning how to use a tablet was absolutely beyond him (although for a senior with good mental faculties, it's a great option). But he can still write and receive email. And he can search Google, as long as there aren't too many options to contend with.FionaThe first things I would have suggested are tablets and Chromebooks, because they are fairly simple to use, hard to mess up, and relatively cheap. I understand that you have already ruled out tablets, but you could still consider a Chromebook.The basic idea of a Chromebook is that it runs a Google Chrome browser, and you do everything through the browser. If your father can cope with a web-based email service then Gmail and Microsoft's Outlook.com are the obvious options, but neither is particularly easy to use. You could have a look at AOL's freeAOL Mail, which is simpler, and includes AIM messaging. There's alsoKidsEmail, which is aimed at children under 13. However, the one you found yourself --PawPawMail, which is "designed for grandparents" -- looks by far the best option.Obviously, a Chromebook requires a Wi-Fi or mobile (3G) connection to the internet, but I'm assuming your father has Wi-Fi.One slight drawback with Chromebooks is that -- apart from the absurdly expensive Chromebook Pixel -- they have fairly small (eg 11.6in) screens, so text will be relatively small compared with a Windows laptop with a 15.6in screen. This is easily solved as you can set increased magnification in the browser, though it doesn't make the screen any bigger.You can make a Chromebook or Windows laptop more senior friendly by putting stickers on the keys and by adding an external mouse. You can buy large print keyboard stickers from the RNIB, which lists them onAmazon.co.uk. The options are white on black, black on white, and black on yellow. There's a wide range of alternative large-print keyboard stickers andhigh-contrast keyboards.If buying a mouse for an ARM-based Chromebook, tell the supplier that's what it's for and get them to confirm that it will work properly. This should make it easier to return if it doesn't work properly.Adapting WindowsHowever, you may not need to buy a new laptop: your father than keep using his current Windows machine. This offers many features that a Chromebook lacks, because it can run millions of useful programs. These allow you to set up a system that suits your father, automate tricky processes, lock everything down, and use the internet to control your father's PC remotely. The drawback is that doing all this requires some time and technical effort, but nothing that is beyond your capabilities.Using Windows would enable your father to use a desktop email client such as Windows Live Mail orOpera Mail, which can upload and download all email automatically. You can also hunt around for a simpler email program such asEasyEmail, which has a lockable sidebar for seniors.Whether you choose a desktop or web-based email program, create a link (Windows shortcut) for it, and put it in the middle of the Windows desktop. You can remove most other desktop icons by dropping them in the waste bin. Windows XP has a clean-up wizard, and in Windows 7, you can remove unwanted icons by searching for Personalization, clicking it, then clicking "Change desktop icons" in the left-hand pane. You don't need any of the, though you might keep the waste bin.Lockdown and automationRather than writing lists of instructions for your father, you could use simple automation software to record and save a series of actions and create a macro button that you can put on his desktop, or assign to a hot key. There are plenty of options, but you could try the free, open sourceAutoHotKeyor the freewareAutoIt. A different kind of alternative isSlickRun, which uses "magic words", eg you can just type MAIL to run your email program of choice.I'd certainly create a button that enables your father torestart Windows Explorer, which should take him back to a clean desktop without actually rebooting the C.The problem of people clicking the wrong thing in Windows has a solution: just lock everything down that you don't want your father to use. IT departments do this all the time, using centralised Group Policies -- probably to the annoyance of most Ask Jack readers -- or what's known as "Kiosk mode". (This is used for PCs in public places.) Unfortunately, I can't think of any free lock-down programs. Commercial programs used by public libraries etc includeInteset Secure Lockdown v2($19.95) andFortres 101($63).A somewhat more complicated option would be to replace the Windows shell program with a different, simpler desktop, which you can set up how you like. There used to be lots of these, but few survive as going concerns. You could try theEmerge Desktopwith someRainmeterskins, but I think it would be better to use Eldy or pay for Inteset Secure Lockdown.Eldy, SimplicITy and SplashtopEldy software provides a greatly simplified, alternative desktop designed for older people who are unfamiliar with PCs. It was developed in Italy, and runs on Windows, Linux and Macs, plus some tablets and TV sets. I think theSimplicITyservice started with a variant of this software, though it now uses Envelope (£59.95), which looks easier to use. You could start with Eldy, because it's free, and then try Envelope. At least it's cheaper than buying a new device.If your father continues to use Windows on his current laptop, it's worth installing remote access software to that you can solve problems without being in front of the machine. I generally useLogMeInas a way of logging into my own PCs when I'm away from home. However,TeamVieweris probably a better option as it allows both unattended and attended use. In other words, you can help your father while he's using his PC.LogMeIn is a web-based service, whereas TeamViewer is a program that you must download and install. It's available for Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Android and Apple's iOS. Both are free.Finally, if your father has an Asus or other popular brand of laptop or netbook, it may already have a simplified Linux-based alternative to Windows on the motherboard. These alternatives use a variety of names --  the Asus version is called ExpressGate, Acer calls it InstaView, HP and Sony call it QuickWeb, and Lenovo calls it QuickStart -- but they are all based onSplashtop, which used to be called DeviceVM. Splashtop is based on the Firefox browser but otherwise is similar to having a Chromebook.Given the number of young and old people who would like to send email and search the web without too many complications, it's surprising that there aren't more packaged options. Perhaps readers can suggest some I'vemissed ...
Children's virtual world Moshi Monsters has signed up more than 70m children and sold $250m of merchandise since its launch in 2008. In 2013, though, parent company Mind Candy is facing its greatest challenge: going mobile.It's been trying to do it for some time: back in 2012, chief executive Michael Acton Smithannounced plans for a full Moshi Monsters iPad appto be released in the next few months. It's still not out, but in a keynote speech at the MIPJunior conference this week, he explained why."I'll be honest, it's been really tough. We thought we'd waltz in and have a successful app, and as most people have found, that universe is really tough," said Acton Smith. "It's great because anyone can create an app, but that's why it's tough. There's so much content."Some of that content is attracting the same children who might be logging in to Moshi Monsters. Whereas its competition used to be other web-based virtual worlds like Club Penguin and Poptropica, now it's very different rivals."Where I see more our competitors emerging from are definitely in the App Store, everything from Talking Tom to Temple Run to Angry Birds, these extraordinary apps getting tens of millions of downloads," said Acton Smith during his speech. "That's where kids are spending a lot of their time these days."These apps tend to be standalone products, or more commonly a series of apps with an overall identify, whether that's all-ages properties like Angry Birds (1.7bn downloads), Talking Friends (1bn downloads) or pure children's brands like Toca Boca's apps (40m downloads by June, but 47m now).Mind Candy hasn't yet managed to launch a virtual world-style app that captivates millions of children, but neither has anyone else."It's all very light, quick experiences where kids bounce in and out, but surely there's going to be an app that engages kids not just for days, but for months and maybe even years," Acton Smith tells The Guardian in an interview after his speech."In the same way that there are apps that engage grown-ups like that, whether it's Instagram or Facebook or Twitter, why is there not something that deep for kids in the app space? No one has cracked it yet, but it's coming."In his speech, Acton Smith had predicted that in the near future, many more children will have their own tablets, rather than sharing their parents' devices. "That's a fascinating opportunity: hundreds of millions of kids around the world with their own tablets, including the cheaper Android tablets that are coming out," he said.In its recent annual report, Mind Candy revealed that it's working on a number of brand new non-Moshi projects. Acton Smith used his speech to give a few more details: three projects are currently being developed, and all of them are mobile-first."They will always start, these new brands, in the mobile and tablet space. And if they're successful then we will start expanding them into different media," said Acton Smith during his speech.Afterwards, he talks about the likely timescale. "I'm hoping some of our really exciting new projects will launch this year, before Christmas," he says, while warning that if the apps aren't ready, Mind Candy won't rush them out."You're going to see a lot more stuff from us in 2014, but we're still figuring out the commercial model," he says. "Some of the apps we launch will use in-app purchases, some will be paid apps, and some will be completely free and used to generate revenue through making characters more popular. There's no one-size fits-all route."More on children's digital entertainment•AwesomenessTV boss talks YouTube networks for kids•50 best apps for kids from 2013 that parents can trust•SuperAwesome's Dylan Collins on kids and discoveryIn-app purchases (IAP) is a controversial subject for children's apps at the moment, with justified concern about the waysome apps have marketed in-app extras to children, yet also concern from developers that dodgy practices may make it harder for apps to make ethical use of IAP."It's really frustrating to look at companies like King with Candy Crush Saga, which I think has made about $180m in the last six months. And that's hard to do in the kids space if you can't do in-app purchases," said Acton Smith in his MIPJunior speech."I personally think there's an opportunity to do in-app purchases ethically. I don't think it's a binary thing: it's not that in-app purchases shouldn't be used for kids' products."Another argument in the children's apps space concerns the popularity of games compared to other kinds of apps and activities. A recent survey by Nielsen Book suggestinga downturn in British kids' reading habitsadded spice to the debate.Add that to concerns from some parents that tablets and apps might be distracting children from physical play – be it bikes, balls or bricks – and you've got a sensitive debate. Acton Smith thinks it's not an either/or question."We don't want kids – or anyone – to be spending all their time with their face in the screen, but I think tablets are going to be part of 21st-century childhood, and should be balanced with all the other wonderful things kids do, from building dens to playing football," he says."I think games are a wonderful thing for children too: games help children form hypotheses, they teach them about planning, and hone their reflexes and critical thinking. They can be incredibly healthy."As an example, Acton Smith talks about an ice-cream selling simulation that he played as a 10 year-old on his BBC Micro computer, which he thinks sparked his passion for business. He also thinks we've been here before with the games-are-bad arguments."When novels first came out, commentators of the day said 'oh, this is shocking, it'll rot people's minds with flights of fancy, women shouldn't be reading these things' and so on. When anything new emerges, there's always a bit of a backlash. Everything in moderation, I think, is good."Mind Candy's most recent annual reportrevealed that the company's turnover grew 62% from £28.9m in 2011 to £46.9m in 2012, while its net profit rose from £7.4m to £8.1m in the same period.Games will continue to form the heart of Mind Candy's business, with merchandising increasingly prominent too, but the company is also getting deeper into animation, with a shortform TV series in development, and a movie coming in December.The latter's trailer was shown publicly for the first time at MIPJunior, where Acton Smith explained that Mind Candy financed the film itself, but is working with Universal Pictures on distribution. "I'd definitely rather do it that way: keep it in-house, rather than give it away and have it turn into something else," he said.But it's the success of the company's mobile strategy that may define its future: the stakes are high, and involve considerable change for Mind Candy. Acton Smith leaves no room for doubt about the company's commitment "We're definitely shifting our DNA away from the web to mobile."
"Can a video game be art?" asked David Cage, the writer and director of Beyond: Two Souls, at the recent Bafta annual games lecture. I suspect he already knew the answer was yes, or at least he would have done if he'd ever heard the intro music to&nbsp;Streets of Rage 2, which more than comfortably satisfies the most useful definition of art I've come across, formulated by Scottish author Alasdair Gray: anything that stimulates people into "thinking about their feelings, and feeling about their thoughts". The complication being that, in reaching laudably for emotive, meaningful content, Beyond lurches so forcefully towards cinema that a more pertinent question for us to ask is, "Can this art be considered a video game?"Beyond tells the story of a young woman, Jodie Holmes, who for unknown reasons is tied to an entity called Aiden. Her life is presented as a fragmented timeline, jumbled moments from tender infancy to defiant adulthood stacked upon each other non-chronologically. Players – if that is the right term – control both Jodie and Aiden during most of these scenes, hopping to Aiden's hovering perspective with a button press, gradually piecing together a story of laboratory experimentation, CIA induction and subsequent rebellion.So why wring hands about whether or not it's a game? Because there's not much gameplay. Beyond is technically extraordinary, and certainly one of the finest looking things that run on PS3, but its points of interaction are building block-simple. Mostly they involve guiding Jodie through conversations with simple choices, or activating pre-determined physical motions with single button presses. Exploring scenes with Jodie or wandering through rooms (and walls) with Aiden grants more obvious freedom, but there is nothing skill-based here. You can only be better than someone else at Beyond if you shift the regular expectation of what "better" means – to experience the story more profoundly, perhaps, or to unobtrusively input button presses to allow the story to continue smoothly (and absolutely not raise and lower Jodie's can of beer repeatedly while saying "Emotion" in a thick French accent).Beyond: Two Souls: stars Ellen Page as Jodie HolmesSo, Beyond might open up a troubling, legitimate gap in our use of the term "video game" to describe all interactive electronic media (or, you know, it might just be a starry-eyed evolution of the point-and-click adventure). More urgent is the issue of whether it's worth your time, and on this point it helps that Beyond looks fantastic. This isn't just a result of Quantic Dream's technology, but the artistic eyes behind it, and like the studio's previous game, Heavy Rain, Beyond is a triumph of both visual imagination and image quality. Like discontented Saturday night spouses we often complain that games have the ability to take us anywhere yet we always seem to end up in the same brown, dark corridors. Beyond gives us flair and spectacle – a warm, autumnal park at sunset; a still sheriff's office with dust motes illuminated by moonlight; a long, hazy road stretching through a baked orange desert.But the core of Beyond is its story. Beyond is a predominantly narrative experience that has introduced elements of interactivity in order to heighten the emotional involvement of the player/viewer/interactee. One is only as enjoyable as the other, and both are imperfect, clumsy, and occasionally maddening, and yet somehow still compelling.It helps that while Cage talks so earnestly about meaning and art he finds himself endearingly, irresistibly drawn to hokey sci-fi plotting. As talk of "the other side" and gateways built in government facilities take centre stage, it's clear that Beyond is exploitation dressed as art house – if not full-on Roger Corman, then at least John Carpenter, genre nous mixed with sporadic intelligence. This is no bad thing, as the juicy hook of this sci-fi pitch – who is Aiden, and where did he come from? – provides the mystery that gives the narrative its driving momentum.Beyond: Two Souls: a young JodieBut there are significant problems of choice and agency. This single hook is problematic when compared, say, with the multi-threaded structure of Heavy Rain. There Cage's writing weaves together an ensemble cast whose choices and interactions cumulatively represent a significant set of potential outcomes. There are substantial, plot-changing decisions (and mistakes) to be made, tension borne of consequence, of knowledge that each of those characters can die. Beyond features expensive Hollywood star Ellen Page as Jodie Holmes, a single protagonist essential to the narrative, which consequently must be driven in a largely pre-determined direction. This means choices are limited, or often (even more infuriatingly) illusory, which in turn means that there is no grander interactivity to compensate for the lack of moment-to-moment mechanical control.And yet, as flawed and constricting as this format can feel, it still offers some extraordinary experiences. Many of Beyond's most touching moments are non-essential in narrative terms, and only discovered through exploration – like Jodie singing a mournful song on guitar as she busks for dinner money as a freezing down-and-out, or infant Jodie in her bedroom trying to play make-believe with dolls only for her real imaginary friend to disrupt her game.Beyond deserves credit for presenting us with ideas and situations few other games (especially of this budget level) would touch, or even think of. The disrupted doll play is just part of a series of scenes in which young Jodie struggles to come to terms with her unique ability – Beyond is strongest here, in these early years, capturing the mannerisms and heartache of childhood with pinprick accuracy, turning a neighbourhood snowball fight into a rush of escape and excitement. When an older Jodie joins the CIA, she becomes a physically commanding action heroine – admittedly, the action moments aren't particularly fun to sort-of-play, but my young daughter, catching a glimpse of this section, fist-pumped at the very idea of a leading lady who can handle herself. Later, in a disorienting change of pace, several minutes are given over to Jodie alone in her apartment, preparing for an imminent dinner date – a rushed tidy, a flick through a cook book, a frantic decision about what to wear.Beyond: Two Souls: Willem Dafoe as Dr DawkinsThe complicating factor is that, as well as doing things no other game does, Beyond also does some things really badly. There's a teenage party scene which seems like an excruciating parody of what teenage party scenes would be like if they were all written and conceived by middle-aged games designers (rule breaking, sexual frisson, rejection – it's Carrie in five clanging minutes). There's a lengthy portion in which Jodie lives with some Navajo indians ("Because they're a bit mystic too" seems the general reasoning). And the climactic escalation of Beyond's final scenes will be familiar to anyone with a working knowledge of Brian Yuzna's films, the works of HP Lovecraft, or derivative cautionary science fiction in general.All of this makes it difficult to plot the quality of Beyond on a regular scale. It's technically extraordinary, but mechanically base. The quality of its drama is wildly inconsistent, with elegant emotional moments followed by clumsy cliche. And it contorts itself in service to a story that's both deeply derivative but also reliably compelling. It's a maddening flux of excellence and overambition that rejects many overplayed conventions of big-budget gaming, but fails to provide a comprehensive alternative. Beyond feels like an unfinished – and often unconvincing – theory of where games can go next. It is not the way forward, but it might help show the way for others, and it's worth exploring for yourself.• Nathan Ditum has opted not to provide a score for this review
Google has updated its maps feature, introducing the option to get multi-stage directions, find upcoming events at local venues, and view flight, hotel, and restaurant reservations.The update affects Google&apos;s Maps Preview on desktop, which allows users to choose to upgrade to an early version of the company&apos;s next major release of its maps product.Driving, walking and cycling directions can now have multiple destinations. Clicking a plus sign lets users search for new locations and add them to the bottom of the list. They can then be rearranged by clicking and dragging, with up to 10 locations visited in order.Public transport directions, however, are still limited to one start point and one end point.Google's new upcoming events feature. Photograph: GoogleWhen planning a trip to see some music, sports or a play, Google now shows users upcoming events at that location.Finally, when a user signed in to their Google account searches for an airport, hotel or restaurant which they have a reservation at, the site will now show that reservation alongside the venue.The feature requires Google to accurately recognise which incoming emails are reservations, so it can be fooled.•Google Earth, combined with app-controlled drones, are helping save the life of elephants in Kenya&apos;s game reserve.
Nottingham's annual GameCity festival has provided many unforgettable moments over the last eight years. A live Resident Evil role-playing adventure down a dark hotel corridor; Richard Lemarchand talking beautifully about the influence of indie games on the Uncharted series; Robin Hunickie's liveplaythrough of Journeyin the Old Market Square; an orchestral performance of the Harry Potter game soundtrack in St Mary's Church. But even by those standards, this year's event promises to be rather special.Firstly, the format has completely changed. For the last few years, the centrepoint has been a large tent erected in the market square, where indie developers got to show off their latest games, and a stage area provided a space for larger exhibitions. Now that is gone. Instead, GameCity director Iain Simons has commissioned a selection of designers to create their own games for a huge pair of screens, which will move into different positions on the square each night of the festival. We havealready written about Aim For Love, the live dating sim from Martin Hollis, but bizarre communal interactive experiences will also be provided by the likes of Fez creator Phil Fish and Keita Takahashi, the genius behind Katamari Demacy."We started thinking about this in 2001," says Simons. "The original idea was a single screen that would appear magically in different places around the County throughout October, and then end its journey in the Market Square for the festival. I was talking this through with [ex-Lego games producer] Jonathan Smith, who thought it was great, but that there obviously HAD to be two screens - and of course he's completely right. Suddenly with two, the transactions that can take place are massively increased. I'd love to say it was my idea to do that, but it was his."From there, the idea of them reconfiguring every night came about easily. If you take away the tent and you have a big open space like a public square, the ways you can play around with people's focus get really interesting. The invitation to make games for big public screens is interesting, but it's much more so if the space the screens are in is part of the design. So, a game where the screens are back to back would be really different to a game where they're on the floor, or swinging from a crane or... of course, that's where the conversations with health and safety begin..."Meanwhile, the indie developers who would have been in the tent are moving to new locations around the city. "The main one is the 'Creative Quarter pop-up centre', which is a HUGE empty furniture store - bigger itself than the tent on the square in previous years," says Simons. "The Open Arcade is going to be based in there and it's going to be brilliant. One of the things that make me happiest about working on the show is that the variety of work that people want to bring along keeps expanding every year."Elsewhere, there will be events every morning in the Broadway cinema cafe, where I once presented the GamesBlog breakfast debates. Games and social media writer Leigh Alexander is hosting on Monday, while video game radio show One Life Left is hitting the Friday slot. This year, Cara Ellison and I will be hosting our own magazine-style show from 12.30-2pm daily at the Antenna club. We'll have special guests, topical discussion and controversy, and it'll all be streamed live across the internet. That should cause no trouble whatsoever. I'm also hoping to get my sons up for a day or two as the excellentMinecraftEduwill be back, hosting a workshop on Thursday, plus, there's a Minecraft paper craft day on Saturday.What I've always loved about this event is its inclusivity. There are no press-only areas, no PRs deciding who gets to come in and who doesn't. This is where student journalists and fans get to interview their heroes, and where people who've never picked up a controller before get to play amazing games with the people who made them."There's been so much debate about diversity and accessibility in videogames and game culture over the past year, that was something we wanted to confront head-on," says Simons. "We've put a lot of thought into the festival as an invitation – to devs who want to show work, to students who want to make work and to people who want to explore it. We're trying to establish an atmosphere for the festival that unifies everything that happens here, and we want it to be friendly. That doesn't mean it should shirk 'difficult' ideas; we hope you'll come here and feel exhilarated and challenged - just not bullied."Five events no Guardian gamer should missFestival director Iain Simons runs us through some essential GameCity highlights...The National Videogame Archive 'Antiques Roadshow'11-4 Angel Row LibraryTuesday 22 October"A few years into the festival, we (Nottingham Trent University - GameCity's mothership) founded the National Videogame Archive. One of the main aims of it is to explore ways in which we can preserve videogames, and one of those is oral history. This is your opportunity to record your memories of videogames that are important to you. (nb. please do not bring anything along for valuation. It's notreallyan antiques roadshow...)"Argy Bhaji8pm Mogal-e-Azam RestaurantTuesday 22 October"It's been years since we've done an event in an Indian Restaurant, so this return to the official Curry supplier is long overdue. It's curry, beer and a conclusive end to the Commodore vs Spectrum debate."Silent Enemy: Global Reveal3pm Council BallroomWeds 23 October"Tali Goldstein from We Are Minority is going to be in town to give the GameCity audience the exclusive first look at their new project, Silent Enemy. Papo &amp; Yo was amazing and Minority are one of the most committed of developers. I think this is going to be really special."Making Stories: Lucy Prebble meets Steve Gaynor3pm Council BallroomThursday 24 October"The most interesting stuff always happens when people from different disciplines talk to each other, so this should be brilliant. Award winning playwright meets award winning game-writer for an hour of conversation about Gone Home and stories."Volume Reveal: Mike Bithell8pm Nottingham CastleFriday 25th"Bithell returns for his festival hat-trick, this time revealing the story and cast of his much anticipated follow-up in Thomas Was Alone - IN A CASTLE!"* GameCity runs from 19-26 October and more information is available at theofficial website.
UK supermarket chain Asda is trialling a new in-store 3D printing service that allows shoppers to scan and replicate anything in ceramic.Launching on 15 October in the company&apos;s York store, with the intention to roll out nationwide if the trial is successful, the service offers 3D scanning that takes about 2 minutes to fully scan the surface of an object. It uses a special scanning camera that captures the contours and shape of the object, while identifying up to 6m different colours for accurate replication.&quot;Anything can be scanned – including people, pets and even cars – and the models can be produced in full colour, white or a bronze-style coating,&quot; explained an Asdablog post.Spraying ceramic fluidOnce a virtual 3D model has been scanned into the system, it is then sent off to a specialist 3D printer to be recreated in ceramic, with options for a white, full-colour or bronze-style print.The 3D model is recreated by spraying ceramic fluid in thin layers that are each allowed to set before laying down the next, building up a solid object.Prices start at £40 for an 8in figurine, which can be printed and ready to be picked up in-store with next week&apos;s shopping. The models can be scaled to whatever size the customer wants.A &apos;mini me&apos; for ChristmasAsda expects the &quot;mini me&quot; figures to be popular with shoppers, offering the next evolution of the photograph.&quot;Evolving well beyond simply filling frames with photographs of friends and family, 3D printed ‘mini me’ figures will add a whole new dimension to shoppers’ mantelpieces and the lifelike models are also expected to be popular as personalised wedding cake toppers,&quot; said Asda.&quot;This truly is innovation without limits and Asda hopes to be the first retailer to offer this service nationwide.&quot;Asda has placed restrictions on what can and cannot be scanned to avoid copyright infringement and potential legal issues regarding.&quot;Nothing smaller than a shoe can be scanned by the system, which should prevent issues around the possible replication of banned items such as the 3D printed gun,&quot; said a spokesperson.3D printers recently became available on the UK high streetfrom Maplin electronics, which launched a £700 printer that comes flat-packed and is no bigger than a traditional machine.•The Lumifold 3D printer is small enough to be put in a backpack
Spotify suffered a service disruption on Thursday morning that saw its in-browser web player taken offline.The service issues stem from a fault at its UK data centre, the companysaidon Twitter.Testing showed that both the Spotify web player, which can be accessed in any browser, and the &quot;Discover&quot; tab within the Spotify desktop app were unavailable.Spotify's web player knocked offline by UK data centre outage.&quot;We are still working very hard on fixing the connectivity issue for our users in Europe,&quot;said Spotify.Streaming music within the Spotify desktop app, as well as the iPhone and Android mobile apps - which use cached content to some extent - seemed unaffected.In May, the company had to react quickly tofix a vulnerabilityin its browser service which allowed users to download MP3 files via an extension to Google&apos;s Chrome browser.• Update:Spotify resolved the issuejust before 1pm, confirmed with a tweet.• On 7 October, the Radiohead and Atoms for Peace musician Thom Yorke described Spotify as&apos;the last desperate fart of a dying corpse&apos; as the company celebrated its fifth birthday.
For a few months, thanks to the gargantuan success of Grand Theft Auto V, Scotland has been the focus of the global games industry. Released in September and developed mostly at Rockstar's studio in Edinburgh, the game has now sold over 15m copies, generating revenues in excess of $1bn, and breaking several world records in the process. When the New York Times ranan article on the origins of the GTA series, many readers were no doubt shocked to discover that it was born, not in the US, but in Dundee, a town previously famous for Desperate Dan and the jute industry.But of course, Scotland has a proud heritage in game creation, which extends way beyond the borders of GTA's fictional US cities. You don't even have to look far for another major success story. A short drive from where Grand Theft Auto was first conceived in Dundee there's 4J Studios, the developer responsible for the Xbox 360 version of indie hit Minecraft. Spread throughout the country are almost 100 independent studios, including Ruffian, the creator of cult open-world hit Crackdown 2 and massively multiplayer game developer, Hunted Cow.And now the industry has an official trade body to represent it: the Scottish Games Network. Incorporated earlier this week, the organisation aims to support the country's games sector, encouraging growth and helping it develop ties with other creative industries. It is the culmination of a project started almost a decade ago by Brian Baglow, once a writer and PR rep at Dundee's DMA Design, the creator of Lemmings and Grand Theft Auto. "The SGN was originally a Yahoo group to provide the developers in Scotland with a place they could meet, share news, discuss issues and let people know what was happening," he explains. "Since then it's gone through a number of incarnations, as a TypePad blog, a Ning social network and as website. It now encompasses the website, along with all of the popular social channels. As the industry has grown, the scope of the network has evolved to provide resources, news and information about the wider games sector and it's place in the digital and creative industries here in Scotland."Baglow is now seeking to work with the 30 government organisations that touch on the industry in some way, from Scottish Enterprise, Scottish Development International and Creative Scotland, to the Cultural Enterprise Office, setting up partnerships and affiliations, and no doubt securing funding and support. As in the rest of the UK, the games industry has suffered here over the last five years, thanks in part to the rise of new game development hubs like Canada, where tax breaks have attracted both studios and talent. There have been high-profile disasters like the closure of RealTime Worlds, the studio set up by DMA Design founder Dave Jones, which went bankrupt in 2010 thanks to the failure of its ambitious massively multiplayer crime adventure, APB.But, of course, this has been true across Britain, and trade bodies such as Ukie and Tiga are already working on raising the profile of UK development and supporting indies. So why does Scotland need its own trade representation? "Scotland already has a very different infrastructure from the rest of the UK and has for some time," says Baglow. "From education and skills development through to the commercial and cultural organisations, we've got a whole range of public and private sector bodies who are increasingly involved in the games and interactive sector."The problem is that the games industry in Scotland has suffered from a real lack or profile and hard data for the last several years. This is one of the reasons that the economic impact survey carried out back in 2012 got the games sector so badly wrong and valued the industry as contributing £0 to the economy. Nobody knew how many companies there were in the games industry, where they were or what they did."Judging by thehuge variety and quality of the games shown at the recent Dare Protoplay festivalin Dundee, the sector is booming again. The University of Abertay Dundee, where Jones once studied computer science, has been a staunch supporter of the industry, not only running a range of video game development courses, but also organising the annual Dare to be Digital game creation competition and setting up its £25,000 Protoype fund for small studios throughout the UK, supported by the Department for Business Innovation and Skills. Abertay is currently researching some fascinating uses of game engines and technology outside of the entertainment sector, providing interesting new avenues for students and young developers.The eyes of the gaming world are on Scotland right now because of one very high-profile export. But when the GTA juggernaut moves on, there is plenty here to watch out for.Five promising young Scottish game studiosWe asked Scottish Games Network director Brian Baglow to name five studios we should all be looking out for in the coming year. Here are his tips...Quartic Llama"Based in Dundee, the team has worked on a variety of projects which have moved beyond the usual idea of gaming to create entirely new concepts. These have included an interactive light show, illuminating the outside of Abertay University and Other, a location-based game they developed with the National Theatre Of Scotland, which leads players around the city centre, telling a story and twisting participants' perceptions of reality. These guys are going to produce incredible things."Guerilla Tea"Also based in Dundee, Guerilla Tea has distinguished itself as another innovator. They released a game earlier this year that was created in two days with a group of teenagers with learning disabilities. They're now working with Cancer Research UK to create a game using real world data to help find new cures for cancer. Again, this is a company which is going to surprise everyone."Hunted Cow"The company which holds the record for the most northerly developer in the UK (I think). Based in Elgin. Hunted Cow are already huge, you've just never heard of them. Yet. They are entirely independent and have released half a dozen browser-based MMORPGs including Fallen Sword and Legacy Online.  In 2012 they've moved into publishing and have since released several iOS strategy games including Civil War 1863 and Ancient Battle: Rome, developed by nearby studio Hexwar. They've signed deals with other Scottish developers with more games coming out in the next few months. Their own game, Eldevin is astonishing – a huge MMORPG, which has taken them approximately eight years and cost around £1m. It hits the spot between WoW and Diablo and promises to add more players to the company's existing 4 million registered users."Tigerface"Edinburgh-based Tigerface is a games company specialising in educational games for kids, with titles designed to support multiple players on a single device. They're working with teachers and parents around the world to make games for kids which are genuinely innovative, entertaining and fun. They're also up for moving away from the devices and platforms and creating games in the real world at festivals and events. They've got some new projects in the pipeline and their CEO, Kate Ho, is one of the smartest and most enthusiastic people in the industry today."Lucky Frame"It's probably not fair to list Lucky Frame here as they're not technically a games company – they just happen to be making games right now. And they are weird, eclectic and marvelous games like Pugs Luv Beats, Bad Hotel (just about to be released on Steam and well worth a look), Gentlemen and Wave Trip: all are part musical instrument, part video game and entirely wonderful. Another company not tied down to the usual conventions, they're working on a few things which turn the weirdness up to 11."• Ireland's game scene back on its feet
The PC industry shows no sign of coming out of its slump, which now extends for a record six straight quarters of decline - and could continue into 2014, analysts say.The research group Gartner says that in the third quarter, to the end of September, shipments of PCs (defined as computers with a permanently attached keyboard)fell by 8.6% year-on-year to 80.28m, while another research group, IDCput the drop at 7.6% to 81.61m.IDC expects no relief in the fourth quarter, forecasting that the figure there will be 83.1m - down 5% from 87.5m in the comparative period in 2012.The companies think that 2014 could mark the low point, and that PC sales might stop dropping in 2015 as older PCs are finally replaced. However Gartner reckons it would see no better than single-digit growth even then.IDC/Gartner average of PC shipments, Q1 1999 to Q3 2013, in millions. Photograph: /GuardianAt the same time, analysts now think that sales of tablets (including Microsoft&apos;s Surface and formats with detachable keyboards) will for the first time overtake those of PCs next quarter - a dramatic rise for a category which only began to take off when sales of the iPad began in the second quarter of 2010. Preliminary IDC estimates suggest that just 49m tablets shipped worldwide in the third quarter - but Christmas is expected to bring a surge in buying, helped by new products from Apple, Google and even retail vendors including Tesco.The shift is part of a structural change that is hitting the PC industry, which has effectively hit saturation in the west and where buyers in developing countries, particularly in Asia, appear to be opting for smartphones and tablets as a first computing device. That is putting pressure on companies which rely only on PCs and do not have a smartphone or tablet strategy as those markets see explosive growth.Significant events in the PC market's development: previous Windows launches saw dips. Photograph: /GuardianConsumers are also holding onto PCs for longer as they see less improvement in processing power or battery life, and less need for it.Trouble in TaiwanFor Taiwan&apos;s Asus and Acer, the quarter brought more bad news, with their shipments declining substantially - by a third compared to last year according to IDC, and 20% according to Gartner. The three large PC companies, Lenovo, HP and Dell, all tightened their grip on the business as purchasing shifted away from consumers and towards businesses; but only Lenovo saw even minimal growth, of over 2%, in shipments. IDC said Acer was hit by weak consumer spending; Asus, by a lack of corporate buyers.Continuing upgrades of older commercial systems which were running Windows XP, and are now being replaced with versions mostly running Windows 7, is keeping the business side of purchasing healthy. But consumers are effectively staying away.The prospect of new PCs based on Intel&apos;s new low-power Haswell chips, and the release of Microsoft&apos;s 8.1 update to its Windows software, may help sales to consumers in the next quarter.Both Gartner and IDC&apos;s figures include Apple shipments. Using an estimated 6% decline in Apple&apos;s worldwide computer shipments - the same as its last quarter - suggests that the Windows PC market declined by 8.7%.Windows PC shipments (excluding Apple), Q1 1999 to Q3 2013. Figures for Q3 2013 estimated on -6% growth for Apple year-on-year, the same as the previous quarter. Photograph: /GuardianIDC had expected worse overall PC figures for the quarter - it forecast a 9.5% decline - but Loren Loverde, its vice-president for PC tracking, remarked that even so the figure &quot;doesn&apos;t reflect much improvement in the PC market, or potential for near-term growth&quot;. Consumers are still putting off PC purchases and replacements, Loverde said: &quot;the third quarter results suggest that there&apos;s still a high probability that we will see another decline in worldwide shipments in 2014.&quot;Back to school... but not with a PCAt Gartner, principal analyst Mikako Kitagawa commented that despite the third quarter usually being described as the &quot;back-to-school&quot; quarter - when adults buy new machines for children beginning secondary school or university - &quot;sales this quarter dropped to their lowest volume since 2008&quot;.The regional picture shows that the US market may have bottomed out, while that in China - once the largest growth market - has still stalled in the face of growing purchases there of new tablets and smartphones. Gartner reckoned that shipments to the US market grew 3.5%, to 16.1m, while IDC reckoned it shrank slightly, by 0.2%, to 16.4m.In the Europe/Middle East/Africa, both Gartner and IDC said the market shrank: Gartner put the market size at 22.4m, or about a quarter of the world total.•How the smartphone is killing the PC•PC boom is over as tablets and smartphones take over, says IDC
British charity Help for Heroes is hoping to break app store records with a new game –Help for Heroes: Hero Bears– which is released for iOS and Android today.The game costs £1.99 from Apple, Google and Amazon's app stores, with £1 from every purchase going to the charity, which supports serving and veteran members of the armed forces with serious injuries and illnesses.Help for Heroes hopes the game will be the fastest-selling charity game on mobile devices. Developer Supersonic Software and publisher AppyNation are waiving their fees for the app, which was funded through a grant by the University of Abertay."The aim is simple. To raise a load of money for Help for Heroes and raise the awareness of the charity worldwide and amongst younger people," says Andy Payne from AppyNation.The publisher is hoping to build buzz around Hero Bears today using social media tool Thunderclap, wherepeople can sign upto post coordinated tweets, Facebook status updates and Tumblr posts at 10am today, to promote the game's release.The publisher is also hoping to build buzz around the game by using social media tool Thunderclap, encouraging people to sign up to post coordinated tweets, Facebook status updates and Tumblr posts at 10am today to promote the game's release.Hero Bears sees players controlling the Hero Bear characters as they "jump over tyres, slide under fences, leap over trenches and dodge bouncing barrels". The game also has a pair of British celebrities on board: Jeremy Clarkson and Lorraine Kelly, who appear in the game to encourage players in their efforts.
Jeffrey Katzenberg is as sad as other fans around the world about the end of Breaking Bad. Unlike those other fans, though, the DreamWorks Animation boss has the clout to try to do something about it.Katzenberg pitched the show's producers an idea: he'd pay them $25m per episode to make three more episodes running beyond the finale. "I have one criteria: you have to deliver them to me in six-minute segments," he said, recounting the pitch during akeynote speech at the MIPCOM conferencein Cannes today.Sitting down with The Guardian after the speech, Katzenberg stresses that the plan to deliver a daily chunk of Breaking Bad to fans was a true story."My idea was literally that you'd pay 50 cents a day for 30 days, so it would be $15, and I actually think there are 10m people around the world that would have done that," he says."That's $150m, so the $75m I was prepared to pay would have delivered a 100% return on investment. And I'm trying to get people to think about this space in a new way by telling that story. It's emblematic of an opportunity coming."Obviously, the producers said no: without giving anything away, the finale of Breaking Bad was very much a finale. But it's a sign that DreamWorks sees money in bite-sized mobile content, even at a point where the mobile apps market is increasingly diving towards free."They'll pay for it if it's good, and if they feel there's great value," says Katzenberg. "You'd pay 50 cents for six minutes of Breaking Bad! And why? Because it's the best show on television."Katzenberg's MIPCOM address was a rousing defence of the traditional television industry, complete with a verbal smackdown for former Intel executive Sean Maloney for his prediction in 2007 that online video "will completely unravel the traditional television model".On-stage, Katzenberg noted that TV viewing had increased since that comment was made. "Yes, there will continue to be exponential growth of Internet-delivered content, but linear TV will continue to do just fine," he said."If people like Sean Maloney were to be right in their predictions that the Internet will render linear television obsolete, then this would go against the entire half-millennium history of mass media. Throughout this history, in not one instance did a new form of mass media replace an earlier form."AwesomenessTV's Brian Robbins is 'an incubator to find hits'Awesome online videoDreamWorks is investing in online video, though, through its acquisition of YouTube multi-channel network AwesomenessTV, whose CEO Brian Robbinsspoke earlier in the week at MIPCOM, and which focuses on shortform video for tweens and teenagers.AwesomenessTV now runs more than 180,000 YouTube channels with more than 25m total subscribers and 2bn video views, attracting more than 60m unique monthly viewers. Katzenberg sees it as a key plank in DreamWorks' future plans."Brian is not just an incubator to find stars: he's an incubator to find hits. We've never had that in television. If you look at what's going on in network TV today, they've gotta make a bazillion shows, they spend hundreds of millions of dollars, and maybe three or four things come out of it," he says after the speech."Brian is able to do it instantly, he gets feedback literally within hours of posting something, and his metrics are vastly greater. So that marketplace is not only going to have value in its bits and bytes, but as an incubator for big ideas and things that can then move to linear."As an MCN, AwesomenessTV's distribution platform is YouTube, although Robbins said in his earlier speech that the company will diversify into own-brand apps for smartphones, tablets and consoles.2013 has seen speculation about the economics of YouTube, though: whether the advertising revenues on Google's service are enough to fund the growing production costs of the bigger MCNs, for example. Does that concern Katzenberg?"It's in its infancy. The YouTube world is truly a baby, and it's finding its way. Yes, there are things about it that are difficult and challenging, there are people that talk about whether the business model works, whether there's enough for the content creators, the ad splits… all of these things," he says."It's all new, and people are trying to figure it out. But it's going to work, it's going to evolve. One of the most talented and forward-thinking executives in media today is Robert Kyncl, who runs YouTube. This is a guy who's looking over horizons and around corners, and I have a lot of confidence in him that he will change as he needs to change."Katzenberg adds that Google is making the right noises about its growing content business. "They're trying to figure out the content side of it, it's all new to them and they're struggling a little bit with it, but they are paying attention to it. They're not ignoring it!"Katzenberg sees Gravity as a success story for 3D cinema Photograph: Allstar/Warner Bros/Sportsphoto LtdCinema's evolutionAwesomenessTV is aimed squarely at children, many of whom will be watching on tablets and mobile phones. But their changing media habits – as well as those of slightly older people – could be seen as a challenge for a company like DreamWorks.If people are watching shortform videos on mobile devices – and possibly paying 50 cents per episode – where does that leave longform feature films? Katzenberg makes short work of my suggestion that my four and six year-old sons struggle to sit through a 90-minute film."When How to Train Your Dragon 2 comes out next summer, they will be at your throat. 'Daddy daddy daddy! Now now now! When when when?!' If we make things they care about, in longform and in movie theaters, people are going to go," he says."It has to be a big, grand and communal experience. I went to see Gravity this weekend: what an amazing movie! What a great movie experience. It's dazzling, and that's what movies are about."Mention of Gravity reminds me of an interview Katzenberg gave two years ago strongly criticising rival studios for mishandling the potential of 3D movies, and describing the format as being "right smack in the middle of its terrible twos".Is Gravity a sign that it's matured into a cheerful pre-schooler? "I'm thrilled to death, because people were literally celebrating 3D's demise over the summer, which I think is tragic, because it's a tremendous creative storytelling tool," says Katzenberg."It wasn't just a way to prize more money out of the hands of moviegoers: it was a way to offer them something better. But unfortunately most of the people that went out and used the tools took the shortest distance between two points, and delivered the minimum. There were only a handful of people who delivered the maximum."Katzenberg admires the storytelling in Grand Theft Auto V, but doesn't see DreamWorks going deeper on gamesHollywood challengesCoverage of Hollywood tends to swing backwards and forwards based on whether the latest big film has been a hit or a flop, but suggestions that the blockbuster model is creaking have been growing in recent times.On-stage at MIPCOM, Katzenberg proudly announced that 19 of DreamWorks' 20 computer-generated animated films have been profitable, but it's not immune from a flop: a loss of $83m on the Rise of the Guardians filmled to layoffs earlier this year.After the speech, Katzenberg parries a question about the health of the film industry. "This is the most successful year in the history of the movie business to date. Hollywood's not in trouble!" he says."There are aspects of the business that are challenging today, which is really driven mostly by cost. We're not the only business that has that: it was part of the challenge to happen to network TV, and that brought about cable."Katzenberg's voice rises as he continues to make his points: about a strong return on investment and very high margins for DreamWorks' business, and the way its model factors in inevitable risks on projects."You can't make unique and original without it being risky. If we're going to do original, different ideas that have not been done before, then literally inherent in that notion is risk, and risk means there will be some failure," he says."We just don't bet our enterprise on any single movie. There's nothing fundamentally wrong with the movie business. Everybody's running around talking about 'woe is the movie business', and then Gravity comes out and everybody shuts up! That thing's gonna be a ginormous blockbuster."Talking of ginormous blockbusters, how about Grand Theft Auto V? The PS3 and Xbox 360 console game recently became the fastest game to gross $1bn, reaching that milestone three days after going on sale.It's also the most ambitious Grand Theft Auto game yet in terms of scale and storytelling. Doesn't DreamWorks fancy getting into that line of business more deeply, rather than just licensing its franchises out to games firms?"We've always had games associated with our stuff, but we are not game makers. I think there's as much talent and creativity and storytelling to making a great game as there is to making a great movie. But they're not the same," he says."I've met those guys that made Grand Theft, and they're really talented. They are uniquely talented, and they're telling a story in their way. So it's not right for us, but I admire and recognise that they are storytellers."DreamWorks is gunning for the same time-killing mobile moments that have made Angry Birds a hitMobile entertainmentKatzenberg also has praise for a company in a different part of the games industry, Rovio, which besides turning Angry Birds into a global smash, also worked with DreamWorks on a mobile game for its film The Croods."I think [CEO] Mikael Hed is a major talent, I think he's a great entrepreneur, and he's really forward-looking in looking at Angry Birds as more of a platform then just a one-off franchise. He's smart, and he's doing interesting things with it," he says.Could he see DreamWorks learning lessons from Angry Birds, Talking Friends and other character-based brands that started in mobile then expanded into animation and merchandise?"Could do. I mean, there's no question that Angry Birds has fantastic recognition. Whether those characters are gonna translate into longform, I don't know. They're doing a nice job with their cartoons. They're pretty cute."DreamWorks is gunning for the same bite-sized chunks of entertainment time on mobile devices that has made Angry Birds so popular, though. Katzenberg's Breaking Bad idea is one sign of that, and he made the ambition clear in his earlier speech too."We used to fill it with Tetris. Now we're going to fill it with rich media. To fill this space that exists is this enormous, enormous, enormous untapped opportunity."
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone 8.1 rumours emerge &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott outlines various things he has heard (single-source) about Windows Phone 8.1. The one that seems to have people worked up is this:No more Back button. Aping the iPhone navigation model, Microsoft will apparently remove the Back button from the Windows Phone hardware specification with 8.1. The Back button just doesn't make sense, I was told: Users navigate away from an app by pressing the Start button and then open a new app, just like they do on iPhone. And the "back stack" is ill-understood by users: Most don't realize what they're doing when they repeatedly hit the Back button.Links to UX/UI studies of the use of the Back button welcomed.Google Now: the tip of a very long spear &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogThese [Google Now] cards are extremely important to understanding where Google is heading with not only search, but with all of its various services (the card interface is now incorporated into Google's "knowledge graph" search results, Google+, Gmail, and Google Maps, among many others). First, the cards "know" things about me – most critically my location, but also my search history, my calendar and contacts, my browsing history, key links in my Gmail, and more. They show up based on what interests and needs that Google believes will be most important to me. In essence, they are very tangible expressions of Google's pivot from being a company that answers search queries, to being a company that anticipates your most important questions in real time, and answers them before you ask…Google Now supplants the need to open an app by surfacing cards – cards that magically turn into just the information you need, when you need it – *without having to go to an app to get it.*As Battelle points out, that has big implications.Google embraces iOS to please developers &gt;&gt; CITEworldIn the provision of "backend as a service", aka BaaS:Google could have just stuck with offering the backend services for Android. But there's good reason for it to add support for iOS. Most developers create apps at the very least for both iOS and Android. Making it easier for them to run both apps on Google services makes developers more likely to choose Google rather than a competitor.Speaking of competitors, there are plenty in the space. The BaaS marketblossomed over the past yearbut that caught the notice of the big cloud providers. Now Microsoft and to a lesser extent Amazon Web Services also offer backend services, in competition with the startups.Smart move.Deal with it: Tablets are here to stay &gt;&gt; TechRepublicResearch by analyst Ovum found that 17.6% of the employees it surveyed had already been provided with a tablet by their employer, up from 12.5% in 2012: but of the respondents who owned a tablet themselves, 66.7% used that device at work.As the proportion of tablet owners increased from 28.4 percent of staff in 2012 to 44.5% in 2013, this means a rapid increase in the number of personal tablets also being used at work.Richard Absalom, analyst for consumer impact technology at Ovum, said companies need to accept the reality: "The message for businesses is that people will be bringing them in anyway whether you have planned for it or not," he told TechRepublic.He said some workers can be more productive with tablets – for example retail workers or field engineers. There are also some niche usages where tablets can replace paper, for pilots or doctors for example, and this will drive some enterprise deployments.HP requiring most employees to work at the office &gt;&gt; AllThingsDArik Hesseldahl:Computing and technology services giant Hewlett-Packard, which appears to be taking a page from Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer, has quietly begun enacting a policy requiring employees to work from the office and not from home.While it hasn't yet reached the level of a company-wide directive with the same jarring effect as a new policy put in place by Yahoo earlier this year, HP employees are being told by bosses that if they can work at the office, they should work at the office.Should edicts of this sort be taken as a sign a company is in trouble?Panasonic to exit plasma TV panel business by end-March 2014 &gt;&gt; ReutersPanasonic had been widely expected to back out of the unprofitable business, but the exit comes sooner than predicted and underlines [Panasonic chief] Kazuhiro Tsuga's determination to weed out weak operations as he focuses on higher-margin products to end years of losses at the consumer electronics conglomerate.Panasonic's TV division has been a major contributor to the electronics company's combined $15bn (£9bn) net loss in its two latest financial years. Its TV business posted an operating loss of 88.5bn yen ($913m) in the last financial year.Superseded by LCDs.LG starts producing flexible, curvy displays you can STROKE &gt;&gt; The RegisterOriginally, the LG's curved smartphone was due in 2014, but sourcestold Reutersthat it would attach the displays on the phones by November in order to fight off its largest South Korean rival.While LG Display's screens will be fixed to curved surfaces – they'll be permanently bent into a curved phone rather than being freely bendable – when someone sits on them or squeezes them, they'll flex rather than snap.You wait ages for a phone with a curved screen to come along... (Thanks #uncollective for the link.)Samsung's Galaxy Round is the first phone with a curved display &gt;&gt; The VergeThe potential benefit of this screen technology isn't quite clear yet, but Samsung is touting a new feature called "Round Interaction," which allows you to look at information such as missed calls, battery life, and the date and time when you tilt it on a flat surface with the screen off.(Thanks #ImKieran for the link.)It's tough competing with the iPhone &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:Based on all the data I am seeing from demand and sales trends, it is hard not to conclude that iOS will overtake Android in the US in the near future – possibly as soon as the end of the calendar year. But perhaps the most important thing about the iPhone's share in the premium devices sector is that other competitors have only been able to made weak inroads against it. Samsung, for example, has been spending hundreds of millions of dollars in US-based marketing, yet its share of the premium market has peaked and been trending downward on weaker-than-expected sales in 2013.The Samsung point is surprising. (This is US-only.)BlackBerry named one of world's top 100 most innovative organizations of 2013 &gt;&gt; TechvibesBlackBerry got some rare positive recognition. Thomson Reuters recognized the smartphone pioneer as one of the world's top 100 most innovative organizations of 2013.It is BlackBerry's first appearance on the list. BlackBerry is the only Canadian company on the third-annual list, next to 45 US companies. According to Thomson Reuters, BlackBerry's innovation was "driven by a 38% surge in patent filings between 2010 and 2011, and 17% growth in patent filings between 2011 and 2012.""Now in its third year, the Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators study provides further evidence that innovative organizations—those that secure global patent protection for their intellectual property, continue to push the envelope with new technologies and invest more in R&amp;D—are those that outperform the S&amp;P 500 on virtually every measure of business success," noted David Brown, managing director, Thomson Reuters IP Solutions.Up to a point, Lord Copper.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
The HP Chromebook 11 is the first Chromebook to be specifically &quot;made with Google&quot; in which the search company was directly involved in the hardware design - rather like the Nexus series of smartphones made by LG and Samsung - and the results are noticeable.It is an 11in low-power, affordable laptop that runs Google&apos;s Chrome OS, which takes Google&apos;s Chrome browser and places it at the heart of an entire computer operating system.A collaborative effort that’s &apos;like Wolverine&apos;A Google spokesperson described the Chromebook 11 as a “collaborative effort, where Google worked very closely with HP,” which seems to have paid off as the build quality of the laptop is significantly more solid than some of the previously released Chromebooks.HP Chromebook 11 comes in white with blue accents and black.The Chromebook has an internal magnesium frame supporting the glossy, smooth plastic, which is thermally bonded with no sharp edges or joins. (Hence Google described it as “like Wolverine”.) It feels premium: it weighs 1.04kg, and is 1.8cm thick. (An 11in MacBook Air, for comparison, weighs 1.08kg and is up to 1.7cm thick.) It comes in two different colours in the UK: black or white with blue accents.The screen is 11.6in with a 1,366 x 768 resolution (standard for this screen size), which is bright and sharp enough to make text on websites and documents easily legible. Viewing angles are wide, so you can easily show off your videos or photos.The internal speakers sit under the keyboard and are both loud and clear, but like most other laptop speakers lack bass.The keyboard, something that often suffers on budget computers, has a spacious chiclet-style separated key layout. There&apos;s absolutely no flex in the keyboard’s frame while typing. The keys feel solid and have a satisfying amount of travel when pressed.HP Chromebook 11: solid keyboard and good trackpad.The trackpad is also solidly built. The touch surface forms one big depressible button for left-clicking, while a right-click achieved through a two-finger tap.Silence is goldenThe HP Chromebook 11 runs an ARM processor, similar to those used in smartphones and tablets. The dual-core Samsung Exynos 5250 processor handles most things well (though see below - that doesn&apos;t include everything). Playing video or music or browsing complicated websites is fine. Its low-power nature means that fans aren’t required for cooling, so it&apos;s completely silent in operation.Starting up the Chromebook 11 is pretty much instant, whether it has been powered down or was in &quot;sleep&quot; mode. The battery is rated for six hours of “active” use. More expensive laptops using Intel&apos;s new Haswell chip reckon they can get rather longer - nine hours for the 11in MacBook Air, but only six for the Asus Zenbook. In that context, the Chromebook 11 is OK.&apos;Hey, let&apos;s charge it from itself!&apos;Instead of a traditional plug and power brick, the Chromebook 11 charges via a micro-USB cable. It comes with its own high-powered micro-USB mains charger, which can be used to charge pretty much anything with a micro USB slot including most smartphones and tablets.Standard USB chargers work too, though they will take longer to charge the battery. Curiously (and entertainingly), plugging the Chromebookinto itself(from USB to micro-USB) initiates charging – although it pops up an alert warning that &quot;the power source is low powered&quot;.The processor has 2GB of RAM – but the SSD drive has just 16GB of storage space, of which slightly over 9GB is left for the user. The Chromebook 11 also comes with two years free access to 100GB of Google Drive cloud storage, allowing buyers to store documents, photos and files in the cloud for access on not just the Chromebook but smartphones, tablets and other computers. The idea of the Chromebook, of course, is that it&apos;s a cloud-connected computer; you&apos;re not really meant (or expected) to store data on the device.There are two USB 2.0 ports on the side, as well as dual-band Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 4.0 take care of connectivity. A VGA webcam at the top of the screen serves for video chats. For connection to a TV or monitor there&apos;s a SlimPort, which uses a special connector to output video via the USB port to an HDMI connector.HP Chromebook 11 has two USB ports, a headphones port and a micro USB charging port.Chrome OS: capable of most thingsWith a Chromebook, it’s not all about the hardware; it is simply not a regular Windows or OS X laptop. It runs Google’s own Chrome OS, which relies on cloud connectivity and storage to really get anything done (hence the small amount of local storage, and large amount of cloud storage on offer). This reliance on the cloud is either great or a problem, depending on your situation. If you&apos;re travelling and need connectivity, you might have to use your smartphone or a 3G-to-Wi-Fi dongle to get online.The simplicity of Chrome OS has some advantages. For instance, there haven&apos;t been any reports of malware such as viruses, because there&apos;s barely a true operating system. (Chrome OS is essentially a stripped-down version of Linux with a browser, media player and file manager.)It&apos;s also not prone to the slowing down that most other operating systems experience as they age and collect unnecessary files. Being light on processing requirements means that it’s a lot snappier in use on computers with lower processing power - such as Chromebooks.HP Chromebook 11 runs Chrome OS.However, unlike Windows, OS X or Linux, Chrome OS relies solely on Google’s application suite of Google Chrome browser, Drive, Documents, Gmail, Play Music and Calendar, as well as web apps from the Chrome store. That means offline access is limited, although Google has improved things with caching of content such as Google Play music, and offline email and office applications.In general, Chrome OS is probably capable of doingmostthings thatmostpeople will want to domostof the time (browsing, email, playing some music, watching videos on a fast connection - including Netflix - or from a USB stick with the common formats). The problem comes when you try to do something that can&apos;t be done in the browser or with a web app.For instance, Skype (owned by Microsoft, of course) isn&apos;t available on Chrome OS. You can do video calling via Google’s own Hangouts messaging and video chat service – just not Skype.Similarly, common video editing applications such as iMovie, Movie Maker or Adobe Premiere aren&apos;t available. Photo editing is more difficult too, though there are free apps available in the Chrome store that offer at least basic tools for both multimedia activities.Baby, you&apos;re out of timeOne thing to note is that background audio playback is not as smooth as you might expect. If you&apos;re playing music from Google Play (over the speakers or wired headphones), the audio track skips when you switch between browser tabs.The problem becomes even worse if you’re using Bluetooth headphones. Switching to any other tab distorts the audio horribly - so much that it&apos;s unlistenable. That will be down to the limited amount of processor power available, and the amount of CPU devoted to handling background audio.This will be a deal-breaker if you want to listen to background music on wireless headphones; even on wired ones or the speaker you&apos;ll get minor, continual annoyances.Verdict: a big step up, bur you get what you pay forOverall, the Chromebook 11 is a big step up in terms of build quality and design against what you might expect for £229. It&apos;s fine for browsing the web, for emailing, word processing and basic office duties, as well as consuming online video and music. But perhaps not for doing video and music as well as something else.Despite issues with background audio, Chrome OS is capable of doing the majority of things that most buyers will need to do - but there will inevitably be a few things it can’t do. That means the Chromebook 11 could be an excellent second computer, or a good, solid choice for someone on a very tight budget.But like any other Chromebook available today, for most people it could never be a primary machine because of the restrictions of Chrome OS.Pros:very low price, silent, good build qualityCons:processor struggles with multiple tasks, limited app rangeRating: 4 stars
Lavabit’s founder offered to work with the American authorities if they would pay him $3,500 for his time, according to documents unsealed by the US courts.Ladar Levison, the founder of the defunct secure email service, made the offer in a letter to an assistant US attorney on 13 July, in an effort to appease the authorities. His site had come under investigation due to its links to NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.Focusing on the so-called “trap and trace” order which he had been served on 28 June, Levison wrote that “it would be possible to capture the required data ourselves and present it to the FBI.”The order only covered email metadata, and so content and passwords would not have been provided. “The headers I currently plan to collect are: To, Cc, From, Date, Reply-To, Sender, Received, Return-Path, Apparently-To and Alternate-Recipient.”Levison asked for $2,000 “to cover the cost of the development time and equipment necessary to implement my solution”, which would enable him to provide the data at the end of the 60-day period required by the order.He told the attorney, whose name was redacted what the documents were unsealed, that he would be able to provide the data “intermittently during the collection period” for an additional $1,500.Speaking to the Guardian on Tuesday, Levison said that “to a certain extent”, he was comfortable with that level of information gathering, especially given the provenance of the order.“A big part of the reason I didn’t want that information out to begin with was because I didn’t want to be put in the position of receiving an NSL [national security letter] and being forced to provide that information without judicial oversight.” A national security letter is a legal document issued by a government agency, similar to a subpoena but which cannot be appealed in the courts. Such letters also typically contain gag orders.“In this case there was a judge signing the order, so my philosophical objection was somewhat abated, and of course I was trying to prevent having to shut down my business.”Levison also explained that his motivations were driven by the knowledge that the FBI had tried to get him to reveal information not covered by the court order.In his 28 June meeting with the FBI, where he was served with the trap and trace order, he said he was told that “they would be collecting content and passwords, which really caused a lot of friction with me. If they had been more honest and said that at that point they were only trying to collect metadata, the situation may have developed differently.“It was a textbook example of the FBI lying to me in order to get more information, and it ended up backfiring… I think they really wanted that information, I just know, retroactively, that they didn’t have authorisation from the court to collect it.”It took two weeks for Levison to get a lawyer on the case. “It turns out that if you read the pen trap and trace order, not only does it not provide the authority to demand my SSL certificate, which they claimed, but it also doesn’t provide them the authority to collect content or passwords.“If they had been more honest about that, I would have provided the code to log that for them early on.”As it was, the authorities turned down his offer to provide the logs. The stated reason, as given in court, was that “among other things, it did not provide for real-time transmission of results, and it was not clear that Mr Levison’s request for money constituted the “reasonable expenses” authorised by the statute”.But there may have been a deeper motivation. “What I think real-time really means is that they wanted to be able to log into a box in my network and change the collection parameters in real time. Without any interference from me.“And you can understand my views on that…they also refused to let me audit the device that they were going to install on my network.”Levison indicated that his offer to log metadata wasn’t just a bluff. If they had said yes, he would have gone through with it, but he doesn’t think it would have been the end of the matter. Asked where he thought it would have gone from there, he said “I don’t think I can tell you my answer to that… it’s a legal thing, because it would require admitting something I am not legally allowed to admit.”“But I definitely think they would have come back, probably in a different court and in a different setting, and demanded similar access on a different pretext.”Eventually, Lavabit was compelled to hand over the keys to its encryption. Facing a fine of $5,000 (£3140) for every day he did not comply, Levison delivered the data andshut down the site, announcing his refusal to become “complicit in crimes against the American people”.While the case was under seal, the government was unable to collect the $10,000 fine accrued ($5,000 of which came about because Levison received the order late in the day. “The FBI apparently doesn’t work past 6pm”), but now he’ll “probably have to pay”.For that, and the time of his ten-strong legal team, he is “incredibly grateful” to the thousands of donors worldwidewho have givenmore than $200,000 (£126,000) to the Lavabit legal defense fund.
Apple will hold a launch event for the next generation iPad and iPad mini on 22 October according toJohn Paczkowski of AllThingsDandCurrent Editorials.Paczkowski says his sources - who have proved reliable in the past - have indicated that Apple will hold an invitation-only event where it will announce the launch of updates to the iPad line, Mac Pro and OS X Mavericks.Jim Dalrymple of The Loopalso confirmed the dateas accurate according to his sources - with his trademark one-word confirmation &quot;Yep&quot;. Dalrymple, too, has a solid track record in confirming or rebutting rumours around Apple. Current Editorials has a less solid record, havingpreviously suggestedthat the iPhone would be updated on 18 September; it turned out to be 10 September.Thinner and lighterThe next generation iPad 5 is expected to be thinner and lighter than the current generation full-sized iPad, with thinner bezels and body to match the industrial design of the iPad mini. It is also expected to run Apple&apos;s new64-bit A7 chip, and could includeApple&apos;s Touch ID fingerprint sensorintroduced in the iPhone 5S in September.The iPad mini could also see an update, with upgraded internal parts and a high-resolution display - although there are mixed reports about whether it will move to a &quot;retina&quot; display.Even before the sale date had formally been announced, the retailer John Lewis forecast on Wednesday that the iPad mini will be its best-selling technology device this Christmas. It reckons it will outpace Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One for sales. But it forecast that Samsung&apos;s Tab 3 tablet and Google&apos;s Nexus 7 will be the third and fourth best-selling.Expectations are also high that Apple will announce the release of the latest version of its desktop software, OSX &apos;Mavericks&apos;, and set a date for the release of the new Mac Pro desktop computer. The latter was trailed in June, and will be the first update to the Mac Pro line since June 2012.Apple declined to comment on reports of an event or the iPad. Last year the company issued invitations on Tuesday 16 October for a 23 October event, at which it announced the current fourth-generation iPad andiPad mini.The current iPad featuring a 9.7in high-resolution screen, Apple&apos;s A6X dual-core chip and weighed 652g. The iPad mini features a smaller 7.9in lower resolution screen, runs Apple&apos;s A5 dual-core processor, and weighs 308g.•iPad 5: What to expect
"By its very nature, there cannot be a plot in a game," George Lucas said a few weeks ago. It is a curious claim from the man who, in 1982, founded LucasArts, a video games company lauded for its story driven titles.Some of Hollywood's finest disagree, increasingly attracted to games for the storytelling and acting opportunities.Beyond: Two Souls, written and directed by auteur creator David Cage, and starring Ellen Page and Willem Dafoe, is released this week on PlayStation 3.While actors have lent their voices to games before – Liam Neeson appearing inFallout 3, or Samuel L Jackson inGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas, for instance – this is one of the first times a fully acted performance has been captured, using technology similar to Andy Serkis's turn as Gollum inThe Lord of the Rings.Dafoe and Page, who starred inJuno, were both attracted to the project by its narrative drive and the opportunities presented by telling that story through performance capture. "I was sent the material, it was awesome, the female protagonist was incredible – I mean, what a great opportunity for an actor," says Page. "Really it was when I sat down with David and heard his intent, and about my character's journey and struggle and story, and knowing I'd get to work with Willem – to be honest, it was a bit of a no-brainer."Cage has spent his career telling stories through games. After debuting in 1999 with sci-fi effortThe Nomad Soul, by the time ofHeavy Rainin 2010 – a murder thriller mixed with child kidnapping – Cage was using gaming narrative to explore such intricate material as his own fears and doubts about becoming a father.Beyondsees Cage returning to more speculative fare. The story spans 15 years in the life of Jodie Holmes (Page), who is haunted by a mysterious entity known as Aiden. While the presence seems to grant her unusual powers, it also leads to Jodie being abandoned by her parents and subjected to a battery of military experiments. Nathan Dawkins (Dafoe), the man analysing her abilities, becomes Jodie's only constant, creating a conflicted father-daughter relationship.Willem Dafoe as Nathan Dawkins.It was this aspect that appealed most to Dafoe. "I liked the relationship; it has a complexity to it," he says. "I knew it would be interesting to do, [with] an ambiguity to it that I knew we'd find in the doing. There was nothing cartoony or stereotypical or familiar about it, and I thought, 'Cool, that's something I'd like to work on'."Page also found sympathy in the role of Jodie: "I think what's so great about Jodie is she's so real and complex. Of course, she's strong and she's smart and all of those things, but she's also had incredible difficulty and sadness and anger. [She] oftentimes goes to very, very dark places, and has this wholeness, this realness. I only hope that what I brought to the table shows that. One can only hope that as an actor, what you felt about the role and what made it so interesting to you, that what you do will hopefully make the player feel that too."While Cage's games are sometimes criticised for being too cinematic, the ability to place audiences directly into the story makes them his preferred outlet."When you watch a film you can only be passive; you can't change what is going on the screen," he says. "Games are the only medium where the audience can participate in the making. You can become the actor, the director, the writer of the experience – only games allow you to do this. This is why it's such a fascinating medium."Crafting a story in games does, however, demand different considerations. The inherent level of interactivity changes how a plot progresses and trying to predict what choices players will make means writing scenarios and dialogue to account for numerous outcomes. Yet in scriptingBeyond, Cage wanted to avoid some of the immersion-shattering consequences gamers sometimes experience. "When you fail in an action sequence, the game doesn't stop. There is no 'game over' situation. It takes account of this failure and moves to a different part of the story."For the actors involved, this also means getting deeper into their roles. "Performing when you have to create four or five variations of a scene is a very difficult challenge but an exciting one," says Page. "I would respond, take a beat, give the other response, take a beat, another response. It's difficult just for the basicness of memorising the dialogue and having to constantly emotionally pivot. No matter what the emotional complexity of a scene is, you're doing multiple versions, and that is like some sort of sadistic acting boot camp!"Many games and films employ some level of motion capture, decking people out in not-so-stylish bodysuits covered in easily trackable marker balls, allowing their movements later to be animated or mapped into digital environments.Beyondtakes the technology a step further, with a custom rig of approximately 70 cameras recording Page and Dafoe's full performances from every angle, rather than layering separately recorded voice sessions over independently animated scenes. Cage was then able to freely position the virtual, in-game camera to present the most dramatic shot.The innovative approach proved to be a profoundly different experience from being on either a stage or a film set. "It was difficult at first because it's new, because you don't have sets, you don't have wardrobe," says Page. "It was just a totally foreign experience to me. But then, by day two, it's all over – all of those things that have felt like constraints turn into freedom. It's just you, you're interacting with the other actor you're working with or by yourself, and you really have nothing. It's a purer form of acting, in a way."Dafoe, whose background includes extensive theatre work with technologically innovative troupes – the Performance Group and the Wooster Group – is no stranger to mo-cap."When I shot Disney'sJohn Carter, you knew where the camera was and there were camera angles and elaborate setups and lighting," he recalls. "[OnBeyond], the space we were performing in was featureless – occasionally you'd have a chair or a prop – but you had to rely on your imagination. It was like essential acting. There were very few distractions. After a little while you're just concentrating on the acting, which is liberating and fun."Asked about Lucas's comments and the storytelling deficiencies he sees in games, Page has a diplomatic response. "I would be interested in him playingBeyond, because I think [plot is] exactly what David's doing. I was just blown away by the journey Jodie goes on, which is just incredibly complex and emotional and subversive. I'm very excited to see how people respond to that."Dafoe, with a raucous laugh, says "George is full of shit!", adding: "He's making a case for something that's written, something constructed, and that that's the only way you can tell a story. But I don't think you can control stories. One story, people are going to read it different ways. "This seems to be Lucas's great observational omission: whether it is players taking direct control of a creator's narrative or cinemagoers leaving with their own insights and readings of a film, stories have always been interactive.
On this edition of Tech Weekly, we take a close look at the health of venture capital investment in tech.Aleks Krotoskitalks toMichael Jackson– former COO at Skype and now a partner atMangrove Capital Partners, which focuses on Europe and emerging markets – to find out about the strength of technology in the broader European economy and why investors are growing in confidence around mainstream and niche tech startups.Head of Technology at the Guardian,Jemima Kiss, joins Aleks to discuss the recent Investor AllStars awards in London where she met leading entrepreneurs, includingClaes Tellman,VP of communications at the Swedish digital payments company Klarna; founder ofMedicAnimal.com,Ivan Retzignac; French music siteBelieve Digital'sDenis LadegaillerieandMikko Setäläfrom Angry Birds creatorsRovio.Finally, Jemima meets the head of the winning entry for this year's Investor AllStars awards for Europe's 'most exciting investor-backed company',Zoopla. Chief executiveAlex Chestermandiscusses why his property-finding app succeeded in the property market, despite a strong downturn and why he's particularly proud to win the award.Zoopla are rumoured to be well on their way to a stock-market launch in the next 12 to 18 months.
Jony Ive, the industrial designer behind almost every Apple product in the last two decades, has designed a camera.Not just any camera, in fact. The Brit, in conjunction with Australian designer Marc Newson, has designed a one-of-a-kind Leica M, which will be auctioned off in November to benefit HIV/AIDS charity Product (RED). Even a normal Leica, beloved by a certain strain of photography enthusiasts, sells for £5,000.The Leica M designed by Apple designer Jony Ive with Marc Newton. Photograph: LeicaThe Leica M for (RED) has a lot of recognisable Ive touches. The &quot;laser machined aluminum body&quot; and &quot;anodised aluminium outer shell&quot; strongly resemble a current generation Mac Pro, Apple&apos;s most advanced desktop computers.Also evident is Ive&apos;s tendency to focus on simplicity. The designers removed a number of features from a normal type 240 Leica M, the basis for their take. Most importantly, there&apos;s no hotshoe, the slot which accepts accessories like a flash, and there&apos;s no port for an external viewfinder. Just like the original iPod was criticised for lacking features its competitors offered, Ive&apos;s Leica focuses on the basics.Ive's Leica, left, and a Mac Pro, right. Photograph: Leica/AppleA lot of work has been put into a camera which only one person will over own. Leica say that &quot;a total of 561 models and nearly 1000 prototype parts were made during the 85 days&quot; it took to create it, and 55 engineersspent 2,149 hours working on it.
You may have already guessed this, but now it's official: Grand Theft Auto 5 has been something of a success for publisher, Rockstar. Guiness World Records announcedon Tuesdaythat the game has smashed six world records, including the highest revenue generated by an entertainment product in 24 hours and the fastest entertainment property to gross $1bn (£626m). Released on 17 September, the game sold over 11m copies in its first 24 hours, 1.5m of those in the UK. It hit $1bn in sales within three days.The sprawling crime adventure has also claimed four other records, for best-selling video game in 24 hours, best-selling action adventure game in 24 hours, fastest video game to gross $1bn, and highest grossing video game in 24 hours.It managed to beat the lifetime sales of predecessor, GTA IV, within three weeks. "GTA totally deserves to be recognised as an icon of modern British culture," enthused Guiness World Records editor-in-chief, Craig Glenday. "Gaming is no longer a niche hobby, as GTA 5 has proved, and how exciting that it's taken on the might of Hollywood and won. I'm also doubly proud as a Dundonian to welcome this home-grown series back into the Guinness World Records book."Most of these records were previously held by Activision's Call of Duty series, which has become the industry's biggest success story since the arrival of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare in 2007. The latest title in that series, Call of Duty: Ghosts is released on 5 November and will need to put on quite a fireworks display to reclaim its position.Meanwhile, Grand Theft Auto Online, the connected multiplayer mode that allows GTA 5 owners to battle each other for the best cars, weapons and apartments, is still suffering technical problems. Launched on 2 October, the game's servers were unable to cope with the huge demand, causing connection difficulties for thousands of owners.Since then, bugs have plagued the service, randomly wiping saved games and characters. Rockstar has apologised to gamers, and is regularly updating a swtatus  page on its website. New patches for the game have eased problems, but players are still logging in to discover that their in-game characters are missing, together with all their cash and game progress.Currently,Rockstar is advising customersnot to create a new character if they find their saved game missing. Instead, they should quit out to the story mode, then re-enter GTA Online through the pause menu. Players are also advised to end every GTA Online session by hitting pause, then selecting exit to single-player, which forces a game save. Finally, if the message "The Rockstar coud servers are unavailable", is encountered, the recommendation is to quit out rather than hitting retry or continuing online with a default character. Further fixes are expected soon.Gamers have hit forums and news sites to vent their frustration. "Level 20, lots of missions complete, garage bought and a marvellous time had getting that far," wrote one reader on the Official Xbox Magazine website. "Tried to get on yesterday and my character's gone, I'm level 0, yet strangely I've still got my cash. Not playing the online until it's restored/fixed or I may give it a swerve all together."On Eurogamer, "Lost my fourth character save in two days last night, so I'm giving it a while before I try it again and everything's been fixed."And fixing the problem will be a major concern for Rockstar. Market intelligence firm SuperData has calculated that Take Two, Rockstar's parent company, could see $165m in revenue from digital content attached to GTA 5. Most of this is expected to come from subsequent DLC (downloadable content) additions, such as new story missions, however the company predicts that more than $40m could be generated from microtransactions within GTA Online. Players are able to pay real money to get in-game cash – but if technical problems continue, that figure could be dented.For now, though, the story is one of unprecedented success, especially for the UK games industry, which has struggled in the global arena for several years. Analysts will be watching the Call of Duty: Ghosts launch with calculators and record books ready.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft moves to calm fear over Xbox One advertising | Eurogamer.netIt's seems the advertising industry is more excited about the data-mining prospects of the Xbox One hardware than Microsft would like it to be:Over the weekend AdAge published a report based on a speech from Yusuf Mehdi, corporate VP marketing and strategy for Microsoft, delivered at the Association of National Advertisers Masters of Marketing Conference in Phoenix, Arizona, titled, "Xbox One's Data Treasure Trove Could Reshape Marketing." The report suggested Microsoft could use the likes of Kinect and Xbox One's online functionality to help marketers create more effective advertising placed within the console's dashboard.Overnight Microsoft denied the report. Spokesperson Larry "Major Nelson" Hryb tweeted: "We are seeking a correction to the AdAge story that quotes Yusuf," before pointing to an AllThingsD report that sought to clarify the matter.Although, of course, this talk of user data and the analysis of player behaviours does reflecta report from game site Sticktwiddlersearlier this year, in which a reporter was allegedly told by a Microsoft employee that the Xbox One dashboard was designed to have, "advertising in mind."Of course, adverts were always going to be a part of the UI 'experience' with next-gen machines, but exactly how manufacturers use player data to augment that is going to be an interesting battleground. Of course, with our computers, we're conditioned to accept targeted ads based our own website searches. But on a games console?PS4 pre-orders held for ransom by online retailer | CVGAllegations of rather unfair manipulation in the next-gen pre-order market:Since October 3, SimplyGames has sent emails to customers who pre-ordered PlayStation 4 consoles stating they must upgrade their purchase in order to retain their allocated unit.According to games website PixelEnemy, the online store is also guaranteeing a system on launch day if two or more standalone consoles are purchased. Those who ordered the basic £350 unit, however, will lose their place in the queue unless they upgrade.According to CVG SimplyGames isn't responding to requests for a comment and sony is distancing itself from retailer-assembled bundles that force unwanted extras on desperate fans.PlayStation 5 probably won't be console, it'll be a cloud service, says Tekken's HaradaTekken producer Katsuhiro Harada has been telling Famitsu magazine about his theories on PlayStation 5. Yes, PlayStation 5:Translated by DualShockers, the article saw Harada laying down his vision of what the next-next PlayStation might be.He said, "I think in the future things will be played on the service, rather than on the hardware. The Cloud is often mentioned, and if cloud services progress, the time when only the name of the service will remain will come some day."The PS5 Probably Won't Have a main console, but just the screen and controller. So what remains will be just the name of the service. It could be named just "PlayStation network". Steam is defined a platform, but it's not a hardware platform. It's the name of the service."That's pretty much where all hardware is likely to go though, right? The box is dead.Sony's $1000 3D viewer up for preorder | GameSpot.comSony has a new version of its twin-OLED head-mounted display unit:Sony's all-new $1000 HMZ-T3W wearable display is now available for preorder from the Sony Store, the PlayStation maker has announced. The new model is the third iteration of the head-mounted display technology first introduced early last year.For gamers, the HMZ-T3W features a "Game mode." Through the press of a single button, contrast is boosted to "enhance" shape details."It's the perfect way to enjoy favorite titles, from fast paced shooters to tire-burning racing. Plus, there is no fumbling for the right keys or buttons in mid-game--the ergonomic visor-style headset gives an unobstructed 'look-down' view of your keyboard or controller while you play," Sony said.We'll wait until it's bundled with PS4.Bulletstorm's Energy Leash, a signature weapon that broke a host of FPS rules – and worked | Edge OnlineEdge speaks to Bulletstorm creative director, Adrian Chmielarz, about the cult shooter's brilliant energy leash feature:"It was very counterintuitive to us to offer such a powerful weapon, that can basically grab every single enemy in the game and expose them. To give that to the player, for free, with no limits – during testing we were like, 'Dude, no, it's too powerful, the range is too high. I can just abuse it!' We tried to stop it, actually. We were going to overheat the leash if you were using it too often. We were going to have munitions. But we realised that when it was unlimited, the game was just an insane amount of fun. On the surface completely wrong, like unlimited ammo for a gun. But it worked!"It certainly did. If you haven't played Bulletstorm, just buy it and realise how joyless and dull most shooters are in comparison.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamQualcomm backtracks from Apple A7 marketing gimmick comments &gt;&gt; TechHive"The comments made by Anand Chandrasekher, Qualcomm CMO, about 64-bit computing were inaccurate," said a Qualcomm spokesperson in an email. "The mobile hardware and software ecosystem is already moving in the direction of 64-bit; and, the evolution to 64-bit brings desktop class capabilities and user experiences to mobile, as well as enabling mobile processors and software to run new classes of computing devices."The press office slapped down the chief marketing officer? That could only have come from the top of the organisation.Office for iPad to debut after touch-friendly Windows version &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft CEO Steve Ballmer has revealed that the company is planning to bring Office to the iPad with a touch user interface. Speaking at a Gartner event in Florida today, Ballmer said "iPad will be picked up when... there's a touch first user interface." That touch first interface appears to be making its way to the Windows version of Office first, with the iPad edition to follow afterwards. Ballmer noted the touch first interface is "in progress." Microsoft has previously released an Office version for iPhone without support for the iPad, noting at the time that tablet users could make use of Office Web Apps in the browser instead.At least he didn't say "when... it's a cold day in hell".Did the Stack Exchange staff members assist in the apprehension of Ross Ulbricht? &gt;&gt; Meta Stack OverflowA VP at StackExchange says:Sadly, I can't legally share any of the specific details of what law enforcement requested in this specific case.I can, however, tell you that the inquiry was extremely specific, legally enforceable, and had nothing to do with the NSA.Some press on this case implies that the FBI found this person from his activity our site. I can't disprove that, but it is much more likely that they found him through other means, and then tracked his activity on various sites to build enough evidence for an arrest, indictment, etc.Intriguing.HTC's new phone to have fingerprint sensor &gt;&gt; WSJHTC Corp. is set to unveil the HTC One Max, which will have a fingerprint sensor among other features, on 15 October, two people familiar with the matter said.That will put a new smartphone with a fingerprint scanner on the market alongside Apple Inc.'s iPhone 5S.The HTC One Max will be based on Google's Android operating system. But it's unclear what kind of applications its fingerprint sensor will have, or whether it could be used to authorise app purchases or other transactions as with the iPhone 5S.While fingerprint sensors seem poised to become a growing trend, analysts say they are still limited in their usefulness for now.The FBI is completely wrong about the size of the Silk Road &gt;&gt; Bitcoin Survey"Eric" writes:When I first surveyed Bitcoin users in March 2012, the average user reported purchasing around $1,600 U.S. of goods and services. I surveyed users on Bitcoin Talk Forums – Ulbrich's account there led in part to his arrest – and the Reddit subforum dedicated to Bitcoin[2]. The users on these forums are the most ardent supporters of Bitcoin, so I would suspect that the average spending per user was on the high side compared to everyone who has ever purchased Bitcoin. Based on 18,000 users actively buying things with Bitcoin (I based the number of active users on the number of reported active accounts from the largest Bitcoin exchange MtGox), I figured Bitcoin users paid for just under $29 million U.S. in goods and services from March 2011 to March 2012.Seems like the FBI may have used the same multiplication it does for drug seizures on boats - multiply by a thousand or so.The outrageous permissions required by mobile payments apps &gt;&gt; CITEworldChris Nerney:I did about an hour of online research and decided I'd first try Google Wallet, and then maybe download mobile payment apps for a couple of retailers. Ease myself into this thing before becoming the Mobile Payments Master.What I learned quickly made me re-think my entire mobile payments future. Whatever concerns I may have about data security, whatever confusion I have about payment platforms, nothing compares to the outrageous apps permissions demanded by the companies authorizing mobile payments. Just check them out below. This is what they demand in return for authorizing you to use their apps.Google Wallet needs access to your camera? Maybe these things need to explain why they want this stuff.How many smartphone users will there be in the US? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu continues from yesterday:I expect smartphones will be used by nearly all [US residents over 13] by end of 2020.That means about 270m users. It also means that about 125m more than are using smartphones today. Note also that a significant number of those under 13 will also use smartphones and that the metric is "primary phone" and insofar as there are more than one phone for some users they are a multiplicative factor. Finally this measure does not account for company assigned devices.Microsoft tosses in YouTube towel, returns to Web UI for Windows Phone &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMicrosoft yesterday threw in the towel on its attempt to build its own YouTube app for Windows Phone, revising that app to shunt users instead to the browser for accessing Google's video service via the Web.The Web-based player experience is where Microsoft started before May, when the Redmond, Wash. company first launched its own YouTube app for Windows Phone. Shortly after Microsoft published the app on its Windows Phone Store, Google issued a cease-and-desist letter demanding Microsoft yank the app.Nuclear fusion milestone passed at US lab &gt;&gt; BBC NewsNIF [the National Ignition Facility], based at Livermore in California, uses 192 beams from the world's most powerful laser to heat and compress a small pellet of hydrogen fuel to the point where nuclear fusion reactions take place.The BBC understands that during an experiment in late September, the amount of energy released through the fusion reaction exceeded the amount of energy being absorbed by the fuel - the first time this had been achieved at any fusion facility in the world.This is a step short of the lab's stated goal of "ignition", where nuclear fusion generates as much energy as the lasers supply. This is because known "inefficiencies" in different parts of the system mean not all the energy supplied through the laser is delivered to the fuel.We previouslywrote about the NIF's work in 2007. Progress can be slow.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Amazon's Kindle Fire HD has a more responsive touchscreen than Google's new Nexus 7 or Samsung's Galaxy Tab 3.8.0, according to new measurements carried out by Agawi.But all of the commercial Android tablets are put in the shade by Microsoft's Surface RT tablet - and that in turn is slower than Apple's fourth-generation iPad and iPad mini, the latter of which has the most responsive screen tested, the company saysin a new set of tests.Agawi figures for screen responsiveness of tabletsThe effect would be most noticeable while typing or playing games which require the screen to respond rapidly to user touch - such as Fruit Ninja, where the player has to try to "slice" flying fruit in half as it crosses the screen, suggested Rohan Relan, co-founder and chief executive of Agawi.The "minimum app response time" (MART) - measured as the time between touching the screen and a response being measurable using a laboratory rig - was 75 milliseconds on average for the iPad mini, against 95ms for the Surface RT. For the Kindle Fire HD, the figure was 114ms - compared to 135ms for the 2013 version of Google's Nexus 7, and 168ms for Samsung's Galaxy Tab 3.8.0.In a blog post, the company described its methodology:We place the light sensor and touch at the centew of the screen to account for the device's 60Hz refresh rate, the devices are in Airplane mode with full brightness and they have had all background apps closed to make the test as fair as possible.For this report, we will specifically be measuring the Minimum App Response Time by using OpenGL/DirectX-based optimized apps with minimal logic to quickly flash the screen white in response to a touch.The apps used have beenoffered as open sourcefor other testers."Basically we found that Apple's iOS performed nearly two times better than Android," Relan told the Guardian. "The findings were surprising to me because Samsung makes the hardware, but it was the worst by a large margin in our tests."The tests were carried out using a conductive glove and using light-sensitive device to detect when the screen reacted to touch by flashing as part of a test set up by Agawi. It is not part of any standard benchmark; the company devised it in order to see where it needed to optimise its apps.Agawi, which provides an app streaming service linked to the cloud, last monthlooked at screen responsiveness for the iPhone compared to Android phones and Windows Phone devices, and found that Apple's device came out ahead of rivals there too.Agawi's testing rig used a photosensitive system to note when the screen responded to touch.In that case the iPhone 5 had a response time of 72ms - comparable to the iPad mini - while those for a range of Android handsets including the Samsung Galaxy S4, HTC One, Nokia Lumia 928 and Moto X were all over 110ms.The shorter the delay between touching the screen and getting a reaction, the better the user experience. By contrast longer delays can lead to mistyping at speed - because mistakes aren't registered until the user has typed more letters -  and the perception of missed chances in frame-intensive experiences such as games, because the screen doesn't respond at the time the user touches it."It's hard to know what the cause is of the difference. Maybe Apple's touchscreens are calibrated better. But there's a software side to it as well," said Relan. "It could be that touch events [on the screen] are dealt with earlier in the processing stack on [Apple's] iOS. Or perhaps it prioritises touch input."He suspects that Android does not give such high priority to user events such as touches. "Possibly this isn't benchmarked in peoples' labs. People tend to optimise their devices to measurable benchmarks, and the benchmark for this test hasn't existed before," Relan said. "But I think it will become a priority."But he thought that the processing delay "could be a fundamental limitation" in Android's processing model, perhaps caused by its use of the Dalvik virtual machine to interpret code. Audio apps have suffered from delay on Android which to some ears has made them unusable for professional quality work. The human ear is highly sensitive to delays in audio synchronisation longer than 100ms.This post was updated with detail about Agawi's methodolgy.
Pro-Palestinian hackers managed to conduct DNS redirection attacks on the websites of popular mobilemessaging service WhatsApp, as well as security companiesAVGand Avira.TheAnonymous-affiliated hacking group, calling itself KDMS,claimed responsibility for the attackson Twitter, delivering pro-Palestinian defacement messages ending in the words &quot;long live Palestine.&quot;Network Solutions seems to have let the side downAll three websites seem to be the victim of an attack on Network Solutions, a domain name registrar and website hosting company. It is unclear whether emails from WhatsApp could have been intercepted.&quot;It appears that our account used to manage the DNS records registered at Network Solutions has received a fake password-reset request not being initiated by anyone at Avira. Network Solutions appears to have honoured this request and allowed a third party to assume control of our DNS,&quot; said Sorin Mustaca of Avirain a statement.DNS records provide a routing lookup for the internet: they tell computers where to find servers or other computers. Changing the DNS record can misdirect all the traffic that relies on it; and because changes in DNS records propagate around the internet between the servers, their effects can last for days even after the original change has been undone.The KDMS group also claimed responsibility for an attack on Leaseweb, a hosting company with around 4% of the global internet traffic under its management, and successfullyeffected a DNS redirect for its homepage.DNS redirection hacks have become increasingly popular with hackers as sites have improved their own security. TheNew York Times and Twitter were hit by a DNS attack in Augustby the self-styled Syrian Electronic Army. Twitter previously suffered aDNS hack in 2009at the hands of a group calling itself the &quot;Iranian Cyber Army&quot; while the DNS records of many websites, including the Daily Telegraph, the Register and UPS, wereredirected in 2011by a Turkish hacker group.&quot;Network Solutions seems to have let the side down for all three sites,&quot; independent security expert Graham Cluley told the Guardian. &quot;Somehow hackers gained access to the DNS records of Network Solutions, possibly through a simple password reset request, and managed to redirect the domain names of the three companies to the hacker&apos;s websites.&quot;A possibility of data leakageWhile the redirection of visitors and defacement of website is embarrassing for the companies affected, &quot;there&apos;s also the possibility of data leakage, as the DNS hack could have affected email as well,&quot; according to Cluley.WhatsApp website hacked by Anonymous-affiliated pro-Palestinian KDMS hackers.WhatsApp&apos;s mobile messaging services seemed to be unaffected, apart from the company&apos;s main site, the consequences for AVG and Avira could have been more severe, however, potentially affecting their computer antivirus security products.&quot;With regard to the antivirus companies, AVG and Avira, there&apos;s also the possibility that program updates could have been poisoned if the companies use domain names as part of their update procedures, although there&apos;s likely to be a series of checks and verifications to avoid that within the update procedure,&quot; Cluley explained.All three websites have since been recovered, with the propagation of their DNS corrections currently underway across the internet.• In July,Anonymous compromised the US Federal Emergency Management Agencyservers and posted contact information of people connected to the agency online.• Explainer:what is DNS, why does it matter and how does it work
During the 2010 World Cup, a group of Dutch women were arrested on suspicion of ambush marketing, after they attended a match in bright dresses branded by a beer company that wasn't an official Fifa sponsor.Now think forward, not to the 2014 tournament, but to 2018, when technology like Google Glass could be the hot tool for these kinds of stunts. Far-fetched? The topic came up at the Mipcom conference in Cannes, during a session involving a panel of lawyers exploring the legal issues around second-screen apps and related technologies."I think Google Glass is something we will see a lot of young people wearing: they'll be walking around and maybe they'll see advertising," said Sean Hayes, senior partner at law firm IPG Legal. "Maybe you'll go to a Fifa game, and on that screen you'll see advertising for Pepsi, but the official sponsor for Fifa is Coca-Cola."This may sound like lawyers thinking up worst-case scenarios whose solution will invariably involve paying lots of money to lawyers. But in the shorter term, they highlighted some realistic concerns for broadcasters about third-party apps curating conversation, content and ads around their shows."Second-screen is what you'd call a lawyer's paradise," said Christiaan Alberdingk Thijm from Dutch law firm Bureau Brandeis, who noted that there's little controversy around apps that simply provide a home for social chatter around a show."If you're not affiliated to the original producer, you can have a conversation about The Voice, for example, on the second screen, and we'd all agree that wouldn't be contradictory to copyright or trademark law," he said."But what happens if I'm using The Voice's trademarks on my second screen, or running my own election where I'm not choosing the candidates for their quality of singing, but on whoever looks best or tells the best jokes? You could put a gambling aspect into that, and on top of all that you could include your advertising."Thijm suggested this is where broadcasters will want to do something about the second-screen app, but admitted that it's still unclear what kind of action they could take, and whether it would be successful.He also drew the parallel to the "Bavaria babes" during the 2010 World Cup, noting that they were arrested under specific anti-ambush marketing legislation put in place for the tournament."If you want to organise the World Cup, you have to have inside your penal code anti-ambush legislation, because it's very hard to beat. The same applies to second-screen… It's very disruptive but it's very difficult to do something about it."This doesn't just apply to second-screen TV apps like Shazam and Zeebox, or football-specific apps like The Football App. It can apply to the larger social networks too: if Facebook knows lots of football fans will be using its app during a World Cup match, it can sell ads to whatever brands it likes for that period of time.More social TV coverage•Shazam: 'TV advertising is going to become our primary revenue stream'•Zeebox talks content, commerce and celebrities as future TV schedulers•Social TV and second-screen viewing: the statsThe panel also suggested that the growth of second-screen apps may have an impact on TV regulations, for example around product placement in shows."If I'm running a show and I'm not allowed to do product placement, but if somebody else is allowed to place products within the second screen, I would say that strict media regulation should no longer be in place," said Thijm."We really need to rethink our product placement and media regulation rules, because it doesn't work: why should I impose all these strict rules for broadcasters and television, and not have them for my iPhone and iPad?"Thijm predicted that the answer will not be to create more regulations for second-screen apps, but fellow panelist Dr. Ralph Oliver Graef from German firm GRAEF Rechtsanwälte, said that governments must take a clear decision."Either they have to down-regulate the broadcasting law, or up-regulate the other stuff," he said, while pointing out that there are plenty of other unresolved legal issues around the world of second-screen apps."A technology like Shazam that allows that third party to know what you are watching is the new, maybe scary, maybe interesting and challenging issue at hand," said Graef. "There are data protection issues, privacy issues, unfair competition issues and copyright issues with this topic."Thijm pointed to shopping as one particularly-grey area for second-screen apps, although not necessarily a new one. He recounted the tale of working with a startup a decade ago whose technology involved helping people buy the products they saw on screen – for example the jumper being worn by Jennifer Aniston in a Friends episode."I said 'guys, you're okay, you're not using any trademarks, it's free speech and fair competition, etc'. But some of the broadcasters became very, very aggressive. They just said 'we're going to sue unless you negotiate with us and take our licence'," he said."The company said 'we don't need a licence', but they said 'yes you do, otherwise we're going to sue'. And they negotiated for a long time, and the company is now out of business."Modern-day second-screen startups like Zeebox are exploring this kind of e-commerce, but nobody has sued them for it. Not yet, at least. Graef suggested that lawsuits may not be the inevitable outcome of the current wave of second-screen activity."The copyright issues can be solved, and the biggest issue for the TV station is the advertising and the unfair competition issue. If you avoid that and they say you can do second-screen as long as you don't skip the advertising that we're using, the most important issue is solved," he said."Their programming is kept intact, and when you see Pizza Hut on the TV, you will see Pizza Hut on the second screen. This does not necessarily need to be controversial."That's reflected in the current strategies of companies like Shazam and Zeebox, which are keen for partnerships with broadcasters and producers to produce second-screen content around their shows.
The days of flicking tea towels at overzealous smoke alarms could be over with the launch of a new "intelligent" device which claims to be able to tell the difference between burning toast and a genuine house fire, and can be switched off by waving at it.Invented by one of the creators of Apple's iPod, Nest Protect combines a traditional smoke alarm, which is triggered when it detects the poor visibility caused by smoke, with a host of other sensors including heat, light, activity and ultrasonic detectors and a detector for deadly carbon monoxide gas.Nest Protect differentiates between types of smoke, and can give a heads-up warning if there is just a small amount of smoke, perhaps caused by a toaster. The alarm can be silenced by waving at it, which is picked up by gesture detectors and saves the need for hitting it with a broom or flicking with a tea towel.If the problem escalates, Nest Protect moves to a 85 decibel horn and instructions to leave the building immediately and to call the fire brigade.The manufacturer has designed Nest Protect fire alarms to be wirelessly interconnected, which means a problem in one room would sound an alert throughout the house.The alarm is the brainchild of Tony Fadell, who was part of the team at Apple that created the iPod and iPhone. Known as "the father of the iPod", Fadell has created 300 patents for consumer technology, and began exploring energy-efficient domestic technologies when he left Apple in 2008. True to Silicon Valley form, Fadell started Nest in a Palo Alto garage in 2010 with a former Apple colleague, Matt Rogers.Nest claims that one in eight houses in the UK have a broken smoke alarm. "Every time a smoke alarm cries wolf, we trust it a little less, and then – in a moment of frustration – we rip the batteries out to stop the beeping. And that leaves us and our families at risk," said Fadell, who is Nest's chief executive officer.Erik Charlton, Nest's vice-president of business, dismissed the suggestion that at £109 the product is too expensive for most homeowners, given that regulation requires every home to install one smoke alarm per floor. "We believe in exceptional product experience to dominate the market with quality single-featured devices," he said. The product has not yet been cleared with the British Standards Institute, Charlton added.The smoke alarm and a smart thermostat, which is currently available only in the US, can be accessed remotely with a smartphone app which gives updates on battery power and emergency alerts. It also advises users how to respond to alerts, whether a carbon monoxide buildup or full-blown fire, and includes direct contact with the fire service.At night, the device's motion sensors detect when the homeowner goes to bed, and it reverts to a colour-coded alert system, green for all clear and red for a problem. It also detects any movement in the dark, automatically lighting the way with a discreet nightlight.
There's a new theory about how the FBI And CIA tracked down the physical location of the Silk Road servers, and it has nothing to do with the man accused of being the site's operator, Ross Ulbricht, or queries he might have made on StackExchange.Instead, the rumour in hacker circles is that the CIA - with or without the help of the National Security Agency - accessed the server via Tor, and somehow ran an exploit on it which meant that they could locate it over the "normal" internet.Having done that, they then got in touch with the company hosting the server itself (which may be in Iceland, as we'll explain) and then managed to take an image of the server. They may also have planted tracking systems on the server which allowed them to trace those who logged in to Silk Road - which would certainly help to explain how theBritish police last week arrested four men on suspicion of supplying controlled substancesthrough Silk Road.That was thesuggestion last week from Nicholas Weaver,  when the news broke.Weaver, who is based at the International Computer Science Institute, commented on a piece about the initial arrest thatthe biggest weakness of the complaint (which is not something that really needs to be answered here, but will need to be answered in court) is how the Silk Road server was discovered.I would suspect that, since it was imaged without being noticed that what happened is the FBI (with a warrant) hacked the site sufficient to discover the site's IP by generating a non-Tor phone-home, and then contacted the country of the hosting provider which then got the server imaged.Yet since the server imaging didn't involve taking the server down or disrupting service sufficient to spook Mr DPR into taking his bitcoins and running, I suspect that this was some virtual-machine hosting provider.Now, that's not how it was done according to the affidavit filed last week by FBI agent Christopher Tarbell. Thatpoints toUlbricht's LinkedIn profile, his use of a real photograph in a package of fake IDs (which it is claimed led Homeland Security to Ulbricht's address), his queries on StackExchange under his own name (which he then changed) about connecting to Tor via PHP, his seeking out of courier firms, and paying someone to murder someone else.It also describes how agents tracked back to early promotion for the Silk Road site and found messages posted on drug discussion forums and Wordpress blogs by a user called "altoid", which was found to be linked to a Gmail address, apparently registered to Ulbricht.Ulbricht faces charges of money laundering, narcotis trafficking, computer hacking and soliciting a murder. A lawyer for Ulbricht last week said "We deny all charges".But Tarbell's description doesn't contain the chain of evidence that one would expect for an arrest - and a breakthrough - of this magnitude. Putting together the fragments of evidence contained in the affidavits, one doesn't get a picture of someone who is self-evidently the "Dread Pirate Roberts" who operated Silk Road.One other matter that isn't widely known: the initial affidavit doesn't have to describe how the FBI actually built its case. It only has to describe how itcouldhave built its case, and persuade a judge to sign an arrest warrant.That is why suspicion is growing that the Silk Road servers were actually quietly hacked, and were exploited to reveal details about their users.Those suspicions won't have been eased by the comments of the director general of the UK's new National Crime Agency, Keith Bristow, who said of the arrest of the four Britons that "the hidden internet isn't hidden and your anonymous activity isn't anonymous. We know where you are, what you are doing and we will catch you."Some internet sleuthing, meanwhile, suggests that the Silk Road server itself may have been hosted in Iceland: Runa Sandvik, who works on the Tor Project, notes that there's an Icelandic server athttps://193.107.86.49/which has a self-signed certificate, and redirects to silkroadvb5piz3r.onion - the Silk Road website.But, Sandvik points out, the FBI affidavit says that the server was imaged (ie copied) as part of a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty request - and Iceland doesn't appear to be a signatory to a MLAT with the US. "That leaves us with Latvia and Romania, Sandvikcomments.So we're left with uncertainty which might not be answered until the FBI brings its full charges to the courtroom. Did a US agency use an exploit - perhaps even a zero-day one (ie, not previously notified) to hack the Silk Road server, and so gain access to details about who was accessing the server - and then follow the trail back to its alleged owner and users? Or was the takedown of Silk Road the result of painstaking piece-by-piece detective work? This is a trial which will be watched with great interest.•How can the FBI seize Bitcoins from Silk Road?
Kinect is one of the most interesting and ambiguous stories of the current console generation. Dismissed by critics and hardcore gamers as a gimmick, it nevertheless went on to sell over 10m units, mostly on its promise of evolving the whole motion control concept and freeing players entirely from the tyranny of the controller. But despite success stories like Dance Central and Kinectimals, owner frustration soon began to overshadow those rosy sales figures. Repeated criticisms that the sensor hardware wasn't accurate enough, and that games were tiring, repetitive and frustrating, led to a huge drop in developer take up. The concept seemed doomed.But then, of course, came Microsoft's infamous Xbox One announcement event, where execs made it very clear that Kinect 2.0 was an essential element of the next-gen proposal. Announced in the midst of paranoia over NSA snooping, consumers were repulsed by the idea of a HAL-like eye in the corner of their living room, watching and listening, and reporting everything to lord knows who. Of course, Microsoft has since reneged on the whole 'always on' aspect and has assured gamers thatit won't be recording what they get up to in their living roomsand sending it all to the government. But still, people are freaked out by it.And none of those assurances answer some of the fundamental objections players have to the Kinect proposition: namely, many of the games are crap and no one wants to leap around their living rooms to navigate a menu. Sure, Kinect 2.0 solves one of the major technical difficulties: the need for masses of space in front of the TV (the new 1,080p camera with wider lens can cope with more people, and those people can be closer to the telly), but what of the games? What of the implementation and functionality of the technology? Why should we even care?Rare, the veteran UK studio responsible for hits like Perfect Dark and Banjo Kazooie, helped test the Kinect proposition, as well as developing key early title Kinect Sports. The studio is certain things will be different with Kinect 2.0. Its own Xbox One title, Kinect Sports Rivals, features six events designed to make use of the new camera's much more accurate motion sensing capabilities.At Gamescom, I played the new wave race and rock climbing additionsand definitely found them more responsive, and more varied.Not only does this make for a more satisfying experience, it also means you're not exhausted within 10 minutes. While the original Kinect was marketed very much as a sort of glorified fitness instructor – possibly a response to the success of Wii Fit – the new one is just, well, an alternative input device. "You don't need to make big movements," assures creative dorector, Simon Woodroffe. "It's all very refined and subtle and responsive. It's not about high-energy competition, it's about skill".But for Woodroffe and his team, this isn't the only feature that's really going to change things. "When we started making games for Kinect there was a big focus on always using the hardware," he says. "But now it's in the box, we can use it when it makes sense and not when it doesn't."A key example of this is in navigating the game's front-end. Rather than using a menu screen, the user-interface is a living, interactive depiction of the Kinect Sports island, where users can see all the events, who is playing them, and the best scores of their friends. It's neat, but the best part is, you can just explore the whole thing with a controller. You don't need to stand there and making swiping gestures like some deranged military despot."It just makes sense," says Woodroffe. "People want to sit down with a controller and tweak their appearance, change the outfit – you can do it via gesture, but we're not going to force it, it's fine to use the controller. That's quite a big step forward, policy-wise. It's definitely a good thing. We'll drop motion controls where it makes sense."Indeed, in the game itself, it seems players can opt to use the Xbox One controller instead of movement for most inputs. The challenge for the team this time has been ensuring that Kinect remains a truly useful interface – the one most players will naturally prefer. "We test all of the games with a controller and if we can't do just as well with motion controls, we're not happy," assures Woodroffe.And this is an important point really. Kinect 2.0 can only really work as a platform if two things happen. First, now it's in the box, Microsoft needs more developers to experiment with using the technology in subtle ways that augment traditional genres. Some gamers really enjoyed using the voice function in Mass Effect 3 to issue commands and select conversation options – more of this sort of thing needs to happen.The killer app may well be a first-person shooter that can track head movements allowing you to literally look round walls or peep over cover objects; it may be a survival horror game that implements the Kinect's heart monitoring capabilities to see how scared you are. We can already see some of this happening – D4, the latest title from cult developer Hidetaka 'Swery' Suehiro is an action adventure that allows players to interact with the screen, and with other characters, using gestures. Call of Duty: Ghosts is using the tech for voice commands, Dead Rising allows you to shout at zombies to distract them. Meanwhile, EA Dice is considering head tracking for Battlefield 4, and Titanfall will support the hardware in some way, but Respawn won't say how just yet."It would be nice if other developers see some of the things we're doing with it and start thinking, 'how can we use that to augment are core titles?'" says Woodroffe. "I think it's a big differentiator for Xbox One and it can really enhance the experience."The other thing Kinect 2.0 needs is some fresh ideas. The original Kinect games did little to move things beyond what was already on Wii, and to justify the higher price tag that this equipment has forced upon Xbox One, we'll need to see studios really thinking about what physical interaction means in the game space. It's going to be difficult to win around the sceptics – those core gamers for whom Kinect totally failed to deliver on its vision, and who see its embedded status on Xbox One as a huge and sinister imposition. They have a point – but if studios start to do interesting things, who knows?The Rare staff are, Woodroffe is happy to concede, committed and enthusiastic advocates of the technology. "We're all about new experiences, we're a very technical studio," he says. "The teams are brilliant at making creative things out of technology. We want to find things that no one has ever done before and make a game out of it. We should be inventing new genres, new ways to play – Kinect gives us new opportunities to do that."
The number of British universities offering specialist modern-language coursesis in sharp decline. Is it possible that this collapse might be partly down to the rise of free software such as Google Translate? After all, why waste several years of your life perfecting every last conversational nuance of a second language when you can listlessly prod "CAN I HAVE SOME CHIPS?" on to your phone and then wave a screen reading "POSSO TER UM POUCO CHIPS?" in the face of a disappointed Portuguese waiter?Obviously, this is terribly misguided. Google Translate will never be any substitute for learning a foreign language, and here's why:1Google Translate is only good when there's internet. Without seriously learning a language, all you could say to a French person offline is whatever you memorised at school. In my case this would amount to "bank", "swimming pool" and "Hello my name is Stuart, I am 11 years old".2If Google Translate had been responsible for the English version of The Girl From Ipanema (originally, in Portuguese,Garota de Ipanema), Frank Sinatra would have had to croon "Girl in the golden body, sun From Ipanema, The It swung its more than a poem", which doesn't really scan as well.3If everybody relied on Google Translate, exchange trips would become a thing of the past. You'd miss that mutely chainsmoking 14-year-old Belgian boy with a full beard who glowers at you from the kitchen table.4"Sixty Two" translated into Filipino on Google Translate comes out as the numerals "62". This is clearly no use to anybody.5United Nations summits would slow to a crawl, because translators would have to type everything anyone said into the internet to figure out what was going on. The icy silences this would create between delegates would almost definitely result in all-out, planet-ending war.6Although Google Translate can teach you foreign swearwords, only a native speaker can show you the proper intonation and the right aggressive hand gestures to accompany them.7Even though it has improved a lot over the years, there's still no real guarantee of accuracy. There's still a worry that, if you visited a doctor on holiday with a sore throat and used Google Translate to list your symptoms, he would end up amputating your legs.8Who would present Eurovision if everyone used Google Translate? A robot? That would be madness.9The French phrase "Se taper le cul par terre" means to laugh uproariously. According to Google Translate, though, it means "Ass banging on the floor". There is literally no end to the disasters that could arise from this misunderstanding.10By learning a language, you are guaranteeing yourself a lifetime of being able to walk past Rosetta Stone concessions in shopping centres without feeling like a horrible veiny blob of wasted potential, as I usually do.
An ambitious nationwide technology initiative will encourage the public to take up computer programming, new BBC director general announced on Tuesday.Reviving the spirit of its acclaimed 1980s home computer the BBC Micro, the corporation wants to address the UK&apos;s technology skills shortage by inspiring both children and adults to explore computer science and creative technology.Working with partners in industry, government and education, the BBC will provide resources to help the public build websites, apps, games, art and robots, and aims to have affected a shift in mainstream public perception of computer science by 2015.As part of Hall&apos;s announcement, particle physicist and TV presenter Brian Cox said coding is becoming as essential as reading and writing.&quot;An equally valuable skill is to be able to interact with computers ... to be able to tell them precisely what to do,&quot; he said.&quot;The BBC has a transformative role in this – to inspire.&quot;According to UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox, the UK needs more than a million technology professionals to join the industry in the next decade.In keeping with the current vogue for all things 80s, Hall recalled the popular success of the BBC Micro computer, which made coding accessible to a new generation.The BBC Micro home computer launched in December 1981 and, along with the ZX Spectrum, helped popularise computing for a new generation.More than 1.5m were sold in 13 years, costing upwards of £399, and its success in promoting the simple &quot;Basic&quot; programming language which allowed children to master simple programmes, and inspired many to pursue careers in computer science, gaming and engineering.Other digital initiatives announced by the BBC on Tuesday include a music playlist tool, a digital Shakespeare initiative to mark the 400th anniversary of his death in 2016, and plans to expand its international audience online.•Raspberry Pi, the cheap, versatile home inspired in part by the BBC Micro, has sold one million units.
More than a millionRaspberry Picomputers have been made in Britain, with 1.75m sold globally since going on sale for around £30 in February 2012.The initial batch of the credit card-sized barebones computer weremade in China, but a partnership between the Raspberry Pi Foundation, RS Components and Premier Farnell saw all Raspberry Pi manufacturingmoved to a Sony-owned manufacturing plantin Pencoed, Wales in September 2012.Since June 2012, production of Raspberry Pis at the Pencoed factory have ramped up from just 204 a week to nearly 40,000 Raspberry Pis a week in April 2013.The Raspberry Pi is a credit card-sized barebones computer that uses a smartphone-like ARM processor to provide a basic and extensible computing platform for hobbyists, teachers, pupils and corporations alike.The small computer has USB ports for a keyboard and mouse, an Ethernet port, a SD card slot, and an HDMI port for connecting to a monitor or a TV. It runs a variant of the free open-source operating system Linux, which powers many web servers and Android smartphones.The Raspberry Pi is a barebones computer with a smartphone-like ARM processor that runs Linux. Photograph: Christopher Thomond/The GuardianCosting around £35 including shipping within the UK, the Raspberry Pi has lowered the entry level for access to a programmable computer geared up for learning how to code and for hacking projects, like building your own media player or retro video game console.Sold out within minutesThe demand for the Raspberry Pi meant thatit was sold out within minutesafter going on sale at 6am on 29 February 2012, crashing retailer websites in the process. In March 2012 demand for the Raspberry Pi ran at&quot;700 per second&quot;.Eben Upton with the Raspberry Pi computer. Photograph: Antonio OlmosIt took untilApril 2012before the first Raspberry Pi computers actually shipped, however, due tomanufacturing delaysandsafety testing.In August 2012, the Raspberry Pi was available to purchase through British high street retailers, with a revised &quot;B&quot; versionreleased in September 2012withtwice the amount of RAM. A camera accessory wasthen released in May 2013, which added the capability of capturing images and video for around £20.Computing had become lacklustre and even boringThe Raspberry Pi started life as an idea to bring computing in schools back to the era of the BBC Micro in the early 1980s, which inspired children to learn how a computer worked and allowed them to discover what was possible through learning to code.&quot;What was needed was a return to an exciting, programmable machine like the old BBC Micro; and it had to be affordable, say around £20, so every child could potentially have one,&quot;explained Eben Uptonco-founder of the Raspberry Pi at its launch. &quot;Computing wasn&apos;t being seen as the exciting, vibrant subject it should be at school – it had become lacklustre and even boring.&quot;The Raspberry Pi provides affordable access to programmable computers. Photograph: Christopher Thomond/The GuardianGoogle also saw potential in the Raspberry Pi for education,donating 15,000 of the computersto British schools in a collaboration with the Raspberry Pi Foundation in January 2013.&quot;We&apos;ve been working to encourage the next generation of computer scientists, and we hope that this donation of Raspberry Pis to British school pupils will help drive a new wave of innovation,&quot; Eric Schmidt, Google&apos;s executive chairmansaid at the time.Sums don&apos;t add upWhile an affordable, programmable computer for schools is a step in the right direction, Nick Williams, senior product manager at networking specialist Brocade warned that the IT infrastructure within schools needed investment to support the connected device trend:“Whilst the devices on offer to schools have taken a quantum leap in affordability and accessibility, schools still exist with twenty-year-old networking technology and the sums just do not add up.&quot;“Old technology used by most educational IT departments simply can’t keep pace with the new world and a transition needs to take place to enable new innovations in education to come to fruition.“Since its launch last year the Raspberry Pi Foundation has been on a mission to transform the education experience for students, but is it delivering? The reality is that there is more work to do to ensure that schools are ready for this new wave of mini computers,&quot; explained Williams.• From keeping tabs on your baby to brewing your own beer, here are12 things you can do with a Raspberry Pi.
“Revenge porn” websites will be banned in the state of New York, if the proposals of three legislators in the state are adopted.The proposals are aimed at a growing subset of sites which appeal to ex-partners to submit images as revenge for perceived wrongs.Some such sites claim to be offering services to potential lovers; one slogan reads “get the dirt before you get hurt”. Others have an element of extortion, offering removal of pictures in exchange for payment.“Revenge porn can ruin a woman’s life, family and career,” said Senator Phil Boyle, the state representative of Suffolk County.“As the social media phenomenon grows, more and more women are being violated and exploited by their ex-boyfriends and husbands. These private images go viral to the world and women have little or no legal recourse. I will introduce a bill to give law enforcement the tools to protect victims of revenge porn.”Explicit images cause lasting damageDemocratic assemblyman Edward Braunstein and Republican state senator Joseph Griffo also announced their plans to take action in a joint statement.“Disseminating sexual explicit images that were shared with an expectation of privacy can cause lasting damage to victims and should be a crime,” said Braunstein.'Revenge porn sites are happy to help out, posting these photos alongside the subject's full names, address, and even phone number.' Photograph: Martyn Vickery/Alamy&quot;Currently, these victims have limited options when their pictures taken with their consent, were posted online,&quot; said Griffo. &quot;They would have to enlist a lawyer and threaten to sue the person responsible for sharing the photo or the website hosting them, for invasion of privacy.”New York would be following California, whereGovernor Jerry Brown signed into law a bill outlawing the publication of such material in early October.The Californian bill,Senate Bill 255defines revenge porn as publishing “nude images” of another person “with the intent to cause substantial emotional distress or humiliation”. It also requires that the publication be accompanied by “personal identifying information” of the other person.Proposed bill doesn&apos;t include selfiesBoyle describes the case of a Florida woman who, a year after breaking up with her boyfriend of three years, discovered naked pictures of herself on a revenge porn site.Along with her email and work addresses, those photos spread to more than 200 similar sites, forcing her to change her name to stop the harassment.But the California bill has been subject to criticism for not going far enough. Crucially, it does not cover publication of nude “selfies”, images taken by the subject themselves.A survey by the Florida-basedCyber Civil Rights Initiativefound that 80% of revenge porn victims had taken the photos or videos themselves, and so would not be covered by the bill at all.Holly Jacobs, the CCRI’s founder, hasexpressed concernthat the lacuna is due to victim-blaming on the part of legislators, with one bill drafter telling her that people who took such photos are “stupid”.Boyle is clear that his preferred version of the law would cover such occurrences. “If a young woman takes a picture of herself, sends it to the boyfriend, a couple of years later he’s posting it, that would be included under our legislation,” he toldlocal radio station 1010 WINS.•If governments really wanted to stop online pornography they could ask ISPs to ban YouTube, Blogger and Tumblr.
Sometimes you have to see a place through fresh eyes to appreciate it. This writer, having grown up in Dublin, takes for granted a lot of the best things about the city: its size, its nightlife, its people, instead focusing on its bad weather and worse economy. Beyond these shores, media horror stories paint an even bleaker picture of Ireland, with property crashes, bad banks and game office closures including Big Fish and PopCap.But there's a veritable infestation of start-ups in Dublin at the moment. And thankfully, entrepreneurs, investors and high-level employees from outside the country are coming here for reasons beyond tax breaks and location."Derelict warehouse, plus IKEA, equals the Digit offices," says Richard Barnwell, founder and CEO of Digit Games, a new company that employs dozens of people for Kings of the Realm, an ambitious cross-platform online MMO. So far, Digit has received total investment of $3.75m (£2.3m) to date. Their office sits in Dublin City between the prestigious Trinity College and the banks of the river Liffey, and is a stone's throw away from Google's European HQ.To say that the past few years have been turbulent for Ireland is an understatement, but some government bodies like Enterprise Ireland are doing real, tangible work in helping start-ups; providing finance (in the form of investment), guidance and even help with contacts across different industries. Enterprise Ireland (or "EI") comes up in just about every conversation I have with developers."The reason we came here was the interest from the likes of Enterprise Ireland," says Barnwell. "When we started talking to people, saying it was a serious start-up, going out the gate with a million [pounds] worth of funding; we had offers from five countries. We had a lot of interest about doing game things here that we didn't get from other countries, nowhere near the level. As soon as we started talking to people like EI, they were incredibly keen to support us. Not really financially, we didn't need investment from them, but actually just opening doors – giving access to their west coast US offices and their German offices, literally they were saying 'let us help you meet people in developing territories' which has been incredibly useful; the kind of support which nobody else was offering. You can't really put a price on that because they've made introductions which could be worth an absolute fortune for us."Political power-upsIrish politicians have generally been supportive. I have fond memories of seeing Taoiseach Enda Kenny at the launch of Bioware's call centre in Galway, making a speech about steep learning curves and then being shown how to play the Star Wars MMO. Yes, there have been some embarrassingly old-fashioned comments, including President Michael D Higgins dismissing the pursuit outright and TD [Teachta Dála – member of parliament] Mary Mitchell O'Connor's misbegotten press release condemning Call of Duty and advising parents to buy their kids books instead of games. But more often, the politicians see the games for what they are: a thrilling, creative, and sometimes lucrative young industry and possibly a way to connect with younger constituents.Paschal Donohoe, a former senator who's recently been promoted to minister of state for European affairs, has been a long-term advocate for the Irish games industry. "There's more of an understanding of [gaming among Irish politicians] than you might expect," he says. "An example I'd give, it might be apocryphal, but it does illustrate a point, is around 18 months ago I set up a session in Leinster House to brief people on the digital games industry and what more we could do. And normally, when you organise these kinds of briefings, you get a handful of Oireachtas [parliament] members and a lot of staff. The room was packed. Packed. We had a huge number of TDs and senators, government ministers, and I've never seen a briefing ever as full as that."I think that was a real illustration of the fact that there's a growing recognition amongst the political groups and classes. The simple reason is the advent of casual gaming. If you have a group of people for whom the use of a mobile phone is an integral part of their day-to-day life or how they communicate with the outside world, how can you avoid the advent and development of casual gaming on those devices? And that's so apparent. Because of that there's been a percolation into politicians, including here in Ireland."Donohoe believes that interactive storytelling is a natural progression of Irish traditions: "There is a part of our Irish culture, spirit and soul that is creative. There is an interest in the development of storytelling, whether it's through music, short stories or books. And I think some of our young men and women who might have looked to be the next David Lynch or Neil Gaiman now think of digital gaming as a way to express themselves and create worlds and tell stories."The carrot for outside investment seems to be financial, and there is an entrepreneurial spirit here. But in an industry as young as gaming, competition is also fierce for high-end employees. Barnwell, a Cambridge native, claims that the size and vibe of Dublin is an attraction. "Those that worked in London, or any major city, will appreciate the beauty of Dublin being so small," he says. "You just walk everywhere. If someone's got a meeting, I leave half an hour before it and walk there. It's a nicer way to live a life. You can enjoy the city. In London you don't get that."We had offices all over [London] city. I'd leave the house at 5.30 in the morning just to be in the office for seven, because you had to get the train, the tube. You'd spent the entire time in tubes getting in and out of them to get from place to place. And you still wouldn't get home until eight or nine at night. And it's not like you get anything done, because you don't. You just spend the whole time squeezing in and out of trains."Kings of the RealmExtra livesHowever, for many Dubliners, jaunty commutes don't quite compensate for fickle employers: The departure of PopCap's European HQ (and with it, nearly 100 jobs) and then Jolt leaving, and taking 50 jobs with them, were major blows for the city. The problem with jobs from foreign investment is that they can – and do – up sticks and leave at a moment's notice.The departure of these games companies is reminiscent of the Don Bluth situation: Sullivan Bluth Studios was a Dublin-based animation company best-known for An American Tale (a Disney collaboration) and The Land Before Time. After a few high-profile flops, they closed up shop here in 1995, but left a legacy of a world-class third-level animation course (still running in Ballyfermot, west Dublin) and some of its former employees went on to form multi-Oscar-nominated Brown Bag Films, Jam Media (who make BBC's Roy) and the Emmy-nominated Boulder Media.Seadna Long, one of the founders of SixMinute Games, is a former employee of PopCap. He claims that the industry in Dublin is much better than it was this time last year because of the volume of indies and the experience they've acquired. "It's a fair comparison," he says when I mention Sullivan Bluth. "We know some of the guys who went through that [in animation]. The quality that came from the [big] studios is amazing. We know guys in Boulder who went through that. We still have a lot to prove to say that we could be successful as one of those companies. If we're anywhere near Brown Bag, we'll all be quite happy."SixMinute is one of many young Irish developers that works in an "incubation" centre – cheap and sometimes free space given by patrons of the industry, be they government or corporate. Two of Dublin's most exciting developers work within a few feet of one another in a room in the corner of Digit's building: bitSmith and BatCat. The former made Kú, a Zelda-style mobile game that was critically acclaimed (by the Guardian and Edge among others) and BatCat, which made the nifty twin-stick shooter P-3 Biotic and is working on a promising hack-and-slash called Honour Bound."On one hand, I feel tremendously supported by the government and everything they've done for us," says Owen Harris, studio head for bitSmith. "This company wouldn't exist without the help of EI and Foras na Gaeilge [an organisation that promotes the Irish language] and all the other bodies that have helped us along the way. That's been huge. On the other hand, sometimes you can't help but look at either games education or the film industry and get slightly jealous of what they have."But compared to even 12 months ago, Harris is optimistic about the scene: "I think it's maturing. There are opportunities and dangers. I think it's wonderful that many of us are working on our second game. It takes time to learn this craft and to get better at it. And you can see certainly, what I see across the room, it's tremendous the way Honour Bound is coming together. And in our second game, FranknJohn you can see a real jump in quality, in game design and production.""We're only learning this through mistakes and failures and eventually you stumble upon something that works and you try to incorporate that into your routine. It's an ongoing process. Where we are now from a year ago, we have more experience in the country. More experience through making mistakes and making games. So that's the exciting thing. They way we combat the problem of inexperience is by having a very open relationship between different companies and trying to help each other out wherever we can."Andrea Magnorsky, CTO for BatCat, agrees with Owen: "From last year, I totally agree on the point about evolution. You see some people still there, some sadly gone, but now there are loads of new [indie developers]. Or some people changing things as well, but I guess that's expected and good. I'm glad we're still here. It's like a surprise: Surprise! We're still here another year!""But yeah, we've learned a lot by mistakes. It's evolving and it's also dangerous, because we're in a crucial point where there's a level of support and knowledge that needs to come into place for this to go bigger. Otherwise we could all survive … ish."Magnorsky concedes there are sceptics in Irish business and government, but one or two high-profile successes will be enough to win people over: "I think there are a few key companies who need success for people's perceptions to be positive; for them to say 'oh yeah' and stroke their chins."
More than two thirds of Apple devices – iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches – have upgraded to Apple&apos;s latest mobile operating system iOS 7.Mixpanel&apos;s trend dataputs the figure at around 68.7% of devices today, overtaking iOS 6 the day after release. It sounds like a surefire success for Apple ... so why is there a rumbling dissent among users?Some have complained that the fake zooms, parallax effects and sliding motion are causing motion sickness, while others claim those same effects are sucking battery life.Then there&apos;s Siri using Bing as the default search engine, Spotlight being too hard to find and new warning if users connect a non-standard cable.One user grumbles/rants: &quot;The fact my pictures are called my &apos;moments&apos;. You can&apos;t use gestures to get out of Newsstand. Newsstand itself is now mad – now they&apos;ve ditched skeuomorphic they should probably redesign it because it&apos;s now a load of screengrabs of newspapers stuck on some weird grey lines. You can&apos;t see as many apps in multi-tasking. Instead of seeing a lovely picture of my dog when the screen locks, I see a lovely picture of my dog obscured by &apos;frosted glass&apos;. If you tap on a URL in Safari (to copy it, say) it shows you the Safari startup screen while you meddle, which you then have to tap to get back to the page you were on. Worst of all, the Ocado app didn&apos;t work at all when I first updated. Which is of course Ocado&apos;s fault, but STILL ...&quot;That, and doesn&apos;t it all feel a bit more Android?Let rip below...
