So I've been playingRise of the Argonautsover the last week. The action role playing game was released in the US last Dec to widespread disinterest so I wasn't expecting much. And to be honest after one of the slowest opening hours in gaming history I nearly gave up. Trudging round a palace delivering messages and nattering to the locals wasn't quite theJason and The Argonautsstyle action I had in mind.  Indeed much of game, never mind the start, is spent chatting rather than clouting. Fans of point and click adventures will feel at home, as will Mass Effect fans. But don't get too excited - there are no real choices to be made, or at least none that seem to have the consequences found in Bioware's game.And it doesn't help that the game looks so average too. The outdoor environments are pretty enough but look a couple of years out of date. The character models are unnecessarily samey too and the whole thing looks like a 360 launch title rather than a release in 2009.  Not really selling this am I?But something has been driving me on to play. The setting for a start.  Greek Mythology is a woefully underused in gaming and makes a change from space marines and dark skies.And it has that knack of making you want to see what's next. Argonauts actually reminds me a lot of a similarly underrated game -Viking. While it lacks that game's open world – Argonauts has anachronistically restrictive levels – it has the same ability to make you overlook obvious flaws because the general gameplay is so oddly compulsive.But after a while the flaws do begin to grate. You get the impression that a little more time and polish would have really helped. The interface is an obvious example. No onscreen map means a regular trip to the menu page. And even then quests are poorly highlighted and hard to find.Rise of the Argonauts is average in so many ways and will frustrate gamers used to the speed and spectacle of Gears of War 2 or Killzone 2. But if you like the idea of the setting, fancy something slower paced, and can put up with the flaws, then this is worth at least looking at. Especially if you can get it cheap.Anyway, this all begs the question. Whatcritically mauledor obviously mediocre game have you found yourself addicted to in the past?
Bestselling author Stephen King added his imprimatur to Amazon's latest attempt to break open the electronic book market today with the unveiling of a new version of its Kindle reader in New York.The new gadget – which is due to go on sale in America at the end of February – is the second version of the Kindle, boasting longer battery life over its predecessor, as well as a storage capacity that has been extended from 185MB to 2GB.The cost will stay the same, at $359 (£240), but the main change is in the product's design – the new Kindle sports a sleek new look that is intended to appeal more to the general public rather than the previous blocky version did.The announcement, which was widely expected, came at an event in New York hosted by Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos. He said that the Kindle had helped revolutionised the electronic book market since launching in 2007."We've been selling e-books for years, and guess what?" he asked. "It didn't work - until 14 months ago."King, who has published more than 40 novels since 1974, read an excerpt from his new novella, Ur – which is being released exclusively for the Kindle.Although Amazon has not revealed how many Kindles it has sold since launching the first version in November 2007, it has struggled to keep up with demand.Citigroup analyst Mark Mahaney estimated recently that Kindle sales for 2008 could be as high as 500,000 units, putting it on a par with the early days of Apple's iPod music player and potentially creating a market worth $1bn in sales by 2010.There is no sign that the device will be available in the UK, however. Although the device itself works outside of the US, the Kindle's Whispernet service – which piggybacks on mobile phone networks and allows it to be updated over the air – is not compatible with European telecoms systems.Amazon has failed to reach an agreement with the continent's plethora of mobile phone companies, and has yet to announce availability outside the US.The widely-leaked announcements also left industry observers unimpressed.Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst with Bernstein Research, said that was still too expensive for mainstream consumers."Really we don't see them as having taken the device to the next level," he told Reuters. "We think it's an incremental step of improvements. They're advancing very conservatively."
Amazon finally unveiled the Kindle 2 today, as expected, and later than desired: the company ran out of stock of the original model in November, and missed the Christmas sales season.The Kindle 2 has already been widely leaked (below). However, features worthy of mention are the ability to convert text to speech -- a feature shockingly missing from the first one -- and a built-in New Oxford American Dictionary. It still uses Sprint's EVDO mobile phone network for downloads: the ability to download books without going via a PC is one of the things that makes this an appealing device for people on the move, and also perhaps for newspaper and newsletter publishers.Amazon saysthe new version is slimmer, has 25% better battery life and seven times as much storage (2GB). It also supports 16 instead of 4 shades of gray.The biggest disappointment is that -- as expected -- the price is still $359. Maybe when the initial rush is over, Amazon will cut it to a more attractive $299.Seehttp://amazon.com/kindle2for the technical specification, pictures and a video.Engadgetlive-blogged the brief press conference, with pictures. It featured Stephen King. We also have theReuterswire story, and Bobbie Johnson's report:King helps Amazon launch new Kindle.
The European Commission has brokered a deal with internet companies to help protect children using social networking sites, it announced today.The agreement – which covers networks including Facebook, MySpace and YouTube – will see a number of safeguards put in place to help young people while they are using the web.The proposals include systems for dealing with cyberbullying, altering default privacy settings for children and ensuring that users have the ability to report abuse with a single click.Seventeen websites and networks across Europe have agreed to the proposals, and as part of the deal they have promised that there will be significant progress towards implementing the rules by April.Viviane Reding, the EU commissioner for information society and the media, said that the agreement was an "important step" in the process of making social networking safer for children."Social networking has enormous potential to flourish in Europe, to help boost our economy and make society more interactive – as long as children and teenagers have the trust and the right tools to remain safe when making new 'friends' and sharing personal details online," she said in a statement.The commission's proposals are similar to thesocial networking guidanceissued by the Home Office in Britain last year. That agreement – which amounted to a self-regulated code of conduct for social networks operating in the UK – included requirements for visual privacy prompts, and required sites to make attempts to screen out younger users.The agreement brings a number of small sites into line with their bigger rivals – signatories also include Bebo, French video website DailyMotion and Habbo Hotel, the popular virtual world for children.But in many cases some of the policies suggested by the commission have already been put in place, as individual websites work through their own issues surrounding privacy and illegal activity.Many continue to crank up their own protection programs – not just to ensure the safety of individual users, but also because of the potential impact on their reputations.Last week it wasrevealed that MySpace had identified and removed 90,000 registered sex offendersover the past two years, after a concerted campaign by US prosecutors to tighten up regulation of social networks.At the time Roy Cooper, the attorney general of North Carolina, said that progress was being made but that internet companies needed to do more to keep on top of the issue."Technology moves forward quickly, and it's important for these companies to stay ahead of the technology," he said. "They're not moving fast enough for us."
BBC.co.ukis one of the UK's most important websites, in terms of number of visitors, number of pages, and sheer influence. One area where it's not so big is advertising revenue. The BBC doesn't show ads to UK users, only to overseas visitors. Most of the site's £150m cost comes out of the BBC's budget.BBC.co.uk's main function is to provide details of BBC TV and radio programmes. Visitors can listen to BBC radio stations and stream or download a selection of TV programmes via itsiPlayer. It's also a major news site, and has its own podcasts, blogs and reader forums. There's far too much to cover in 500 words, so let's focus on the front page, which is unusual.The BBC's Homepage has changed dramatically over the past decade, and the current  version isn't particularly pretty. It's also inconsistent with the appearance of the BBC pages it leads to, which have their own different styles. But it is amazingly functional, which is the important thing.If you have used personalised home pages such as iGoogle then you'll understand the BBC Homepage immediately: it works the same way. Most of the content is in separate boxes, stacked in three wide columns. You can add and remove boxes, and move them around to suit your needs. You can also click the + and - signs inside the boxes to show from one to eight headlines.You can add or remove boxes by clicking where it says "Add more to this page" and you can change the page's dominant colour. If you don't like the colour you've got, you can take it back to a more familiar blue, or try something altogether new.If you think any of this sounds hard, click the link next to the clock: Take the tour. Five very short silent videos show you how to customise the site.If you want to go even further, click Display Options, just above the BBC logo. This lets you change the look of the page by either selecting a pre-set option or customising it. You can, for example, change the text size and spacing, the type font, and the way links are shown.There are, of course, things you can't change. You must have the heading with the BBC logo, a search box, and the nice clock. You can't change the lead story, which stretches across two columns at the top of the page. Finally, there are a couple of panels fixed at the bottom, with a directory and credits.In essence, Explore the BBC replaces the left-hand menu that featured on earlier BBC home pages, until it got too big. Now it provides an index to the main sections such as Archive, Gardening, Music, Radio, and Weather. Each has subheadings, to help you find the content you want.Not every website is big enough to need this kind of approach, and I don't expect many visitors will really exploit its flexibility. Still, it's a brave illustration of what's possible.
Stephen Fry, the nation's favourite tweeter, appeared at the Apple Store in London last Tuesday, to provide the answer to life, the universe and everything, as his late mate Douglas Adams put it. Nothing he said would have surprised anyone familiar with the Fryian universe: mostly he covered familiar ground. However, he did speak out for open source ("which is a pretty anti-Apple thing to say, since OS X isn't"), and he pointed out that the technology shift didn't arrive with computers but with books. To understand the code, "you had to have been trained in reading," he said. "That was the moment [storytelling] stopped being human."Fry fans will be able to download a podcast of the talk at Apple's iTunes Store from Tuesday 10 February.UPDATE:The full-lengthStephen Fry podcastis now available to download, for free, from the iTunes Store.
It seems there are now two memes about the modern net that are gradually becoming embedded in the public consciousness: (a) Twitter is a waste of time (thanks, Evening Standard, Daily Mail, etc - though of course Charlie Brooker would disagree; his bubble wrap description certainly feels apt) and (b) Wikipedia is always wrong in some way or other.Thus Giles Hattersley of the Sunday Times yesterday regaled us with some of the second, claiming in an otherwise interesting piece that Wikipedia mistakenly said he was the son of Roy Hattersley:But while howlers such as Kennedy's death are easily spotted, what of the reams of erroneous detail that the site presents as fact? My entry features at least two errors, one libellous (unless my mother has been keeping a dark secret, I am not Roy Hattersley's son).(Actually, Giles, you overestimed our interest in your family tree, but anyway.)Of course, asChris Applegate points out, Hattersley's piece can't have gone through the usual rigorous fact-checking, because there wasn't actually an entry for Hattersley, Giles on Wikipedia until about 3pm on the Sunday afternoon - some time after the piece came out. (Perhaps he was referring to Roy Hattersley's profile - except there's no mention of a Giles Hattersley in thecurrent or earlier version.)Usually such articles have little long-term effect. Some Wikipedians head over and update the article, and the error (if such there was) vanishes, trapped in the amber of the "previous edits" part of the site. Handy things, versioning databases.Not this time, however. This time, we were treated to the internet equivalent of a drive-by shooting. Jimmy Wales, Mr Himself of Wikipedia, personally went and deleted the article. Hewrote:I have temporarily deleted this article, and kindly request that no one restore it until we've sorted out all the facts. Giano has been blocked for 24 hours by me for incivility related to this entry. Jay and I are already aware of the situation and I am reaching out to the newspaper for further clarification.The precise volume of the "WTF?" that went up from the Wikipedians is hard to exaggerate. (And you have to love the extra touch of "incivility".)"Be careful that Mr. Hattersley does not misconstrue this deletion as an acknowledgment that the article contained the falsehoods that Mr. Hattersley claimed it contained (before the article existed)," one responded.In terms of an action that will make people on the inside of Wikipedia (if that phrase makes sense) stop for a moment and say "Wait, what just happened..?", there are few things Wales could have done that might have garnered the same reaction.Deletedthe article? Without any apparently good reason? Outside the normal rules for deletion (such as irrelevance, which only happens after long and often tedious discussions)? It's bizarre.One has to wonder too about Wales's choice of words. He's "reaching out" to the newspaper? It's a phrase which sounded a lot more felicitous from the lips of Jimmy Smits in NYPD Blue telling his boss how they were trying to persuade the family of a drive-by shooting victim who he dealt drugs for. ("We're reaching out to the family," as they would say.) To use "reaching out to" when you actually mean "emailing" suggests a strange form of linguistic capture.Sure, this might seem like a storm in a crowdsourced teacup. But allied to other things that have been happening Wikipedia - widespread deletions,restrictions on world editing- this little drive-by incident indicates something very different in Wikiland.Sure, Wales had demanded that entries about living people should be more carefully watched for edits, especially after the embarrassment when the site killed off not one but two American senators who were still walking around (yeah, insert your own joke) on President Obama's inauguration day. Wales wrote then"This nonsense would have been 100% prevented by flagged revisions... This was a breaking news story and we want people to be able to participate [but] we have a tool available now that is consistent with higher quality."Possibly the Hattersley deletion was the result of a fit of pique on Wales's part at seeing that his wise words hadn't been obeyed to the letter. Wikipedia, it seems, has a god, and occasionally he deletes stuff. The question is: are the people who contribute to it happy with that arrangement?
Samsung is making a play for the title of mass-market touchscreen handset of 2009 with the launch of an updated version of its popular Tocco device. The Tocco Ultra Edition, available in the UK from next month, has a larger and much brighter touchscreen than its predecessor and the camera has been upgraded from 5 megapixels to 8.Samsung has also added a slide-out numberpad while making the whole phone slimmer than the old Tocco, which despite the hype surrounding the iPhone was the most popular handset among British customers signing up for a contract in the latter half of 2008, a fact that helped the Korean company leapfrog Nokia to become the UK market leader.Part of the previous phone's attraction was the price, with the phone available free on contracts pitched at around £25 a month - a full £20 a month less than Apple's device.But the new phone may find it harder to make such an impression as it is likely to be pitched at up to £35 in a part of the market which has become saturated in recent months. Nokia's 5800, HTC's G1 (also known as the "Google Phone" as it runs the search engine's Android operating system) and the BlackBerry Storm have all brought top of the range specifications into the £30 to £35 a month contract range.The £40 a month asked by Vodafone for the Sony Ericsson Experia X1 looks a little steep and is likely to come down later in the year, while the critically acclaimed Palm Pre is scheduled for release in the UK in the second half of the year, which will further shake up the market. However no pricing has been given for the Pre.Meanwhile the HTC Touch Diamond, HTC Touch HD and LG Renoir are already very attractive in the £25 to £30 a month bracket. There is also, of course, the 8 megapixel Samsung Pixon, currently available free on a £24.46 a month contract with Orange.The Tocco Ultra Edition (which will be called the Ultra Touch everywhere else in the world) has the same left-hand scrolling toolbar as the original phone, giving users the ability to customise their home screen by dragging icons across and dropping them. Widgets can now be downloaded to the phone "over the air" with Samsung widely tipped to announce it is opening an application store to compete with the likes of Apple's iPhone App Store at next week's Mobile World Congress event.Perhaps the most striking feature of the phone is its scratch-resistant screen. It is an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode screen, which essentially means incredibly vivid colours and sharp resolution without a massive drain on the battery. Samsung has also added touch feedback, so that when you click on an icon you get little "shiver" to confirm you've done it.But the stunning screen is wasted when it comes to accessing the internet. The browser is a disappointment as it renders web pages as single images instead of displaying the internet as a full screen.The operating system also seems to let the phone down. In the brief time I had to experiment with it last week, the phone, which is based on Samsung's proprietary SHP operating system, was slow to complete tasks, leaving me pawing away at the screen  unsure if it was carrying out the requested function or not.
Monday's edition of you know what
You might not imagine that Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has a lot in common with singer Belinda Carlisle or the actor Denise Richards. But soon they'll be starring alongside each other in one of TV's biggest shows; Dancing with the Stars.According to network ABC, Woz - who we interviewed just a couple of weeks ago - is going to betaking part alongside a host of other celebritiesincluding Jackass' Steve-O, singer Jewel and rapper Lil' Kim.The programme, which is America's version of Strictly Come Dancing, is one of the biggest shows in the US. Weinterviewed Woz recently, and I'm led to believe that  training is just about to start ahead of the show in March - although he has already been getting himself ready for the show for the past few weeks. And while Woz claims he's not much of a dancer, he also said that his god daughter had persuaded him to take part when ABC approached him about the show.The 58-year-old might seem an unlikely candidate for a few turns around the floor (after all, he's mostly partial toSegway Polothese days) but he's not the only geek to have appeared on the show: Woz follows in the footsteps of fellow tech billionaire Mark Cuban, who took part in 2007.He's also had a brush with television recently, as a close friend of comedian Kathy Griffin, who has her own reality show. Oh, and he appeared in this classic Datsun advert back in the day:
TheMobileRead Forumsrecently published great pictures of the unannounced Amazon Kindle 2 ebook reader, saying: "Yes, we are now pretty much absolutely sure that this is what Amazon is going to present to the world next Monday."I think these look better than the leaked pictures onThe Boy Geniussite.According toEngadget, where I found the latest pictures:We'll admit to missing the polarizing ultra-80s look of the original, but this thing looks pretty sweet -- too bad it's still going to set you back $359 when it arrives on February 24.Although I'm basically a fan of ebooks, I haven't changed my mind since I used to demoed them to publishers on my Compaq iPaq: dedicated ebook readers are too expensive for most people, unless they replace a daily paper. In which case, the daily paper might give you one free. Casual users, however, are mainly going to read the pocketable device they already own. It might once have been a Psion Series 3a, or an HP Jornada or iPaq or Dell Axim, but now is more likely to be a mobile phone. AsI wrote in an NAQlast August:while the Kindle might be Amazon's iPod, I reckon the iPhone is more likely to be Apple's Kindle -- at least until e-newspapers take off.As I've also written before, Kindle 2 is the first Amazon device that we can expect to go international, and based on no information whatsoever, I'm hoping it will make the UK by Christmas. But since -- as far as I know -- no newspapers are planning to give them away, are you thinking of buying one?Since you didn't buy a Sony Reader, I suspect not, but what might change your mind?
ALL A-TWITTERThe article "Is Twitter the perfect way to network?" (29 January) set out to explain Twitter to those on the outside. It contained interesting facts, but in my opinion it failed to give insight into why Twitter is causing such a stir. Firstly, Twitter is causing a mini-revolution in customer service. This was entirely missing from the article. It stated that "companies are latching on to the search facilities at Twitter to find out what people think of them". Companies are not just stealthily dipping into Twitter, they have Twitter accounts. Dell have 28. They're not eavesdropping, they're having conversations. Sometimes they're not having conversations, and that has been even more dramatic. An example like Motrin Moms would illustrate this and give non-Twitterers an insight into what's happening.manwomanandchild.comDIGITAL BRITAINWell, it's good to know that we can forget about the credit crunch, about the violence in Israel, the non-war in Iraq, children suffering, and on-going crime. None of that matters. Because, praise the Lord, we will all have broadband by 2012. This for me fits in the same category as the hunting bill. The world is going to pot, get a sense of perspective here. Let's try and fix the things that really matter. I mean, what's the point of having broadband if none of us can afford computers.spread-these-wings.blogspot.comNEGROPONTE &amp; OLPCWell, our interest was certainly piqued by that OLPC XO-2 mockup that surfaced yesterday, and now the Guardian is saying that the hardware development will take place open source. This is certainly fitting with the company's idealistic ethos, and it'll be interesting to see what other companies bring to the table as the reportedly $75 dual-screen device gets closer to real reality. "The XO-1 was really designed as if we were Apple," Nicholas Negroponte says in the interview. "The XO-2 will be designed as if we were Google - we'll want people to copy it. We'll make the constituent parts available. We'll try and get it out there using the exact opposite approach that we did with the XO-1." He let a few details slip too, saying that it will be dual touchscreen, with one of the displays featuring a touch-sensitive, force-feedback, haptic keyboard. When asked how he feels about the possibility that other companies might profit from all this hard work developing the laptop of tomorrow? "I wouldn't complain." Class act, that one. Bravo.engadget.comIn The Sugar daddy for future generations we learn that One Laptop Per Child is farther down the Windows XO dual boot path that expected. Nicholas Negroponte says that OLPC should start shipping laptops with Microsoft Windows XP in April. That would be a huge shift from earlier assertions that OLPC would not offer Windows XO - it would only be a custom modification made by Microsoft. But Negroponte feels that by offering XP, he can remove and objection to the XO: Sugar. Now as a recent Apple convert, I have to strenuously object that the ability to run Windows is why Apple is gaining market share. The amazing maturity and stability of the OSX operating system, the quality hardware, and even the iPhone cool factor had greater impact. In fact, if anything, the rampant viruses on XP and the abject failure of Vista would be specific reasons not to trust hardware that can run Windows.olpcnews.comWALES HEALTH RECORDSI read with interest your article on the Individual health rocord in Wales and whilst I agree that in principal it sounds as though a great achievement has been made in comparison with the English Model. In truth the computer system you describe has only been rolled out to 1 hospital in Wales and is essentially at the moment a 1 trick pony. It only allows the Gwent hospital staff to look at GP records. Whilst this does indeed reduce risk it does fall short of being a true IHR, for example it does not allow interchange of discharge information back to the GP's.I work in Wales in an NHS trust and I am envious of the systems that are currently being provided in some hospitals in England, for example Birmingham have electronic prescribing and they can transfer information directly to GP's. These things are a long way off in Wales. The systems I describe could actually save more lives than the systems that informing healthcare they are currently spending Tax payers money on. I've still got an antique of a system to work with that was installed in the early 1990s!Jonathon Palmer, HaverfordwestGOOGLE GLITCHI experienced this glitch, and I am very concerned that Google report it is a temporary problem. Maybe this is their way of hiding it from the public.I run www.naval-history.net (nearly 2 million visitors per annum). Over the last few weeks I have had two such warnings trying to open my site and I know at least one other visitor has. Ten colleagues I contacted had received no warnings. Of the other 5,000 visitors daily, who can say.When this first happened yesterday, I contacted the BBC newsdesk thinking this was a major virus attack on Google, to be told my computer had a glitch. It obviously had not. I run Windows on a Mac, and both systems experienced it.It suggests to me Google either has a potentially major software problem or is undergoing a serious attack.Can I suggest you keep an eye on this.Gordon Smith, PenarthAPPLE MINI MACAlan Gent is right (Letters and blogs, January 29). I am right. All God's children are right, at least some of the time.Alan Gent is right in saying that the Mac mini is a standalone computer. This hits the nail on the head. That is its appeal, to those who wish to spend less by purchasing a Mac, but not keyboard, monitor, and mouse.Of course, Apple could always licence Mac OS X 10.4 to Dell. Then Dell would sell, and Apple would get one bite of the cherry, with the initial purchase, and probably another, when people upgraded to Leopard (OS X 10.5).Roger Larkinson, BedfordAlan Gent opined that Apple's Mac Mini would likely go down in history as something most users never quite got the hang of.I take it Alan hasn't read the Mac Mini pages on Apple's own website (http://www.apple.com/macmini/), especially the Big Ideas section.Mac Minis in Jeep dashboards; Mac Minis gathering data for astronomers; pharmaceutical companies running heart failure simulation software on Mac Minis; Millennium Falcon Mac Mini mods for Star Wars geeks (with working iSight camera) and plenty more unexpected uses.I don't know what Alan will make of all this, but I'd say these folks have clearly got the hang of what the Mac Mini is capable of.Jonathan Wilson, CambridgeIn response to Alan Gent I would just like to point out that many current PC users who may be thinking of upgrading to OS X already have a keyboard, mouse and display. These whilst not bearing the Apple logo will more than likely work just as well.Will Gore, via emailLIBRARY SEARCHColin Cohen in yesterday's Letters [Thursday 29th January] says he was surprised you didn't mention "... copac.ac.uk, which covers all British academic libraries online". Not true, it only covers 'major University, Specialist, and National Libraries in the UK and Ireland, including the British Library'. This leaves out a large proportion of UK University Libraries. See:http://copac.ac.uk/libraries/Crispin Partridge, London
I knew Jonathan Ross had mentioned salad at the BAFTA awards, even though I wasn't watching. I was onTwitter, where the mention produced hundreds of tweets along the lines of@wossy hurrah! Salad!and#SALAD again!!! brilliant. power to Twitter #baftasFor those who have not been playing the game,@wossyasks Twitter users to suggest a word that he can work into his speeches or programmes or whatever. He picks one of the numerous suggestions -- or, as in this case, his wife does. He uses the word and Twitter goes wild. Tonight's word was salad.The Guardian's Liveblogof the event went as follows:8.44pm: He said salad! In an acting analogy! Audience unmoved.8.45pm: Wow! Well, that was early. Bit stunning how few people Twitter in the audience though, no?It's harmless fun.
Keeping in touch has never been easier - or more exhausting. The average person now has more than seven points of contact including landline phone, mobile, email and online social networks to remember, a survey has found.Instant communications break down barriers and make the world a smaller place, but also take up increasing amounts of time as people feel obliged to check a bewildering array of voicemails, inboxes and profile pages, usually each requiring a password."I can have a conversation that starts on Twitter, then leads to an email, then a Facebook group, then maybe a phone call and a physical meeting," said Bill Thompson, a technology critic and blogger. "There's going to be a new conversational etiquette, based around embracing complexity."There are on average 7.2 different ways of contacting a person, such as a landline, mobile phone, Skype account and multiple email addresses, social networking profiles and instant message accounts, according to a survey of 1,600 adults commissioned by Telnic.Thirty per cent of those surveyed do not have their own phone number committed to memory. In the era of speed dial, 55% do not know their partner's phone number, and 42% are unaware of their parents' number. And one in 10 do not know any numbers at all, creating a potential headache if they should lose their handset.
Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates set mosquitoes on the rich people at the TED2009 conference during a20-minute talkabout his foundation's attempt to change the world. "There is no reason only poor people should be infected," he quipped. (No, the mosquitoes were not infected.)Although Gates started off discussing malaria, he spent more time on an American problem: trying to create great teachers. Gates pluggedKIPP, the Knowledge Is Power Program.Usually you have to wait for videos of TED talks to be released, but this one has already been made available. I don't think this is because it would make anybody's Top 20 TED talks, but because it has attracted so much press coverage.Gates also did aQ&amp;A with Chris Anderson, in a video posted here. (That's Chris "TED" Anderson, not Chris "Long Tail" Anderson.)
These days, customised cars are seldom glimpsed outside of special events, collectors' gatherings and the car park of the Ace cafe on the North Circular. But not so long ago they were a standard feature of suburban life. Back then it seemed every street contained at least one auto-maniac who saw his car as a kind of religious shrine to which new and kitsch features needed to be added. Thus Ford Anglias grew giant fenders and hand-painted flame motifs, while Talbot Horizons croaked along with chrome exhaust pipes and lightning flashes.Whatever happened to the proud obsessives who wrought these pig-in-lipstick makeovers? Who knows, but it's safe to say their demise was caused by the massive improvement in production techniques that transformed car manufacturing over the past decade or two. For all the romance associated with earlier periods of the motor industry, the fact is the majority of mass-produced cars were not exactly models of reliability. Hence the proliferation of men who liked to spend their weekends in a state of motor-devotion.Now cars hardly ever break down, they require, and receive, much less attention. All of which makes the AC Schnitzer ACS1 Sport Eco a rather strange throwback. For it is a BMW 118d that's been given the full boy-racer treatment with knobs on - to be specific, actually, an "AC Schnitzer illuminated gear knob".AC Schnitzer - less a name than a high-powered sneeze - is a German company renowned for retuning or converting well-known brands, among them Minis, Land Rovers and BMWs. Or, as they put it themselves, "utilising a donor car", which makes it sound like a form of automotive body snatching. If the Top Gear team went into the customising business, the result would doubtless be something like AC Schnitzer. A couple of years back, the company upped its profile by creating the "fastest street legal BMW in the world".With the ACS1 Sport Eco, you get the engine retuned, a new sporty suspension, racing wheels, front spoiler, roof spoiler and, of course, the illuminated gear knob. In short, it looks like the kind of car a provincial company director might drive if he (it would only be a he) were 17.The modern twist is that, while the ACS1 is set up to traverse Essex in less time than it takes to throw a pair of furry dice, the diesel engine maintains highly prudent fuel efficiency and band B road tax. The "Eco" part of the name might be pushing it, yet, price aside, it is economic, which in turn amounts to ecological.It's hard to imagine that the ACS1 will become the green car of choice for the Birkenstockracy. But it might turn teenage boys green ... with envy.
Providing the beleaguered music industry with a way to make money and something swish for us, Spotify, a Swedish invention with major label endorsement, works a treat. Like a cross between iTunes and early Napster, Spotify allows you to access millions (possibly quazillions) of free and legal music while sharing your taste. You don't own the tracks or download them, but the sound quality is good, as is the speed of searches, which allows you to satisfy that itch to hear a random 1980s single by Aztec Camera or the latest Wiley album, while the radio button provides you with all manner of random wonder. It's currently in Beta, but try avoiding the invite process throughtinyurl.com/spotifylink.
It's the eternal struggle for bosses around the globe: should you let your employees use the internet or not? In the case of Sterling Cooper, one of New York's finest advertising agencies, it seems they inadvisedly said yes – after all, the wayward employees that make up the cast of characters on Mad Men are literally all over the web. They love it.Mad Men's obsession is quite remarkable for a bunch of analogue people – especially ones who don't actually exist. While the act of writing a Twitter update might not be remarkable at all, the fact that they're in 1962 makes it really quite impressive.Last summer, Season Two of Mad Men started running on America's AMC network, and people noticed the characters starting to pop up on the social networking service Twitter, filling people in on the minutiae of their day. Things like what fictional Madison Avenue meetings they were having; or what fictional lunch they were having with other fictional characters. They even messaged each other – about work, or what time they might be home for dinner – all without breaking character. It was a social network that filled in the gaps around the lives seen on screen.Devout Twitterers started to take notice. Theyspotted Don Draper, ad executive and lead character. They followed his silently suffering wife, Betty; they marvelled at spunky assistant Peggy's perfectly in-character musings. Most fans of the show thought it was a subtle marketing push on behalf of the show's producers, a little Easter egg for devotees. After all, it certainly wouldn't be the first time that a TV show has reached into the internet to try and grab hold of readers like an octopus with extra-long digitally manipulated digits. Shows like Skins, Lost and Battlestar Galactica take care to engage and cultivate their online audiences, titbits trickling down from the producers to the fans.And in this hypermarketed, viral-PR world – where anything interesting online has a crowd of weasels in suits running just behind it with a notepad and rubber gloves, trying to figure out how they can make it poo money – who can blame them for thinking that the Mad Men phenomenon was a piece of in-house guff ? Except it wasn't.In fact, the entire enterprise was just some really, really zealous fans trying to get inside the minds of the employees of Sterling Cooper. Because being a fictional character shouldn't be an impediment to one's ability to waste time on the interweb. These people loved Mad Men, and they wanted to drag the characters they loved into their world. By last autumn there were at least 75 different Twitter accounts purporting to be Mad Men characters, including multiples. It started with Don. Then there are at least four Betty Drapers, one of whom has a blog describing daily life in the Draper household, including recipes scanned and tested from authentic copies of 1962 Life magazine.Last time I checked, there were five Peggy Olsons. That includes BadPeggyOlson, who only speaks her naughty thoughts and another who – as a young ambitious career woman – has made her profile available on the professional networking site LinkedIn.It wasn't just the central characters, either. The Switchboard has a Twitter account, detailing the thoughts of all the switchboard girls. The Drapers' kids, Sally and Bobby, both have a couple each. Best of all, the office photocopier has a Twitter account. That's right: the photocopier. It's a Xerox 914, apparently, with deep insights into the world of Sterling Cooper: things like "Warming up for a big day of copies, lots of staff memos", and other pithy paperrelated matter.Things were going well for Mad Men's Twitter citizens' army until, last August, lawyers at AMC got wind of what was going on. Believing there was a breach of copyright here, they got Twitter to suspend the accounts of "Don Draper" and his cohorts. Within a week, however, the accounts returned after the show's marketing department had stepped in to persuade AMC that, whatever the legal standing, it was insane to stop this outpouring of (completely free, you fools) fan-promotion. The makeshift cast of Madmenites revelled in their victory, though the question remained: why were they bothering in the first place?The internet has long been a home of all kinds of fan fiction – remixes written by enthusiastic groupies. Most of the time it tends towards "slashfic" – stories that inevitably end with the main characters biffing, regardless of gender, sexual preference, interplanetary abode or possession of human genitalia.For these fans, however, it seemed to be about neither the scifi nor the sex. The fantasies being indulged were ones about being slick, handsome and naturally witty in an era where gender roles were more well-defined, martinis at lunchtime were almost mandatory and smoking didn't kill you – at least not officially.But there are plenty of TV shows with devoted fans. What was it about this bunch that made them cross over? Perhaps it's partly the fact that so much of Mad Men is inferred, bottled up and unsaid. Smouldering looks and pained glances transmit the things that dare not be spoken out loud. And, frankly, that's not good enough for a modern audience.Trying to work out subtext is a purely hypothetical concern when you're used to having Facebook updates, texts, blogs and status messages alerting you to every sandwich choice and bowel movement of everyone you know. We're not that used to things going unsaid any more. We don't like subtext: we like subtitles. And if the show's writers weren't going to fill in the blanks, the fans would have to do it for them – with attitude. With Twitter. And with the whole rest of the internet at their disposal.Google WWDDD and you'll find a whole lot of people fantasising about how life would be much more fun if they could answer every life situation by asking What Would Don Draper Do? In fact, he's got a whole Agony Uncle blog.To explain how he felt, one Twitterer – the office mailroom boy Bud (actually a marketing strategist in the 2000s, though still called Bud) – put up a site called We Are Sterling Cooper which gathers together some of the feeds and offers a manifesto for fan-created content: "We're your biggest fans, your die-hard proponents, and when your show gets cancelled we'll be among the first to pass around the petition. Talk to us. Befriend us. Engage us. But  please, don't treat us like criminals."Perhaps it's time for TV's bigwigs to realise there's a new fandom out there: devotees who not only reach out to their favourite characters, but want to crawl under their skin – be they philanderer or photocopier.The last word on the subject, however, surely belongs to Xerox914, who said, on 17 January at 9.52am precisely: "There are still donuts from last week if anyone wants one".Brilliant. ThanksSeason Two previewMad Men's first season took place in 1960, with the characters butting up against strict rules on gender, business and social behaviour - a hangover from the 1950s.Season Two shifts forward 14 months: there's an energetic young president running the country and things are changing elsewhere, too. While there used to be no contest to the power of the white (and white-collar) man, now the rest of society starts to encroach upon Sterling Cooper. The civil rights movement gets a look in, alongside changing attitudes to money, sex and women - the latter largely filtered through Peggy in the office and Betty at home.It seems nothing's clean-cut any more. It turns out you can smoke too much; that women don't put up patiently with every disappointment and dalliance; and there are consequences of drinking after all. The smooth-talking ad men of Madison Avenue suddenly begin to realise that it takes effort to keep their wives, and their lives, in the safe and sanitised state they've become used to.
Don Draperdoesn't like Albert Einstein baking him nipple pieA lessonin VenusianLost inFacebook updatesWhat's inside thebrain of our favourite marmotThe whiteRasta, Crocs and more male fashion errorsHeaven looksa bit like Thorpe ParkWhat Sex &amp; The Citywould have been called if movie posters were honestMaggot-riddencheese is an illegal delicacy in SardiniaThe iPodhuman holds six and a half songs and is very annoying
Bacon HaikuThree-line celebrations of everyone's favourite artery-clogging foodstuff.F*** My LifeReveal how much your life sucks with others whose life also sucks so they can laugh at you and feel less sucky.Historical TweetsWhat would the message be if Twitter had always existed? "What to wear, what to wear?" tweets Johnny Cash.Six Word StoriesFiction for those with extreme attention deficit: "Reversing. Bump... Bump... Damn Dog. Divorce."MusebinOne-line music news and reviews for rock fans in a desperate hurry for the next big thing.Old Jews Telling JokesShort'n'sweet films of some elderly Jewish folk telling their favourite gags.
Coraline is the new movie by Henry Selick (the director of The Nightmare Before Christmas), based on Neil Gaiman's children's story about a girl who finds that there's an alternative, "better" version of her life on the other side of a secret door. The site looks every bit as wonderful as the film - the first stop-motion film to be made using stereoscopic 3D. In addition to behind-the-scenes views, magical interactive fun for kids (both little and big) includes games, musical instruments, small films and the chance to sew some buttons on to a sepia-tinted picture of yourself.
Chrono TriggerNintendo DSSquare's plundering of its spectacularly wonderful back catalogue continues with this piece of role-playing joy originally released on the Super Nintendo. You're Crono, a young boy destined to save the world, back when that sort of thing was only just starting to become a cliche. With your increasing band of friends, you travel the game's comparatively small world with the twist that you do so in time periods between 65 million BC and 2300 AD. Your actions in the past are often writ large later in history, giving a charming impression of continuity and a sense that small acts of kindness will eventually help save civilization. Its battle system is action-orientated and years ahead of its time, the story is coherent and interesting and everything from the game's affecting musical score to its range of 15 possible endings is honed to shining perfection.• Square Enix, &pound;29.99Lord Of The Rings: ConquestNintendo DS, PC, PS3, Xbox 360 (reviewed)Pandemic, the developers of Full Spectrum Warrior and Star Wars: Battlefront, turn their hand to a spot of Sauron bothering, relocating their particular brand of action to Middle Earth. What ensues is a kind of scaled-down Battlefront with magic, as you choose whether to be the goodies or baddies, then repeatedly spawn as one of four classes of fighter until one side is overwhelmed. You'll also earn the right to play as a hero (Aragorn, Gimli, Gandalf and friends) or as one of the beasts. To play online you need to undergo a pointless pre-registration with EA, battles are dull and repetitive, everything is mid-brown and all this is done so much better in KOEI's Dynasty Warriors series. Lord Of The Rings: Conquest stands as one of EA's weakest releases in recent memory, which, considering the quality of the recent instalment of Need For Speed, is quite some achievement.• Electronic Arts, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99Guinness World Records 2009: Gamer's EditionBookIt's hard to imagine the thinking process that resulted in a hardback book of miscellaneous facts about games being released after Christmas. That peculiarity notwithstanding, this year's instalment of the Guinness World Records: Gamer's Edition is upon us, as crammed full of small, highly readable facts, records and mini- interviews with various game-related luminaries as last year's. Divided into segments devoted to a range of games and genres, there's something there for practically anyone who's ever tickled a joypad. A number of the records are a bit tenuous (for example, "first Batman game to feature exclusive animated cut scenes"; "first downloadable content for Mass Effect" and "longest wait for a movie based on a game franchise", stand out as particularly surreal), but that does nothing to lessen its status as entirely vital snack-sized reading.• Guinness, &pound;15
This week, ImperfectRex stumbles into the control centre and produces a packed edition of Best Of nonsense. Despite its epic size, Rex claims that there were one or two editing casualties: "In all honesty, there was quite a bit of Warhammer / table top gaming / make your own adventure book chat which didn't make it though..."A crushing blow.Still, there's more than enough in here to get you through the rest of Friday afternoon. Quick, the boss isn't looking - close that sales sheet, unwrap the orange-flavoured Club biscuit you've been saving and hop in...Part one: grown-up talkCameroon95 got right amongst it on Monday with this light-hearted gem: "I had quite a sad weekend. I now have to find a place to live, I don't have money for a deposit to buy and I don't want to waste money on renting. Perhaps the only option is to, god, move back with the parents to help save for a flat. I am very, very sad today"We could be sympathetic, possibly even set up some sort of hardship fund. But that is not the way of the Chatterbox. So a discussion started on the merits of buying/renting/living with folks. What an exciting bunch we are.Vetboy:"Living with parents - I've been doing this since graduating last summer, it's not good. Every week I can feel the standard of job I'll accept just to move out slipping a little further..."Dizzyisanegg:"Re: rent as a waste of money. Some of us moved far enough away from our parents that there's no other option - I am gutted every month to hand over cash for something as useless as a roof over my head and a place to keep my stuff. It's a good time to rent if you can let go of your mammy's apron strings."silverfox073:"Ive rented for years, I live close enough to my parents to live with them but even the thought of spending 1 more night under their roof brings me out in a cold sweat. Much happier with my own space despite it being 'dead' money (by the way, an interest only mortgage is virtually the same as renting)."whynotfatboy:"You have to get out - it's the only choice.Take any job you can get, and spend as much cash as you can on hardware - TV, stereo, consoles, computers. You won't be buying any for a while after you move into your own place, but you will love it if you can set it up properly - with boys stuff, I mean, not cushions and throws."KillerBee:"Whilst I never really hated it, I just couldn't imagine going to live back at home. Being able to go for a slash with the door open because you're still listening to what's on TV is surely essential to every human's sanity and well-being? You can't do that if your Mum's around..."NickTlands the knockout blow though: "Went to see a mate just like you on Sat - moved into his parents when he graduated and hasn't left. He's now 40."Part two: the boys from the Dwarf…On Tuesday, we had the news that Red Dwarf was to make a limited return. There was plenty of apprehension as you would expect. Fingers crossed eh?makar27:"I'm a massive Red Dwarf fan but I can't help thinking that this will be car crash TV. At least it is being done by one of the original writers, but the show was going downhill from about series 6 onwards…"Alfienoakes:"Thoroughly enjoyed the first few series' when it was on, have seen the first couple again on Dave and quite enjoyed them, though the later series' were mostly bobbins - Will be interested to know what they actually do with it though."Limni:"Red Dwarf - this was funny years ago but not anymore. Anyway, how can they go back to earth? They were travelling outwards for 3 million years... I expect to see a rash of 'Smeg Head' T-shirts and will respond appropriately. A half-brick thrown from a suitable distance seems reasonable."BeardofBeessums up Red Dwarf quite nicely: "Was brilliant because of it's oppositions. It was intelligent (i.e. clearly a fairly geeky sense of science and philosophy and culture behind it) and dumb at the same time. Mature and meaningful in places and ludicrous and immature in places.I have no hope for Red Dwarf any more. All four actors were stonkingly brilliant in it and are now no longer funny as well. I will still, of course, watch this."Piratejuice:"Obviously, I write this with the shame of knowing that my 14-year old self had a 'smoke me a kipper, I'll be back from breakfast' shirt. And I used to wonder why I wasn't successful with the ladies? Shocking"Killerbee:By the way, I had the following Dwarf T-shirts:'Smeg Head''Smoke me a kipper. I'll be back for breakfast!''Let's get out there and twat it!' (with the 'Committee for the Liberation and Integration of Terrifying Organisms and their Rehabilitation Into Society' name on the back)and the infamous Space Corps Directive:'No officer with false teeth should attempt oral sex in zero gravity'Classic.[Keef says: Red Dwarf, like The Young Ones, was another classic example of young writers unknowlingly writing a traditional nuclear family sitcom. Lister is the little boy, Rimmer is the girl, Cat is the baby, and Holly was alternatively the dad and the mum. Kryton fulfilled the standard 'comedy newcomer/neighbour' role. There were some great episodes though - the best, surely, being the one where they erase a block of time and spend the rest of the episode finding out why.]Part three: throwing it aroundCraggyIsland posed what must be a regular question around this time of year:"You would have thought that Christmas would have been the ideal time to whip out the little fella for a bit of party fun yet it seems as though there are a few people on here who haven't used it since before the festive season, me included. Has anyone, with more than one console, used their Wii since Christmas?"makar27:"ashamed to say that I have not switched on the Wii for... err... quite a few months now, certainly not since Christmas. It's daft because I don't want to sell it but I don't really play it any more and the current outlook for good games is very thin - a real shame."Davefalse:"I bought Mario Kart just before New Year so that's received a fair bit of play in the house… for about 6 months before December I don't think it was touched at all."NickT:'I haven't used the Wii since last spring I think. Must see if it still works."Piratejuice:"I used my Wii on Friday night... to play Gamecube version of Res Evil 1."Davesm:"Played a bit this year thanks to getting Boom Blox and downloading a few WiiWare games (World of Goo is great), but not got much love lately with all my time being spent on the PS3... wonder if the Wii will get first child syndrome thanks to lack of attention..."It wasn't all bad news though (and this was without GWX even turning up!)CommodoreSchmidlapp:"Mine still gets the odd bit of use in between Fallout sessions for Mario Kart, Mario Galaxy, Boom Blocks and Paper Mario on the VC. Really want them to hurry up and make some decent RPGs for it - damn thing has more grunt than the Xbox mk1, which means plenty for some massive game worlds, wish some developers would use it!"Chubster2010:"Last night I turned the Wii on for the first time since the 22nd Nov (I checked the calender thing) and took a look at the Nintendo channel - there's quite a funny interview on there with Adam and Joe talking about Mario kart. Worth checking out. All this Wii speak has inspired me to dig out No More Heroes - I shall play some tonight methinks."Part four: games marketing (or lack of)Officepest brought up the subject of marketing games in the mainstream:"I feel the need to rant about game marketing again. I know it was done last week, but I've only just had a chance to think about it! As well as Sony's marketing being poor, I think game marketing in general is poor too. In this country at least. I was just thinking about Valkyria Chronicles and how great a game it is and was wondering whether if Sega (or Sony) had stuck some adverts on the telly showing some of the cut scenes and the battles, whether it would have sold a lot more."I know that the UK is not their target demographic for this type of game, but I can't help wonder whether some prime-time TV advertising specifically for this game would have boosted sales. Imagine if you had no idea what this game was (if you didn't post on this blog for instance) and then saw a trailer for this on the telly. I don't know about you lot, but Id be down the shops buying it straight away! I can't help think that lots of other people would too, but I don't know whether that's because I already think it's great. Same goes for lots of other games."Chubster2010was able to provide some insight on Sony's marketing strategy:"Spong reports that platform holder Sony intends to take a rather different approach to marketing its new console, with social networking sites and 'Web 2.0 destinations like YouTube pivotal to the platform holders approach.According to a report in Media Guardian this morning, Sony has chosen 12 individuals and organisations - ranging from club promoters to artists, fashion industry insiders, Dazed &amp; Confused magazine and even the BBC's 1Xtra - and given them a free hand to create original content inspired by key characteristics of the PS3.' Sounds a bit 'This is Living 2.0' to me!"FromCheddarFrenzy: "Putting actual footage of pretty games on the telly? And sticking a PS3 logo on the end of multiformat adverts? Nah. It'll never work. Better to get some brilliant edgy R&amp;B DJs on the brilliant edgy home of R&amp;B 1xtra to design some undoubtedly brilliant edgy stuff that the brilliant edgy yoof will really understand...Face ----&gt; Palm."Finally,makar27was able to provide some positive news: "…apparently Sony will be spending loads of dosh (£4m apparently) on Q1 marketing, with the majority of that going on Killzone 2 - perhaps they have been reading this blog..."Part five: tall tales and manly scarsGiven that the Chatterbox is a pit of testosterone and masculinity, stories of scars and injuries were always an inevitability.Officepeststarted us off with the first drink-related injury:"Got in about 6 in the morning and went to bed. Woke up in the early afternoon feeling hanging. Went downstairs and got a drink and my Mum (was living at home then) asked what that thing was on my arm. To my surprise there was a roughly 4 inch long, 1.5 inch wide and 1 inch deep blister on the back of my arm."I'd gone to sleep just as the radiator was heating up (which was next to my bed) and due to the combination of alcohol and concussion had left the back of my arm against it and basically cooked my arm."So I left it for a week or two and it eventually popped (epic!) went all red and scabby and full of pus. Went to the doctor who went mental and told me I had a third degree burn on my arm which was now infected. Had to go to the doctors every other morning for weeks to have it redressed and cleaned and now have a spanking scar on the back of my arm."Alfienoakescarried on the theme:"One particular day out, we were on the coach going home and some of the lads decided to pull mooneys out of the side window of the coach at the cars going the other way. Cue about 10 lads arses on the window, then suddenly we hear a massive crash towards the back of the coach, we turn round and one of the windows has gone through. We're all laughing and joking at this as the driver pulls up well pissed off, until about 2 minutes later when someone realises one of the lads is missing..."He'd gone arse first out of the window, narrowly missing the cars coming the other way and ended up in the grass verge at the side of the road. He didn't have any life-threatening injuries but was off work for a few weeks and I understand that his arse will never be the same again"Bigworvpitched in:"A few years ago (before I got hangovers) we used to play for a pub team on a Sunday and go back there straight after the game at about 1pm to have a session and then lock in. At 3am one night/morning I was stretching over the bar to get a packet of pork scratchings (I'm an athlete), stacked it over the bar and plummeted straight onto my head. They sent me to A&amp;E the next day at work as I had a massive lump and was just rocking in my chair staring blankly at my computer. Oh the glory days."But predictably,TonyHayersstory caused the most mirth:'Do you know where Pizza Express is on Old Christchurch Rd (heading up towards Lansdowne?). I went round the back to have leak, utterly rendered, and fell off a ledge onto broken glass and concrete. My mate had come looking for me, found me unconcious with trousers around my ankles and started trying to lift me out, while shouting for help."2 police came round and tried to arrest him for either rape or beating me or something, much to his protest. He eventually convinced them to take me to Hospital. Woke up in Hospital, very alarmed and lost. Sat up and ripped the drip out of my arm, firing blood around the room, and collapsed again. My mate was sat there and saw this. Says he's mentally scared by the whole thing...."Part six: Chatterbox AwardsAnd so to the 2008 Annual GGBC Awards. For those who missed them, the winners were:Best Newcomer: HumofEvilBest Guardian Columnist: Keith StuartMost improved blogger: KillerBeeCraziest blogger: BillybrushMost argumentative blogger: chubster2010Most annoying blogger: CommodoreSchmidlappMost off-topic blogger: TonyHayersMost informative blogger: HiddenAwayNicest blogger: tie between HiddenAway and CraggyIslandFunniest blogger: TonyHayersBlogger of the year: LimniMuch discussion followed of course. Surprisingly, only 20 votes in it, obviously not many took the advice to vote early and vote often. Don't forget, it's never too early to start campaigning for the 2009 awards.Part seven: zombies!As Well as the news that Zombies wereattacking roadworks across the land, BeardofBees also updated the Guardianista wiki with anti-zombie weapons of choice. See thefull listhere for if – nay when – the worst happens.Part eight(!): food glorious foodOn Wednesday alfienoakes brought up food (and some of us brought up a little bit of sick): "Has anyone ever eaten bollocks? They're really tasty - at least sheep bollocks are, I can't comment on any other animals testicles, but the sheep has a tasty pair of nads."[Keef says: "right that's my career over. Nice knowing you all..."]Other foods we enjoyed hearing about this week were: Seabrooks crisps, guinea pig, pickled onion Monster Munch and crocodile meat.An honourable mention also has to go toShewrog2for starting a chocolate variations list on Friday. Dentists up and down the land can start planning nice holidays based on some of the selections mentioned: Reeces Pieces, Chunky Kitkats, Green &amp; Black chocolate. Wispa Gold, Caramel Crème Egg, Tunnocks Caramel Wafer and Twinkies.Quotes of the week"Does anyone else keep their DS or PSP in the sh1tter for a bit of khazi entertainment? Or is it just me?"96 Stars on Mario 64 DS is impressive for 'crapper gaming'. That level and length of commitment possibly says more aboutOfficepest's diet and lifestyle though."I do worry that soon all my thoughts and feelings will be totally atomised, though - and 140 letters in length"Lazybonesjoins Twitter with some reservations."Had a not fun weekend playing the 'tile the bathroom' game. Who the flip came up with the idea of tiles? Where's my modern technology? Where's the box I put in a room, close the door, hear a fwumph noise and everything's done? Never flipping ending fiddly poop of a job that I suspect I have about 3 more days of."salubriousonewishing for the George Jetson technology we were promised."No games last night - spent ages buying a birthday present for my girlfriend ... Wrapping it ... making a card etc ... Didn't get to bed until about three. Feeling peeky. And a little nauseous ...."MrsLazyboneswill never know how lucky she is.Chatterbox libel list (or people we had a go at this week – all gathered in one place to make their solicitors' lives easier):Stephen Fry, Twitter, Kim &amp; Aggy, Harry Redknap, Jamie Redknapp, Energy Assessors, the Royal Mail, Sony Marketing Department.Games:FEAR2, DoW2, Day of Defeat, Wipeout HD, Tomb Raider:Underworld, MGS4, Persona3, Naruto:Broken Bond, Saints Row 2, Valkyra Chronicles, Resident Evil 5, Resistance 2, Killzone 2, Halo 3, LittleBigPlanet, Warhawk, COD:WaW, Bioshock, Motorstorm 2, Mirror's Edge, PGR3 &amp; 4, Flatout:UC, SF2HD, Far Cry 2, Skate 2, World of Warcraft, Dead Space, Left 4 Dead, FF XIII, Rez HD, Bioshock.Movies:This is England, Slumdog Millionaire, Eden Lake, The Wrestler, Valkyrie, Shoot em up, Austin Powers, 40 year old Virgin, Role Models, Superbad, I am Legend, There will be Blood, Them, The Strangers, Wall-E, In Bruges, Black Hawk Down, The Fountain, Death Race 2000, Somers Town.Music:Sebastien Tellier, Sky Larkin, John Martyn, Secret Machines, Bon Iver, Ian Brown, Propellorheads, Wu-Tang Clan, Ghostface Killah, Big L, Nas, Notorious BIG, Jay-Z, Ben Folds, Dr. Dre, Cypress Hill.TV:The Wire, Master Chef, Gok Wan, Gavin &amp; Stacey, Deadwood, Go Diego Go, Generation Kill, Arrested Development, Derren Brown.
Making genetics fun is a daunting challenge. My mother's a geneticist; she's been trying to get kids into it for years. ButChannel 4and theWellcome Trustthink they have the answer: a new game calledRouteswhich tracks one young woman's journey down her DNA to understand who she is.Now it may not sound like scintillating fun, but you could say the same thing about a game made about human rights, and the Abe's Oddyssee series did pretty well. So I tracked downDr. Daniel Glaser, the Head of Special Projects in Public Engagement at the Wellcome Trust, and asked him why our genes are so entertaining.What is Routes and how are you involved in it?Routes is a cross-platform game developed by Oil Productions for Channel 4 Education in partnership with the Wellcome Trust as part of our celebrations of the bicentenary of Charles Darwin's birth. The content is based on the contemporary science of genomics, and will span multiple websites, broadcast channels and mobile technologies. We've been involved with discussions with Channel 4 about Routes for a considerable time, and in the end we consider ourselves co-commissioners. We like to think we've helped to shape the content and direction as well as providing funding. For example we arranged a residency for the writers at our genome campus in Hinxton.How is Routes a game? It looks like a series of videos to me.The centrepiece of the Routes site is an eight-part video documentary following comedian Katherine Ryan as she finds out what her genes can tell her about her life. Katherine is 23 and has had cancer twice, as well as developing the autoimmune disease lupus, so she knows her genes have already had a massive influence on her life. Augmenting her story are a number of minigames and challenges for the Routes community to engage in. Each week users can build up points by taking part in various activities and the people with the highest scores have a chance to win a PlayStation 3 - so it is a real game and there are real prizes. What's really unique about Routes, though, is that there is another storyline emerging from the site. I'm as much in the dark about this part of the game as all our other visitors - but it seems something chilling is about to be discovered.Why has the Wellcome Trust decided to get involved with game development?Engaging with the public is central to the Trust's mission. We believe that you have to be part of the space controlled by the audience you are interested in, rather than trying to persuade them to watch things on your terms. Our research shows that large numbers of people would not watch a science documentary on television. If we are interested in large audiences we have to use new media. Gaming offers opportunities for true engagement that telly can only dream about. You get everything from casual, split attention glances to people devoting significant time to generating content. And all part of the same world.Routes is part of our Darwin celebrations - he was born 200 years ago and had more influence on our lives than arguably any other scientist. So we have commissioned practical science kits for every school in the country and funded exhibitions and arts projects. But Routes is the best way we can attract a young, technically-savvy audience who wouldn't normally pay any attention to information about Darwin and genetic science. By giving them something that they can get deeply involved in - to the extent of coming along to real-life events and even joining in the action of the story - we can hook their interest in the relevance to their own lives of genetics and genomics.How has Wellcome used games for education in the past?We have funded a number of projects through grants, and also commissioned some quite educational stuff through our Big Picture strand. If you go to www.wellcome.ac.uk/bigpicture/ and click on the All activities section you can see one called the OBs which is an interactive game about obesity. But nothing on the scale of Routes.Which serious game applications do you rate?Does 'World without oil' count?How do you determine whether a game like Routes is successful?In a funny way it's much easier than with a conventional broadcast project or even an exhibition. From a project like Routes you can read out, minute by minute if you like, each possible level of engagement, from YouTube downloads and web page impressions through to Diggs and social net posts to blogs and content uploads. Actually it's a problem of too much data, and we'll be developing models over time to help us analyse what success looks like. We're also commissioning some academic research into popular gaming to help inform our strategy.Routes is an experiment for us, and for Channel 4. What we hope will happen is that a community of online gamers will congregate around the Routes site, playing the games, following the stories and sparking an interest in science. Can we measure that? Well to an extent. But we'll recognise success if young people get involved and stay interested.How do you convince the stakeholders of a scientific charity like the Wellcome Trust that games and social media are worthwhile avenues to pursue?This was indeed a tough sell, especially since the very senior decision makers are not at all familiar with the genre. In the end it's about reaching audiences in spaces that they control. That does mean going into territory where you as an individual are not comfortable, but otherwise you just commission stuff for your mates. I think the clincher was "If Nike are there and Apple are there, we should be there."Which new interactive technologies are you exploring for Wellcome outreach in future?We're after audiences not technologies. So to some extent we are trend-followers not trend-setters in terms of which technology we employ. Social network-based games do seem interesting to us, and phone-based apps are clearly going to be important. It would be fun to do some real *augmented* reality stuff. And of course the console world is really only just beginning to open up to our kind of activity. We're commissioning and learning in parallel, and we're not afraid to make mistakes.
What's your favourite piece of technology?The awesomely cool MacBook AirHow has it improved your life?It's super-light, fast, and I always have it with me so that I can blog via my local Wi-Fi coffee shops. Except it means I drink waaaay too much coffee.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This afternoon, for uploading treasure hunt clues to mywebsite– I'm hiding signed first editions of my books around London and photographing the sites.What additional features would you add if you could?A push-down track-pad, like on the Pro. Easier uploading of video footage from my mobile, cross-region DVD functionality, and someone to sort out the Blu-Ray mess. Nobody knows what plays where.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, just smaller, lighter, with more storage and functionality – and even sexier.What one tip would you give to non-Mac users?Learn how to open Word docs, dammit. It drives Mac users mad.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Nerd borders. I consider myself a kind of a nerd, because when we go to the coffee shop in the mornings we sit there in a very neat row with our laptops. It's just like being at work, but with coffee and panini. And, of course, you don't get paid.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A high-end Onkyo amplifier. I put speakers in my ceiling and proudly showed a studio engineer. "It must sound like being under a stage," he said, damningly.Mac or PC?What's a PC?What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most-played list?The eerie, haunting Seneca by French band Bardo State.Will robots rule the world?Only if they can find someone smart enough to build them in the first place.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A good eReader that looks cool (so, not the Kindle, then).Christopher Fowler's new memoir,Paperboy, is out on 12 Februrary
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Maybe it's because it's tax time, or coming up to the end of the financial year, but several high-level government bodies are weighing in on virtual worlds. Specifically, the bodies are interested in the financial and security implications of these multi-user, networked spaces. The first report comes in from theEuropean Network and Information and Security Agency. According to Metaverse Law, they've released a position paper calledVirtual Worlds, Real Money: Security and Privacy in Massively-Multiplayer Online Games and Social and Corporate Virtual Worlds(.pdf).The EU agency makes 12 recommendations. To the EC and national governments, they recommend that they set up an industry-wide forum for service providers to share best practices, fund work on legal clarifications, fund dispute resolution for player-to-player disputes, establish secure procedures to eliminate scamming and working with MMO providers to resolve conflicts between legislation and common-carrier status.To the developers, they recommend that they create a balance between detection and prevention, to clearly specify what data is collected on players, to establish a (refundable) pay-per complaint system to weed out false complaints, to develop stringent user authentication, to create standards for working with governments and to offer CD software rather than just online acquisition.For both parties, they recommend developing awareness raising campaigns for players and the public.You can access this documenthere(pdf).So what does this mean for the players? The most important recommendation is that developers must divulge exactly what information is collected about account holders. In theory, any identifiable content should be disposed of - or indeed not collected in the first place - lest the data begins to impinge on civil liberties. As this is a European-wide document, it will have greater clout with other governments around the world.And speaking of other countries, over the the US the IRS continues to consider how to cope with virtual goods, mentioning them in the annual report to Congress. Bottom line: what exactly do you have to declare?According to Julian onTerra Novawho has summarised the various articles that have covered a 13 page recommendation document presented to the tax body, the IRS is as confused as taxpayers are. Indeed, they're asking more questions than answering them. He says,I can attest that a lot of people have a hard time accepting that existing IRS regulations and practices, followed to their logical conclusions, could even conceivably require taxation of purely virtual income -- of the minerals you mine from asteroids in EVE Online, of the Azerothian gold you earn trading enchanting materials in World of Warcraft's auction houses....Needless to say, this sort of permission to question the sanity of a basic economic institution would have been a lot more useful if it had been broadly handed out a few years earlier and if the institution in question were the banking system.At the moment, people who make their livings buying and selling online stuff arerecommendedby the IRS that they declare their earnings. After you stop earning there, you don't have to. Sounds logical, no?Finally, all this is coming together in one happy event, next month in Paris. TheOECDis hosting a Workshop on Innovation and Governance in Virtual Worlds, arranged by Lord Mandelson's BERR.Golly, so serious. Suddenly my virtual life isn't nearly as silly anymore.
After Lord Carter released hisinterim report on Digital Britain, I was delighted to see Tony Hirst (Open University) and Joss Winn (University of Lincoln) getWriteToReply.orgup and running with a response site. This usesCommentPress, a WordPress theme, according to my source, which isEllen Miller's blog post.Now everyone can read the text and comment on whatever paragraphs catch their attention, which is much nicer than writing to digitalbritain@berr.gsi.gov.ukThese have certainly been some hostile responses in the press. For example, "Trinity Mirror chief executive Sly Bailey has accused the government of a 'crushing lack of understanding' over the urgent need to reform the merger laws governing the local media," according toPress Gazette.Media Guardian collecteda wide range of industry responses, which showed that there was plenty of scope for both praise and blame.So far, however,WriteToReply.orghas only had 10 comments, spread over six sections and dozens of paragraphs.I hope this is because not enough people know about it, rather than because not enough people care.
Britain's complicated music royalty system is killing online innovation, according to one of the founders of internet radio serviceLast.fm.Martin Stiksel, who helped oversee the $280m acquisition of the London-based music recommendation site by American media conglomerate CBS in 2007, told the Guardian that the situation was becoming increasingly problematic."Where we're standing, it's not only more complicated, but also more expensive," he said. "It's an absolute nightmare in the grand scheme of things. We are further away from a simple licensing model – the sort of thing FM radio has – than ever before."Unlike traditional radio stations - which pay rates for the right to play music over the air, depending on the net revenue they make from advertising - for the right to play music over the air - websites that allow users to listen to music aresubject to higher tariffs based on their gross income.These payments must be negotiated and paid to those holding the rights, including record labels, music publishers and sometimes the artists themselves. Meanwhile, websites such as YouTube havenegotiated flat feesto cover the royalties for any music with a UK copyright that users upload.Stiksel believes that the increasingly complex rules and mish-mash of collection agencies have become so difficult to navigate that they could stifle innovation, killing new music startups before they have even begun."It wouldn't be that easy to start out again," he said. "Expectations are different now, and people want large compensation right from the start."To even be allowed to enter the club, you have to pay a fee. The space is radically changing all the time… but I can't see the fog clearing in the short term."Last year the situation became so treacherous and confusing thatUS-based music service Pandoradecided to stop offering its service to British users.At the time,Pandorafounder Tim Westergren said the rates demanded by record labels and music publishers were "far too high to allow ad-supported radio to operate", and that they were pursuing a course that was "nothing short of disastrous for artists whom they purport to represent."Calls for a simplified system have gone unheeded by the British government: indeed, the communications minister, Lord Carter, recently announced plans that would further complicate the situation by creating another agency to oversee the enforcement of copyright.In hisDigital Britainreport last week, Carter outlined his plan to create a rights agency to seek out and prosecute people who illegally downloaded music and films over the internet.Despite concerns about the impact of the licensing regime, Stiksel said that growth at Last.fm had not been affected.The site now boasts more than 25 million monthly users. Stiksel  attributes some of this success to the sale to CBS and the subsequent redesign.He said the website would continue to branch out in its search for new users. In addition to its mobile phone applications, Last.fm was working on building its software into other apps for home use.The company has deals with sound equipment manufacturers Sonos and Logitech to incorporate Last.fm into their devices and more could be on the way."I can't go into details but… we are busily developing a couple of things to bring the Last.fm experience to new platforms," he said. "We want to be everywhere where people want to listen to music."
So it's snowing again and as I was unable to do this on Monday, I've ploughed through videogame history to discover the best snowy games/missions of all time. Actually, these are the best ones I canrememberrather than a conclusive, intricately researched selection, but that doesn't sound so grand as a headline.For something so trivial, this took me bloody ages, and let's face it, I'm bound to have missed some corkers. But stick your mittens on and have a look - then suggest some better examples in the comments section!"It's ruddy cold and now we're going to be slaughtered by dragons."Lords of Midnight (Beyond, 1984, Spectrum, Commodore 64)Game designer Mike Singleton's use of minimalist monochrome landscapes gave this early graphical adventure an utterly authentic chill, bringing real menace to its craggy mountains and looming citadels. At the time, the press materials boasted of the game's 33,000 different views, making it a sort of stop/go animated FPS. There are several fan-made remakes and updates available.Waggle, rotate, waggle, rotate, waggle... oh, I've landed on my face.Winter Games (Epyx, 1986, Commodore 64)Sure, this wasn't the strongest title in legendary multi-event sport sim series (that would surely be California Games or Summer Games 2?), but it did have some great events including the addictive ski jump, the frenzied bobsleigh and, surprisingly, figure skating. Figure skating!  I've never had to do that again. At least not in a videogame. Despite the limited palette, there were some spectacular snowy vistas. I also liked the very similarPlayman Winter Gameson mobile. Just don't mention the awful Negano Winter Olympics 08...Bet you wish you'd bought a Saturn now, don't you?Christmas Nights (Sega, 1996, Saturn)A mere two-level demo, released as part of a seasonal Sega Saturn bundle as well as inside a few key releases of the day. The game featured Elliot and Claris from the full NiGHTS Into Dreams title, and involves a short quest to find the Christmas Star. It's filled with snow-capped trees, ringing bells and little elves. Just about as camp as the Saturn got – and that's including Princess Maker 2.Sniper rifle + cold, featureless environment = tense FPS action.GoldenEye (Rare, 1997, N64)Okay this is just in here for one level – Severnaya – where you crept through the deep Siberian snow, taking out guards with your sniper rifle. I think this remains a seminal stealth-n-snipe mission, allowing you to carve your own course through the landscape and, crucially, to take your time over every shot. The tension (even though this was quite an easy level) was accentuated by the absolutely featureless white expanse in which it took place.Whoosh, crunch, crunch, weeeeee... and so on.1080° Snowboarding (Nintendo, 1998, Nintendo 64)Never as flashy as SSX or as self-consciously trendy as the increasingly risible Cool Boarders series, 1080° boasted the sort of beautifully intuitive controls that only Nintendo has ever managed to provide. Best of all though, were the amazing sound effects as your board carved through the snow. Close your eyes and you're there. Actually don't – you'll hit a tree."Don't go in there - I think I saw Kurt Russell!"The Thing (Computer Artworks 2002, Xbox, PS2)Massively-overlooked videogame sequel to John Carpenter's 1982 gore-fest. Lots of great use of frozen environments, as your spec-ops soldiers wander through the carnage. I'm pretty sure the dev team had access to the original set designs for the Antarctic research facility, and added plenty of their own suitably grim areas. You can also spot plenty of visual references to sequences in the film, too.When else have you had this much fun with a line of snow? Wait, don't answer that.Line Rider (Bostjan Cadez, 2006, PC)Designed for a university illustration class by Slovakian student Bostjan Cadez, the internet gaming phenomenon merely requires you to draw a line for a teeny man to plummet down on a sledge. But the accurate physics provide an endless sandbox appeal, and in a usually snow-scarce Britain, this was as close as most of us could get to actually going out on a sledge. Until this week, of course. You can now enjoy DS, Wii, mobile and iPhone versions.And you thought your commute looked grim this morning.Fallout 3 (Bethesda,  2008, Xbox 360, PS3)With devastated landscapes so cold and barren you can feel your fingers freezing to the joypad, Bethesda's post-apocalyptic adventure is probably an accurate representation of what will happen in Britain if the cold snap lasts just 48 more hours. Okay, there wasn't much snow in the original game, but the DLC addition, Operation Anchorage, brings the temperature down even further, with a trip into icy Alaska to repel Chinese Communist invaders.A horror game about staying alive in winter. It's what many pensioners play every year...Special mention: Winter (n-Space, N/A,  Wii)You may well have heard the sad story about this promising survival horror title, in which the player must somehow keep lead character Mia warm as the big freeze descends on a remote Midwestern town.According to IGN, the developer was unable to find a publisher willing to release such a dark title into the Wii market – despite the presence of Resident Evil 4 and, for heavens sake, Manhunt 2.
Over the years, first-person shooter games such as Halo and Doom have sold millions of copies worldwide – building a reputation for their high bodycounts and gory graphics along the way. But researchers have discovered a new use for these interactive action movies: teaching people about safety.A team based at Durham University has discovered that the systems used to make popular games can also be effectively used to create fire training simulations.After trying a number of titles – including Far Cry, Quake III and Doom 3 – the team eventually opted to use the engine behind best-selling game Half Life 2, and built a virtual training ground modelled on an office building. After running users through a variety of emergency scenarios, they discovered that they were able to gauge people's reactions and help them understand how to escape in case of fire."The thing with virtual environments is that you can train for scenarios that you just can't do in real life," lead author Dr Shamus Smith of Durham's computer science department said. "You can't put someone in a burning building and say 'how are you going to react when it's full of smoke?'."What we looked at in our study was how realistic users thought the environments were. They were amazed at the realism."The study, which is being published in the Fire Safety Journal, outlines a number of possible ways in which ordinary users could benefit from using the technology.Unlike the many complex and expensive virtual reality systems that are currently used for this sort of training scheme, adapting first-person shooter games could prove an inexpensive and flexible simulation method - and would also allow players to practice on their own computers."It takes a lot of the headache out of designing systems – you don't have to worry that your system's going to crash or that they're going to be unusable at the end of it… they'll run on your desktop or laptop," he said.Other organisations have already discovered the value of games for teaching and preparation.First-person shooter games are already used widely by the military, for recruitment and training purposes – but also for treating cases of post-traumatic stress disorder.Smith suggested a number of ways that the tools could be harnessed for safety purposes, including the idea that the owners of large buildings could build their own virtual models to help teach staff how to escape in a number of situations.He also suggested that other officials could create generic buildings aimed at preparing users for a variety of situations, while architects could use the games to help the understand how people will move around their buildings in an emergency."We've had some tentative looks at working with health and safety organisations or maybe fire departments," he said, "But to a certain degree a lot of things we do are restricted by funding."The benefits of using game-based training methods was not, however, entirely straightforward. The study also examined the way that regular gamers reacted to fire safety scenarios in comparison to those who did not play games. The researchers discovered that gamers treated the scenarios less seriously and were more detached from the consequences of the simulations.The project – which was partially funded by the Nuffield Foundation – is now over, but Smith suggested that the team is considering whether to make the training tools available online for free."We could take what we've done and convert it into a mod, put it online and make it available to download," he suggested. "If you've got Half-Life 2 you could run the mod – it would be a free and easy fire training session."
Four more events have been added to thegamesblog's calendarthis week:*4iP funding and networking event at the Serious Games Institute, Coventry (5 Feb)The 4iP Fund aims to deliver publicly valuable content and services on digital media platforms with significant impact and in sustainable ways. It represents one of the biggest and most exciting calls-to-action for new and emergent digital media companies in the UK.*Engage! Expo, Javits Centre, New York, NY (10-11 March)Engage! Expo (formerly the Virtual Worlds Conference) is the event for youth and young adult brands, media and agencies to meet and learn how to combine their existing online efforts with the unparalleled engagement opportunities and new revenue streams of attention-based media.*Games Convention Online, Leipzig, Germany(31 July - 2 August)Cologne may have taken the main event away from Leipzig this year, but this German town will be chokka with online game gurus during this conference.*Edinburgh Interactive Festival, Edinburgh (13-14 August 2009)The UK's gaming culture festival is back, with yet another name change. The team are ISO ideas for panels and speakers, so put yourself forward for this creative flagship event.Subscribeto our calendar for up to date new events listings. If you have an event you'd like to see listed on our calendar and on the blog, please do get in touch at gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+ com.
Gaming pioneerNolan Bushnellis to beinducted into BAFTAat this year's awards ceremony, held in London in March. By accepting the fellowship, the American Pong creator, arcade mogul,fast food peddlerandsocial gaming pioneerwill be part of the British hall of fame, joining another industry great, Will Wright, and legions of film and television actors and presenters.In a statement, Bushnell graciously accepted the honour, and a curious insight into the unique cultural features which ensure gaming is part of the British psyche:The pub culture and country house drawing room environments have been instrumental in spawning games and game players through the centuries.Cor, guv, fancy a game of draughts?Find out more about Bushnell's latest adventures our recent interview,here.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Video search engine Blinkx has been around for a while now – we first wrote about them when theylaunched back in 2004.Over the years the site - which was founded in Cambridge, listed on the London stock exchange and is now based in San Francisco – has built a pretty successful niche out of its clever search techniques like speech recognition, without ever becoming one of those ubiquitous internet brands.Now it looks like they could be making a break for household name status with their new product - their own spin on internet TV.The idea's pretty straightforward: if you want to get a quick fix of the latest news or watch the most popular viral videos, just click a button and sit back. Does it stack up?You get three options: "inform me" (news), "entertain me" (mainly user-generated videos) and "give me my own channel". Clicking on the first two gives you a pre-generated playlist of videos that you can watch, mimicking or one of those late-night Channel 4 clip shows (such as The 10,000 Greatest YouTube Videos EVER!!!).Watching the beta this afternoon, my news bulletin consisted of (in this order) entertainment news, Afghanistan, the Pope, US politics and business, a story about allegations of cruelty to elephants in circuses and then something about Pink Panther 2.Oh, and then I was treated to a voiceover-less film from Reuters which appeared to be about a massive cream pie fight. That was weird.Your automatic playlist is refreshed every half hour or so to keep up with new stuff, and there are a multitude of little tricks to help you navigate around: like making your own channel using keywords, plus some very clever deep searching techniques, speech recognition, face tracking and recommendation.But isn't it taking away from the site's core business of video search? When I spoke to CEO Suranga Chandratillake about it, he said that the new service was aimed at a subset of existing Blinkx users - but that it also has the potential to break out."There's somewhere between 10 and 25% of our audience that basically turns up at our site and is looking for something interesting to watch," he said. "It's really that person we've aimed this at - and if you look at what this person clicks on, they'll typically either click on something goofy or they'll click on news content.""That's what we've really aimed at: if you don't know what to do, click here and you'll see funny stuff or you'll see interesting stuff. You don't have to think about it any further."It's certainly pleasant to use and the search features are intriguing - even if the quality of the videos themselves isn't always up to much. But the web TV space is getting very crowded at the moment, with Hulu, iPlayer, Joost, YouTube and others. Is compiling the best of the web really what people want to see? In fact, he suggested, was actually a lot closer to the original idea for Blinkx than it might seem."When we first launched the site, we called it Blinkx TV," he said. "We lost that branding about three years ago, but part of the original vision was a TV for your computer. You couldn't do it in those days because the technology wasn't there, the content wasn't there. Now they are."
I attended a gathering in Richmond Theatre, at which the then mayor and members of the Greater London Authority were available for public questioning. It was very impressive that their words almost immediately appeared on a screen courtesy of a voice recognition system. How is it done?Grahame MoneyWhat I believe to be the best PC speech recognition program available - Dragon NaturallySpeaking 10 - can't do that. It's done by skilled "Palantypists" or speech-to-text reporters using a special V-shapedPalantype keyboard. You may have seen them used to record court proceedings.An alternative system isStenography, using a Stenotype keyboard, hence the "Stenographers" in American courts. They are fast because the operator types phonemes instead of individual letters.
Can you use different anti-spyware programs at the same time?Peter RossThis is a tricky one. It's best not to use two different anti-virus products at the same time. These tend to operate at a low level within the operating system, which can cause crashes, and the two programs can clash. Anti-spyware programs tended to operate at a higher level, as spyware was often browser related.Nowadays, viruses are often distributed online and by fake codec downloads rather than by email, so the virus and spyware fields are merging, which makes mixing programs harder. But you can always try it and see how they get on.In general, I think it's best to have one antispyware program running all the time, and run a different program from time to time, as a cross-check.
Scientific journals are a notorious racket: because they are essential tools for the professions that use them, they can charge pretty much what they like. The late Robert Maxwell was the first person to understand this, and though he is remembered as a newspaper proprietor, he built his fortune on scientific publishing with Pergamon Press. University libraries, and even others that have any pretence to scholarship, now spend fortunes on learned journals. Elsevier, the leading publisher in the field, offered 1,749 journals last year at an average annual subscription price of nearly &pound;2,400, and each one is indispensable to specialists. Of course, the contributors are paid nothing.The effect of this, as many disgruntled radicals have pointed out, is that the government pays universities to conduct research for the public benefit; the measure of this research is publication in peer-reviewed specialist journals; the peer review is done for free, by academics employed and paid by universities. The results are then sold back to the universities who paid for the research in the first place.This is bad value for governments. It's also extremely bad for anyone outside a university who may want to learn, and that's a situation the web has made more tantalising. Almost all these journals are indexed and references to them will be found on Google Scholar, PubMed Central and anywhere else you look beyond Wikipedia. So the truth is out there. But it will cost you. I just paid $32 for a printout of one piece and this is by no means exceptional.The big names in what you may call general science publishing - Nature and Science - are slightly less rapacious. You can get a day pass to read a Science article for $10. That is still a lot to pay for something you are meant to read for only 24 hours. But an annual subscription to either magazine costs around $200 and the access it gives to archives soon expires.One answer to all this is to promote the growth of free scientific publishing, and also, increasingly, of free access to the immense quantities of data that lie behind most published papers. For those who just want to know what is going on, open access is unsatisfactory for two reasons. The first is that it is not yet widespread enough. There is no guarantee at all that the interesting work will emerge in open-access journals, which tend to be extremely specialised. The second is more philosophical, and deeper. It may never become as useful a resource as the paid-for generalised magazines, precisely because the open-access journals are written to be enjoyed within particular fields of expertise.Nature and Science are not like that at all. Within any given issue, I would think that about three-quarters of the contents is impenetrable to any given reader. If you are an astrophysicist, the biological papers will be hard to follow; conversely, a biologist could have difficulty with an astrophysics paper.But the fact that they have been printed at all in a prestigious journal tells you that good judges think they are important, and there will often be a piece at the front of the magazine explaining in intelligent layman's terms exactly what the paper says and why it matters. These things are worth paying for. But how are individuals, normal people, to pay?The only answer I can think of is to bring electronic subscriptions into the library system. Some enlightened libraries already provide access to online resources such as the OED and even the Chadwyck Healey corpus of English poetry. But none that I know of arrange the kind of electronic journal subscriptions that university libraries can have, and this is a huge gap.If broadband Britain is to mean more than unlimited access to YouTube and commercially generated content, then it ought to include the possibility of access to the better bits of civilisation. Traditional libraries have been cutting back on their books and turning themselves more and more into warehouses for youth whom the government wants to keep off the streets. If they must all have terminals instead of reading desks, these terminals should at least give them access to the content of magazines they can no longer afford to subscribe to.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Let's be careful out thereTuesday 10 February is Safer Internet Day 2009Who sees the seaGoogle has added an ocean layer to its Google Earth program.Nintendo wins!Mario Kart Wii was 2008's best-selling game, with 8.94m units sold.Hot supermarket PCAldi stores have a special offer - Medion Akoya E3300 D desktop for &pound;389.Living in digitalThe first Digital Lives Research Conference will be held at the British Library in London, 9-11 February.The Daily You?Skype co-founder Ahti Heinla is planning a news site that will predict what you want to read, based on what the web knows about you.Depression-era life on TwitterDavid Griner is posting the line-a-day diary kept by a great-aunt from 1937 to 1941, when she was a young farmgirl, on Twitter.Pay by mobilePaymo says its trusted mobile payments system works in 39 countries.Sony photography awardsThe Sony World Photography awards is showcasing the best pictures from both amateurs and professionals.
For a man whose employer has just recorded its worst Christmas in years, David Reeves seems surprisingly calm.  Indeed, speaking last Thursday, the day Sony announced third-quarter losses of Y18bn (&pound;141m), he sounded more like a corner-man psyching up his fighter than the president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe (SCEE)."We simply have to suffer a little," he explained, "go down in market share and mind-share. It's like Ali v Foreman - go eight or nine rounds and let him punch himself out. We're still standing, we're still profitable and there's a lot of fight in us. I don't say we will land a knockout blow, but we're there and we're fighting."Number crunchingEven so, the figures do not make encouraging reading. In the latest quarter, PS3 sales were down by 8.9% to 4.46m units, PSP down 11.8% to 5.08m and PS2 down 53% to 2.52m, albeit at the end of its mammoth eight-year lifespan. This compares with 10.42m Wiis, 11.89m DSs and 6m Xbox 360s sold in the same period. Sony's games division saw operating income fall by 97% in the quarter, yet Reeves doggedly maintains that everything is going exactly to plan."My objective is financial - to make a profit in our territory by the end of March, and we will. Our priority has always been the PS3; the forecast was 10m at the beginning of the year and it's still 10m. If we'd cut the price, lost another billion dollars, we might have had a huge Christmas but it would have been followed by a huge loss. The company could have thought: 'Hmm, I'm not sure I want to be in this business at all.' But we've shown Sony this is still a good business to have."A good business, perhaps, but also one in which the PS3 is now firmly third in a field of three and widely perceived as a luxury brand in frugal times. So how can he justify selling the most expensive console in the midst of a global recession?   "How do I justify it? Look at the capability of the machines. With PS3, you can go online for free, it's got all the games you want, it's got a Blu-ray drive so you don't need a new player, you can store photos on it, and you've got Home [Sony's recently launched online lobby-service]."Admittedly, in the current climate, more people will go for the lower price, but we still make a profit and that is our objective." In fairness, currency changes mean Sony's pain is shared by many Asian companies dependent on overseas sales, including Samsung and Toshiba who have also posted heavy losses. Even Nintendo has been forced to slash its net profit forecast for 2008 by a third, despite now outselling Sony by nearly 2:1 in both key formats.And there are some encouraging signs for SCEE, which Reeves understandably wants to focus on. While PSP and PS2 software sales have fallen (by 15% and 51% respectively), PS3 games sales are up 53% and there's a healthy 1.1m pre-order book for Killzone 2, the first of a new batch of IPs that Sony will be counting on.Then there's the success of PlayStation Network, which overhauled the massive headstart of Xbox Live to amass 17.5 million users, 55% of all PlayStation owners, increasing revenues by 200% in 2008. When downloadable movies roll out in Pal territories later in the year, Reeves believes the PS3 will fulfil its promise as a lucrative home-entertainment system."We introduced PS3 as a multimedia device - we had to because it had a high price tag. But now you're going to see non-game apps appear: video downloads, music and, of course, it will still play Blu-ray. Will it be the cheapest player by end of 09? Probably not - but it will make progress."Three's a crowd?What is beyond doubt is that SCEE is no longer dismissing the uphill struggle it faces in markets it used to dominate. While his boss, Kazuo Hirai, was declaring at CES: "It's difficult to talk about Nintendo, because we don't look at their console as a competitor", Reeves himself now strikes a more realistic and conciliatory tone."We've learned from Nintendo how to grow the market and move from handheld device to device - they've done it brilliantly. And we've learned an enormous amount from Microsoft, too. Overall, the market has sharpened up individual competitors to do better - we should celebrate the industry and how we've collectively grown it beyond all recognition."But can the industry still accommodate three rival standards? As Sony anticipates a record full-year loss of around &pound;2.1bn and gears up to shed 16,000 jobs and six production centres by 2010, Reeves is adamant that SCEE can survive unscathed while resisting the urge to reduce and re-price as the 360 did last spring. For now, at least, he insists the label's not for turning."We took our cuts in 07 and 08, we restructured and streamlined and we're as lean, as mean as we can be. I have seen no plans to cut jobs and it wouldn't be productive to do so. We're always looking at ways to reduce costs, replacing the current 65 nanometre Cell chip with a 45 nanometre one probably in middle of year. But will it be anything as off-strategy as releasing a PS3 with a DVD rather than a Blu-ray drive? I doubt it."
Tens of thousands of Buddhist manuscripts, paintings and other treasures scattered around the world have been brought together in probably the world's largest computer database of its kind.The International Dunhuang Project (IDP), based at the British Library in London, is an ever-growing digital assemblage that makes it possible to study online around 160,000 images of 80,000 objects dug up in the deserts of Chinese central Asia and now in institutions across Europe, Asia and North America.More than a third of the artefacts are in British collections, having been taken – some would say plundered – by the Hungarian-born British explorer and archaeologist Sir Aurel Stein who travelled the Silk Road in the first decade of the 20th century.The IDP has centres in China, Russia, Japan and Germany as well as its London base, and early next year the Biblioth&egrave;que Nationale de France in Paris will become a partner when its collection of 10,000 treasures goes online. This will make available the vast hoard of manuscripts discovered by Stein's French contemporary Paul Pelliot in the Dunhuang Library Cave – this includes many secular texts, forming a basis for the development of economic, social and legal history of medieval China. There are also plans for the Institute of Korean Culture in Seoul to become a partner later in 2009.Each centre maintains images from their collections on their own servers. "Keeping their own images on their servers while having everything in one place on the web makes people less anxious about their own data. There are no issues with copyright, with digitisation centres in each institution having read-write access to other data on the database," said the IDP's director, Susan Whitfield, who has been with the project since it was founded in 1994 and oversaw its launch online in 1998.The Dunhuang cave complex on the edge of the Gobi desert is the most famous archaeological site in the region, from which Stein took a vast array of treasures including manuscripts in Chinese, Sanskrit, Tibetan and even Judaeo-Persian, as well as in obscure central Asian languages such as Sogdian and Tocharian.But the IDP does not focus only on Dunhuang, and it includes artefacts from around 200 sites in the far west of China, where more treasures are being discovered all the time.Among the most remarkable items in IDP's database is a coloured star-map in the British Library dating back to about AD 700, which the project's website notes is "almost certainly the oldest extant manuscript star-chart from any civilisation". The scroll can be viewed in great detail on the website, together with Stein's original map of the Dunhuang caves.Whitfield said the project, which has about 10 staff in London and around 20 in the other centres, does not rely on outside technical consultants. All staff were expected to have a reasonable level of technical skills as well expertise in their own specialist subjects, ranging from early Chinese Buddhism to the history of paper making."Technical skills are part of our remit," said Whitfield, who has a doctorate in Tang dynasty historiography. "Outsourcing technical aspects leads to people not understanding what is going on ... It doesn't work for projects like ours with a large technical element."The IDP believes in making its technical standards transparent and uniform and local staff are trained so that quality and consistency of data and images are maintained.A Chinese version of the database was developed in 2001-02, and the database was redeveloped in 2005 involving the use of XML based on the TEI standard for the cataloguing and bibliographical data. These are stored in 4D and accessed using a 4D XML plug-in. Active 4D is used to serve the website and database.The website, which is in English, Chinese, Japanese, Russian and German, has also been continually redesigned to include more functionality and data. It is now displayed in HTML, CSS and JavaScript, and current projects include plans to implement map layers for Google Earth.Whitfield said the recent resolution of problems over Unicode, which were partly political, had made life much easier for encoding Chinese characters and other non-roman scripts.Photographing delicate manuscripts and textiles is a slow and painstaking process, but by 2015 the project aims to have catalogued, digitised and made freely available online 90% of the Dunhuang collections. The IDP has a budget of around &pound;350,000 a year, which Whitfield said is "fairly modest" given the size of the project.She said fundraising was a struggle but the IDP has received support from sources including the EU, the Leverhulme Trust and the Ford and Mellon Foundations. It also receives sponsorship from individuals and groups who are often motivated by the Buddhist drive to gain merit through the replication of sacred texts.Whitfield said one of her chief aims was to get the National Museum of India on board. The museum in Delhi has around 11,000 items, mainly Buddhist paintings obtained by Stein, few of which have been published.The IDP has been in talks with the Indian authorities for the past 10 years, but has met with countless bureaucratic obstacles. "I am sure we will reach an agreement eventually," she added.
If you had one of those Winsor &amp; Newton paintboxes as a child, you'll love the look of Sony's Vaio P pocket computer. But you'll also need very sharp eyes, lots of money, and a great deal of patience.The Vaio P is a Windows Vista-powered subnotebook PC rather than a netbook. It's very small, at 245 x 120mm. It has a bright and very high resolution 8in screen, showing 1600 x 768 pixels. It comes with 2GB of memory, and a 60GB hard drive. If it also had an ultra-low voltage Intel Core 2 Duo chip, that would be nice. Unfortunately, it has a 1.3GHz Intel Atom Z530 processor, which is horribly slow.Vista's Windows Experience Index tells the tale. The Vaio P scores 4.0 for memory, 4.1 for the hard drive, and an impressive 5.9 for graphics. But the final score is 2.1, which is the processor's score. Maybe Windows 7 would work, but for Vista it's not quite enough.Sony Style will exclusively offer a version with a 1.6GHz Atom and a 128GB SSD (solid state drive), but it's still a netbook chip, not a subnotebook chip.In use, my prototype Vaio P took around 100 seconds just to resume Windows. If Sony ships Vista in this sort of state, I assume they're leaving the installation to the janitors.As a note-taking machine, it's not bad, if you can read the extremely tiny characters on the screen. The "isolated keyboard" (not proper keys) is a decent size. There's a space-saving pointing button instead of a mousepad, and plenty of connectivity: two USB ports, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, a Sim slot plus GPS.There are also SD and Memory Stick slots, plus a webcam. However, you need to plug in a small adaptor in order to get an Ethernet port and external monitor port, which would be to much of a challenge for the Vaio P's mere 19.8mm thickness.One novel extra is a button that toggles between Vista and a Sony Xross Media Bar (XMB) experience. XMB is also used to run media in the PlayStation Portable and the latest Bravia TV sets.There's a lot to like about the Vaio P, especially the ultra-light weight (638g) and 3G connectivity. But judging by the review sample, it's much too slow, and too expensive at "from &pound;849". I'd rather have a &pound;300 Samsung NC10 netbook.It all takes me back to the Sony C1 subnotebook, which I reviewed here in 2000. That also had a letterbox screen, and was let down by a horribly slow Transmeta processor. The Vaio P repeats too many of the same mistakes.Pros:small and light, looks terrific, well made, decent-sized keyboardCons:slow if running Vista, screen text too small, costs too muchvaio.sony.co.uk
A quiet revolution is taking place - or trying to take place - in the way we read books, which hasn't changed much in the past 1,500 years. The printed book, supreme for centuries, has even repelled the advances of the digital age. Until now, that is. Most people who have tried one of the ebooks from Sony, Amazon and others have been extremely impressed by the readability and the way in which you can download new books if you run out on holiday. The downside is you have to carry another device around with you.Or do you? Half of the planet already has a phone. Why can't that be used? Most people recoil from the prospect of reading books on a phone. Unless they are from Japan, where half (admittedly, graphic novels) of the top 10 books in a recent survey were read on mobiles. Is something happening?Something is certainly happening to me. After downloading some titles to my iPod Touch (an iPhone without phone or camera), reading a book on a mobile became, for the first time, a pleasurable experience thanks to its large screen and some neat innovations. There are lots of choices. You can download a service called Stanza for nothing or eReader (with a free book and options to buy more). It fits 20 lines on to a screen, maybe too many for comfort. Far better is Classics, costing &pound;1.79 with 16 free out-of-copyright books, from Paradise Lost to Pride and Prejudice, with more to be added later. Maybe one day it will give access to the digital treasure chest atEuropeana.The screen offers a cute image of a bookshelf with books on the shelves waiting to be clicked. The typeface is bigger - limiting it to an eye-friendly 15 lines a screen - with the ability to turn pages with a finger or thumb. You can work it with one hand, leaving the other to take notes or deal with the washing machine. As you turn pages frequently, there is no danger of the back-lit screen switching off. I could see myself reading a condensed newspaper this way, even paying for the convenience.These are some of more than 5,000 new applications available on the iPhone, which are taking mobile usage to a new level. Over the years I have totted up the functions on a mobile that could be sold as separate products, ranging from cameras to MP3 players. It has got to more than 60 but I will have to abandon it, as the number of new apps is exploding. Among those I have bought recently are a useful spirit level and a clarinet that is made to work, I kid you not, by blowing gently into a tiny microphone attached to my earphones and working the stops on the screen. A harmonica operates in a similar way, while the piano is played just like a piano (with big quality limitations). A drum acts by just flicking the iPhone in the air as you would a drumstick. What price a band using only iPhone instruments topping the iTunes chart sometime soon? If this is merely the first surge of applications, many from a resurgence of bedroom programmers, goodness knows what will happen when Google's Android ecosystem and Nokia's are in full swing.Meanwhile, mobile books are not standing still. Two companies still want to revolutionise how we read on a phone. Instead of taking in sentences at a time, you concentrate on the shape of a single word in the middle of a screen that changes rapidly, the pace being under your control. You can read on a train or in idle moments.ICUEis in competition withBookMuncher, which will soon move from being mainly PC-based to mobiles, especially those using the open source Android system. BookMuncher, which has the kudos of being a Dragons' Den reject, says once you have got used to the new way, you can read far faster and claims it is even possible to read a proper book and one of its own at the same time. Read what you like into that.Victor Keegan's website
Similar in theme to Viva Pinata, Sim Animals is still as cute as they come. The objective is to befriend and nurture around 30 animals, from the early mice, rabbits and squirrels to more disruptive bears, foxes and racoons.Watch their thought bubbles and provide the food and attention they need to unlock the ecosystem around them. It's a gentle and absorbing game, particularly appealing to youngsters despite the occasional tooth and claw exhibited by some of the wilder wildlife.There are niggles, however; from the Wii's notoriously fuzzy graphics and jerky animation to the imprecise control provided by the Wiimote/Nunchuck combo when racing round the landscape. But all in all, this is a pleasing if unremarkable addition to sandbox sims.
It was the second time of trying to reach Paul Quinn-Judge on his mobile phone. Was there a landline we could use? "The landlines here just don't work. It would involve many hours of pain," said the analyst for the International Crisis Group, an NGO that advises governments on conflict resolution. Quinn-Judge lives in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan. From 18 January until last weekend, the country had been pummelled by a massive distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. Two of its four ISPs had been hit.Surfing from inside the country, Quinn-Judge, who says that internet access inside the country is poor at the best of times, hadn't noticed any change. But intelligence experts in the west speaking directly with senior sources in the Kyrgyz ISP community said that the sustained attack had taken as much as 80% of its internet traffic to the west offline.But who did it, and why? The country, nestled in the mountainous territory between China and oil-rich Kazakhstan, isn't a major player on the world stage. There's little oil or natural gas. It isn't at war with anyone, and its internet infrastructure is limited at best.Strategic importanceDon Jackson, senior security researcher at the Atlanta-based managed services firm SecureWorks, thinks that the Russian government was behind the attack. Traffic came almost entirely from Russian networks that he says are controlled by former members of the Russian Business Network, which was a St Petersburg-based ISP said to have rented network capacity to cybercriminals without asking questions."The RBN, meaning not just the hosting company but its close circle of clients, has been called upon to do this kind of thing by the Russian government in the past," says Jackson. He asserts that the Russian government sanctions such activities at arm's length without wanting to be seen as directly involved."The fact that [Russia] allows it gives some kind of consent," agrees Jeffrey Carr, chief executive of GreyLogic, a company providing intelligence on hackers to government clients. "This is a convenient way for any government to include information warfare in their overall operations."But why would the Russians want to hammer Kyrgyzstan's already underdeveloped network? The two countries have been quietly negotiating potential Russian investments in Kyrgyzstan. "The one thing that the Kyrgyz can bargain about is the American airbase just outside Bishkek at Manas," says Quinn-Judge. Russia wants the US off its doorstep. "The Russians expressed their willingness to write off the Kyrgyz debt to Russia," he says, "and also to look for investments for a major hydro-electric project."The Kyrgyz president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, visited Moscow on Tuesday to try to hammer out the investment deal for the cash-strapped country, currently in debt to Russia for around $180m. Meanwhile. Nato envoys were in Kyrgyzstan wooing top officials, proving the strategic importance of the Manas base and surrounding territories to its Afghanistan campaign.Jackson thinks that the Russians are applying pressure to the Kyrgyz opposition, which has been critical of the suggested Manas closure, by silencing its online voice and leaving westerners unaware of its point of view.An inside job?Russia is certainly serious about cyberwarfare. The Russian colonel VI Tsymbal warned in 1995 that the country may use nuclear weapons against sources of cyberwarfare in the future, points out Carr. But he doesn't buy Jackson's assertion that the Russian government was behind the recent attack. He thinks that the Kyrgyz leadership hired Russian hackers as a means of quashing its own opposition."This is more about silencing internal dissent, and eliminating one of the primary communication channels for any dissenting group, which is the internet," he says. He adds that if the Kyrgyz government - which set up its own cybersecurity initiative earlier in January - really wanted to stop the attacks, it could have.But Rafal Rohozinski, principal investigator for the OpenNet Initiative, which tries to stop online filtering and surveillance, dismisses both scenarios. "To say who's responsible is very premature," he says, arguing that for Russia, economic leverage is more powerful than a DDoS attack. Similarly, the Kyrgyz leadership has more powerful tools at its disposal, he argues. "These include legal measures that can stop the opposition publishing content on the internet that would be questionable by the Kyrgyz government."Unknown parties and motives may be at play, argues Rohozinski, who recalls another DDoS attack that he says happened during the 2005 Kyrgyz presidential elections. "It turns out that it may have been a Kyrgyz journalist who sided with the opposition," he claims. "He ordered these DDoS attacks through Ukrainian hackers, as a way of creating a negative feeling around the government by making out they were attacking the opposition."The disagreement about the perpetrator of the Kyrgyz attack demonstrates both the covert nature of such attacks, and the lack of visibility into the cyberspace of some of the more remote parts of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Yet cyberattacks are a more common trait in that part of the world than in other regions, says Rohozinski."It's an interesting combination of political sophistication - a clear understanding of the role of information in politics - and also the fact that you have an awful lot of very tech-savvy people," he says. "If you look at the size of hacker communities - not just script kiddies but those who write original software and exploits - there's a big centre of gravity in Russia."The area has a long history of cyberwar, says Carr. He also runs Project Grey Goose, a distributed collective of volunteers who gather information from sources as diverse as Russian hacker forums and IP network traffic.Carr points to Russian cyberattacks on Chechnya in 2002 as the first concrete example. "That was more of a true cyberwar. It combined server attacks with a kinetic force - a military invasion. And that was repeated in the Russian invasion of Georgia, in combination with an early network attack." He contrasts this with the 2007 attacks on Estonia, which were not accompanied by physical aggression.That's one of the problems with cyberwarfare, says Carr. There isn't a clear, international consensus on what constitutes an act of war in cyberspace. That's pretty important, given that Russian officials have threatened to nuke those that try it.One thing that's clear is that more cyberwar is being crowd-sourced. Grey Goose investigated hacking activity during Russia's recent conflict with Georgia, which was then fed into analytical software from Palantir Technologies and used for trends analysis. The resulting report, published last October, showed that a hierarchy of hacktivists were responsible for DDoS attacks on Georgia's computer networks.This happened in the recent Gaza conflict, too. The hacktivist group The Patriot Team released a downloadable tool that launched DDoS attacks against perceived anti-Israeli sites from willing participants' computers.Mobilising cyber propagandaBut DDoS is just one example of a broader set of information warfare techniques, in which rival groups vie to control the message reaching the rest of the world about a conflict. Another downloadable tool used during the Gaza crisis, called Megaphone, was designed to alert users to anti-Israeli editorials, giving users the chance to send rebuttals, in an effort to sway public opinion through the sheer volume of replies."What the use of information effects in this particular conflict achieved is that it created a space in time for freedom of action in the kinetic realm," says Rohozinski of the Gaza conflict. "[Israel] was able to pursue a military operation without being forced to stop before they accomplished its goals."As the still-nascent cyberwarfare concept emerges, overt battles on the ground are becoming inextricably linked to an often more covert battle of ideologies that play out in the electronic realm. It's tempting to think of this in the same way that we thought of the cold war: another battle in which proxy wars and black ops were used to promote conflicting ideas.What happens as this cyberwar spreads to the west? And has it already happened? The Center for Strategic and International Studies, a US thinkthank, recently released a set of recommendations on cybersecurity for the Obama administration. The bottom line? No one is currently in charge, and there is much work to be done. Let's hope that they finish it before the cyberwar begins to spread.
That moustache is fake, tooEverybody loves Nintendo's Mario Kart, especially on the N64 (which we think is superior to the Wii version). But perhaps French prankster R&eacute;mi Gaillard loves the game a little too much?The Rafael Nadal of Pong?We always think of robots as being potentially superior to humans - but this one hasn't advanced past Pong. Maybe by next year it will have moved on to Space Invaders?Boffins in their elementsThe University of Nottingham is working its way through the table of elements - as videos. Here, we have lead.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Mug that I am, I expect to be an early adopter. The personal convenience of having a backup travel document for trips within Europe seems worth the personal hassle of enrolling for a UK government ID card when they go on general sale next year.Hardly anyone will share my enthusiasm. The genius of the government's flagship IT programme was to come up with a solution to a widely acknowledged problem - authenticating identities - in a way that appeals to almost nobody.Many will object to the card on principle; more, I suspect, will have better things to do with the &pound;30 asking price. The great weakness of the scheme is that in the vast majority of situations when we want to prove we are who we say we are, the card, and the underlying identity register, will be useless.The extent of the gap came home to me at a British Computer Society seminar on business opportunities for the ID card, organised by the Digital Identity Forum and Eema, the European e-trade association. It brought together a room of enthusiasts for the national identity scheme - or as Consult Hyperion's Dave Birch aptly put it, for a national identity scheme. For what's currently on offer, sentiment was overwhelmingly negative.The problem - acknowledged by the minister present, Meg Hillier - is that the card originated in the Home Office. As such, most scenarios for use involve physically handing it to a uniformed official where an individual is under some kind of suspicion. Yet the overwhelming majority of times we need to authenticate our identity aren't like that, because they're almost all commercial transactions and often online.Because the Home Office isn't that interested in online commerce (unless it involves child porn) the expensive, supposedly 21st-century ID card will be no help. By contrast, in  Germany, according to Birch, the new ID card system is being built to work with online pseudonyms and in Finland, citizens can use their ID cards to get an ID for use online.Again, Hillier acknowledged that there's a problem. Online use is "something we're grappling with", she told the seminar. "The more people who have them, the more they will want to use them online." A way had yet to be found for doing this without compromising the card's integrity, she said.The experts weren't impressed. Colin Whittaker, head of security at the banks' payment service, Apacs, said he could see little use for the current scheme. "Some of the features we expect to see in an ID card are not going to be there for the foreseeable future." He was also worried about hiring commercial firms to handle the enrollment process: "That is not gold standard."The consensus was that, in the current economic climate, banks and other organisations will need a lot of persuading before they install expensive equipment to read customers' cards. Even the argument that the cards are better than utility bills didn't wash - apparently all bills have a meter number that can be checked against a central database.So, assuming a new government doesn't cancel the whole thing, we're going to get a national ID scheme, which, at vast expense, fills some of the gaps left by the current passport database. Some officials, mainly in uniforms, will find it useful; a few citizens will, as well.But alongside this behemoth, we'll need another national ID-authentication scheme for use in online commerce and public services. The Home Office won't like it, because it'll be as much about concealing identity as revealing it. But it'll be the system that most citizens - even mugs like me - actually want.
Mixing, not matchingCan you use different anti-spyware programs at the same time?Peter RossJS:This is a tricky one. It's best not to use two different anti-virus products at the same time. These tend to operate at a low level within the operating system, which can cause crashes, and the two programs can clash. Anti-spyware programs tended to operate at a higher level, as spyware was often browser related.Nowadays, viruses are often distributed online and by fake codec downloads rather than by email, so the virus and spyware fields are merging, which makes mixing programs harder. But you can always try it and see how they get on.PalantypingI attended a gathering in Richmond Theatre, at which the then mayor and members of the Greater London Authority were available for public questioning. It was very impressive that their words almost immediately appeared on a screen courtesy of a voice recognition system. How is it done?Grahame MoneyJS:What I believe to be the best PC speech recognition program available - Dragon NaturallySpeaking 10 - can't do that. It's done by skilled "Palantypists" or speech-to-text reporters using a special V-shaped Palantype keyboard. You may have seen them used to record court proceedings.Analternative systemuses a Stenograph keyboard, hence the "Stenographers" in American courts. They are fast because the operator types phonemes instead of individual letters.Printing .pubsAre there any free substitutes for Microsoft Publisher? I want to print out some desktop publishing files, even if I can't edit them. I have tried OpenOffice and it doesn't seem to workTim CalderheadJS:I don't know of a free substitute for Microsoft Office Publisher, which you can "test drive" in anonline version, and Microsoft does not offer a free viewer. You could load the .pub files into Publisher then resave them in a different format, or useZamzar.comto convert them into files you can read and print. Zamzar.com can convert .pub files to Word doc, HTML, PDF and other formats. If you think PDF is your best option, you could also tryConv2pdf.com,pdfonline.comorFreepdfconvert.com.Lost toolbarRecently, a small relative played with my XP Pro PC and the toolbar in Microsoft Word has vanished.Doug FranksJS:The Microsoft Knowledge Base has asupport articlewhich suggests possible solutions.Battery bluesOn booting up my Dell Inspiron 1501, I get a blue screen that says: "WARNING: The battery cannot be identified", etc. The battery is working and charging perfectly well, and there is nothing else wrong with my computer.Richard PappsJS:This seems to be a known problem, which is corrected by updating thesystem BIOS.Backchat• Last week's explanation of how to turn off autoplay in Windows XP only works in XP Pro, as Phil Hynes and others pointed out. Doing it in XP Home involves editing the registry. However, it can be done a little easier using copy-and-paste, as explained on theTweakXP site. Alternatively, it can be done using Microsoft's freeTweakUI utility. Uncheck where it says "Enable Autoplay for removable drives".• Chris Riley wanted to convert a PDF file of his book, originally created on an Acorn computer, into a Microsoft Word file. CS Clark and Peter Thompson pointed out that Adobe Reader has the option to save the contents as a text file. The problem is that you can end up having to reformat the whole thing by hand. Copy-and-paste usually has the same problem.Re my "last-ditch" solution of printing it out and scanning it, Roger Cornwell says: "Save paper! Your OCR software may well be able to recognise a PDF file (I use OmniPage Pro, which can) and the image will be sharper than a scanned image."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
