Best-known for creatingDonkey KongandSuper Mario Bros, Shigeru Miyamoto is an acclaimed games designer and general manager of Nintendo's entertainment analysis and development division. He is currently working  on new titles for the company's 3DS console and the successor to Wii, set  to be unveiled in June.Who has been the biggest influence on your career?From a design perspective, [the late Game Boy creator] Gunpei Yokoi.Are there any games you've played over the years that you wish you'd made?Sim Cityon the PC.Given your experience, have you considered writing a book about games design or teaching others?When I leave the company, I would like to work with young people and teach them about developing. Though it wouldn't be like [traditional] teaching, more explaining how we think and how we interact with the user. For the development process, practical learning is important.If you could work at Nintendo with anyone else from the games industry, who would it be?I would prefer to grow with the team inside Nintendo rather than taking anyone from outside. It would be a joy for me if someone who was working with me became a big success.You've just remadeThe Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Timefor 3DS (out in June). Why choose that game for a 3D update?We thought the world of Hyrule would be more immersive for the players to experience in 3D and also the horse riding and the thrill of exploring would be heightened.What changes have been made in the new version?The touch screen allows users to place items where they want and also to display the map. It uses the 3DS gyro sensor to fire Link's bow and arrow and his slingshot, too. This can be difficult with a controller, but more intuitive moving the 3DS around to aim.Are there any plans to adapt  other older Nintendo games for the  3DS console?Not really. We would like to create more new titles. For example, this year we are makingSuper Mario 3D, but it's not really a remake of [the Wii'sSuper Mario]Galaxy.The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Pastcould be one of them. I think it would be good to see that world with a layered 3D effect.There are a lot of rumours surrounding Nintendo's next home console. Is the company's biggest challenge at the moment to come up with something completely different from its competitors?I think when you talk about competing against others, the problem is that you refer to something that's been done already and try to beat it. Rather than looking at what other companies are doing, the focus at Nintendo is on uniqueness. Providing new means of entertainment is the important thing.Is it getting more difficult these days for Nintendo to satisfy gamers' needs and to find the right balance between the quality and timeliness of releases?I think that's true, even more so because there are more pieces of hardware and we need to create games that are suited to the hardware. As for delivering a game, sometimes we have to give up on an idea, but it's my feeling that you should always try to provide the best possible experience to the users!Do you see your role at Nintendo changing in the future?Well, I'm not really thinking of retirement yet! Maybe in the future, I will focus on fewer titles.When you do leave Nintendo, what do you hope your legacy will be?I'd like to be known as the person who saw things from a different point of view to others.
In 1971, Bob Thomas, an engineer working for Bolt, Beranek and Newman, the Boston company that had the contract to build the Arpanet, the precursor of the internet, released a virus called the "creeper" on to the network. It was an experimental, self-replicating program that infected DEC PDP-10 minicomputers. It did no actual harm and merely displayed a cheeky message: "I'm the creeper, catch me if you can!" Someone else wrote a program to detect and delete it, called – inevitably – the "reaper".Although nobody could have known it 40 years ago, it was the start of something big, something that would one day threaten to undermine, if not overwhelm, the networked world. For as we became more and more dependent on information and communications technology, we were also subjected to a plague of what came to be called "malware".It's an ugly term, as befits something that covers a multitude of sins, all involving computer code designed with destructive or malevolent intent. It includes not only viruses, which are programs that replicate by copying themselves into other programs, but also worms (self-replicating programs that use a network to send copies of themselves to other machines on the network, with or without human assistance) and Trojans (similar to viruses but instead of replicating they infiltrate a computer and perform some illicit activity, possibly under remote control). Malware also refers to other evils: the junk mail we call spam; "phishing", or trying to hoodwink internet users into revealing bank account passwords etc; page-jacking, which makes it difficult or impossible for a victim to get rid of a web page; and other scams.The malware plague has gone through several phases. It began in a harmless and experimental way with the creeper and a worm released on to the internet in 1988 by Robert Morris, a student from New York State's Cornell University. Morris wanted to find out how many computers were connected to the internet so he wrote a small program that would install itself on every machine it found and send back a "present and correct" message.But there was a flaw in his code that meant the worm replicated. On 2 November 1988, network administrators realised something was up because their machines – and the network itself – had slowed to a crawl. In the end, the culprit was identified and carpeted, though it doesn't seem to have done him any lasting harm: Morris is now a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Malware began on the internet, but its next phase involved the stand-alone machines we now call personal computers. In 1982, a Pennsylvanian teenager named Rich Skrenta created the "elk cloner" virus that infected the Apple II, then the most popular personal computer in upmarket US households. Skrenta's virus covertly altered the floppy disk needed to boot up the computer, displaying some doggerel on the screen on start up. It was annoying but harmless.Early PC malware tended to be like that – irritating but not terribly destructive. And malware spread slowly, because most of these PCs were not networked; infections spread by "sneakernet" – ie users sharing floppy disks. The real trouble began when domestic internet use exploded in 1993. From then on, an infected PC was a potential menace not just to its owner, but to other machines with which it communicated.For many people, early malware was a baffling phenomenon. It was seen as something akin to physical vandalism in the real world – hooligans despoiling an environment for no obvious reason. What motivated them? Nobody knew, though several psychologists had a go at explaining it. The notion that malware was motiveless destructiveness was fuelled by the fact that much of it was imitative, carried out by "script kiddies" – non-programmers who downloaded DIY virus-construction kits.In the 1990s, malware development accelerated. When Microsoft released Windows 95, it rapidly became the de facto standard for the PC industry and the world's IT systems came to exhibit the characteristics of a monoculture: millions and millions of PCs across the globe, all running the same software, all sharing the same security vulnerabilities. At the same time, domestic broadband connections became common. Suddenly, there were millions of machines, operated by people with little understanding of computer security, with shared vulnerabilities and fast connections to the network.Most importantly, malware found a business model in the late 1990s. The fragility of the monoculture could be exploited for profit. Spamming – junk emailing – could now be done on a truly gigantic scale. Hitherto, it had required identifiable servers with broadband access to the net. But the new broadband environment offered a better infrastructure. All you had to do was find machines with fast connections, unpatched security vulnerabilities and non-savvy owners and infect them with a Trojan that would turn them into relay stations for spam (and which could be turned off just as easily, to avoid detection).Spamming works because it can be very profitable. It costs very little more to send 10m emails than it does to send 100. If you're selling a packet of Viagra for $20 and you have a response rate of 0.1%, you'll make $20 from 1,000 emails. But if you send out 10m and have the same response rate you'll be earning $200,000 a day. This is the kind of serious money that makes organised criminal gangs sit up.The idea of covertly suborning networked PCs was a critical breakthrough for malware because it enabled malefactors to set up "botnets" – networks of compromised machines that could be remotely controlled. Nobody knows how many of these botnets exist, but there are probably thousands of them worldwide and some are very large.A list of the 10 largest in the US in 2009, for example, estimated that they ranged in size from 210,000 to 3.6m compromised machines.In addition to spamming, botnets can be used for a wide variety of purposes. They can, for example, launch "distributed denial of service" (DDOS) attacks on e-commerce or other web sites. Each machine in the botnet bombards the targeted site with simultaneous requests, repeated incessantly, to the point where the site's servers buckle under the load or the site becomes unusable by legitimate customers. More sinisterly, botnets can be used for blackmail, effectively extracting protection money from retail sites to ward off the threat of a DDOS attack. Nobody talks about this in public, but it goes on.Domestic PCs that have been compromised by Trojans can be put to other uses too. For example, they can covertly monitor their user's keystrokes when logging into banking and other sites, thereby stealing passwords and credit card details. At a recent presentation by officers from Soca (Serious Organised Crime Agency), I was struck by a slide that showed how highly developed the online market in stolen credit card data had become. It showed a marketplace for "USA 100% APPROVED TRACK2 DUMPS" in which Visa debit card details were going for $8 and American Express details were $10. On another such marketplace, American MasterCard details cost $15 while European credit card details were going for $40 a pop. "Buying large quantities," it said, "prices are negotiable for every customers." (Grammar and spelling are not a speciality in this particular netherworld.)We've come a long way from the creeper and elk cloner. The driving forces behind contemporary malware are financial gain and organised crime, much of it with its headquarters in Russia and other parts of eastern Europe. One of the most blatant examples of an online marketplace in stolen credit card data was CarderPlanet.com, a website ostensibly based in Vietnam, but operated by people based in Russia and Ukraine, and now shut down. A seniorUS secret service official described CarderPlanetas "one of the most sophisticated organisations of online financial criminals in the world" which had been "repeatedly linked to nearly every major intrusion of financial information reported to the international law enforcement community".Some of the principals behind CarderPlanet were arrested after an intensive campaign by the US authorities.But one of them, Dmitry Ivanovich Golubov, was subsequently released by the Ukrainian authoritiesand has allegedly started a political organisation called "the Internet Party of the Ukraine".The latest round in the malware saga came in June last year when the Stuxnet worm finally broke cover. Stuxnet infects Windows computers and spreads mainly via infected USB sticks, so it doesn't require the internet for dissemination.Once a USB stick infects a machine, it uses a variety of tricks to infect other machines on the local network and to take control of them, but with an added twist. It looks for a special kind of programmable logic controller (PLC) made by the German company Siemens. If a PLC is found, the worm infects it using a vulnerability in the controller's software and changes its code and thus its behaviour. This is scary because these Siemens controllers play a critical role in virtually every industrialised plant in the world, including water treatment plants, electricity grids and oil refineries, and nuclear reprocessing facilities.One target of Stuxnet was Iran's controversial nuclear weapons programme, specifically the gas centrifuges it uses to enrich uranium. It is claimed thatthe worm reprogrammed the Siemens PLCsto cause over 900 centrifuges to spin uncontrollably while at the same time feeding back "normal" data to the plant's operators, thereby concealing the problem until it was too late.The fact that this has set back Iran's nuclear programme by several years has led to speculation that the worm was the creation not of criminal hackers, but of a state agency (possibly Israeli or American). This hunch was supported by the fact that Stuxnet seems a pretty sophisticated piece of malware.Bruce Schneier, a leading security expert, estimates                                                                    that it would have taken eight to 10 accomplished programmers six months to design, implement and test it under laboratory conditions. It's difficult to imagine the criminal hacking fraternity having the resources to do that.Why has malware become so pervasive and so difficult to combat? The main reason is that malevolent innovation is the downside of the open architecture of the PC and the internet. The combination of an open, programmable PC and a network that is open to anyonecreated a "generative system" whichwas uniquely hospitable to what has come to be called "permissionless innovation". This had some amazing benefits – it gave us the world wide web, for example, Wikipedia, the Linux operating system and the Apache web-server software that powers a majority of the world's web sites. But it has also given us the malware plague.There is another, deeper, fear – that the mysterious botnets that have been assembled by the merchants of malware may one day be used in some co-ordinated way to engineer a massive global event – cyberspace's equivalent of 9/11, if you will. If something like that were to happen, then the response of governments everywhere would be draconian. Just as civil liberties in western democracies were massively eroded by the aftermath of 9/11 and the ensuing "war on terror", so the freedoms we have hitherto taken for granted in cyberspace would be correspondingly curtailed. The day might come when you'll need a government licence to connect to the internet. Bob Thomas's creeper could have a creepy inheritance.
The spate of suicides made headlines around the world. Last May, seven young Chinese workers producing Apple iPads for consumers across the globe took their own lives, prompting an investigation into working conditions at the Foxconn factory in Shenzhen, southern China.Nine Chinese sociologists wrote an open letter to the media calling for an end to regimented and restrictive work practices which they condemned as "a model where fundamental human dignity is sacrificed for development".One year on, swaths of anti-suicide netting surround the huge worker dormitories in Shenzhen. But an investigation by two NGOs reveals that many workers making iPhones and iPads for eager world markets are exploited and living a dismal life.In Shenzhen and Chengdu a joint Foxconn workforce of 500,000 is providing the labour that, in the first quarter of 2011, contributed to Apple Inc net profit of $6bn (£3.6bn). Interviews with mainly migrant employees and managers have laid bare the dark side of those profits: a Dickensian world of work that would be considered shocking in the west.The Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations and the human rights group Students &amp; Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour (Sacom) have a track record in investigating the human cost of China's economic boom. The interviews they recently conducted in Shenzhen and Chengdu, which have been passed to theObserver, are sometimes heartrending."Sometimes my roommates cry when they arrive in the dormitory after a long day," one 19-year-old girl told investigators. "It's difficult to adapt to this work and hard to be away from your family."Li (not her real name) arrived a few months ago to join the rapidly growing workforce at the newest factory opened by Foxconn, which is Apple's major supplier. She was attracted, like many of her colleagues, by government adverts promising work and good pay.Apple is publicly committed to good employment practice. Its supplier code of conduct demands that employees in its supply chain are treated with respect and dignity. But Li claims that her experience has been one of illegally long hours and draconian rules for a basic daily wage of as little as £5.20. Like her, many Foxconn workers manage to go home only once a year.For the first few days at the factory, Li said that she and her colleagues – most seem to be aged 18-20 – were put through military drills by former soldiers: "They made us do marching and standing still and walking. It was very boring."The dormitories where she and most others live offer little comfort. Up to 24 people can share one room and the rules are strict, even prohibiting the use of a kettle or a hairdryer. One worker who did was forced to write a confession letter: "It is my fault. I will never blow my hair inside my room. I have done something wrong. I will never do it again."Many workers interviewed claimed that they were regularly required to work far in excess of the 36 hours of overtime per month that Chinese law – and therefore international labour law – permits. At Chengdu it was claimed that anything between 60 and 80 hours of overtime a month was normal. One worker produced a payslip showing 98 hours of extra time in a single month – nearly three times the legal maximum and in breach of Apple's own code of conduct. The rule that employees should have one day off in seven is often flouted, some claimed.Others said that if they missed targets, they had to work through their lunch breaks to make up for it. When they do get a day off, they spend much of it catching up on sleep. During work, some employees claimed they were forbidden to speak to each other and some were forced to stand for hours without a break. Foxconn, a Fortune 500 company, does not deny it breaks the overtime laws, but claims that all overtime is voluntary.Workers who step out of line can be publicly humiliated, it is alleged. "When a worker makes a mistake, when he talks or laughs loudly, he will be humiliated," a production worker said. "Sometimes you have to stand like a soldier in front of everybody. It is a loss of dignity and means an extra pressure for the worker."A typical working day in Chengdu means getting up at 6.30am, catching a bus for the 30-minute ride to the factory at 7.10am and attending a compulsory – but unpaid – assembly at 8.10am, before starting work at 8.30am. Shifts, including overtime and breaks, end at 8.30pm. Night shifts follow a similar pattern; with demand for the iPad2 outstripping supply in many countries, this is a round-the-clock operation. Demand for the first iPad was so intense that workers claim they had to put in a seven-day week during peak production period."We only had a rest day every 13 days," claimed one. "And there was no overtime premium for weekends. Working for 12 hours a day really made me exhausted." Sacom says the company's initial response to the suicides was to bring in monks to exorcise evil spirits. The chief executive later suggested workers were committing suicide to secure large compensation payments for their families. Workers were even asked to sign a document promising not to commit suicide and pledging that if they did their families would not claim more compensation than the legal minimum.Eventually, the company raised wages at Shenzhen, though it is currently switching much of its production to Chengdu, where it expects to eventually employ 200,000 people. There are about 400,000 workers at Shenzhen, a number expected to drop to around 300,000.The company concedes that it has faced "some very challenging months for everyone associated with the Foxconn family and the loss of a number of colleagues to tragic suicides".The anti-suicide nets, says Louis Woo, special assistant to the chairman, were suggested by psychologists and other suicide prevention experts. The anti-suicide pledge, Foxconn said, was the idea of the official employee labour union at a rally last year and was "dedicated to the promotion of treasuring your life". Critics point out that in China, unions are not independent bodies.When theObserverchallenged Woo over the NGOs' findings, he said the workers' criticisms were unduly harsh. Responding to the allegations of public humiliation, he said: "It is not something we endorse or encourage. However, I would not exclude that this might happen given the diverse and large population of our workforce. But we are working to change it."Not all employees had to stand, he said, and there was no "ban" on talking in the factories. Instead, employees were "encouraged not to engage in conversations that may distract them from the attention needed to ensure accuracy and their own safety". NGO investigator Leontien Aarnoudse is unimpressed. Although Apple and Foxconn make enormous profits, she said, employees "work excessive overtime for a salary they can hardly live on while they are inhumanely treated by the management."The work is so monotonous and they are so young. When they start this job they have no idea what they are letting themselves in for. They don't have a social life any more. Their life is just working in a factory and that is it."While Apple says it expects high standards from suppliers, its own audit reports suggest that many fall short. The latest figures show Foxconn's Chinese factories are not alone in working staff beyond the legal limits, with fewer than one in three supplier factories obeying the rules on working hours. The audits also show that 30% broke rules on wages and benefits, while 24% were in breach of strict rules on involuntary labour.In Shenzhen and Chengdu, the workforce knows only too well that such conditions can all too often lead to despair and, last summer, to tragedy.In a statement, Apple said: "Apple is committed to ensuring the highest standards of social responsibility throughout our supply base. Apple requires suppliers to commit to our comprehensive supplier.• This story was amended on 1 May 2011 to correct the name of The Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations
An investigation into the conditions of Chinese workers has revealed the shocking human cost of producing the must-have Apple iPhones and iPads that are now ubiquitous in the west.The research, carried out by two NGOs, has revealed disturbing allegations of excessive working hours and draconian workplace rules at two major plants in southern China. It has also uncovered an "anti-suicide" pledge that workers at the two plants have been urged to sign, after a series of employee deaths last year.The investigation gives a detailed picture of life for the 500,000 workers at the Shenzhen and Chengdu factories owned by Foxconn, which produces millions of Apple products each year. The report accuses Foxconn of treating workers "inhumanely, like machines".Among the allegations made by workers interviewed by the NGOs – the Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations and Students &amp; Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour (Sacom) – are claims that:■ Excessive overtime is routine, despite a legal limit of 36 hours a month. One payslip, seen by theObserver, indicated that the worker had performed 98 hours of overtime in a month.■ Workers attempting to meet the huge demand for the first iPad were sometimes pressured to take only one day off in 13.■ In some factories badly performing workers are required to be publicly humiliated in front of colleagues.■ Crowded workers' dormitories can sleep up to 24 and are subject to strict rules. One worker told the NGO investigators that he was forced to sign a "confession letter" after illicitly using a hairdryer. In the letter he wrote: "It is my fault. I will never blow my hair inside my room. I have done something wrong. I will never do it again."■ In the wake of a spate of suicides at Foxconn factories last summer, workers were asked to sign a statement promising not to kill themselves and pledging to "treasure their lives".Foxconn produced its first iPad at Chengdu last November and expects to produce 100m a year by 2013. Last year Apple sold more than 15m iPads worldwide and has already sold close to five million this year.When the allegations were put  to Foxconn by theObserver, manager Louis Woo confirmed that workers sometimes worked more than the statutory overtime limit to meet demand from western consumers, but claimed that all the extra hours were voluntary. Workers claim that, if they turn down excessive demands for overtime, they will be forced to rely on their basic wage: workers in Chengdu are paid only 1,350 yuan (£125) a month for a basic 48-hour week, equivalent to about 65p an hour.Asked about the suicides that have led to anti-suicide netting being fitted beneath the windows of workers' dormitories, Woo said: "Suicides were not connected to bad working conditions. There was a copy effect. If one commits suicide, then others will follow."In a statement, Apple said: "Apple is committed to ensuring the highest standards of social responsibility throughout our supply base. Apple requires suppliers to commit to our comprehensive supplier code of conduct as a condition of their contracts with us. We drive compliance with the code through a rigorous monitoring programme, including factory audits, corrective action plans and verification measures."• This story was amended on 1 May 2011 to correct the name of The Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations
Next To HeavenRob Parrish's video series first hit the web in 2006, but has remained dormant for years. Now it's back, more brilliantly bizarre than ever. The idea is straightforward – stock footage from the 50s and 60s is given a new voice-track – but it's superbly executed. The films are odd in themselves, but here they're given an extra layer of surreal. In recent uploads we meet a woman who keeps men as pets; some cartoon birds suffering from an existential crisis caused by being trapped in a 2D world, and learn about a frozen condition caused by a Perry Como album.My Band T-ShirtClash T-Shirt.The brainchild of music writers Jude Rogers and Ian Wade, this blog celebrates the humble, often much maligned fashion item – the band logo T-shirt. All the shirts here have been kept for decades and have become totems of their owners' pasts, such as a Clash T-shirt that the owner saw fit to chop into a big vest-shaped mess, rendering it unwearable. And yet they haven't ever had the heart to throw it away. It's all very heartwarming and will make you want to dig through all those bin bags of clothes you meant to take to the charity shop to rescue that once-cherished World Tour T-shirt.Blog roll: MagsLike Punk Never Happened.Like Punk Never HappenedThe contents of 80s issues of deceased pop bible Smash Hits, plus scans.Take A Weird BreakCelebrating the weird and wonderful true-life stories from the mega-selling glossy red top.UmbrellaFree online magazine for men, featuring fashion, design, architecture and lamb cutlets.Kill ScreenA close inspection of the 3DS home screen and other detailed gaming pursuits.Bad MagsArchive of 70s pulp detective, horror and conspiracy mags. Enter at your own risk.Tap!App reviews, games, gadgets and accessories for iPad and iPhone users.What we learned on the web this weekSome houses look like faces.Some houseslook a lot like facesThe historyof Seinfield's trainersEverybody poops– but specially FergieYou don'tneed pictures, just the right fontThe early historyof David LettermanSex sells everything– even coffinsFlossing is moreimportant than brushing… And time-lapsetooth correction is slightly unsettlingPeanuts withoutthe final frame is so depressingRegional sportscommentators are quite excitable
When you get into a new car, the first thing you do is adjust the seat. Then you check the mirrors – rear-view and side – and re-angle as necessary. Basically, you alter the car a little bit, to make it fit you.I would argue that you then – perhaps subconsciously – alter yourself a little bit, too, to make yourself fit the car. So if this car is a Prius, you turn up your smugness levels a little. A Range Rover: you suddenly become unaware of, and superior to, the world outside. A Porsche: your penis shrinks by an inch or two. (This whole thing applies only to guys really; women are less affected, either through strength of character, or through a lack of car-awareness).My theory is backed up by what happens in the new Passat. After not very long behind the wheel, I&nbsp;find I&nbsp;understand spreadsheets for the first time. Not just understand, I&nbsp;actually begin to think in spreadsheets. And I've hung my jacket in&nbsp;the back. Do you see what I'm saying? I'm turning grey. I don't mean in an ageing way (that'shappened already), I mean grey in a&nbsp;grey way, internally, spiritually.There's no denying the Passat's credentials. Over generations, VW has honed its dependable family workhorse almost to perfection. But every revision has nudged it a bit closer to the middle of the road so that now it actually sits, perfectly balanced, astride the crash barrier in the central reservation. Figuratively speaking, of course – this car is much too sensible actually to do that.These latest modifications have made it more angular outside. Inside,&nbsp;it's more comfortable, and quieter. It's more efficient and greener: 65.7mpg on this model, and&nbsp;CO2 emissions of 114g/km. That's impressive – perhaps a little smugness is called for.And if the 1.6 diesel is not right for you, there'll be one that is, and you can adjust your psyche accordingly. But it won't require more than a tweak, because you'll be a particular kind of person to have wanted a Passat in the first place. Except, in your defence, it was probably your company that chose it for you.At the start of my test drive, I refer to the car as the Ass Pat, hilariously, I think, and ironically, too, because if this car were a person, it would be one whose ass you wouldn't want to pat at all. But as we go on, sensibly and economically, my clever spoonerism feels increasingly puerile and stupid. And I actually start to like the car – well, like is probably too strong a word, but I can see that it does offer an attractive package when you compare it with its rivals… Aaarghh, I've already been worn down by Das Auto.Volkswagen Passat SE BlueMotion Technology 1.6TDIPrice£20,920Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.2 secondsAverage consumption65.7mphCO2 emmissions114g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelKen Barlow
It's early September and I wake up in a Brighton hotel, the sea crashing just outside. In a few hours, I will embark on what I have come here to do: have a series of five-minute-long instant-message exchanges with strangers. It may not sound like much, but the stakes for these quick chats are high. On the other side of the conversation will be a psychologist, a linguist, a&nbsp;broadcaster and a computer scientist. Together they will form a judging panel, evaluating my ability to do one of the strangest things I've been asked to do: convince them that I'm human.Fortunately, I am human; unfortunately, it's not clear how much that will help.I'm participating as a human "confederate": one of four representatives of homo sapiens in theartificial intelligencecommunity's most anticipated annual event – a meeting to confer theLoebner prizeon the winner of a competition called theTuring test. The test is named after mathematicianAlan Turing, famed second world war code-breaker and one of the founders of computer science, who in 1950 attempted to answer one of the field's earliest questions: Can machines think? That is, would it be possible to construct a computer so sophisticated it could be said to be intelligent, to have a mind? And if indeed there were, someday, such a machine, how would we know?Instead of debating this question on theoretical grounds, Turing proposed an experiment. A panel of judges each pose questions, via computer terminal, to several pairs of unseen correspondents – one a human, the other a&nbsp;computer program – and attempt to discern which is which. The dialogue can range from small talk to trivia questions, from gossip to heavy-duty philosophy – the gamut of human conversation. Turing predicted that, by the year 2000, computers would be able to fool 30% of human judges after five minutes of conversation and that, as a result, one would "be able to speak of machines thinking".Turing's famous prediction did not come to pass. By the turn of the millennium, even the most advanced computer programs at the Loebner prize were generally lucky to manage a single "deception" – instances when a judge votes the computer to be the human (and vice versa) – each year. However, at the 2008 contest, the top-scoring machine managed a whopping three deceptions, fooling a quarter of the 12-judge panel and missing Turing's 30% mark by a single vote. A narrow scrape for humanity; reading the news, I realised the 2009 test, to be held in Brighton, could be the decisive one.Each year, the computer program that receives the most votes and highest ranking from the judges is awarded the "Most Human Computer" title. It is this title that the research teams are gunning for, the one that includes a several-thousand-dollar research grant, the one with which the organisers and spectators are principally concerned. But there is also another title, one given to the most convincing confederate: the Most Human Human award.Here's the thing: beyond its use as a technological benchmark, beyond even the philosophical, biological and moral questions it poses, the Turing test is, at bottom, about the act of communication. I see its deepest questions as practical ones: how do we connect meaningfully with each other within the limits of language and time? How does empathy work? These, to me, are the test's most central questions – the most&nbsp;central questions of being human. And to explore them, I decided to enter as one of the human confederates.My first step was to write toHugh Loebnerhimself, who put me in touch with the contest organisers: before I knew it, my name was on the confederate roster. The competition would be held during the science conference Interspeech at&nbsp;Brighton that autumn; the other confederates would be attendees who would volunteer a&nbsp;couple of weeks before. I felt like a bit of a fraud: I had no research paper to present, I was in Brighton just for this. Then again, 2009 could be the year Turing's prediction came true. My own ability to convince the judges that I am, in fact, human could make or break the human defence.The organisers briefed me on the logistics of the competition, but not much else. "There's not much more you need to know, really," I was told. "You are human, so just be yourself."This advice suggested to me a somewhat naive overconfidence in human intuition. Many of the AI programs we humans go up against are the result of decades of work. The AI research teams have huge databases of test runs for their programs, and they know how deftly to guide the conversation away from their shortcomings and toward their strengths, which conversational routes lead to deep exchange and which ones fizzle. We humans, however, don't always know what makes a conversation succeed or fail. We are frequently left scratching our heads, asking others for advice, even enrolling in communication classes.One of the first winners of the Most Human Human award, in 1994, was Wired columnistCharles Platt. How did he do it? By "being moody, irritable and obnoxious", he writes – which strikes me as not only hilarious and bleak but, in some deeper sense, a call to arms: how, in fact, do we be the "most human" we can be?I decided to ignore the organisers' advice to "just be myself" – I would spend months preparing to give the contest everything I had. My preparation took me to some strange and fascinating places. University of New Mexico's artificial life researcherDavid Ackleycounselled me that to speak at the right times is generally more important than to say the right things. The history of the computer has generally been a&nbsp;case of expecting the right answers, as quickly as possible – whereas life is more the reverse: the timely answer, as correct as possible.What's more, a look into the linguistic history of pseudo-words such as "um" turned up evidence that negotiating the turn-taking of conversation is at least as challenging as knowing what to say, and in fact is particularly devilish for software to grapple with. Perhaps surprisingly, then, informal chatter, with its silences and overlaps, is more complex than formal conversation.A foray into the world of online security – where Twitter users increasingly find themselves "followed" bybots(accounts run by a computer rather than a person), and Facebook and email users often find their friends touting strange products, only to realise their out-of-character endorsements come instead from bots who have hijacked their account – suggested that rather than authenticate ourselves with content (pin, password, social security number), in the human world we recognise each other by form: facial expression, voice, idiosyncrasies of diction and syntax. That is, more by the how than the what.A look at some of the early chatbot programs – starting with the famous therapist-parodyElizain 1965 (which would respond to a statement such as, "My head hurts" with, "Why do you say your head hurts?") – revealed a crucial difference between "stateless" and "stateful" conversation. In a "stateless" conversation, each question and answer is self-contained, providing its own context and responding only to the immediately previous remark.Human conversation is generally in the stateful mode, where each remark and reply builds on the last, creating an accumulation of context in which later remarks gain additional shades of meaning, sometimes to the point where, without this context, an eavesdropper would find the talk inscrutably cryptic or ambiguous.Humans don't always converse this way, and bot programmers explicitly try to steer the conversation towards the mathematically simpler stateless forms of dialogue. One such example is trivia or test-taking: the asking of discrete and not necessarily connected questions. Another, I was interested to learn, is verbal abuse: the back-and-forth trading of insults that often results in both parties forgetting what they were originally talking about. It became my job to resist such moments. As I researched the best way to do so, I was struck by how the chatbots' deliberate attempts to simplify language were eerily reminiscent of human conversation at its most lacklustre.Turing proposed his test as a way to measure the progress of technology, but it just as easily presents us with a way to measure our own. Oxfordphilosopher John Lucasargues that if we fail to prevent the machines from passing the Turing test, it will be "not because machines are so intelligent, but because humans, many of them at least, are so wooden".A look at the transcripts of Turing tests past – the types of conversations that bots both produce and induce – is in some sense a tour of the various ways in which we demur, dodge the question, lighten the mood, change the subject, distract, soliloquise, burn time: what shouldn't pass as real conversation at the Turing test probably shouldn't be allowed to pass as real human conversation, either. And so a good strategy for the Turing test may well be a good strategy for life.Entering the Brighton Centre, I found myself in the crush of several thousand engineers, programmers and theorists from all over the world. I made my way to the Loebner prize contest room, where a handful of audience members had gathered, and up front, what could only be the bot programmers worked hurriedly, plugging in tangles of wires and making the last flurries of keystrokes.Before I could get too good a look at them, test organiser Philip Jackson led me behind a velvet curtain. Four of us confederates sat around a table: Doug, a Canadian linguistics researcher; Dave, an American engineer working for Sandia National Laboratories; Olga, a speech-research graduate student from South Africa; and me. As we introduced ourselves, we could hear the judges and audience members slowly filing in on the other side of the curtain. We grew quiet, staring at the blinking cursors on our laptops. It was a strange feeling, almost existential: my humanity thrown into doubt, my species' honour at stake. And Doug, Dave, Olga and I were simultaneously allies – against the Turing test – and competitors for the Most Human Human award.Meanwhile, my months of preparation, of interviews and rumination and research, would be over in a few minutes. My hands poised over the keyboard like a nervous gunfighter's over his holsters. Then all at once, letters and words began&nbsp;to materialise:hi how are you doing?The Turing test had begun.I had learned from reading past transcripts that judges – who steer these conversations – come in two types: the small-talkers and the interrogators. The latter go straight in with word problems, spatial reasoning, deliberate misspellings. They lay down a verbal obstacle course, and you have to run it. This type of conversation is extraordinarily hard for programmers to prepare against.The downside to the give-'em-the-third-degree approach is that it doesn't leave much room to express yourself, personality-wise. Small talk has the advantage of making it easier to get a sense of who a person is – if you are indeed talking to a person. And this style of conversation comes more naturally to layperson judges. The downside is that these conversations are, in some sense, uniform – familiar in a way that allows a programmer to anticipate a number of the questions.I started typing back.hey there! I'm good, excited to actually be typing, how are you?Four minutes and 43 seconds left. My fingers tapped and fluttered anxiously. I imagined the boilerplate conversation ahead of us:Good, you? / Pretty good. Where are you from? / Seattle. How about yourself? / London. I could just feel the clock grinding away while we lingered over the pleasantries. This template and routine was the enemy, every bit as much as the bots. How, I was thinking as I typed, do I get an obviously human connection to happen?Part of the process is what chess players call "getting out of book". Every chess game begins from an identical starting point, and only a certain number of moves are possible, and thus it takes top-level players a considerable amount of time before they reach a position with which neither is familiar: here they are "out of book" and must rely on judgment, rather than mere memory.Conversations are much the same: what chess players want from each other, what Turing test judges want from the confederates, is what we want, chatting with old friends – to breeze past formalities and received gestures, out of book, and into the real thing.Soon enough my judge and I were debating the relative merits of the Beatles and the Stones. But just as things were getting good, the five-minute timer expired and his keystrokes disappeared.In a 2006 article about the Turing test, the Loebner prize co-founder Robert Epstein writes, "One thing is certain: whereas the confederates in the competition will never get any smarter, the computers will." I agree with the latter, and couldn't disagree more strongly with the former.The implication is that, because technological evolution seems to occur so much faster than biological evolution (measured in years rather than millennia), once homo sapiens is overtaken, it won't be able to catch up. Simply put: the Turing test, once passed, is passed for ever. I don't buy it.It's the close of the afternoon, and Philip Jackson is announcing the winner of 2009's Most Human Computer award – a chatbot written by AI-enthusiast and former Loebner prizewinner David Levy. I know what's next on the agenda, and my stomach knots despite myself. I'm certain that Doug's won it; he and the Canadian judge were talking hockey from the&nbsp;third sentence."And the results here show also the identification of the humans," Jackson says. "And from the ranking list we can see that 'Confederate 1', which is Brian Christian, was the most human."And he hands me a small certificate: the Most Human Human award.I didn't know what to feel about it, exactly. It seemed strange to treat it as meaningless or trivial: I had, after all, prepared quite seriously, and that preparation had, I thought, paid off. And I found myself surprisingly invested in the outcome – how I did individually, yes, but also how the four of us did together. In fact, I was proud to learn that my fellow confederates and I had avenged the mistakes of 2008 in dramatic fashion. Whereas 2008 was a nail-biter with a&nbsp;stunning five deceptions, the humans in 2009 had effected a complete shut-out. It was with no small measure of pride that I learned we hadn't permitted a single vote to go the machines' way.It's quite rare for technology to appear to move backwards like this, and partly it's because Loebner allows certain of the test's parameters to be varied each year (for instance, 2008 simply had more judges). But there's a deeper reason, too. We think of science as an indefatigable advance. But in the context of the Turing test, humans – dynamic as ever – don't allow for that kind of narrative. The fact is, the human race got to where it is by being the most adaptive, flexible, innovative and quick-learning species on the planet. We're not going to take defeat lying down.• The Most Human Human: A Defence of Humanity In The Age Of The Computer by Brian Christian is published by Viking on 5 May at £18.99. To order a copy for £15.19 with free UK mainland p&amp;p, go to theGuardian Bookshop.
Facebook has removed dozens of profiles from its site, causing an outcry from campaigners trying to organise anti-austerity protests this weekend.The deactivated pages include UK Uncut, and pages created by students during last December's university occupations.A list posted on the Stop Facebook Purge group says Chesterfield Stop the Cuts, Tower Hamlet Greens, London Student Assembly, Southwark SoS and Bristol Uncut sites are no longer functioning.Administrators for the profiles say hundreds of links between activists have been broken in the run up to the May Day bank holiday. When users click on URL links the message "the page you requested was not found" now appears.Guy Aitchison, 26, an administrator for one of the non-functioning pages, said: "I woke up this morning to find that a lot of the groups we'd been using for anti cuts activity had disappeared. The timing of it seems suspicious, given a general political crackdown because of the wedding. It seems that dozens of other groups have also been affected, including some of the local UK Uncut groups."It is not yet known how many groups have been affected in total. A Facebook spokeswoman explained that the profiles were suspended because they had not been registered correctly and denied that the removal of pages was politically motivated or instigated by law enforcement concerns before the royal wedding.Facebook accounts that claim to represent individual people but are in fact groups or organisations contravene the company's "statement of rights and responsibilities".The company said a number accounts were suspended at the same time.Facebook uses technology to track relationships between groups and when one "fake" profile is found, pages that have links to it are also checked. This is done to maintain safety and security on the site and the removal of everything from fake celebrities to pages representing pets is a regular occurrence.The company did not confirm how many activist accounts had been deactivated on Friday morning.A spokeswoman for Facebook said activists would be contacted by email and told how to re-activate their accounts correctly. They said this would take several days.Jim Killock, 38 who runs the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for civil liberties on the net, said: "It's pretty flatfooted of Facebook to pull profiles without notifying users. Clearly, if you just take down sites without any warning, people are going to feel aggrieved, they're going to have activities disrupted and be unable to organise politically," he said."It's a pretty bureaucratic move; it's almost impossible to know the difference between a profile and a page, so Facebook should have emailed people first and given them some notice. It's bizarre and upsetting and it's not a good way to treat their users," he said.
South Parkreturned to US  television on Wednesday night and wasted no time tackling the controversy surrounding Apple and its alleged "big brother" tendencies.The sharply satirical and topical animated show, now in its 15th season, latched on to therecent revelations that Apple's iPhone and iPad keep track of everywhere you go, and stores the data in hidden files on the devices.In the episode, which also parodiesthe 2010 Dutch horror film The Human Centipede, Apple chief Steve Jobs decides to create a new product – a HumancentiPad, a hybrid of the iPhone, iPad and three human beings. One of the boys from South Park, Kyle Broflovski, is chosen to take part in the experiment after he carelessly clicks on "I agree" without reading the new iTunes terms and conditions. The result can be seen below.Elsewhere in the episode, South Park's resident misanthrope Eric Cartman gets rather upset when his mother refuses to buy him an iPad, offering to buy him the cheaper "Toshiba HandiBook" instead.This is not the first time that technology icons have come under the withering gaze of South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker. In 2007, the showwon an Emmy award for the episode Make Love Not Warcraft, which lovingly parodied the online roleplaying game World of Warcraft. That episode was created with the support of World of Warcraft developer Blizzard. And recent series have featured episodes about Facebook, Bill Gates, the internet and the movie Tron.Critical reaction to the HumancentiPad episode has been largely positive. Writingat the Entertainment Weekly website,Ken Tucker said:Joining together two wildly disparate elements, one of the best-known entities in the world (Apple and its products such as the iPad) and one of the least-known (the cult film The Human Centipede), the half hour was an unspeakable pleasure.IGN.com critic Ramsey Islersays the ridiculousness of user agreements and those who don't read them is a point well made:We should all be a wee bit more cognizant of exactly what we're agreeing to (although the enforceability of unreasonable terms in EULAs can always be judged by the courts). But the bigger issue here is one of putting your faith in a corporate giant that may not have your best interests in mind.Myself, I thought the episode was largely hilarious – particularly the selfish Cartman's foul-mouthed tirade when his mother refuses to buy him an iPad. And big respect to Stone and Parker for not taking the easy route and making jokes at the expense of Jobs's ongoing cancer battle – fair play for attacking the company, and not the man. But I do wonder if maybe the Human Centipede references were not a step too far.What did you think? Have you seen the episode, and if so, will you be queuing outside the Apple Store when the HumancentiPad hits the shelves? And if you haven't seen it yet, here's a clip ...
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?This is hard, because I've got so many, but my favourite is probably the internet. I cannot see myself living without the internet these days. If it weren't for the internet and social networking and being able to look things up, I would be stuck right now. What the internet has done is made it easier to stay in touch with people, and social networking has helped me career-wise by helping me keep in touch with my fans. The internet is one of the biggest advances ever in our world.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It was about two minutes ago, to check up on my email. And my Facebook. And I was looking up to see how Insidious was doing in the States.What additional features would you add if you could?What can I add to the internet? 3D! Im being facetious there. What I would like with the internet is to have it go faster. Anything that will make it even cooler, I'm all for it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think it wouldn't be obsolete, but like everything else, it will take on a different form. It will become something different.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When things don't work, which happens way too much. We live in a world that relies on technology.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I honestly cannot think of one – if I don't like them, I usually just put them aside and not use them.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I would definitely say that living in the age that we do, with information so readily available on the internet, do your research and find the thing that best suits you.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A nerd – I'm a geek.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Filmmaking technology is the most expensive that I've ever used. But the most expensive that I've ever owned owned probably be my house in Los Angeles.Mac or PC, and why?I'm a Mac fan, and you don't even need to ask why. Our love for Apple products is almost unreasonable.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Brilliant concept – bring it on.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Like most people, the concept of having a time machine is incredible – time machine is up there for me. Or else a device that can make me fly without the need of a vehicle, that would be amazing.•James Wan is the director and co-creator ofSaw. His new film,Insidious, is in cinemas now
Although we won't have figures from analysts for the size and shares of the smartphone market until later in May, we can make some estimates from numbers that have already been reported.One of the most reliable sources of information about the size of the smartphone market is actually Nokia's quarterly reports: it's got an awesome supply chain and some very clued-in analysts. (Though quite how long you can expect that to continue in the face of its job cuts is hard to know.)Anyway, the comment in itsQ1 2011 quarterly resultsis:Of the total industry mobile device volumes, converged mobile device industry volumes in the first quarter 2011 increased to 92.3 million units, based on Nokia's preliminary estimate, representing an increase of 68% year-on-year and 2% sequentially."Converged mobile device" is Nokia's code for "smartphone".According to Gartner, smartphone sales in 1Q 2010 were 54.3m (which would make this a 70% increase; just to show how good Nokia is at this game, its calculation of the smartphone market in itsQ1 2010 resultswas 52.6m (which is within 3% of the Gartner number - ie within statistical error).So let's take Nokia's number as the accurate one.On that basis we can say roughly how the smartphone market broke down in the first quarter, based on numbers announced by companies. Here's the table (figures for smartphone salesfrom Horace Dediu ofAsymco):Smartphones: preliminary market shareCompanyNo. sold% of marketNokia24.226.2Apple18.720.3RIM14.916.1Samsung11.612.6Sony Ericsson4.865.3Motorola4.14.4others13.9415.1Total92.3100data: Nokia, manufacturersThe unknown is quite how many of the "others" are running Android; Samsung will have been running a mixture of Bada and Android, and Sony Ericsson will have been running Symbian and Android, and Motorola will have been running almost all Android. On that basis it's reasonable to assume that Android outdistanced Nokia's Symbian by a handy margin - though we don't know, of course, how many of the "others" are running Windows Phone 7.The big story here is Nokia's slump in share: compared to the Gartner numbers from 1Q 2010, it sold almost exactly the same number of smartphones in a rapidly-growing market. RIM has grown its numbers by 30%, which is creditable - but it announced an earnings warning on Thursday night. The big named winner is Apple, up from 8.4m units in 1Q2010. Hold on for the story for Android, however, which is masked in these figures, because they aren't broken down by OS.HTC also did well, selling 9.7m phones in total (more than Motorola or Sony Ericsson), but we don't know how many were smartphones. Quite possibly it's a contender which will be broken out of "other" when the official numbers arrive.Microsoft didn't offeranynumbers for Windows Phone 7 licence sales for the first quarter in itsearnings call on Thursday night. That's slightly odd if it's doing well. Parroting the same statistic - " Customer satisfaction is high, well above 90%" - that Microsoft has been offering since January, when we heard Steve Ballmer offer it as CES, suggests that needle ain't moving.
With the details of 77 million customers involved, the PlayStation Network hack is one of the largest ever malicious attacks on a commercial organisation. Although Sony is assuring gamers that the infrastructure is being strengthened, this 'outside intrusion' has once again raised questions about the security of online transactions.Amid the firestorm, industry reactions have been mixed with many developers expressing frustration at the attack and its possible consequences, rather than anger at Sony. Ste Curran, creative director at the Brighton-based studio Zoe Mode,told Develop Magazine: "From my perspective, the bigger issue is not about PSN, but confidence in digital distribution generally. For every story like this that breaks in the mainstream press, consumer confidence about their details being safe is eroded. Confidence [in online transactions] has been building up, and I think will continue to, but this is a blip. It could be a little step back."Lol Scragg, founder ofCohort Studiosin Dundee, told us that the situation may have devastating consequences for his company. "We have our first self-funded, self-published PSN game,Me Monster: Hear Me Roar, coming out next week, so from our point of view, the fact that the network isn't available is a big concern."They're saying it could be next week before it's fixed – well, that will be disastrous for us. The other issue is whether the consumers will have lost their trust in the network. If it comes back up, lots of people will be withdrawing all their credit card details, so the potential market we were looking at a week ago – well, this is going to affect it; it's going to cost us in terms of revenue. The PR department are really going to have to earn their salaries – the next three or four days are going to determine whether the PSN continues or falls apart."Industry news sources have varied between rage, incrimination and sanguine reflection.On Eurogamer,Johnny Minkley refers to the situation as a PR disaster and berates Sony for providing gamers with too little information. "Some are already calling this Sony's 'Deepwater Horizon moment', in reference to the oil rig explosion and the subsequent handling of it by BP that caused the company's reputation so much damage."However,Brenna Hillier on VG247has a different slant, downplaying the controversy as a "melodrama" and highlighting the weaknesses inherent across the whole digital economy – with customers at the epicentre: "You're a weak link here. You're not aware of how much you give away about yourself. You trust, foolishly, that nobody can breach the walls society puts around you. You're wrong. You can't blame PSN for that; it doesn't store anything you wouldn't hand over anyway."I also spoke to James Binns, publisher of Edge Magazine, and a veteran presence at Future, the company responsible for the Official PlayStation Magazine. He told me: "It's been exceptionally hard for Sony to manage this, since they were initially unaware of the scale of the problem. Communicating something this complex is a difficult job."They've now got to focus on getting the infrastructure right – that's more important than any PR messaging, and they need the time to fix it. The issues around cloud storage of personal information aren't going to go away. This has happened to Sony, but it could have happened to many other businesses that store consumers personal data, passwords and credit card details. It doesn't affect the quality of PSN's core offering which is strong."Among our forum communities there's as much a sense of rage directed at the hackers as there is at Sony. But Sony has work to do to rebuild public confidence."As for the security industry, there's been speculation over how the intruders got in. Initial theories tended to focus on the hacker community, specificially the Anonymous collective whothreatened Sony with reprisalsafter the company's legal action against fellow hacker George Hotz. However, many experts now believe the attack was the work of a sophisticated criminal operation. Rik Ferguson, a computer security consultant at Trend Micro,told us: "This has all the hallmarks of commercial criminal activity going for a saleable commodity. It doesn't look as though they would have broken in directly through the PlayStation Network. Far more likely is that they breached the corporate systems and then moved through them to access this valuable data.""I think it's an attack on a central system," agreedDave Whitelegg, a data security blogger. "There are so many different ways that could happen. At the data centre, for example; some of the big credit card hacks have happened via Wi-Fi attacks, getting into the corporate side of the network. It could be an internal attack, it could be someone plugging directly into the PlayStation Network with a PC pretending to be a PlayStation and bypassing security that way – there are just so many different attack vectors."Meanwhile, Peter Wood ofFirst Base Technologiesis a "white hat hacker" who tests systems for large corporations. I asked him whether the discovery of the PS3 "root key" by hackers may have aided in this intrusion:"I would say that without question, the more that you can explore a manufacturer's proprietary technology, the more weaponry you have for an attack. All gaming machines are, in the end, computers, but much of the software and a big chunk of the firmware is proprietary to the manufacturer – if you're able to gain privileged access to that, you will learn more about how the system works. And if the manufacturer has in any sense relied on 'security by obscurity' – ie, some hidden functionality, or the use or hidden ports, etc – those are exactly the sorts of vulnerability that will be exposed by reverse engineering hardware."He does concur, however, that this looks to be the work of professional criminals, rather than hackers with a grudge against Sony. "If someone has got access to 70 million people's details, that implies to me that they have got control of a backend server somewhere within Sony – that's how it happened with everyone else, be it HBGary or Google or whoever."As we keep seeing over and over again, it only takes a stupid SQL injection flaw or something like that for somebody to be able to pull the data out of that backend database. Then it doesn't matter if the company is selling CDs, running a gaming network or a bank, the problem is those backend systems will all be the same sorts of things – they'll be running either Windows or a flavour of Unix, and they'll be running Microsoft SQL server, or Oracle or MY SQL – those are the only choices there are for storing this massive amount of data. And it only takes one configuration mistake to allow someone to suck all the data out."Of course, there's always a third possibility, that this wasn't anarchists or major criminals, it was just kids looking for free stuff. It seems that Sony was first alerted to the problems when gamers started downloading masses of content from the PlayStation Store without paying, thanks to a custom firmware hack. Of course, CFWs have been around on the system for quite a while, and these are unlikely to give users access to the backend infrastructure. However, maybe a small vulnerability of the type Peter Wood hinted at became obvious during one of these smash-and-grab raids.Whatever the case, everyone is agreed on one thing: whatever Sony does to deal with the hack, it had better be effective and it will have to be accompanied by a PR campaign of reasonably spectacular proportions. Although, of course, as the Red Ring of Death scandal showed, gamers do tend to have quite a forgiving nature.
What?! No Google Doodle? Don't be silly – of course there is. Google's Doodle this Friday morning is a cartoon picture of Westminster Abbey, rendered in the happily-ever-after style that may be familiar from fairytales everywhere.There's a link to let youwatch the event on YouTube.And even more enjoyably, if you use Google Maps and type an address in central London and then drag the "orange man" icon to get the Google Street View pictures, on landing it turns into a bride and groom. Awwww. (If you want to try it can we suggestSW1A 1AA for the postcode? Lovely location.)Google Street View has enhanced its Royal Wedding day addresses: that's a couple down there instead of the usual orange personMicrosoft's Bing is also making an effort: its default page shows a picture of Buckingham Palace and a flag, with links to tweets (really rather slow-loading, we'd have to say), weather for the day and location, and "the latest news, pictures and gossip from the royal wedding on MSN".If you're feeling grumpy and republican, meanwhile, we can confirm thatWolframAlpha's search engineis showingabsolutely nothingroyal-related. Enjoy.
Hackers in underground online forums are claiming to have access to credit card details stolen from Sony's PlayStation Network in mid-April, though security researchers say it is not possible to verify the claims.The online discussions centre around a haul of 2.2m Sony customer credit card numbers that are claimed to have been copied during the attack, which led Sony to shut down the network for more than a week after it happened between 17 and 19 April.At the same time some of the 77 million PSN users have begun to report discovering new fraudulent charges on their credit cards, though the timing could be coincidence and not linked directly to the breach. Any sufficiently large number of credit card owners is certain to include some who have recently been defrauded by other methods.The claims of fraud include the equivalent of $1,500spent in a German grocery storeon an American credit card, anddozens of people reporting chargeson items such as German airline tickets and Japanese stores.Kevin Stevens, a security analyst with Trend Micro,said in a tweetthat "the hackers that hacked PSN are selling off the DB [database]. They reportedly have 2.2m credit cards with CVVs" - the latter being the three-figure number required for "card not present" transactions.But Stevens added that he couldn't be sure the claim was true. The hackers were also claiming to have offered to sell the database back to Sony, but that the company declined it. Sony spokesman Patrick Seybold said that as far as he knew there was no truth in that claim.Speculation is growing that the hackers who carried out the attack could be European, based on the names being used in forums, though no further details have emerged so far.One reader of Venturebeat said he had been contacted by Sony and told that his card might have been compromised, and discovered two new charges totalling $400 he hadn't made.Sonyinsisted in a blog postthat the credit card data it stored was encrypted: "While all credit card information stored in our systems is encrypted and there is no evidence at this time that credit card data was taken, we cannot rule out the possibility."If you have provided your credit card data through PlayStation Network or Qriocity, out of an abundance of caution we are advising you that your credit card number (excluding security code) and expiration date may have been obtained. Keep in mind, however, that your credit card security code (sometimes called a CVC or CSC number) has not been obtained because we never requested it from anyone who has joined the PlayStation Network or Qriocity, and is therefore not stored anywhere in our system."
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackBerry maker RIM's shares plunge on profit warning &gt;&gt; Financial Times"RIM's stock fell $6.17, or 11 per cent, to $50.43 in late trading on Thursday, after earlier closing at $56.59 on Nasdaq."Underscoring its problems, RIM said BlackBerry shipments would be at the lower end of the range of 13.5m-14.5m units it had projected last month and the mix of devices it sells would shift towards cheaper models.&#10;"In a tense call with analysts after the profit warning was announced, Jim Basillie, RIM's co-chief executive, insisted the company's current problems were transitory rather than the start of a longer-term decline. "We all wish we could have got the new products out quicker," he said, "but that just hasn't happened."&#10;Not a call they'd have wanted to make just as BlackBerry World - the fiesta for developers and clients - is kicking off in Florida.We thought 'sold out' sounded better than 'awaiting delivery' &gt;&gt; AllThingsDMore tricks to play with sales channels, this time from Asus: "J.P. Morgan's Mark Moskowitz's informal survey of Best Buy and Target outletts... found that most hadn't received any Transformer tablets yet. "All stores we spoke to had not even received the Transformer tablet," Moskowitz says. "The general read was that supply would not reach most stores until mid-May. As a result, we ask how the Asus tablet can be sold out when it did not arrive in the first place."How the iPhone knows where you are &gt;&gt; MacworldRead this and you will, finally, understand this whole saga.The unedifying arrogance of PC journalists &gt;&gt; Ian Betteridge"he reason that Barry [Collins] – and plenty of other tech journalists – call Apple arrogant is mainly because Apple doesn't jump when the journalists tell them. Apple, in fact, has a very bad reputation amongst tech journalists for being one of the least responsive companies out there. And that reputation is, I can tell you from years of experience, entirely justified."Biggest Threat to Apple: Google Chrome OS &gt;&gt; TheStreet"Starting some time around July or August, Google's partners Samsung and Acer will launch laptops and perhaps also a desktop or two, based on Chrome OS. I am guessing laptops will start at $299 and "naked" desktops at $149. Given the superb performance of these Chrome OS PCs, with boot-up times (from cold) of less than even Apple's MacBook Air, some consumers and enterprises will pick Chrome OS PCs over the much more expensive Apple PCs."A good example of how price can blind you to why people buy computers. Would someone who buys a ChromeOS computer really have been in the market for an Apple device? Far more likely they'd have been looking at cheap PCs.Don't forget either that the first generation of netbooks running Linux had huge returns because people couldn't make them work: they expected (and later got) Windows. Expect something similar for ChromeOS.Microsoft net income vs Apple net income from 1980 &gt;&gt; Wolfram|AlphaInteresting to compare, using the smart statistical search engine. Note how Apple's profit falls well below zero in 1996-8.The Great White iPhone: How Apple Spun A Tech Fail Into A PR Win &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyWorth it for the illustration alone, but interesting analysis: "It didn't arrive when the iPhone 4 went on sale in mid-2010 because Apple couldn't get its hardware working properly--the white coloring, combined with the iPhone 4's unusual glass frame meant the phone's proximity sensor and camera unit didn't function as they needed to. In other words, it was a big technological failure, from one of the world's biggest companies on one of its market-defining products."Apple's Not Spying on You; You're Spying for Apple &gt;&gt; Gottabemobile"Apple asks for diagnostic and usage information about your iPhone, which is fair enough to do. However, I don't believe tracking tower and hotspot locations counts. That information is external to the device, not part of it. If Apple wanted to collect data on my iPhone's location, I would consider that a fair part of that agreement. But instead they're using my iPhone to collect tower and hotspot locations, and that's not right. I only signed up to give info about my device, not those belonging to other people.&#10;"The lack of transparency on that point is a serious problem, far more legitimate than the paranoia circulating. To be clear, I don't think there's anything wrong with reporting tower and hotspot locations back to Apple. I just think this falls outside the range of "diagnostic and usage information about your iPhone". It's about property that belongs to others. Therefore, it requires separate, specific permission, as well as a detailed explanation of the risk involved.With iPhone's secrets, Apple loses track of reality &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKRupert Goodwins: "Steve Jobs normally talks to the press about as often as the Earth gets visited by Halley's Comet. And, like the comet, it's usually a portent of doom. &#10;"There have been three sightings in living memory: the iPhone 4's Antennagate, the as-yet-unexplained rant against Android and tablets in last October's earnings call, and yesterday's response to the discovery of iOS 4's unexpectedly good memory for location. Let's call it Trackergate.&#10;"Leaving aside the Android rant — perhaps Eric Schmidt ran over the family cat — the two other responses show strong similarities, and make a fascinating insight into how a company reacts when it's backed into a corner and can't ignore the flack."Suffice it to say, Goodwins ain't buying it.Notion Ink Adam review &gt;&gt; Engadget"Notion Ink truly did come up with a number of fantastic ideas for the Adam tablet. They do show. But so little of their light shines through the muck of buggy software and touchy hardware that we're afraid even the best of them will be completely dismissed and ignored...&#10;"Features like USB host functionality, a desktop-class web browser, a sunlight-readable screen and a multitask-friendly interface aren't just value-add bullet points that justify a higher price -- they're the difference between a tablet that can augment an existing computer, and one that can replace it altogether and thrust users into a new paradigm. We're sad to see the Adam couldn't make it happen, but there's still an opportunity for other manufacturers to take up the torch."Free anti-virus for Mac named Best Anti-Malware solution at SC Awards &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityBeating the Windows products. We've no idea what the criteria for winning actually were.First Day PlayBook sales: is 50,000 too big a number? &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Jeffries analyst Peter Misek figures RIM sold about 45,000 PlayBooks Tuesday, with pre-orders accounting for about 25,000 of the total. RBC* analyst Mike Abramsky's first day sales estimate is in the same range, but a bit higher: 50,000, including pre-sales.&#10;"'The launch appears to have been stronger than the launch of Motorola's Xoom Tablet, or the Samsung Galaxy Tab, although it's too early to judge sustainability,' said RBC analyst Mike Abramsky in a note to clients, adding that, as of Wednesday, checks of 180 stores across 10 cities in the United States and Canada show rising PlayBook stockouts.&#10;"But some analysts I've spoken with feel those estimates are overly bullish, given the device's limited availability. 50,000 sold seems an awfully big number when even the Broadway Staples store in downtown New York City had just 10 PlayBooks on hand at launch and a clerk at the Bay Area Best Buy I called described inventory as 'a handful.'"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Charlie Brooker said on the 10 O'clock Show that he'd be playing Portal 2 all day today. I'm sure he's not alone. You unromantic monsters.
Microsoft's quarterly profits and revenues were eclipsed for the first time in 20 years by Apple as a slowdown in the PC business and continuing huge losses in its search division held it back.Though the company reported net income up 30% to $5.2bn (£3.1bn) from $4bn, and revenues up 13% to $16.4bn from $14.5bn, both were smallerthan figures released by Apple last weekshowing $6bn profits on revenues of $24.7bn.The overshadowing of Microsoft's financial might by Apple will be seen by some as marking a key moment in the industry, as Apple's iPad tablet computer and iPhone smartphone have both become important sources of revenue even while its desktop and laptop computers – the areas where Microsoft dominates – have become less important. Microsoft overtook Apple in profits in 1991, and revenues in 1995. But since the launch of the iPhone in 2007 and then the iPad in 2010, Apple has grown rapidly, andits market capitalisation overtook Microsoft's in May 2010.Microsoft's dependence on the PC industry, which recorded a surprise year-on-year fall in sales during the first quarter, means that its profits from Windows licences, which generate roughly half its profits, are vulnerable to any slowdown.Analysts believe that the iPad and other tablets using Google's Android software are eating into Microsoft's PC business, and have not seen any convincing response from the Redmond-based giant. Sales of its Windows Phone have been unimpressive so far, and are not mentioned inthe formal earnings announcement.Trip Chowdhry, managing director of Global Equities Research, said: "This is the best they can do in the industry they have. The quarter was almost in line. There is nothing to get excited about. But 2012 is going to be much weaker versus 2011. It's all about innovation and the pace of innovation. The question to ask is: is there any product line in Microsoft that they are not playing catch-up on?"Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Financial, said: "The concern is PC markets are being disrupted. There's some validity [in that]."But it's also overblown when you factor in that Windows 7 is the fastest-selling OS in history. There was $4.5bn in [Windows] revenue. You've got to put it in perspective. Tablets are not going to replace PCs. OK, they are definitely eating into laptops in some markets. But Microsoft will be in that game. You're going to see Windows 8 come in September, that's going to help offset the tablet concerns, because it's going to run tablets."Channing Smith of Capital Advisors Growth Fund said: "It's hard to get excited about the Microsoft story when there are more exciting growth opportunities in the marketplace. With that said, Microsoft to me is no longer a growth stock but it is a very attractive value stock."Search remains a source of financial pain for the company. Its Online Service division, which contains its search engine Bing, recorded a loss of $726m (previously $709m) on revenues of just $648m, up from $566m last year. By contrast Google's latest quarterly results showed a profit of $2.3bn on revenues of $8.5bn – more than 10 times larger than Bing and its properties.The only other sources of encouragement were higher sales of Office, the company's other established monopoly, which generated profits of $3.1bn on revenues of $5.2bn, and the Kinect games add-on, the fastest-selling consumer electronics device ever, which contributed to a 60% growth in its Entertainment and Devices division, which includes the Xbox 360 console.• RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, slashed its quarterly profit and revenue forecasts from the already lower numbers given at its last quarterly results. It said phone shipments would be closer to 13.5m, and that more would be cheaper models. It cut its earnings forecast by 12%.
For the past 10 years or so, my 92-year-old mother has happily used an Amstrad Emailer to keep in touch with her far-flung family.  Now Sky is discontinuing the Emailer service, so we are looking for the simplest email alternative. She does not have broadband or Wi-Fi, and the Emailer was such a cheap solution, I'd have trouble getting her to invest more than £200-£300 for replacement technology.CFA lot of people would like a communications device that is cheap and works like an appliance – that is, like a food mixer or washing machine – without them having to learn anything about computing. Sadly, nobody has managed to create and sell this kind of appliance in volume, and most have failed. This includes the 1996-vintage WebTV system, based on set-top boxes sold by Philips and Sony, and Microsoft'sWeb Companions, which included netbooks, tablets and TV sets. (Today, Google is mostly re-doing what Microsoft tried in 1999.) The Amstrad Emailer or, correctly, e-m@iler, whihc was launched in 2000, is one of the most successful products from this era.There are, of course, plenty of devices that do email, but they may also require Wi-Fi or depend on syncing to another computer, or both. This eliminates most people's first thought, which is an Apple iPad, though the iPad also fails to qualify on cost. But I think your best approach is to decide on the communications network first, and then pick the product with the best fit.The three main options are a dial-up connection, a mobile connection, and broadband. Dial-up connections are slow but they're fast enough for email, as long as there are no large attachments. However, a decreasing number of netbooks and laptops now have built in modems. Mobile connections such as GPRS and G3 can be slow but can also achieve broadband speeds, and you can control costs by using a pay-as-you-go SIM. Broadband connections are best, but then you're not just buying a £200 device, you're also signing up to spend perhaps £200 per year for broadband.If you can visit your mother, take a laptop and a smartphone with you. Use the smartphone to see if you get a good mobile signal in most parts of the house: it's no use signing up for a mobile connection if the signal's not there. (Check for Vodafone if you can.) Use the laptop to look for strong signals from local Wi-Fi networks. Do any friendly neighbours have Wi-Fi that your mother could use, either free or for a small monthly contribution? Look for BT Openzones. Most people who have a BT Home Hub are also running a BT Openzone, often without knowing it. If one's available, see if there's an economical deal for Openzone minutes that would suit your mother.If you take the mobile route, your best bet might be a DatawindUbiSurfer9netbook with a 9in screen. The blurb says: "The UbiSurfer has its own built-in GPRS antenna and SIM card which means it can connect itself straight to the mobile network to get you online immediately. Just take it out of the box and you're ready to go!" It also works with Wi-Fi, and there's a 3G version for a small extra cost.They key points are that the UbiSurfer9 works as an appliance, and that the selling price includes one or two years free internet use. The Ubisurfer9 withGPRScosts £149.99 with a two year connection while the faster3Gversion comes with 30 hours per month for one year for £179.99.An alternative would be to get a standard netbook with a built-in 3G SIM, and Expansys is offering the SamsungSamsung N150 Plus 3G netbook Windows 7 Starterfor £239.99. The hardware is nicer and I'm sure your mother could manage to do email with the excellent desktop version ofWindows Live Mail 2011, which you'd have to download separately, along withMicrosoft Security Essentials. However, Windows 7 is not a maintenance-free appliance and involves monthly updates (automated via Windows Update) and some risk of malware or social engineering attacks. You could look after the system using the built-inWindows Remote Assistanceor a service such asLogMeIn(which I use myself), but it's not the same as using an Amstrad Emailer or even a Ubisurfer9.You can also get mobile phones and tablet computers with 3G phone connections, and there are plenty of Google Android tablets at £200 to £300. You could checkout the 7in Android 2.1Scroll Tablet, which Maplin is selling for £139.99. To this, you should add theProtective Case + Integrated Keyboardfor £29.99. (Thanks to Martin Houston for suggesting this option on Facebook.) No, it's not an iPad, but it will work as a standalone 3G/Wi-Fi device that does email for £170.If your mother does have Wi-Fi access, then there is another Linux-based appliance-type system calledSplashtop(formerly DeviceVM). Splashtop has been selling its system to PC and netbook manufacturers who install versions under their own names. The Asus version, for example, is called ExpressGate, while Acer calls it InstaView, HP and Sony call it QuickWeb, and Lenovo calls it QuickStart. The basic idea (at least on my Asus) is that instead of booting to Windows, you press a separate button and get a quick-loading operating environment that provides web access. It's worth a look. However, I've never met anybody who actually uses it, and most people don't even know if it's on their PC.Still, if you take the laptop/netbook route, I think you should get one that includes a version of Splashtop on the motherboard. Once your mother has learned how to use Splashtop, she will probably be able to handle Windows 7. If Windows 7 goes wrong for whatever reason, she will be able to switch back to Splashtop without ever losing the ability to communicate.People who have been using PCs for 10 or 20 years greatly underestimate the amount of learning required, and this also applies to tablets and smartphones and netbooks runningJolicloud. Touch interfaces might seem "intuitive" but they're not. They depend on a vast number of assumptions that are now familiar to most people, but they're certainly not obvious to first-time users like your mother. In that context, something like a Ubisurfer9 or Splashtop system could be a good step up the learning curve, at an economic price. Once your mother has mastered one of those, you could think about upgrading her to something better.
Swing an iCat this week, and you'll hit dozens of royal wedding apps on Apple's App Store. Few have the clout of HarperCollins' newKings and Queensapp for iPhone and iPad though: it's fronted by historian (and recent reality TV star) David Starkey.The app includes abridged text from Starkey's Crown and Country book, but adds multimedia elements including timelines, family trees and video footage. In a twist, the app will also allow users to watch a live stream of this week's wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton from Sky News.The app, which sells for £1.79, was commissioned by Harper Collins and developed by Trade Mobile, and launched on the App Store last week. HC digital editor Robin Harvie tells the Apps Blog that the application was a logical move in the runup to the wedding."Starkey is the one person that everyone seems to want a piece of in light of tomorrow," he says. "We've been publishing him for a while, so it seemed like the most natural step in his career to venture into the apps world. People might think that apps are not for this kind of author, but it's quite the opposite: he's really embraced digital technology."HarperCollins has, like many of its rivals, been experimenting with book apps for a couple of years now. Harvie happily admits that mistakes have been made, too, citing an app based on Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall that did not live up to expectations."We did the thing of taking a book, adding a bit of DVD-Extra style content to it, and calling it an app," he says. "We realised quite quickly that is not what people wanted. We've upped our game, looking at what we've got and really making it work for the format, rather than thinking 'People love this book, let's see if we can milk it some more'."Kings and Queens by David StarkeyThe toughest part of the Kings and Queens project was the hard deadline of the wedding. However, the fact that it's HarperCollins making this app rather than, say, the BBC – where Starkey makes his TV appearances – is illustrative of an interesting tug of war happening in the apps world around cross-media celebrities like Starkey (Jamie Oliver would be another good example).Is there a battle coming up between broadcasters and book publishers to be first to release apps based on these stars? "The short answer is yes, and there has been a lot of discussion about it," says Harvie."David and many others have agents for exactly this reason, to keep the different parts of his public life separate, yet allow for one to feed off the other. We haven't yet seen any real conflict of interest, and you might say we all have got to get along. The partnerships that are being struck up are ones that even a year ago you would never have dreamed of."Harvie says the most interesting part of his job right now is keeping tabs on new devices, technologies and trends in the mobile and tablet space, which is why HarperCollins is so keen to work with external developers like Trade Mobile."There's a brave new world out there, and the only way of finding out whether we're going to make serious money out of apps - and ebooks too - is by experimenting with this stuff," he says. Harper Collins has a series of app projects planned for this year and next involving some of its biggest authors."We're putting serious cash behind them. We have to make really sophisticated digital products that compete ultimately with Angry Birds. Think of someone like Jonathan Franzen, whose competition used to be Philip Roth and John Updike. Now it's The Wire and Angry Birds, because we are competing for people's attention – especially when they are consuming our content on the same device that they are reading newspapers, watching TV shows and playing games."
Dutch drivers might have wondered how it was that speed traps were always in just the right place to catch speeders. It turned out to be simple enough: if they owned a TomTom, their in-car satnav was spying on them, and the aggregated data about cars' speed was being sold via the government to the police – who used it to set the traps.The company, which is Europe's largest satnav manufacturer, was forced this week into an embarrassing apology as the revelation emerged alongside its first-quarter financial earnings, which showed weak demand and let it to forecast growing sales from "service revenues" – including, it said, selling data to governments.Ina public apology(repeatedin a video on YouTube), TomTom's chief executive Harold Goddijn said the company sold the anonymous data believing it would be used to improve safety or relieve traffic bottlenecks."We never foresaw this kind of use and many of our clients are not happy about it," he wrote, and promised licensing agreements would "prevent this type of use in the future."Normally the aggregated data would be used to tell subscribers to TomTom services how to route around traffic conditions and give improved estimates of journey time. The sale of data to the government was intended to help it understand causes of congestion and accidents.But the police had a simpler idea for how to use the data to offset the cost of buying it, and followed that as well.The timing of the admission comes just after a wave of concern overdata collected by smartphonesand passed back to the companies controlling them, such as Apple, Google and Microsoft.Apple admitted on Wednesday that the iPhone records location dataabout mobile cell masts and Wi-Fi networks, but not individuals, and said its retention of the data for many months was due to a software flaw that would be remedied. Google and Microsoft says that users are asked to opt in to the anonymised use of location data.The Dutch national newspaper Algemeen Dagblad reported that police had obtained the TomTom information from the government and used it to set targeted speed traps, prompting angry reactions from users.TomTom's predicament is that the market for satnav devices has begun to slow and even shrink, meaning that it cannot rely on hardware sales to keep sales growing. It said this week that it expects the market for personal navigation devices, or PNDs, to shrink by 15% in 2011, amid poor consumer demand and competition from smartphones and, more recently, from tablet computers.That in turn means that at some point it will have to rely more on software and services revenue rather than more profitable and revenue-generating hardware – which analysts see as its key "crossover point" that lies somewhere in its future.Around half of TomTom's sales now come from vehicle makers who incorporate its products into their cars – and from services including companies and governments paying for map and traffic information.TomTom is still recovering after falling into debt problems with its €2bn (£1.78bn) acquisition of digital mapmaker Tele Atlas in 2008; it had to issue shares to stave off bankruptcy. Now its market is being eaten by new devices.• This article was amended on 29 April 2011. A subheading on the original piece said that TomTom had sold data to Dutch police. This has been corrected.
The Operation Flashpoint first-person shooters have always appealed to a particular constituency: gamers obsessed with the military (along the lines of Nick Frost's character Mike in Spaced). That's because they are about as hardcore as you can get: unlike more mass-market fps games, if you take a head-shot, you won't be getting back up, and in order to prosper, you will have to adopt tactics that real-life soldiers would employ. While Red River is much more forgiving than its predecessors, it will still test your soldiering skills to the limit, and remains firmly in the hardcore bracket.You play Kirby, leader of a four-man US Marine Corps fire-team operating in Tajikistan, close to the Afghanistan border, in 2013. At first, you're taking on local insurgents, but things really heat up when the Chinese army gets involved, with its seemingly endless manpower. The missions are very long, multistage affairs which typically involve taking on enemies from a distance (so we'd recommend you choose the Scout class, with its sniper rifle). Involving periods of being driven around in the back of a Hummer, engaging in authentically expletive-studded Marine-banter, they feel stunningly authentic, and become more varied as the game progresses.It's just as well that you level up during that period, unlocking new weapons, perks and upgrades – one hot tip would to be experiment with different character classes in the early stages, as certain later missions require specialist, rather than all-round skills, and it pays to have levelled up.Red River's core nuts and bolts are impressive: the graphics and scenery design are superb, the key tactical wheel for issuing orders to your fire-team works beautifully and the weaponry responds as you would expect it to. It's the first Operation Flashpoint game with a credible single-player story (although, in the interests of authenticity, it lacks the Hollywood-style set-pieces of games such as Black Ops). But it really comes into its own online, with some innovative modes, including one in which you defend a convoy beset by insurgents, and another in which you clear villages of insurgents and blow up weaponry stockpiles against the clock.Operation Flashpoint: Red River is emphatically not for the faint-hearted – if you're anything other than a first-person shooter veteran, you will swiftly become frustrated by constantly being killed by enemies you haven't even seen. But it is impressively executed, infinitely slicker than its predecessors, and reveals the horror interspersed with periods of tedium that characterises modern warfare in a startlingly believable manner. Which will surely earn it cult status in the future.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
We've got used to Nintendo surprising us. No one gave the Wii a chance in hell before it was released – then one look at those controllers and suddenly everyone and their gran wanted one. Meanwhile, the Nintendo DS has steadily become the biggest selling console of all time, mostly thanks to brain training, virtual dogs and adventure games filled with logic puzzles.So when the company announced the 3DS – a neat evolution of its smash hit handheld device, complete with glasses-free 3D – it looked like another Nintendo must-have. But earlier this week, the company's president Satoru Iwata wasforced to admitthat the contraption hasn't sold as well as the company had hoped, shifting 3.61m units in the first month on sale, and not the 4m that it had modestly predicted.In an investor call, Iwata intriguingly stated:The value of 3D images without the need for special glasses is hard to be understood through the existing media. However, we have found that people cannot feel it just by trying out a device, rather, some might even mis-estimate it when experiencing the images in an improper fashion."We think it is very important to provide people with contents in which they can easily experience glasses-less 3D images. In particular, we need to enhance the contents which can be enjoyed passively by non-active users, like a 3D video distribution service. We will promptly work on this after the currently planned hardware update.That's a rather shocking admission – that consumers don't understand the appeal of 3D games, so they need to be provided with linear 3D content to make sense of the console's USP. Nintendo doesn't usually need a Trojan horse to get people to click with its products – the products just speak for themselves. Sure, the Wii remote mimicked a TV remote controller, but players didn't have to actually watch a few minutes of TV to understand it.More telling though, was Iwata's admission that a lot of consumers seem to be waiting for better titles: "There aren't yet so many people who are absolutely sure that now is the time to buy it," he said. And certainly, the lacklustre launch line-up drew criticism from many industry news sources – compounded by the fact that a lot of the online and DLC services are only switching on in May. He also states that the company hasn't managed to communicate the other features of the device – ie, augmented reality and StreetPass. Ironically, these are the elements that many in the industry believe will emerge as the true selling points of the technology.This is probably just a blip, but what should Nintendo do now? Is it about cranking out another ad with the Redknapps (perhaps featuring Jamie swapping Streetpass data as he delivers his monotone pundity in the Sky Sports studio)? Is it about hurrying up and getting a bunch of Mario titles out on shop shelves? Or must we simply accept that, after the failure of Virtual Boy in 1996, 3D is to be the nausea-inducing albatross around Nintendo's otherwise blameless neck?Come on, help Iwata out here!
The Lego video games series must be the envy of many developers in the  industry. While other companies fall over themselves to produce the next mega-selling casual/hardcore crossover hit, Traveller's Tales has quietly churned out the gaming equivalent of a chain of Pixar movies.The company's titles boast cross-generational appeal, easy pick-up-and-play controls, smarts and depth which belie the simplistic mechanics – and all of it comes wrapped in a family-friendly veneer that is cute enough to disarm all but the most curmudgeonly of gamers.The Lego games sell very well and a lot of them are critically acclaimed. Furthermore, Traveller's Tales has shown an unerring knack at being able to adapt the series' formula to some of biggest blockbuster intellectual property in the entertainment industry – the likes of Batman, Star Wars, Indiana Jones and Harry Potter.All of this makes the developer an enticing prospect for any company about to release a movie in need of some high-end brand extension. Monolithic entertainment entities, take note: if you have a movie that requires a video game, Traveller's Tales is a pretty safe bet.So all thing's considered, the most surprising thing about Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean isn't that it exists – because it's a natural fit for the series – and it isn't its core gameplay. It's the fact that it's taken Disney this long to have Traveller's Tales weave its Lego magic over one of its blockbuster franchises.Lego game veterans will find themselves in comfortingly familiar territory. The knock on Lego games in recent years is that the series' gameplay template has been left basically unchanged since the first Lego Star Wars game. That's certainly true of Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean, but it's not likely to put too much of a dent in the enjoyment level for punters. The lion's share of activity is taken up by charging around, smashing things up, collecting Lego studs, solving puzzles and hunting for collectibles. However, as with all Lego titles, Traveller's Tales has added quite a few tweaks and tucks to the overall experience, as well as some new functions which offer the game some more depth.There are more than 70 characters for players to unlock and all of them have some special ability. Jack Sparrow, for example, has his magic compass which reveals hidden collectibles and trinkets in the game. Will Turner hurls axes as a ranged weapon. One pirate has a blunderbuss. Another is able to hurl his glass eye around (although it wasn't revealed in my playthrough just how this actually helps).There's also a new system throughout the game which makes the characters easier to use and has allowed the developers to create some brand new puzzles. Icons will sometimes appear above a character's head, indicating the players need to find a specific item in their environment which will allow them to add a new member to their party. Once this is done, they gain access to that character's special ability. They can also bring up a character-wheel and switch between any character they've added to their party on the fly.Another new feature is Super Freeplay mode, which is a beefed up, more free-flowing version of the Freeplay mode in previous Lego titles. In past games, players could select characters in a hub area and take them into levels to unlock new challenges and find collectibles. With Super Freeplay mode, they can switch at any time to any of the characters they've unlocked in the game at any point.While the ability to switch characters on the fly is a boon, the best parts of Lego Pirates come from the way in which Traveller's Tales has adapted the movie franchise's aesthetic to the game. The best place to start with Lego Pirates is with its gorgeous production values. As is the case with every other Lego title, the game looks fantastic and the characters literally look as if they've been polished until they shine. In terms of the movie franchise's aesthetic qualities, Traveller's Tales has everything on point.The characters are by turns hilarious and endearing; the Lego Jack Sparrow minces around the scenes like his real-life counterpart, Will Turner looks deadly earnest and Barbosa hits the right note between being menacing and mischievous all at once. Once again, all cut-scenes moving the plot forward contain hilarious silent mugging from all the characters involved. The environments are superb in their presentation and variety; they all look like giant playsets, and players will find themselves trundling along sun-bathed beaches, mixing it up in a barfight in Tortuga or fighting a battle on the deck of the Black Pearl in a hurricane.The experience of playing the game is almost guaranteed to spread a smile over one's face. The puzzles are inventive and challenging; players won't saunter straight through them, but at the same time, they aren't so difficult that anyone will give up too quickly. There are plenty of fights to have, items to smash and buckles to swash, sure, but the developers have included a lot of elements based around the movie's set-pieces too. At one point, players will find themselves rolling around in giant ball-shaped bone cages from the second film, or fighting high up in the rigging of the Flying Dutchman in the finale of the third film. They'll also fire off canons, zip up mastheads by cutting ropes on pulleys and, at some stage, find themselves riding a pig.All of the action in Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean is shot through with a boisterous, ramshackle charm, making the game very easy to forgive for some of its overly familiar elements. Whether you're a fan of the movie or game franchise, this new Lego entry looks set to satisfy all but the most sniffy of gamers. You may have a sense you've played some of this game before, but that's an issue that's hard to focus on when you're weaving around as Captain Jack Sparrow on the back of a pig.•Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean will be out on 13 May 2011 for Wii, PC, PS3, Xbox 360, 3DS, PSP and DS
Don't expect to see a tablet from Nokia any time soon. Chief executive Stephen Elop has told YLE TV in Finland (Nokia's homeland)Asked when Nokia would be putting out a tablet, Elop replied:"There are now over 200 different tablets on the marketplace, only one of them is doing really well. And, my challenge to the team is I don't wanna be the 201st tablet on the market that you can't tell from all of the others. We have to take a uniquely Nokia prospective and so the teams are working very hard on something that would be differentiating relative to everything else that's going on in the market."Q. "So you're not in a hurry?"A: "We're always in a hurry to do the right things, but we're mostly in a hurry to do the right thing."Arguably, holding off from tablets is a smart move by Noka, which has just announced that it'scutting 4,000 jobs(and transferring another 3,000 working on Symbian to Accenture), andseen profits fall, while Apple has overtaken it for revenue - meaning Nokia isn't the world's biggest phone maker by revenue, even if it makes the most feature phones and smartphones per quarter (108.5m and 24.2m respectively) than anyone else.Back in February, whenElop announced the tieup between Nokia and Microsoft, I asked him specifically whether Nokia was going to do something with tablets using Windows Phone 7. He said then that "there is a strategy at Microsoft about the next generation of Windows as an operating platform for tablets.. we could see the advantages of a family [of devices] that uses the Microsoft ecosystem..."Which is very unspecific, except it seems to include Nokia in the hardware makers which would make Windows "8" tablets (if the next version of Windows is called Windows 8). Those probably won't be available for another year at least.Of course Nokia did have its own tablet-style development: Meego. But it effectively killed that in February, cutting the development adrift. Meego may be useful for "disruption", Elop suggested; but quite what disruption he meant - or in which area of our lives he thought it would happen - wasn't clear. The smart money's on some sort of home automation or integration, but that's something that's never been made to work despite many years of trying. Not that it means Meego couldn't – just that it would be very, very hard.
Our first - and last? - bit of Royal Wedding arcana. We've been having a quick read of the Official Royal Wedding site (athttp://www.officialroyalwedding2011.org/- do you think they're planning ahead to Official Royal Wedding 2012? If so it'salready been taken).So - wedding announcement 16 November, website registered on 23 December (they work right up to at Christmas at Clarence House too).Built by the Reading Room - which got caught in the middle of that furore over theICO's surprisingly expensive favicon- theOfficial Wedding Site's terms and conditionsmake interesting reading, as much as anything because it shows how government (or royal) sites should be built for maximum impact at lowest cost.Here you go: "The website was designed by Reading Room, implemented by Accenture and hosted by Google using Google Apps."That sounds like a good example of maximum bang for buck - using Google Apps for the hosting should mean that it's robust enough if tons of people storm the site (in a positive way, obviously). Reading Room is sworn to utter silence over the building and content of the site, although we can conclude a few things about it from the setup: it must be running Python, since that's what you have to run Google Apps site in (generally).And Margaret Manning, chief executive of Reading Room, who appeared on theTech Weekly podcastback in March, has previously told us that the arrival of Google Apps and Amazon's S3 (outages notwithstanding) means you can mix rapid development with open source, which is a triple win: it's cheaper, it's faster and it's more robust. "Enterprises used to be nervous about agile development processes and open source, but now they are seeing the benefits," she said. "It allows very fast and efficient development - and cloud hosting for sites that may get large amounts of hits is perfect."Malware warningThe wedding does offer malware authors new possibilities, security companies are warning. Here's the latest from Imperva, which conducted a rapid poll among visitors to last week's Infosecurity Europe exhibition:• 38% of security professionals have witnessed the nuptials being used for malvertising• 34% have seen wedding-related spam• 20% incidents of search engine poisoning (where wedding-related results have been used to point to malicious pages).Eset has some examples ofhow search engine queries can be poisoned- particularly with rogue anti-virus which pretends that your machine is rotten with malware and that what you really need to do is download something which will get rid of it. Don't - it'll only make it worse.
A British company offered to sell a program to the Egyptian security services that experts say could infect computers, hack into web-based email and communications tools such as Skype and even take control of other groups' systems remotely, according to documents seen by the Guardian.Two Egyptian human rights activists found the documents amid hundreds of batons and torture equipment when they broke into the headquarters of the regime's State Security Investigations service (SSI) last month.One of the papers, in English and headed Finfisher Proposal: Commercial Offer, contained an offer dated 29 June 2010 to provide "FinSpy" software, hardware, installation and training to the SSI for €287,000 (£255,000). The name on the invoice, dated Tuesday 29 June 2010, was Gamma International UK Limited.Other documents, written in Arabic and marked "ultimately confidential", state that after being offered a "free trial version" of Gamma's Finfisher software to test its ability to hack into email accounts, the SSI concluded it was "a high-level security system" that could get into email accounts of Hotmail, Gmail and Yahoo, as well as allowing "full control" of the computers of "targeted elements". It went on to describe the software's "success in breaking through personal accounts on Skype network, which is considered the most secure method of communication used by members of the elements of the harmful activity because it is encrypted".The find throws a spotlight on western companies that provide software to security services and agents of oppressive regimes to spy on, censor and block the websites with which activists communicate. Last month a report byOpenNet Initiativesaid nine countries across the Middle East and North Africa used US and Canadian technology to impede access to online content, including sites with political, social and religious material.Mostafa Hussein, a Cairo blogger and physician who took the documents, said they formed important evidence against the SSI's activities. "This proposal was sent to a department well known for torture, for abuse of human rights, for spying on political campaigners. This company, Gamma, should be exposed as collaborators in the crimes of trying to invade our privacy and arrest activists."Husseinposted the documents online and passed a copy to the Guardian.A Gamma International website called "Finfisher IT Intrusion" describes its software as allowing "remote monitoring and infection" that can provide "full access to stored information with the ability to take control of the target". It is advertised as capable of "capturing encrypted data and communications" and allowing a "government agency to remotely infect target systems".The documents found in the SSI HQ, one dated 1 January 2011, said that the proposal from Gamma International had come via a subsidiary company, Modern Communications System. Following a "free" five-month trial, SSI described the software as like "planting a comprehensive spying system in the location where the targeted computer exists". The software could record voice and audio calls, movements through video and audio where the computer was located, and hack into all the computers in the same network.Rick Ferguson, of internet security company Trend Micro, said: "Our position on commercial spyware is that if the monitoring is being done without the consent of the person being monitored then that would be the theft of information."There's certainly an ambiguity of selling that kid of technology to that type of regime. There are a lot of commercial tools to enable you to remotely monitor and manage computers but it's about how those tools are being used and whether those tools are being used covertly."Amr Gharbeia, an activist who works at theEgyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, said the Finfisher software referred to in the proposal was "a trojan, a software you implant in someone else's device to control it and possibly get data from it. It puts you in the driver's seat so you can see someone else's email and allows also for identity fraud."When contacted by the Guardian, Gamma International said in a statement: "Gamma International UK Limited manufactures equipment for dealing with security related threats and it supplies only to governments."Gamma International UK Limited has not supplied any of its Finfisher suite of products or related training etc to the Egyptian government."Gamma said it "complies, in all its dealings, with all relevant UK legislation and regulation".• This article was amended on 30 April 2011 to correct the spelling of Gamma International in the standfirst.
Sony could only promise that the hacked PlayStation Network would start coming back online within six days, as the company's engineers grapple with the consequences of security breach that affected 77 million users.The maker of the PS3 console issued a blogpost update, saying that "some services" would be up and running "within a week from yesterday", such is the gravity of the situation.Ina message posted on the US PlayStation blog, Patrick Seybold, SCEA's director or corporate communications, offered a string of apologies.He said that he understood that the situation was "frustrating" for consumers, adding "we know you are upset" and "we sincerely regret any inconvenience". He promised that the company was "taking steps to make our services safer and more secure than ever before".The post goes on to answer a series of questions about the hack, in which the personal details of the network's 77 million users may have been obtained. Sony claims it is working with law enforcement to investigate the attack.The company has also pointed out that "the entire credit card table" was encrypted, answering suggestions from gamers and the media that this sensitive data was stored unprotected. At the time of writing there is still no firm evidence that this data was taken.However, Sony has admitted that personal data (names, addresses, birthdates, etc) was NOT encrypted: "But was, of course, behind a very sophisticated security system that was breached in a malicious attack." The new FAQ also mentions that all PSN users will be required to change their passwords when logging on to the system when it re-emerges.As for the company's attempts to ensure there is no repeat of the attack, the blogpost states:Moving forward, we are initiating several measures that will significantly enhance all aspects of PlayStation Network's security and your personal data, including moving our network infrastructure and data center to a new, more secure location, which is already under way. We will provide additional information on these measures shortly.The attack, which took place between 17 and 19 April, forced Sony to shut down the PSN, which allows owners of PlayStation consoles to play online games and rent movies.•Check out ourguide to the PSN hackfor more information.
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTumblr disappeared me… &gt;&gt; danah boydHer account on Tumblr was zapped, and now she finds a company blogging there using the handle she has used since her university/college days: "A few years ago, I learned that there is a technology consulting company called Zephoria.com. And apparently, they've become a social media consulting company. In recent years, I've found that they work hard to block me from using the handle of zephoria on various social media sites. Even before the midnite land grab on Facebook, they squatted the name zephoria, probably through some payment to the company. But this is a new low… Now they're STEALING my accounts online!?!?!? WTF?!?!?!"The Battle For The Most Content And The Emerging Tablet Market &gt;&gt; Distimo"The major findings are:&#10;" • The Google Android Market eclipsed the Apple App Store for iPhone in terms of free applications and now has 134,342 free applications, while the Apple App Store iPhone has 121,845 free applications."• If all application stores maintain their current growth pace, approximately five months from now Google Android Market will be the largest store in terms of number of applications  followed by the Apple App Store for iPhone and iPad, Windows Phone 7 Marketplace, BlackBerry App World and Nokia Ovi Store. The Windows Phone 7 Marketplace will also be larger than the Nokia Ovi Store and BlackBerry App World prior to the Windows Phone 7 Marketplace being available for even a full year."There are other findings too - that many top publishers are already cross-platform. The question is whether the expectation that the future will continue like the past is reasonable.Ask Ars: what's the relationship between CPU clockspeed and performance? &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaInformative.How fast are enterprises going Windows 7? Not fast enough for Unisys &gt;&gt; ZDNetSmall sample alert: only 133 respondents. Nevertheless Unisys (former mainframe giant, now a Windows 7 integrator) isn't happy: ""(O)nly 21 percent of respondents answered 'Migration underway,'" the release noted, "while a combined 53 percent answered 'Haven't started,' or 'Not migrating.' Twenty-five percent said that, at the time, they were 'Piloting Windows 7.'"Microsoft Q3 2011 earnings results due on Thursday &gt;&gt; WinRumors"The software giant is expected to post earnings of 56 cents per share, up from last year's 45 cents per share. Revenue is likely to increase by an impressive 12% to $16.2bn in revenue, up from $14.5bn in the same period last year."Might be the first quarter in decades in which Apple has the larger revenue and larger profit. 56c per share translates roughly to slightly over $5bn; Apple's profit last quarter was $5.62bn.Scott McNealy re-emerges in tech circles &gt;&gt; CNET News"Scott McNealy, who co-founded and led Sun Microsystems for many years before its sale to Oracle last year, is once again engaging in the technology world."Fittingly for the one-man sound bite factory, McNealy has taken to Twitter, dishing up snarky remarks and relishing the fact that not being CEO of a company means he doesn't have to be politically correct. And he's involved in business again, too, as chairman of stealth start-up WayIn.McNealy isn't dishing on WayIn, but some details are bubbling up."WayIn will be something like a way to play user-created games while watching TV or live events. Hmm. Twitter it ain't.White iPhone delay partly due to UV protection &gt;&gt; Tuaw.comUV protection for people who see it?Apple CEO Steve Jobs talks about how the iPhone does and doesn't use location information &gt;&gt; AllThingsDBasically, he goes around the press release. But since he pretty much dictated it, no surprise. Interesting that Apple takes this so seriously now, though. All we got was lots of 'no comment' last week.Review: The Blackberry Playbook, Thoughtless and Untested &gt;&gt; The Next Web"What proved most disappointing for me over the course of evaluating the Playbook is the fact that there were flashes of solid utility buried in here. The QNX OS is different and, at least at first glance, usable. The screen is brilliant and crisp. The tablet itself is a fantastic size and a good weight.&#10;"The touch-sensitive screen borders are far more usable than they sound at first, it's a very solid feature that I think will be the one lasting contribution that the Playbook offers to the tablet world...."The multitasking gesture shrinks your currently running app but, in a random and confusing choice, does not freeze the apps when they are minimized. This means that if you're in the middle of playing a game, it will continue to run while it's shrunk down. This behavior is cool looking when it happens to a video app, but it's confusing and frustrating when you want to switch away from a game and it doesn't pause itself until you rotate the tile away."Ah.Introducing the new Google Docs app for Android &gt;&gt; Official Google Mobile Blog"Increasingly, people are using mobile phones to access information -- from email to web browsing to editing documents. Part of getting work done on the go is being able to easily access, edit and share content, which is why we're happy to announce the new Google Docs app for Android.&#10;"With this new app it's easy to filter and search for your content across any Google account, then jump straight into editing docs using the online mobile editors. The app also allows you to easily share items with contacts on your phone, right from within the app."Because the future of apps is there won't be any, we'll use the web instead on our tablets/phones.. No, hang on.Android tablets: Motorola XOOM returned, Honeycomb half baked at best &gt;&gt; ZDNet"the XOOM is an excellent piece of hardware. The build quality is fantastic, and it has a powerful dual-core nVidia Tegra 2 chipset with 1GB of onboard RAM, a brilliant 10.1″ 1280×800 LED display and high-resolution cameras in front and rear that exceed that of the iPad in terms of raw capability, at least on paper.&#10;"There's only one problem. The software on the device as shipped is complete and utter beta-level crap."Harsh, really.Grand Central Dispatch for Win32 &gt;&gt; GitHubIntriguing: Apple's "Grand Central Dispatch" (a method to push some threads off to the GPU for processing) ported and "lightly tested" to Win32.The interesting thing being that in days gone by, you'd have seen the Mac programmers desperately trying to port Win32 APIs to run on MacOS, not vice-versa.Open source tools look to make mapping easier &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarBookmark this page.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Thursday is here – already!
I largely agree with John Harris's analysis (Why hackers and spooks want our heads in the cloud, 26 April), but his fixation with the idea of "cloud computing" is misplaced. "Cloud computing" is just another way of describing the "back end". We have had back ends in one form or another since computer-based systems were invented. Hackers from the criminal world and state-sponsored intelligence communities were just as active before the term "cloud computing" was popularised as they are now. The only real difference is one of scale.Harris picking on Google was, of course, entirely justified. However, governments are not necessarily always going to be allies of big hi-tech companies. For example, in the last month alone the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has announced that it has entered into a binding consent decree under whichGoogle has agreed to submit to a biennial independent audit of its privacy practices for the next 20 years. That is half as long again as the company has existed. And then two weeks after that the FTC alsoannounced it was thinking about reviewing Google's potential monopoly dominance of the search engine marketin the US, where it claims between 63% and 72% of the market. In Europe Google's share is over 90%. This is one reason why the European commission is already doing the same.John CarrLondon• Your article (Public Wi-Fi users risk identity theft as fraudsters create 'Evil Twin' fake hotspots, 26 April) served readers well in alerting them to the fact that care must be taken to preserve the security of user details when accessing the internet via Wi-Fi. What was less clear was the fact that they can protect their data by taking relatively simple steps.First, anyone accessing the internet via Wi-Fi should make sure to look for the locked padlock symbol before entering login or other personal details. This symbol should appear at the bottom right-hand side of the web page you have accessed, or in the address bar. If it isn't there, think twice before using the page you have called up and beware of entering any confidential data. Second, if you are on a Wi-Fi service other than your own one at home, and you want to enter financial or other sensitive information, visit only sites that begin with "https" on every page (some use "https" only at login). These sites are more secure.Users should also consider our free BT Openzone virtual private network download; this creates a secure link between devices and hotspots. Customers can find information on this and other aspects of security atwww.btopenzone.com/help/security. At BT, we are proud to have provided the UK with more than 2.5m Wi-Fi hotspots. We take seriously the need to protect the security of people's data.Chris BruceChief executive officer,BT Openzone
Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, the founders of YouTube, have acquired the Delicious bookmarking service from Yahoo for an undisclosed price and added it to their new internet company Avos.The announcement follows rumours in March that the service might be sold for around $1m - a huge drop in value from the $30m Yahoo paid for it in December 2005.The duo - who sold YouTube to Google for $1.76bn in 2006, 18 months after creating it as a dating site and then discovering that video upload was popular too - say their aim is to "continue to provide the same great service users love and make the site even easier and more fun to save, share and discover the web's 'tastiest' content."It seems though that the effects passed over in the sale did not include the password to the Delicious blog. On that, the most recent entry is dated 17 December, and asks - slightly plaintively - "What's Next for Delicious?".At the time Yahoo had fired all the staff working on Delicious, though as the post said: "No, we are not shutting down Delicious. While we have determined that there is not a strategic fit at Yahoo!, we believe there is a ideal home for Delicious outside of the company where it can be resourced to the level where it can be competitive."However it looks like nobody wrote down the blog password, or got it from the departing staff. So nobody can put new posts there - nor, indeed, get rid of the spam that is gradually clogging up its comments.Instead on Wednesday an announcement stuck on the front page of the blog - at its canonical URLblog.delicious.com- says that "Providing a seamless transition for users is incredibly important for both companies. Yahoo! will continue to operate Delicious until approximately July 2011. When the transition period is complete, your information will be moved over to Delicious' new owner."From Wednesday, anyone logging into Delicious will be presented (as Guardian Technology has been) with a request for permission to move their information over. AnFAQ on the transitionit points out that after the transition date, anyone who has not agreed to shift their data over by then and has not downloaded it, or shifted to another service - such asPinboard- will lose their bookmarks.Hurley and Chen were chosen from a number of suitors "based on their passion and unique vision for Delicious", according to a statement by John Matheny, senior vice-president of "communications and communities" at Yahoo.What's next for Delicious? It's hard to say. Bookmarking services in themselves aren't great sources of cash; Yahoo, which originallybought Delicious in December 2005 for an estimated $30m- equivalent to about $100 per registered user - never figured out how to turn it into the "social search" that many thought it might become.Then again there's the possibility of looking at what people are bookmarking and turning that into a sort of "web news" service... rather like Digg or Reddit. And look how well they're doing! Or in Digg's case not doing.A few details - what we can get - on Avos.com: domain was registered in May 1998, and  changed hands apparently just on the same day as the announcement. The Wayback Machine haslots of pages from the site archived over the past ten years- but they all have the same message: "coming soon!"And meanwhile, what about Yahoo? Itdid say back in Decemberthat Delicious was marked for "sunset".Other services with the same target on their backs included Altavista, MyBlogLog, Yahoo! Bookmarks, and Yahoo! Picks. Can anyone find those still running?To be merged: Upcoming, FoxyTunes, Sideline, FireEagle, Yahoo Events and Yahoo People Search. And Yahoo Deals and Yahoo Calendar were to be made into "features".Yahoo, meanwhile, looks increasingly like a company that doesn't quite know where the next spurt of growth - or revenue, or profit - is going to come from. Yet Flickr looks safe, if only because it's a revenue-generating service.Interesting question: if you bookmark all the old Delicious blog blogposts, where will they point to once the service shifts over?Update:at least they've found the password for the Twitter@deliciousaccount, which has been busy tweeting the acquisition.
Up to 3 million Britons are believed to be among the 77 million users of Sony's PlayStation Network, which has been hacked into by criminals who have stolen users' personal information, possibly including credit card details.Reeling from one of the worst such security breaches in history, Sony warned all users of the PSN network – used to play games online and download content including films – that they should be alert for fraudulent activity on their credit cards. Users have been warned to be wary of "phishing" emails pretending to be updates or security information, and to urgently change the passwords on any sites or services that use the same password as their PSN username.The firm conducted a "forensic security" examination and discovered a hacker, or hackers, had accessed the internal corporate computer systems that hold the details. The UK's information commissioner said he would ask Sony to explain the circumstances of the data leak, which might constitute a breach of the Data Protection Act.The details of the users of the worldwide PlayStation Network – used by owners of Sony Playstation 3s and PlayStation Portables – include names, addresses, dates of birth, email addresses, and passwords to the network. They are a treasure trove potentially worth more than £100m to those who have stolen them if sold through online black markets, where the data required for an individual identity theft can cost up to $10, and a million unverified email addresses cost just $8.Sony confirmed late on Tuesday that it had suffered an "intrusion" into its system on Wednesday 20 April, and that it had shut down the PSN and its Qriocity music streaming services as soon as the incident was discovered.The PSN system was still down late on Wednesday. As well as costing Sony money the closure will be affecting a new generation of games companies that had hoped to use the system as a new means of selling games solely through downloads.The admission will be a huge blow to Sony, which has been struggling to regain its once iconic status after years of missteps, and will increase pressure on its chief executive, Sir Howard Stringer.Sony has not said how the hackers broke in. But Rik Ferguson, a computer security consultant at Trend Micro, said: "This has all the hallmarks of commercial criminal activity going for a saleable commodity. It doesn't look as though they would have broken in directly through the PlayStation Network. Far more likely is that they breached the corporate systems and then moved through them to access this valuable data."The breach is one of the biggest ever, and in terms of the value of the data contained may be the most valuable to the hackers. In January 2009 a US payment card processor, Heartland Payment Systems, was hacked, affecting up to 100m cards; in March 2007 the systems of the store chain TK Maxx were hacked, leading to the theft of 46m credit card details.However the PSN break-in is potentially more valuable because of the quality and breadth of data involved, as it could be used to construct an entire identity.Security experts are wondering whether Microsoft's rival XBox Live service, which provides a similar function to Sony's PSN, could be targeted, though experts said it was a more closed system.Dave Whitelegg, a data security blogger, said: "Microsoft's approach to [running a gaming network] is a bit more guarded than Sony's. The PSN is a much more open system. It's a whole different philosophy. A classic example is, on Xbox Live you do not get a web browser – the reason for that is security; it's a possible attack vector and could get you into their network. But the PlayStation 3 has one."Ferguson said highly targeted commercial hacking attacks had increased recently, with large online repositories of information being targeted. The activism group Anonymous took the unusual step of insisting it was not behind the breach. It had previously attacked Sony over the company's legal complaints about gamers who tried to hack software that would let PS3s play any game."For once we didn't do it," the organisation, which describes itself as fighting for internet freedom, wrote on its blog. "AnonOps was not related to this incident and does not take responsibility for whatever has happened."Sony has been criticised for the fact that the hackers have apparently been able to copy the data directly, implying it was not encrypted.Almost every commercial site scrambles a user's password before storing it; when the user tries to log in, the password they provide is scrambled in the same way and then compared with the stored one, meaning the "plaintext" password is not available. It does not appear that Sony has done this.Ian Shepherd, chief executive of video-games retailer Game Group, told Reuters: "The issue, the experience that Sony are having … is a really serious one. It's one we're staying very close to. I think there are lessons for the whole industry from the experience that Sony are having."Many gamers expressed anger. On the PS3news.com online forum, PSN member Jarvis wrote: "Stop purchasing anything remotely related to Sony. Let companies who deal with Sony know that you can't support them if they continue to work with Sony."But Ferguson said such threats were unlikely to amount to anything. "That's just frustration. There would be a real hardware cost in doing that. In fact, it's likely to be more like what happens after a terrorist attack: security is stepped up and everyone is much safer for some time afterwards."Since Stinger's appointment in March 2005 he has struggled to break the company out of its "silo" organisation that has prevented co-ordination between different divisions.But revenue and profits have both remained flat, while the company has struggled to make an impact in new areas. The PlayStation 3, launched in 2006 in Japan and 2007 elsewhere, is widely seen as third-placed behind Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's Wii, and has dragged down profits.A series of other problems such as battery fires and spyware embedded on music CDs have not helped its reputation either, and Stringer is now widely seen as being vulnerable if the company's performance does not improve.Meanwhile the first lawsuit resulting from the security breach has been filed.It was filed on behalf of Kristopher Johns, 36, of Alabama. Johns accuses Sony of not taking "reasonable care to protect, encrypt, and secure the private and sensitive data of its users."
•October 2005A Windows expert blogs about a "rootkit" – hidden software – he discovered on Sony BMG music CDs. A month later Sony recalls and exchanges all the affected CDs and releases software to remove the rootkit, which was included to prevent people copying the music.•June 2006Sony delays launch of its high-definition Blu-ray DVD players after problems manufacturing enough of the blue lasers required.•October 2006The company recalls 9.6m laptops after a problem with exploding batteries.•June 2007Sony releases PlayStation 3 in Europe with limited ability to play PlayStation 2 games – meaning some people's catalogues of games are useless. The PS3 is criticised for high prices in the UK and Europe.•September 2008The firm recalls 438,000 laptops after more reports of overheating and burning.•April 2011A total of 50m PS3s have been sold worldwide – not many fewer than Microsoft's Xbox 360. The Nintendo Wii, however, has sold about 80m units.•April 2011Sony PlayStation Network systems are hacked and millions of credit card and personal details are stolen.
In the midst of Sony's PlayStation Network security breach, Microsoft has had to issue its own security alert today. On the company'sXbox Live Status page, the following warning has been issued:"Users may receive potential phishing attempts via title specific messaging while playing Modern Warfare 2."We are aware of the problem and are working to resolve the issue. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause and thank you for your patience."The problem appears to be restricted to one title, and is centred around the system's matchmaking process, which arranges online multiplayer gaming sessions. It seems to be a reasonably routine problem, but with fears over online security riding high, several industry news sources have picked up on it.US games blog Kotaku has alsoreportedthat dozens of modified Xbox 360 machines previously banned from Xbox Live have been allowed back on to the service – but only for a short time. Users who had 'modded' their machines to run unnofficial applications and pirated games found that they could suddenly sign in to the Xbox Live service – even though they had previously been ejected in one of Microsoft's regular'banhammer' sessions. However, shortly afterwards all the machines were reportedly banned again.The speculation is that Microsoft may have been testing its infrastructure in the wake of the PlayStation Network hack, or that it was trialling its newXbox 360 disc format, which is partially intended to prevent piracy by blocking the DVD firmware hack that's been exploitable on Xbox 360 for several years.
Apple has admitted that a bug in its software has allowed iPhones and iPads to collect data related to their location even when users turn off permission to collect it – but says it will soon remedy this oversight.The admission follows a storm of controversy after the Guardian's exclusive revelation last week that the devicesstored a file containing details from which a user's movements could be reconstructed.In astatement on its website, the company says that: "Apple is not tracking the location of your iPhone. Apple has never done so and has no plans ever to do so."It says that the file discovered by researchers and described in the Guardian is not used for tracking of the phone or its owner. "The location data that researchers are seeing on the iPhone is not the past or present location of the iPhone, but rather the locations of Wi-Fi hotspots and [mobile network] cell towers surrounding the iPhone's location, which can be more than 100 miles away from the iPhone." It adds: "We plan to cease backing up this cache in a software update coming soon."That will cut the amount of data stored from as much as a year's worth of location information to just seven days, the company says. That is likely to be roughly comparable with the store used on Android phones, which record the past 50 cell towers and 200 Wi-Fi networks that the phone has "seen".That data is uploaded to Apple in an "encrypted and anonymous" form, it says.It admits that a software fault means that if users turn off Location Services – which should prevent the upload – the data is still sent. "It shouldn't. This is a bug, which we plan to fix shortly," the company says.Future versions of the file will be encrypted on the phone. That will allay fears that law enforcement and security services could copy the file and analyse it without a valid warrant.Apple accepts some of the blame for the concern over the revelations, which have seen it threatened with lawsuits and put under focus from US lawmakers andpotentially by European governments. "Providing mobile users with fast and accurate location information while preserving their security and privacy has raised some very complex technical issues which are hard to communicate in a soundbite. Users are confused, partly because the creators of this new technology (including Apple) have not provided enough education about these issues to date," the company says in its statement.The data is stored because it helps the iPhone to calculate its location, Apple says. "Calculating a phone's location using just GPS satellite data can take up to several minutes. iPhone can reduce this time to just a few seconds by using Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower data to quickly find GPS satellites, and even triangulate its location using just Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower data when GPS is not available (such as indoors or in basements). These calculations are performed live on the iPhone using a crowd-sourced database of Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower data that is generated by tens of millions of iPhones sending the geo-tagged locations of nearby Wi-Fi hotspots and cell towers in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple."Apple also insists that it cannot identify individuals from the data because the data about networks and Wi-Fi – which is reported to the company's servers – is anonymised and encrypted.The Guardian approached Apple ahead of publication last week of its article detailing the findings by the researchers, but the company declined to comment at the time. Repeated requests for comment received no response until now.Since then Apple has found itself under fire, with the US Democratic senator Al Franken writing directly to Apple chief executive Steve Jobs demanding to know why the phones retained the data, and attempts to file a class action lawsuit against the company.Jobs himself was curtly emphaticin an email earlier this week in which he insisted "we don't track anyone" and that "the info circulating around is false".
Towards the end of the iPad 2 launch event in March, Apple chief executive Steve Jobs told the assembled journalists about his company's position at the intersection of "technology and the liberal arts". A multiplayer iPhone poetry game would seem to slot neatly into that vision, although phrases like "rub my magic member", "sniff my glorious exploding spraying monster" and "juicy monkey muscle" might not be quite what Jobs was thinking of.That's the language awaiting anyone who downloads one of the more interesting iPhone games to be released in recent weeks:Prose With Bros. Developer Evil Laugh Games calls it the "first ever multiplayer competitive poetry game", available in free and paid versions. Released on 20 April, it is already picking up word-of-mouth buzz.Poetry? Fridge poetry to be specific. Prose With Bros is based around the idea of stringing together virtual word-tiles into cogent sentences, and doing it better than opponents in the two-player online battles that form the basis for the game. Each player is given the same 50 words to construct their prose, and after submitting the results, other players vote on which is best over the course of the next 24 hours.It's that crowdvoting aspect that makes Prose With Bros interesting. The first thing players see when firing up the game is a battle to vote on, and give virtual 'kudos' if a sentence is particularly clever – with the sentences being read out by the iPhone. Swiping down on the homescreen shows a player's battles that are currently being voted on, complete with a live score – shown as percentages of the vote.The problem – although admittedly it's a selling point for a healthy portion of the game's current player base – is that the tone has quickly dived downwards. Why? Here's a list of the kind of words being offered up to players to wax lyrical with: stuff, spicy, love, kumquat, slap, body, beg, pants, poke, chubby, bratwursts, filthy, midgets, member, banana, spraying, fireman, juicy, meatballs, dangly.It's fair to say the early Prose With Bros community has taken to the rearrangement task with gusto, and the voting is rewarding the ruder fare (yes, translation: poncey Guardian writer is grumpy because their carefully constructed fridge poetry is being trounced by barely-readable guff about chubby members).The serious point is that currently, the game is sliding towards a much narrower gameplay focus - to be as rude as possible – which sells short the inventiveness behind the game itself. Evil Laugh Games is well aware of this, adding a section to its App Store listing warning that "Prose with Bros is not intended to be, but can quickly become, NSFW ... We're currently exploring ideas to add the option for users to be able to turn on a dirty-filter so that you don't see these sentences if you don't want to."Prose With Bros has the makings of a cult hit rather than an Angry Birds-style chart juggernaut, but its appearance on the App Store shows there is still room for innovation – and yes, filthy spraying dangly bratwursts – in the apps world.
Despite being an increasingly rare example of a Sony exclusive, the SOCOM franchise never previously made much impact beyond the US. But the squad-based, third/first-person shooter (it snaps into first-person view when you aim) pioneered online gaming on the PlayStation 2. Special Forces is the fourth instalment and the first proper one for the PS3, and it turns out to be something of a curate's egg.It's the first SOCOM game with a proper, focused, story-led single-player game: set in the Far East, you play Special Forces operative Cullen Gray who, with his two-man team, hooks up with two South Korean Special Forces soldiers and finds himself in the middle of what becomes more or less a war to gain control of the Malacca Straits and hold the world to ransom. The missions (uniquely for SOCOM) take place in a fairly small geographical area, and generally involve being beset by huge numbers of enemies – although they are interspersed with stealth interludes, for which you take the controls of a female South Korean soldier called 45.SOCOM: Special Forces' single-player game is impressively absorbing, given the franchise's lack of pedigree in that area. The missions are quite varied and believable and the stealth – while not being as rigorous as, say, Metal Gear Solid – is pretty convincing. The British characters have actually been voiced by Brits. Enemy AI is good, it's vital to control your squad in a strategic manner, the weapons are good (and get better, as you can collect enemy weapons and equip them in future missions) and there are some impressively high-tech aspects, such as convincing particle effects like smoke and destructible cover. And the control system is perfect for Sony's Move – indeed, it provides an example of exactly the sort of game you can't play using Kinect.However, there are a few issues. The graphics, though crisp, look curiously dated, in a texture-free, old-school arcade-machine style. You often have to be annoyingly precise in your orientation, in order to snap to cover or heal downed squad-members, which is hardly ideal in the middle of a fire-fight. And, following the modern trend, the single-player game is pretty short.That, to be fair, is somewhat ameliorated by a decent multiplayer side, which takes in the typical Capture The Flag and Deathmatch modes, but innovates with Bomb Squad, in which you must protect a squad-member while he or she defuses a bomb. And it supports up to five-player co-op play, which really lets the game go to town on cranking up the AI, and forces you to act in a highly co-ordinated manner with your fellow players.SOCOM: Special Forces is, by some distance, the best SOCOM game yet, although it still lacks polish in comparison with the likes of Call of Duty and Crysis 2. If you view such concerns as mere superficialities, then you'll find that it is an enjoyable, pretty well crafted effort which you might find yourself playing for a decent period of time online.• Game reviewed on PlayStation 3
Social features remain a blind spot for most major app stores, but independent service GetJar is hoping to steal a march on the competition with its use of Facebook Connect in today's relaunch of its mobile site.Users are invited to sign in with their Facebook accounts and then share details of their downloads and comments on the social network. GetJar is also providing Like and Dislike buttons on its mobile store to ensure its customers help their friends sort the app wheat from the chaff.The decision to add Facebook Connect was partly fuelled bya recent survey conducted by GetJar, which found that only 21.6% of app downloaders actually discover those apps in the stores.That said, only 8.8% of respondents to that survey said they discovered apps through recommendations from friends, versus 53% who discovered them 'online'. However, of US respondents, 20% said they discovered apps through friends and family.In any case, the GetJar chief executive, Ilja Laurs, is making the case for social discovery as a fresh alternative to traditional app store models. "Now that users can share apps with their friends on Facebook, recommendations are really a bit old school," he says in a statement. "Our recent research clearly showed us that what consumers care about is what their friends are downloading and using, not what we as an app store think they should download."That's potentially risky for a company like GetJar, whose business model has been partly based on charging developers to promote their apps in featured slots on its website and mobile portal. However, there is still room for these kinds of campaigns in a 'promotional cluster' near the top of the redesigned GetJar mobile site, so the two models will rub along together.The social recommendations sit below a chart of the top apps, although one of the top navigation tabs is Friends, which switches the focus entirely to social recommendations. It takes the form of a Facebook-style news feed of what friends have been downloading, liking and disliking, and commenting on through GetJar. A sub-tab presents a list of the most popular apps among friends and also their friends on the site.The new social features are a strong addition to GetJar, both for the benefits they will bring to users, and for viral promotion of the store itself on Facebook as it faces up to competition from new entrants to the independent app stores world such as Amazon.The revamped GetJar site also gives more idea of how Facebook Connect could be used in stores like Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market, although they would have to be willing and able to strike a deal with Facebook first. Apple intended to use Facebook Connect in its Ping social music network from launch last year, but the feature was removed at the last minute after the tech giant failed to reach a deal with the social network.
Sony's PlayStation Network – the infrastructure that allows PS3 owners to play online games, as well as buy movies and other downloadable content – has been infiltrated by an unknown hacker, and the customer details of up to 77 million users have been compromised.But how worried should we be, and what can PSN users do to protect themselves? Here are a few of the answers we have so far ...What has happened?Between 17 April and 19 April, Sony realised there had been an "unauthorised intrusion" on the PlayStation Network and Qriocity services. The company shut the services down and undertook an investigation. It claims that the full extent of the security breach was only understood yesterday.How has this happened?Good question – and one that Sony should be required to answer as soon as possible. Indeed, US senator Richard Blumenthal has written to SCEA president Jack Trettondemanding an explanation. It seems, though, that there have been recurrent weaknesses in the PSN security infrastructure. In January, the PS3 system root key, which authorises software running on the machine,was hacked, potentially allowing pirated games and unauthorised software to run on "jailbroken" PS3s. There are now numerous coding sites offering custom firmware, allowing PlayStation owners to run their own apps and operating systems on the machine. This is not unique to Sony's console however: both the Wii and Xbox 360 can be "hacked" to run pirated software – however, the accounts and personal details of other console customers have not been involved on this scale.What have the hackers obtained?It seems that any personal information you have entered into the PSN service is vulnerable. That means your name, address (including postcode), country, email address, birthdate, PlayStation Network/Qriocity password, login, password security answers, and your PSN online ID. Sony says that it is also possible that your profile data may have been obtained, "including purchase history and billing address". If you have used your credit card to buy downloadable content via PSN or Qriocity, your credit card details, excluding your security number (usually the three-digit number on the reverse of the card, on the signature panel) may have been obtained. Sony is stressing that all of this is apossibility; it doesn't know for definite that the hacker has acquired all of this information.What should I do about my PSN account now?While the network is down, there's not much you can do. Sony won't say when the service is going back online, but when it does, you should immediately change your PSN password.What other precautions should I take?If you use the same password elsewhere online, change every instance. Ideally, you should employ different passwords on every secure site you use. From now on, try to make your passwords as un-guessable as possible. Use numbers, capitals and symbols. When the Gawker network was hacked last year it was discovered that the most popular password among users was "12345"; the second was "password". That's not a good idea if you have credit card information to protect. If you use a Google Mail account to access secure sites, consider employingtwo-factor authentication.Also, be aware that phishing scams will now be in operation: if you receive emails claiming to be from Sony and asking for account information or personal details, do not reply. Sony has stated that it willnotemail PSN users requesting details.How will I know if my account has been compromised?You probably won't know if someone holds your data until they attempt to use it. Keep a close eye on your credit card statements – look out for any unusual transactions and inform your bank or credit card company immediately if you see anything suspicious. If you are worried, you can pay for a credit card report from one of the three UK agencies: Experian, Equifax and Call Credit. They also run subscription services that monitor your account and alert you to suspicious activities. Senator Blumenthal has urged Sony to provide PSN users with free access to credit reporting services for two years. This is unlikely to happen. In itsonline FAQ, Sony has broached the subject of refunds, stating: "When the full services are restored and the length of the outage is known, we will assess the correct course of action."When PSN is back online will it be safe?Sony has said that it is rebuilding the service. The company has also bought in third-party security experts to trace the source of the hack. It's worth pointing out, however, that data security is an issue facing every site where customers hand over personal and financial details. There are question marks over whether online data systems can ever be 100% safe.•For more information see theDirectgov guide to online fraud,Get Safe Online,Financial Fraud Action UKandMicrosoft's advice on creating strong passwords.
Simon McCalla, director of IT at Nominet, which oversees the .uk domain, talks to Charles Arthur. How are preparations going to implement IPv6 in the UK?We also look at the implications of phone tracking on your privacy.Jemima Kiss rounds up the week's news: Sony's admission that hackers have stolen the data of millions of users of its PlayStation Network; Iranian authorities are investigating a computer virus similar to the virus that affected their nuclear facilities last August; and Yahoo has spent around $20m on Into Now, a TV check-in app.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
There is now some more wildlife to file alongside Angry Birds in the '100m app downloads' club. US developer Outfit7 says its Talking Friends apps have also passed the milestone, and faster than Rovio Mobile's feathery game franchise too.The first Talking Friend app –Talking Tom Cat– was launched for iPhone in July 2010, less than 10 months ago. Nine other apps have since been released by Outfit7, including versions for Android and iPad.The company says it notched up 41m downloads in the first five months, added another 44m in the next three months, and then notched up the next 15m in little over a month.Expect a fair amount of eye-rolling at the news from within the apps world from developers who see talking virtual animals as a trivial waste of money. As with any milestone of this type, though, it's hard to tell exactly how much money is being spent (or wasted, depending on your point of view) on the Talking Friends apps.They're a mixture of free and paid apps, with revenues coming from a mixture of paid downloads, in-app payments and advertising. Wheninterviewed by Apps Blogin March 2011, Nabergoj stayed tight-lipped on how much money Outfit7 was making from these revenue streams, but previously said the company made $200,000 on Christmas Day alone in 2010.He's continuing to spell out grand ambitions for the company and its Talking Friends, saying in a statement today that "just as Disney has created characters that everyone adores, our goal as a mobile entertainment company is to create characters that our users can bond with on a deeper, interactive level where ever they happen to be".As a savvy entrepreneur, Nabergoj's Disney comparisons are likely to be as much about persuading that company (or a similarly large traditional media firm) that Outfit7 should be acquired sooner rather than later. If Disney bought Club Penguin to get into the child-friendly virtual worlds space, why not do the same for a company whose apps are on tens of millions of smartphones and tablets?While a counterpoint to this argument would be Disney's far larger stable of much-loved characters who could be given the 'Talking' treatment in-house, Outfit7's appeal would then rest on its technology and its reach. The latter will be measured in terms of usage, too: how many of those 100m downloads are being used regularly a week or month after the initial download?Even so, taken at face value, the success of Talking Friends in reaching its nine-figure milestone in less than a year – alongside the similar total reached by Angry Birds in a little longer – is a stark sign of the speed at which new entertainment brands can be built right now in mobile.If the revenues and usage match up to the downloads, Nabergoj may get his wish to be at the heart of the next Disney – possibly from inside the current one.
Nokia,once indisputably the world's largest mobile phone company, will lay off 4,000 people worldwide by the end of next year as it attempts to cut costs after falling behind rivals in the smartphone market.Most of the job cuts will be in Denmark, Finland and Britain, with 700 roles being axed in the UK. The company said talks with employees had already begun.Nokia, which employs 65,000 people worldwide, also announced that it will transfer some 3,000 employees to Accenture as it shifts the development of the Symbian platform used in Nokia phones to the consulting firm.The company attempted to put a positive spin on the news and insisted that the Symbian employees located in China, Finland, India, the UK and the United States will continue to develop the software and services for Nokia and "over time, Accenture and Nokia will seek opportunities to retrain and redeploy transitioned employees".The announcements came as Nokia, which has around 2,400 staff in the UK, called workers in several cities for briefings about company strategy as it begins anew partnership with Microsoft.In a push to challenge rivals such as  Apple and Google, Nokia and Microsoft announced in February that they are to join forces.Nokia has in recent years been hit by stiff competition – first from Research in Motion's Blackberry, then Apple's iPhone and latterly Google's Android – and has been criticised as beingslow to react to the latest mobile phone trend. It has said it plans to cut operating expenses by €1bn (£885m) by 2013.Nokia's share price jumped more than 3% on the news.
Sony has admitted that it shut down its PlayStation Network last week because it discovered a "non-gaming" intrusion into the system, but had not realised until late on Tuesday – following forensic security testing – that the breach had led to the theft of the data of the 77 million users.Security analysts said that the problem may mean that hackers have uncovered a fundamental flaw in Sony's networks which will be expensive and time-consuming to fix.The company has suggested that an "unauthorised person" carried out the attack against its servers, during which usernames, passwords, credit card details, security answers, purchase history and addresses are believed to have been stolen.The precise method by which the hacker broke into the systems has not been revealed, though earlier this year theencryption around the PlayStation 3 was cracked. That would have made software piracy on the PS3 simpler, but it's not clear if it would have enabled the wider break-in.The Anonymous activist group, which had criticised Sony over its legal threats to people who exploited the encryption crack, has insisted it was not involved in the attack that brought down the network.The breach has affected two separate Sony networks: the PlayStation Network (PSN), which serves the roughly 55m PS3 consoles, and PlayStation Portable owners, and its paid-for Qriocity music-streaming service.The company has hinted that it may refund users for lost services and games.Accounts on the PSN are free to start, and users only need to provide credit card details if they decide to purchase games. But the revelation that details have been stolen indicates that Sony was storing them in unencrypted form – which is a major security error that even small websites avoid.Having user emails and passwords could lead malicious users to steal all sorts of other personal details, especially because many people use the same password on multiple sites – a security failing caused by the problem of remembering multiple different logins.Alan Paller, research director of the SANS Institute, told Reuters that the breach might be the largest identity theft on record. Although bigger break-ins in terms of the number of credit cards potentially stolen have been recorded, those have been limited to names and card numbers. The detail here is a far richer trove which could be worth tens of millions of dollars if sold on the thriving online black market for credit cards and personal information.Paller suggested that Sony overlooked security in building the network with the PS3 launch five years ago. "They have to innovate rapidly. That's the business model," Paller said. "New software has errors in it. So they expose code with errors in it to large numbers of people, which is a catastrophe in the making."Elsewhere, the website VG247 said it hadobtained a log of a hacker conversation from Februaryin which two hackers said that it was easy to break into the PSN and defeat its encryption. "Sony is the biggest spy ever – they collect so much data," one hacker comments in the log. "All connected devices return values sent to Sony servers. it collects when I had a USB device attached. So if they ever sue someone for PSN stuff, they will be sued themselves as most of the data they collect is just not legal."Sony sought to explain to PlayStation owners why it has taken seven days to reveal the extent of last week's PSN hack. Ina post on the company's blog, Nick Caplin, head of communications at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe issued this statement:"There's a difference in timing between when we identified there was an intrusion and when we learned of consumers' data being compromised. We learned there was an intrusion 19th April and subsequently shut the services down. We then brought in outside experts to help us learn how the intrusion occurred and to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and scope of the incident.It was necessary to conduct several days of forensic analysis, and it took our experts until yesterday to understand the scope of the breach. We then shared that information with our consumers and announced it publicly yesterday evening."Sony has alsoproduced an FAQto inform gamers about the security breach. It reiterates the huge extent of the intrusion: names, addresses, birthdates, PSN passwords and credit card numbers for any of the network's 77 million customers who provided such information may have been acquired.With thousands of gamers livid that their details have been compromised, the Sony FAQ does briefly address the question of refunds on subscriptions and purchases: "When the full services are restored and the length of the outage is known, we will assess the correct course of action."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSETI Suspends Its Search For Alien Life"Sad news for astronomy and for alien research, and even worse news if there is in fact intelligent life out there wanting to contact Earth. The SETI Institute, which operates the Allen Telescope Array in northern Californa (made famous in the Jodie Foster film Contact), says that due to government budget cutbacks, it no longer has the funds to maintain its search for extraterrestrial intelligence."Once upon a time, the Seti@home network was the most powerful distributed computer in the world.Mac vs. PC: A Hunch Rematch &gt;&gt; Hunch blogQualities observed in people from the Hunch network. This is one that definitely wouldn't attract any comments, right?How to beat Apple &gt;&gt; kottkeInsightful, and right: the companies that are beating Apple are doing this.Analyst: 15,000 to 120,000 Xooms sold; Motorola's survival at risk &gt;&gt; Fortune TechRather a big error margin in those sales figures. Anyway: "All in all, Motorola's "competitive fixation" on Apple and Research in Motion is misplaced. Rather than trying to innovate on software, [Global Equities' analyst Trip] Chowdry suggests, "selectively attacking with patents other Android phone OEM's is a better strategy."Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Color becomes a full-on Android tablet &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Barnes &amp; Noble has touted its Nook Color as 'the reader's tablet' since the product's inception. But after the company announced the launch of an Android OS update and extended features on the device this week, we're not sure what to call it anymore.&#10;"E-reader? Tablet? E-tablet?&#10;"Version 1.2 of the Nook Color's firmware launched Monday morning, bringing Android OS 2.2 (Froyo) to existing users of the e-reader tablet. The software includes expansions to web surfing on the device, including Adobe Flash and Air support, as well as the ability to receive e-mail."Interesting.JavaScript: The Definitive Guide Sixth Edition pdf download ebook &gt;&gt; davidflanagan.com"I do not know whether or to what extent piracy is responsible for my declining income. I suspect that the internet and the transition from print books to ebooks has more to do with it than piracy does. But I also suspect that piracy has a non-trivial impact, too.&#10;"But beyond the non-quantifiable financial impacts, I can report that, to me, the piracy of my books is profoundly discouraging. When my Ruby book came out in 2008 I was sad to discover that pirated copies were available within a week or so of the book's release. When my jQuery pocket reference came out earlier this year, I was shocked to discover that Google was giving the ebook download sites higher placement than reviews of the book. And now JavaScript: The Definitive Guide is out.. Google will suggest those illegal downloads to anyone who tries to research the book (see the screenshot). I've worked really hard on this book, and I've got to say that this just feels like a kick in the gut."Nielsen: Android gains, iPhone slips  &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"In monthly surveys conducted from January to March 2011 -- on either side of the Feb. 10 Verizon launch -- 31% of US respondents planning to buy a new smartphone in the next year said they wanted an Android, up from 26% six months earlier.&#10;"Only 30% said they wanted an iPhone, down from 33%. Research in Motion, Microsoft, Palm and Other also lost ground. Americans who plan to buy Nokia smartphones were lost in the round-off error."Wait, people wanted to buy Palm phones?Gigahertz? No! What Matters Is the User Experience &gt;&gt; Gigaom"When you look under the hood of watches, they are just like many technology products, quite complex. Despite what my friends who are watch devotees might think, in the end watches are a piece of jewellery. It doesn't matter if is has 21 jewels or some kind of special material – what appeals to our senses is how it looks and of course how much it costs."The smartphones of today are no different – they are devices of self-expression. When it comes to these devices, folks who don't obsess with feeds-and-speeds make their purchasing decisions based on questions practical and abstract. Like – how does a phone look? How easy it is to use? What apps does it have? Can I get Facebook? Can I take photos and can I get email? More importantly, is it cool enough for rest of my friends?"Whenever I see a company trying to use GigaHertz or dual core chips as a marketing message, I do know one thing – they don't quite understand how to relate to their customers."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
So here it is: the Motorola Xoom is about to land on our shores. This is a review, but because this is about tablets you know that it must involve comparisons. The Xoom doesn't live alone; if it were the world's only "media tablet" (to use the phrase analysts are using to try to split this species off from all the other tablet devices out there), that would be one thing. However, it's not even close to being the first. So yes – I am going to compare it to the iPad. (Update: Harry Metcalfe, who owns a Xoom, provided some extra information, so I've updated some parts.)•one-line review•First impressions•Power on•Home screen•Battery life•Email and calendars•Browser•Phone?•Flash Player•Notifications•USB ports•Keyboard and typing•App selection•Music player•Video•Verdict•ForandagainstIn a nutshell: not yetA home screen on Honeycomb on the Motorola Xoom. You get five, but they start off empty till you fill themAnd here's the one-line review: nope, not yet, Motorola/Google. The iPad still has it, by some distance. Honeycomb is nice, and the Android things that are better than iOS are still better (cough *notifications* cough), but tablets are harder than smartphones. Also, app stores really matter, and the Android Market isn't nearly there.If you compare like-for-like storage (the Xoom starts at 32GB) then the Xoom is exactly the same price as the same-storage iPad 2 at£479 from PC World(thoughat Amazonit's a whopping £570 or £660 for the 3G version).So, finally, we have an Android tablet that's the same price as Apple's and even slightly bigger in screen. Kudos to Motorola.First impressionsIn person, the Xoom has an impressively large screen: like an angler with a fish, you feel you need to spread your hands really wide to hold it. In fact, the screen is only just wider, and very slightly thinner than the iPad's; yet the overall effect of the 16:9 aspect ratio (compared to the iPad's 4:3) is that you're holding something that's designed in Cinemascope. This turns out not to work in its favour, but we'll come to that.The Xoom's profile is about as thick as the original iPad - but that makes it thicker than the successorThe shape is slightly thicker in the centre than the edges, so the edges are raised from a flat surface – good for picking up quickly.There's not a huge weight difference compared to the iPad 2, though it looks about twice as thick when put on a surface.Unlock &amp; power upBack view: the Xoom has a camera and flash.Turning it on is just a matter of … where's the button? For reasons best known to themselves, the Xoom's designers have hidden the power button on the back, on the top left, recessed into the chassis. (Rory Cellan-Jones at the BBC had thesame perplexed reaction.) If you need a laugh, hand one to someone who's never held one, and see how long it takes them to find it. One minute is good going, by which time they will have prodded the USB output socket, HDMI output socket, and power input socket, and volume buttons (all of which, sensibly enough, are on the side of the device).OK, power on. And now we have Honeycomb – Google's 3.0 version of Android. It has clearly been almost completely rethought for a tablet (though there are a couple of leftover references to "phone" in the system: rather than the PIN or "draw a pattern" screen of an Android phone, you get a padlock sitting in a circle; you have to drag the padlock to the edge. (Neat, though it puzzled some people I tried it on: they pressed the padlock, they pressed the circle, they didn't find the "pull the padlock to the edge" idea self-evident.)Update: Metcalfe points out that you can change this to a pattern, or PIN if you prefer, in the "Security" setting. The default "unlock" on an Android phone, of course, is a padlock that you "pull" across the bottom of the screen.Home screen: arm the photon torpedoes!The whole typography and look of Honeycomb seems to come from someone whose favourite film was JJ Abrams' version of Star Trek, with lens flare (those haloes around any light) galore and typefaces that are all wonderfully flat curves.The Honeycomb main screen. Note the clock: it wouldn't be out of place in Star TrekThe default home screen on the Xoom is a deep blue background. As on the Android smartphones, there are five home screens; Honeycomb, though, arranges them in a carousel – you start in the centre, with two empty ones either side to which you can add apps when you swing them around, or use the button in the top right menu.And also in the top right menu, there's a button with "apps", which takes you down one level into an "apps folder". How does that make sense? Why is Honeycomb giving us a pit into which apps are dumped, while also presenting you with four completely empty screens? It's not as if there are too many apps: the default installation has 24 buried in that folder, while each of the five screens can take at least 48 apps.This is bad user interface design which reduces the chance of people using apps – and hence the tablet. Forcing the user to head down into a folder andthenmake apps return to the surface to use them means you're less likely to find them. Some people (because remember, some people who use computers and tablets are not that savvy) won't notice the "Apps" tag in the top right for quite some time. The most powerful setting on any computer is "default": it's what most people use most of the time. Google isn't doing itself any favours with the Honeycomb defaults.Battery life: sufficient (with asterisks)Much is made of the iPad's long battery life. That's because a tablet where you had to keep charging it as much as a laptop (typically an hour or two) would get very wearying. Their utility comes from the fact that you can pick them up andnot have to worry whether you charged them this morningif you use them, say, an hour or two each day.The Xoom does well – it achieved as much as the iPad. Ten hours, more or less – although note  that Flash will halve that. You think you don't spend all your time watching Flash? If you open a lot of commercial web pages with adverts or (of course) watch YouTube, you're hitting Flash. More on this later.Flash aside, the battery life is longer than a typical working day. You can tweak the life by changing how quickly the screen turns off, dimming the screen, turning off Wi-Fi, and so on.Note though that setting the screen's off delay will mean turning it on a lot – and reaching around for that power button quickly gets tedious. In fact, that back-mounted button is my major criticism of the Xoom itself; yes, it falls under the left index finger if you pick the device up in the correct orientation, but you won't always. And if it's lying down and turns off, picking it up is a pain. Contrast having a button on the front and/or side (both, with the iPad): much easier to activate.Email and Calendars: lookalike, work-unalikeIf Apple were the sort of company that was keen on litigation over look and feel of interfaces, it would be after Google right now over the mail app: it looks almost exactly like the iPad's, but with slightly less panache. There's a left column of incoming emails, and the body of the selected email taking up exactly the same proportion of the screen as on the iPad app.Honeycomb also doesn't bring a unified mailbox. (Update: it does, see below.) If you have multiple accounts and want to murder your email quickly, tough luck. You still have to pick from separate accounts. Odd that HTC, for example, can figure this out in the Sense UI that it puts on its Android phones, but Google itself can't. Or is it leaving a gap so franchisees can differentiate themselves?That said, the mail program is workmanlike. There's nothing dramatically clever; it's functional. The Honeycomb calendar is good – the layout is clearer than Apple's.Update:Metcalfe points out that you can get a unified mailbox view; you just use the Mail app. I overlooked this because the Gmail app (I use Google Mail, yup) was front and foremost in the home screen, anddoesn'toffer a unified view. I can't now recall if the Mail app is on the home screen or buried in the Apps folder or off on an adjacent home screen. Either way, it is confusing to have two different apps performing the same function.BrowserHoneycomb gives you Chrome, with tabbed browsing. That makes it slightly faster to move between tabs (you can finger-scroll them along) than using the iPad metaphor, where you have to hit a button and then choose from the open pages or create a new one; the Xoom/Honeycomb also gives you up to 16 tabs (the iPad, nine).A slight annoyance is that most sites will still recognise the browser as a mobile one – despite the screen being as big as some laptops'. You'll get served the mobile site, which in many cases isn't going to be the right experience for a tablet. No doubt in time sites will update their browser recognition. Here's hoping.Is this a phone?Despite all the work, Honeycomb still betrays its heritage. Some of the settings refer to "phone" settings, as does the YouTube Market app (which you'd think might be Honeycomb-aware). Is that a big thing? No. Is it a detail thing? Yes – it indicates that Google's Android team haven't quite worked out how they're presenting Honeycomb.Flash. Gordon. Bennett.Theoretically, you can watch any video on the Xoom. As long as it's in MP4 format.Out of the box, the Xoom that I tested didn't come with Flash preinstalled. Browsing pages that had Flash content in this pre-lapsarian state brought empty white spaces. But the Market did alert me that there was a beta version of Flash Player 10.2, which I dutifully installed and forgot about.Then I tried testing the Xoom against some Flash content – specifically, theGuardian's video page.First of all, I didn't have the experience of stuttering Flash playback that some sites have reported: it played smoothly for me.But ayayayay, watch the battery life. Every three minutes's play saw a 1% drop in the battery. Do the maths, and that suggests you'll get five hours of life if you're playing Flash all the time. And if you're doing a lot of web browsing on sites that use Flash, whether for adverts (as lots do) or for some display element (again, a surprising number do; try disabling the Flash plugin in your browser to see how much of the desktop web is Flash) then you're going to be hammering your battery in just that way. You're not going to get the enjoyable 10-hour life that makes a new tablet ("media tablet" in the analyst parlance) useful. One element makes them special, in my experience, is that you don't have to worry about the battery life, which means you don't worry about just carrying them around. Add Flash into the equation, and you subtract from that.Complain about Apple and its refusal to include Flash all you like (and it seems some people enjoy doing so) but the reality is that its focus is on giving people the best possible user experience it can. And where different aims are incompatible – say, between having the longest possible battery life, or playing every single page including adverts on the web – there's an internal debate, which then results in what Apple thinks is optimal.Again, you may disagree on what's optimal. In which case, here's your five-hour tablet from Motorola; and there's the 10-hour iPad. Of course, YouTube and Vimeo and BBC's iPlayer all offer HTML5-compatible versions of their video, which makes up a big chunk of UK video streaming. But again, Flash is here for you if you want it.Consider yourself notifiedAndroid's notification system on smartphones runs rings around that on Apple's iOS: it's more finely-grained, and a lot less intrusive, as I'vepreviously pointed out in reviewing the Nexus S.On Honeycomb, the notifications have moved from the top left (on phones) to the bottom right of the screen (or if you're holding the Xoom in portrait mode, along the bottom of the screen). This isn't actually an improvement, and I can't work out why the Android team did it. To make Honeycomb look different? OK, but in user interface terms it doesn't help. Your hands may obscure new notifications.Even worse, it's quite easy while typing to hit a notification with a stray thumb and throw yourself off into the notifying program – a wormhole journey that's prone to cause a dramatic "Huh?" (or worse) moment. It's not good, but there doesn't seem to be anything we can do about it – which is worse. Love the notifications, hate the positioning.Any USB port in a stormI've long ago complained about the number of different USB connectors that you find on devices. There's the "nearly square" (mostly found on printers), the "loaf of bread" (lots of smartphones), the "squashed bungalow" (some newer smartphones such as the Nexus S),  Apple's 30-pin connector, and what seems like many more. To which you can now add the Motorola USB connector, which is none of the above.Why, Motorola,why?The loaf of bread or squashed bungalow wouldn't have taken up any noticeable space on the externals. And many of us have at least one of those leads hanging around at home or work already. But no, you had to go and give us yet another connector, which leads to long hunts for the one with exactly the right socket. And that's not even the power charging socket; that requires a completely separate adapter and lead. Did you notice, Motorola, how for years Apple has let you charge devices through the same port as you use to connect it to a computer? Please do that in future.Update:OK, everyone and their kitten is saying that the connector is the micro-USB port. OK - if you have a phone or device with a micro-USB port, you've got a spare lead. Yes, the EC is going to (try to) make phone companies standardise on micro-USB (not sure how that's going to sit with Apple with its 30-pin connector). It's not non-standard. But it's not that common either if you haven't bought a phone in the past few months either. Suffice to say I've been accidentally collecting USB leads for years and very, very few of them are micro-USB.How big is that keyboard in the window?For me the answer to this question was always: too big, or too small. As a consequence of the Xoom's 16:9 proportions, its edges measure roughly 8.7in (22.1cm) by 4.9in (12.4cm). (Calculation: 10in screen, Pythagoras's theorem.) The iPad's are 8in (20.3 cm) and 6in (15.2cm).Typing in portrait mode: personally, I found the keyboard too thin in this mode because of the 16:9 ratio of length:sideWhen you start typing on the Xoom, you're faced with two choices. In landscape mode, each hand has to span the keys across about 11cm; compare that to the iPad, where each has to cover about 10cm. In portrait (vertical) mode, on the Xoom your hands cover 6cm; on the iPad, 7.5cm.My experience was that on the Xoom, landscape was too wide, but portrait was too narrow. I couldn't type accurately and quickly on the narrow version - the keys were too close – but with the wide keyboard, it wasn't comfortable to hold and type. And resting it on a desk wasn't easy because of its curved back. (Motorola might want to think about covers and desk-rests as a priority add-on to help sales.) The iPad keyboard, on the other hand, had a Goldilocks feel: not too wide, not too narrow. I can type really quite quickly on an iPad, and that's not due to greater use – I got the Xoom exactly a week after beginning to try an iPad.Update:Metcalfe says "I never really use it in portrait, but in landscape, I love it. I can type nearly as fast as on a normal computer. Perhaps just practice?" Might be, but it will depend a lot on the size of your hands. Mine aren't small, but I still found landscape too much.Apps: unconvincingMuch is made of the app experience on Android and on iOS, and the comparative differences between the two. The Android app experience on what you might call "core" apps (for me, things like Twitter, or Facebook) isn't much different, as much as anything because the same companies tend to do them.The differences between the platforms come into sharper relief when you wander off the beaten track. Then you discover that the iOS ecosystem (having had longer to grow) has filled up many gaps where Android is still lacking, or that the apps on Android are, frankly, limited. One of my interests is Go: on the iPad you can get an app that will show you thousands of problems, professional games with commentary, or computer play. (It's called SmartGo Kifu, since you ask.) Not cheap at £11.99, but incredibly powerful; it's the sort of app you could keep using for years and still derive benefit at any level. On Android, it isn't there; the best I could find was a free app which doesn't offer the problems or professional games, only the play-against capability, and that wasn't very satisfactory either.Yes, this is an outlier in terms of interest, but it indicates what happens when you're trying to build an ecosystem but don't have enough financial or volume incentive – yet? – to bring in the broad sweep of developers. Sure, you can choose from a zillion free shoot-em-ups. But the world isn't likely to run short of those any time soon. It's the apps at the fringes that indicate how strong your ecosystem is. Honeycomb, and Android, aren't there at present. And I'd wager there's a risk that if Android tablets don't start to make a mark against the iPad, that problem will remain.Music, sweet musicHoneycomb comes with its own much-improved music player, which offers you a scrolling parade of song cover artwork, or a simpler scrolling list. Fun. This doesn't quite solve the problem of how you get the music onto your Xoom: obviously you're going to have to plug it into your PC and synchronise the music.Umm … how? There's no iTunes-like program on the PC to simplify the transfer. And with everyone have tens of gigabytes of legally-acquired music on their PCs, you're going to have to make some sort of choice if you don't want to fill your Xoom within minutes of buying it.You can get DoubleTwist, which does have a PC/Mac incarnation as well, though it can't "see" iTunes's Smart Playlists (where you create playlists that will include any artist whose first name is "Justin", say). It can synchronise "static" playlists with iTunes effectively, and create playlists on the Xoom. But in that case, why have the Honeycomb music app? Plus DoubleTwist doesn't synchronise too well with the Honeycomb music player: when I transferred over some iTunes music, the music player saw it, but DoubleTwist didn't. (It does play AAC-encoded files from the iTunes Music Store.)You can get Spotify, of course, or We7's Radio Plus, so you don't have to store the music on your machine. But again, this questions the point of the Honeycomb music app – unless it too is meant for a forthcoming Google Music service, as frequently hinted at, not least by Motorola's chief executive Sanjay Jha.Video: bad, bad, badKnow what media tablets should be good at? Playing media. Know what the Xoom is bad at? Playing video. Once you've laboriously transferred files over from your machine (you have to downloaddriversfor Windows and Mac – that is so non-post-PC), you find that• it will play MP4 files• it won't play AVI files• it won't play .VOB (decrypted DVD) files• actually, it doesn't have a program to "play" videos at all.It's this latter point which is the most bizarre. If you've got a device that's meant to be able to play media, then shouldn't it have an app whose purpose is to play media? Lots of forms of it?True, the iPad won't play AVI files or .VOB files either, but it won't even transfer them in the first place. The Xoom will happily let you fill it to the brim with video files, and good luck then finding an app to play them. (VLCisn't available in the Android Market, and I tried a number which just looked at my video files – AVI and VOB – and shrugged their executable shoulders.)The lack of any explicit app for playing videos (despite there being a folder called "Movies" and another called "Videos"), unlike the iPad where you can play videos directly in iTunes – always assuming it's a format you got onto the device - is odd.Perhaps we're only meant to watch full-length Flash videos?Overall: the verdictThe Xoom is a good container for Honeycomb: the device itself is pleasing to look at, not too heavy (though it is heavier than the iPad 2), and if you get rid of Flash has good battery life and a competitive price. Android's strengths (cloud synchronisation of apps across platforms such as your computer, smarthone and tablet) are to the fore, but so are its weaknesses – small user interface niggles, and particularly the dearth of apps in the broader Market.Overall? If you're offered the experience of the iPad or the Xoom, there's no price difference, and the iPad will do many of the cloud synchronisation things (addresses, calendars, email) as well as having iTunes if you want to synchronise music and apps. Which means this loses to the iPad.All in favour• Competitive price against iPad with same amount of storage;• interesting typeface and general design for menus and elements;• some neat user interaction elements;• flexibility of Android for adding sub-elements (eg, turning wireless on/off) to main screensAll against• 16:9 screen dimensions mean typing can be inconvenient either way up• inclusion of Flash halves battery life• too easy to hit notifications by accident while typing;• low quality of apps in Market;• nonstandard USB and power ports• hard to add video, few formats supported
It's Wednesday. Let's chat!
Amazon's revenues soared in the first quarter of the year but the online retail giant's profits tumbled as the firm poured more money into new services and expansion.The company reported earnings of $201m, or 44 cents a share, down from $299m, or 66 cents a share, for the same period a year ago. Analysts had been expecting 61 cents a share and shares fell in after hours trading. But the retailer's first quarter revenue was $9.86bn, 38% higher than last year's figure and well ahead of Wall Street expectations.In a statement, Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos cited new Amazon products and services including new services for Kindles, the firm's move into cloud computing services and online video and said he was "excited about the long-term opportunities."The company made clear that it intends to keep sacrificing short-term profits in order to keep up expensive infrastructure investments. In the latest period, operating expenses surged 41% and Amazon added 4,200 employees over the quarter. Amazon expects expenses to hit operating income in the second quarter too but expects revenues of $8.85bn to $9.65bn, above Wall Street expectations.The results come at a tricky moment for Amazon. The company is pushing ever harder into cloud services where customers, including consumers and companies, use Amazon's services to remotely store their information. The company has launched Cloud Drive, a music service where people access their music online rather than store it on their own computer or iPod at home. Amazon is also increasingly competing with Google and other technology firms for corporate accounts.Last week the firm's cloud-based web services suffered a major outage. Many major sites including Foursquare, HootSuite and Reddit rely on the service to host their sites and were affected by the outage. The crash happened at Amazon's northern Virginia data centre, one of five global sites that underpin the service, known as EC2.
Sony has warned that the names, addresses and other personal data of about 77 million people with accounts on its PlayStation Network (PSN) have been stolen.Gamers have been locked out of the network for a week, but the company has revealed that the system has been suspended since it was hacked last Wednesday.Sony said it discovered that between 17 and 19 April  an "illegal and unauthorised person" got access to people's names, addresses, email address, birthdates, usernames, passwords, logins, security questions and more.Children with accounts established by their parents also may have had their data exposed, according to Sony,which put the warning on its US PlayStation blog– although the warning about the compromise might not be immediately visible to passing readers. The company is also emailing people who might be affected.The intrusion is potentially one of the biggest ever into a store of credit cards. Sony's PSN is one of the world's biggest holders of credit cards, though not as large as Amazon, eBay, PayPal or Apple's iTunes, which each hold more than 100m accounts.The previous largest hacking attacks were on Heartland Payment Systems in January 2009, when up to 100m US credit and debit card details were stolen, andTK Maxx in March 2007, when up to 46m credit card details were stolen.The company said that it saw no evidence that credit card numbers were stolen, but it added: "Out of an abundance of caution, we are advising you that your credit card number (excluding security code) and expiration date may have been obtained,"The online marketplace launched in autumn 2006 and allows users to purchase and play video games, music and films on their PlayStation consoles.The hack attack has put it out of action and it says that it may be up to a week before it is operational again.Sony said it had hired an outside security firm to investigate what happened and has taken steps to rebuild its system to provide greater protection for personal information.PlayStation members are required to submit credit card and personal details to play online games and download software, films and music.Warning users of the network to be on the look out for telephone and email scams, Sony said: "To protect against possible identity theft or other financial loss, we encourage you to remain vigilant to review your account statements and to monitor your credit or similar types of reports."PlayStation Network posted an apology to users through the Sony website saying it would email those who are suspected to be victims of the hacking.It said: "We don't have an exact date to share at this moment as to when we will have the services turned on, but are working day and night to ensure it is as quickly as possible."Please note that we are as upset as you are regarding this attack and are going to proceed aggressively to track down those that are responsible."Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at security firm Sophos, told the BBC that the theft of so much detailed customer information would be seen as a "public relations disaster"."This is a big one," he said.
Sony is bidding for the record in the time lag between announcing a tablet and actually putting it on sale. Early on Tuesday morning it unveiled two Android 3.0 tablets: a "magazine-style" 9.4in screen device called the S1 and a "dual-screen" S2, which has a clamshell design so that it can close.So, unveiled in April; yours to buy some time in autumn.Autumn?Yes, indeed, that's what Sony's Kunimasa Suzuki announced as he showed them off (well, he actually said "fall", as he was telling some Americans; we do the translation so you don't have to).Yes, a six-month wait. In terms of announce-to-sale hiatus, that's going to be some stiff competition for RIM, the current hiatus record-holder at seven months  (announced the PlayBook in late September, shipped in April.. well, in the US at least) and of course HP (announced the TouchPad in early February, shipping in "late summer"). Actually, we can see a scenario where "late summer" and "autumn" could easily overlap, since only the slightly berserk ship new products in August, so we'll guess at HP's products arriving in September.But back to those tablets. Suzuki was showing off the designs at an event in Tokyo. The weird thing is that they're all specced up: the S1 presently has an nVidia Tegra 2 processor, front- and rear-facing cameras, connection to Sony's pay-or-else-no-freeloaders-here music service Qriocity, and is PlayStation Certified (with virtual PlayStation buttons).The S2 (whichEngadget had detailsabout inFebruary) has two 5.5in screens, each with 1024x480 resolution, Qriocity, PlayStation Certification, and –hey, get this product differentiation– its email app splits the inbox to the bottom screen and the messages on the top screen!Here, knock yourself out onSony's press release. They'll come with 3G and 4G connectivity.One way to read the delay between announcement and release is that this is Sony being canny. If the Android tablet market actually takes off over the next two quarters, it might find retailers gasping for a new model and happy to take such a big name onto their shelves as desperate buyers besiege shops crying out for a tablet, any damn tablet, but especially one that they can use as a big remote for their PlayStation.Do you happen to have any of those, Mr Retailer? Why, it just so happens that I do...On the other hand, if the Android market tanks – and what I've heard from sources I've spoken to is that that's a real worry among some of the tablet makers: they're scared by the iPad 2's lack of weight and thickness and its still-challenging price – then Sony can quietly can the project, and sell off the few ones its factories turn out and mark it down to experience. (Look no further than the comment from theWall Street Journal's liveblog of the eventthat "there are a lot of iPad users around in the event hall. It's a reminder of the uphill climb Sony faces in the tablet segment.")Irony points: Andy Rubin, the man driving Android inside Google, was on the stage in Tokyo to talk about his father's involvement with Sony and the first Walkman. (His dad used to work closely with Sony and so would see prototypes of the first Walkman and portable CD player.)That's the Walkman, which represents one of Sony's great gifts to the music and consumer electronics industry (the other was the CD, developed jointly with Philips; Sony's inventor of the CD Norio Ohgadied over the weekend).Here's the interesting thing about Sony's position in this market: it's just like the iPod. When Apple first came up with the iPod in October 2001 and pushed into the market, one of the companies Steve Jobs specifically mentioned during his introduction was Sony: "interestingly enough in this whole new digital music revolution there is no market leader," Jobs said. "There are small companies like Creative and Sonic Blue, and then there's some large companies like Sony that haven't had a hit yet. They haven't found the recipe. No one has really found the recipe yet for digital music."After the iPod came out, Apple's executives (and particularly hardware chief Jon Rubenstein) were fretfully convinced that one day soon, Sony was going to come out with an "iPod killer" that actuallywouldkill the iPod.But that day never came, and you know the rest.Possibly this speaks to Sony's weakness as much as Apple's strength. Sony caved in to using Microsoft's Windows for its PCs – seeing in them the volume it wanted, and not realising that PC manufacturing would be a cut-throat pit where Sony's greatest strengths, industrial design and innovation, would count for nothing.That also meant that when the iPod came along it didn't have the software expertise to create an integrated rival.And now it's going for Android on tablets – a market that, just as with Windows on PCs, benefits the company writing the OS, but leaves the makers of the hardware, who have to fight among themselves for tiny profits, bleeding slowly to death. It's fortunate for Sony that it has the PlayStation, because split screens and a different email layout isn't really what gets people frantically clicking the online order buttons.How soon, I wonder, before we start seeing Android tablets coming with crapware installed to help defray the top-line cost? It worked for PCs, after all. Within a limited definition of "worked", that is.Meanwhile, if you want a reminder of what the iPod introduction was like, from the days when Apple was scared of Sony rather than seeing it as just another supplier...
Microsoft Windows Phone devices collect details about their location and will compare it to the company's own databases of mobile cell tower locations, according to information on the company's site.The information sent to Microsoft includes a unique device ID and details of the phone's latitude and longitude, derived from the GPS system, and information such as the SSID (name) and unique Ethernet address of any Wi-Fi devices in the area.The news follows the revelation last week by the Guardian thatApple's iPhones collect location datafor an unspecified period, whileGoogle's Android phones will collect dataabout the last 200 Wi-Fi networks it has "seen" and the last 50 mobile cell towers it has connected to or "seen".The information about the Windows Phone data transfer is contained in a page explaining the role of location services in Windows Phone devices, which were launched in October. Although they have a small share of only a few percent of the smartphone market at present, the signing of a deal to provide the operating system for the top-end phones of Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone maker by volume, means that Windows Phone could have a significant share within a few years.But while the Microsoft webpage contains details about the purpose of location services and how users can turn them off, it does not detail how much of the data is cached on the device, nor for how long.The Guardian has asked for clarification from Microsoft on precisely what data is stored on the devices and for how long, though in astatement to CNetthe company said location histories are not stored on the device.The Guardian has asked for details of what data are swapped and stored on smartphones made by Nokia smartphones running its Symbian operating system, and RIM, which makes the BlackBerry devices.In apage on its corporate website, Microsoft detailswhat data is kept and transmitted to and from Windows Phone devices.Q How do location services for Windows Phone work?A When you allow an application or game to access your device's location, the application or game will connect to Microsoft's location services and request the approximate location of the device. The location service will respond by providing the application or game with the location coordinates of the user's device (when available), which the application or game can then use to enrich the user experience.Q How does Microsoft provide location services?A To provide location services, Microsoft assembles and maintains a database that records the location of certain mobile cell towers and Wi-Fi access points. These data points are used to calculate and provide an approximate location of the user's device by comparing the Wi-Fi access points and cell towers that a user's device can detect to the location database, which contains correlations of known Wi-Fi access points and cell towers to observed latitudes and longitudes.Q Why don't you use GPS as a primary means to determine location for most phones?A GPS (Global Positioning System) is not available on all mobile devices or effective from all locations, particularly indoor locations and urban environments with tall buildings. Additionally, using GPS consumes more battery power and uses more data than using Wi-Fi or cell towers to determine location. The additional consumption can have an impact on mobile phone users by increasing data charges and draining the battery. Microsoft's location determination system uses a combination of available GPS, Wi-Fi access points, and cell towers to offer location services in the most efficient and effective manner.Q What if I don't want to use location services from my Windows Phone?A You don't have to. We believe you should always have choice and control over access and use of your device's location. Before any application can gain access to information regarding a user's location, you must allow the application to access your device's location. Applications that use your location are required to provide the ability to turn off that application's access to your location. And you can always turn off access for all applications by turning off location services.Microsoft also emphasises that although it does map the location and SSID of Wi-Fi routers which broadcast their presence, no detail such as whether they are open or password-protected, nor any of the data passing over them, is collected. That is in contrast to Google, whichmistakenly collected data being transmitted over open networkswhen it carried out a similar mapping exercise in 2009 and 2010.
