Sony’s online PlayStation store and Microsoft’s Xbox Live network have been disrupted over Christmas in what is thought to have been a cyber-attack on the companies.The network outages, which have left millions of users unable to play games and access entertainment channels, are continuing into a second day.Sony said on Friday that some users were having trouble logging into its network and engineers were investigating. Microsoft said it knew some users were having trouble signing in. “We’re aware of this issue and we’re working to find a fix ASAP.”An online entity calling itself Lizard Squad,regarded as a serial nuisance by gamers the world over, appeared to take responsibility for the disruptions via its Twitter account. A DDoS attack, which bombards servers with spurious traffic, was thought to have been the method used.The PlayStation store also experienced spells of inaccessibility earlier this month. That followed the hacking of computer systems of Sony Pictures Entertainment, followed by the release of confidential information on the internet.Sony and Microsoft had both expected heavy use over Christmas as people who received their computer games tried to hook up. The problems may have been exacerbated by Sony’s decision to let consumers download controversial movie The Interview through Xbox Video as well as other online sources.Microsoft said in an online message: “Are you having a rough time signing in to Xbox Live? We’re working to get this figured out right away. We appreciate your patience.”Sony similarly pleaded for patience. “We are aware that some users are experiencing difficulty logging into the PSN,” it said.On Thursday Microsoft Xbox spokesman Sean McCarthy had declined to give details of how the company may have been preparing for security breaches, given the problems that Sony has experienced in releasing The Interview.“Of course it’s safe to say holiday season is always a very busy time of year for any consumer electronics company, so we work hard to ensure the stability of our infrastructure when so many consoles are activating for the first time.”The Associated Press contributed to this report
As hackers go, their technical skills aren’t bad – they managed to carry out a denial-of-service attack on Xbox Live and PlayStation Network that disrupted use of the games at a peak Christmas moment.But really, whoever is behind the “Lizard Squad” should stick to the digital language of noughts and ones, because when it comes to words – well, you be the judge. This is how they marked the launch of their game console hack on Twitter under their holiday-spirited internet handle @FUCKCRUCIFIX:jingle bells jingle bells xbox got ran, oh my fun it is to troll of you morons ... hey!&mdash; Lizard Squad (@FUCKCRUCIFIX)December 25, 2014Lizard Squad began on Wednesday by blasting Xbox Live offline with a DDoS attack that bombarded Microsoft’s servers with the digital equivalent of shrapnel until they ground to a halt. Then it did the same to Sony’s PlayStation Network.Across the country, an almighty howl went up from millions of Americans for whom the joy of sitting in front of a game console for hours on end killing zombies is the very spiritual essence of the holiday season. Some of them had even been given Xbox or PlayStation games for Christmas, and now they couldn’t use them the way they wanted!“I got Call of Duty Advanced Warfare but can’t play on PSN! I hate you Lizard Squad,”sulked Zkiller2004on Twitter.Lizard Squad haspreviously claimed responsibility for other hacksofvideo game networks.It is fair to say that Lizard Squad’s attack has rendered whoever is behind it relatively unpopular within the gaming community.@GrantyOfficial spent the time that he wasn’t playing Xbox imagining the fine, strapping intellectuals that were behind the hack:NGL, this is how I imagine Lizard Squad are looking right now DDOS&#39;ing PSN and XBLpic.twitter.com/r4QdrAsNwm&mdash; Granty Claus (@GrantyOfficial)December 25, 2014As did @MrBossFTW:BREAKING NEWS: Lizard Squad&#39;s leader identity revealed!pic.twitter.com/fvuvSptjet&mdash; Ross (@MrBossFTW)December 25, 2014And @therandybk:Lizard squad exposedpic.twitter.com/oIrnkrW0mr&mdash; Kyran (@therandybk)December 25, 2014The last laugh, though, was reserved for @MaxRit_ who tweeted:Jokes on Lizard Squad. I got a wii.&mdash; Max Rit / Captain (@MaxRit_)December 25, 2014
Families who unwrapped a personal drone on Christmas Day will have to be careful not to enter a minefield of regulations if they try and put their new purchase into use on Boxing Day.Drones, sometimes referred to as unmanned aerial systems (UAS) or unmanned aircraft, can infringe neighbours’ privacy, breach civil aviation regulations and raise data protection issues – even if the model used is simply a cheap “quadcopter” bought to be used as a toy.The more advanced the drone, the more care its operator has to take to ensure they do not accidentally break the law while operating it.“This is 2014’s BMX bike, except that unlike a bike, if you get it wrong, it’s going to be manic … people think that because they’ve watched a video on YouTube, they can just use it. But this is an aerial vehicle, and you’re potentially putting yourself at risk,” says Justin Pringle, drone development manager for Heliguy.com.Pringle advised drone users to closely follow the instructions and rules, citing a publicity stunt by TGI Friday’s as an example of how things can go wrong.The restaurant built a “Mobile Mistletoe” drone to hover near diners, which ended up crashing into a photographer’s face and slicing open her nose at a New York City TGI Friday’s.On top of the individual risk, particular care must be taken near airports, in case a drone strays into the flight path of an airliner. In July anAirbus A320 narrowly avoided striking a droneflying at an altitude of 700ft near Heathrow. A collision could have damaged the plane’s engines, and caused a far worse incident.Even away from airports, users are being urged to use their new drones with caution.TheParrot Bebop droneis, for some, a must-have Christmas present this year. The drone, which costs £429.99, is the first “prosumer” model made by the company, enabling hobbyists to emulate the sort of drone photography shared on websites such as Dronestagram.With an HD video camera mounted on a controllable gimbal, the Bebop can stream video and photographs to its pilot’s tablet computer. A £340 upgrade increases its range to 2km, and allows users to wear a virtual-reality display while piloting it to see the view from the camera.But it could be difficult to make the most of a 2km range without infringing civil aviation regulations, which require UAS pilots to stay within eyesight of their drone, and use of the camera could infringe the privacy of passersby.TheCivil Aviation Authority has issued guidanceto help drone operators understand airspace regulations.Technically, drone operators must request permission from the CAA if they plan to fly a camera-equipped aircraft within congested areas, or within 50 metres of people or properties that are not under their control. They must also remain in “visual line of sight” of their aircraft, or they must be approved by the CAA.“The regulations are intended to protect people and/or properties that are not involved in the activity,” the authority says. “They are also aimed at being as ‘light touch’ and proportionate as possible, so there is a great deal that can be done (especially for private or recreational flights) without the need to approach the CAA at all.”The proliferation of camera-equipped drones has led the Information Commissioner’s Office to issue guidelines on responsible use of drones, to prevent privacy violations.The ICO recommends operators let people know before they start recording, if possible, warning that in some scenarios, for example at beaches or parks, this will be very difficult to do: “So you’ll need to apply some common sense before you start.”While the Data Protection Act applies to drones, individuals are not covered by it, but the ICO still recommends that operators “think before sharing” photos taken by a drone, and keep the images safe.Michael Luke, the country manager of Parrot UK, says “both expert pilots and beginners should take care to only fly consumer drones in a responsible manner and with respect for the local rules and regulations.“So before flying with the Skycontroller and Bebop drone, UK users should always ensure they are familiar with CAA regulations – in particular keeping their drone in sight at all times, and staying away from any built-up or restricted areas, and any crowds. All of our consumer drones are intended for recreational use only, and we always ask our customers to use them in a safe and responsible manner.”• The picture caption was amended on 29 December 2014. An earlier version wrongly stated that an incident in which a drone landed on a photographer took place at TGI Friday’s in Manchester when in fact that accident happened in New York. This has been corrected.
“Is that an Apple Watch?” is a phrase likely to ring out in the spring of 2015 when the result of the company’s highly anticipated foray into wearable technology finally hits the shelves.For Apple, the Watch is the first completely new product since the iPad and Steve Jobs’s death in 2011. Its initial success is guaranteed.“Even if it only told the time, Apple is likely to sell millions of them with the first launch,” said Ben Wood, head of research at analysts CCS Insight. “Apple makes beautiful things and the Watch is beautifully engineered. Combined with its brand credentials it’s going to be a fashion statement and a status symbol with a much broader appeal than current smartwatches.”But for market watchers it’s not what the Watch can do for Apple but what Apple can do for everyone else.Wearable tech is not all about what springs from Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, California. This year, Google joined Pebble, the pioneer of the modern smartwatch, with a plethora of Android wear. Google watches from LG, Sony and Motorola landed on users’ wrists from June – some attractive, others less so – while Samsung released not one but five smartwatches in 2014.Makers of fitness trackers and smartclothing are vying to prove there’s life beyond smartwatches: more than 70m fitness wearables sold globally this year, seven times the number of smartwatches, according to Gartner research.“I’m expecting smart wristbands like the Jawbone Up to do well this Christmas, as the capabilities and costs have come down to a level where they make good gifts,” said Angela McIntyre, a research director at Gartner.Come January, all eyes will be on Las Vegas for the world’s largest technology trade show – International CES – where manufacturers from across the globe will be pushing their latest wearable gadgets hoping that something will catch punters’ eyes.Crowdfunding platforms may also deliver some interesting wearables next year. According to George Jijiashvili, wearables analyst for CCS Insight, anything from a device to make a normal watch “smart” to wireless earbuds that track heart rate, activity and play music, all without a smartphone, are pitching for funding.Fitness trackersJawbone UP3, a multi-sensor activity tracker that provides in-depth information about your health and fitness.Photograph: PRTechnology researcher Gartner expects another 68m wearable fitness devices to be sold worldwide in 2015 as lower price gadgets make them more accessible. The Misfit Flash and Jawbone Up Move, for example, cost less than £50.But it is advanced heart rate monitoring devices such as Intel’s Basis Peak and the Jawbone Up3, the follow-up to the successful Up wristband, that will power greater insight into fitness and sleep for many.“Heart rate monitoring is likely to be the big thing in 2015 for most people looking at wearable technology,” said McIntyre. “It’s been around for the past couple of years, but it’s getting better, more affordable and has that cool factor, particularly around wristbands and watches.”The Up3 has electrical skin sensors that promise to monitor health through heart rate, not while a user exercises but in the moments before and after falling asleep or waking up.“That’s the only time when stress, caffeine and everything else can’t affect your beats for a true picture of how healthy you are,” said Jason Donahue, of Jawbone.Chip maker Intel is also making moves in wearable technology. The Basis Peak fitness watch promises 24-hour heart-rate tracking using an optical sensor that shines a light into the skin. The Peak can monitor the crucial stages of sleep and the quality of a night’s kip using heart rate, rather than just quantity, as most others do.SmartwatchesSamsung launched five smartwatches in 2014 alone.Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesSmartwatches will be in on the health and fitness tracking game in 2015 too. Most Google smartwatches have heart rate monitors and the Apple Watch will have one too.Collecting all that data is useless if users can’t do anything with it, though. Google, Microsoft and Apple announced free health-tracking services this year, each aiming to help users understand their health data.It promises to be the year where the number of steps you take and hours of sleep you get will generate meaningful suggestions, either for the user or their doctor.SmartclothingMarcos Giron demonstrates the Raph Lauren smartshirt during a closed session at the 2014 US Open in New York.Photograph: Mike Stobe/Getty Images for USTAWearable technology will not be limited to obvious gadgets, and 2015 is predicted to be the year when smartclothing finally becomes a reality beyond light-up Christmas jumpers. Once the domain of elite athletes, smartclothing is slowly filtering down the high street.Clothing brands such as Adidas, Under Armour and Ralph Lauren, which showed off its new smartshirt at the US Open tennis tournament, are starting to make sports tops with built-in heart-rate and respiration monitoring.“Smartshirts can measure things like heart rate and respiration much more accurately and without having to wear another device, because they can embed more sensors across a larger area,” said McIntyre.More than 10m smart garments are expected to be sold in 2015, displacing conventional chest straps and other sports enthusiast gear. Smartsocks, motion tracking underwear and light reactive jackets that glow the harder you train are in the pipeline.Fitness is just one area being explored by smartclothing, with manufacturers envisaging GPS shoes, colour changing ties and smartphone charging jackets. Even beachwear could go smart with bracelets that track your desired tan level and swimwear that changes colour when you have had enough sun.
Wearable tech should be sexy. What could be more thrilling than a skirt that twinkles with LEDs on the dancefloor, or a dress that transforms from midi to maxi at the touch of a button? How about a jacket with built-in wifi? Indeed, what could excite the fashion industry, driven by thirst for the new, any more?Yet, when the topic is raised in fashion circles, eyes glaze over and yawns are stifled. The problem is not a lack of enthusiasm for tech, given that most editors, buyers and designers are iPhone virtuosos, spending the year running around fashion shows, glued to Instagram. What is not adding up is what wearable tech is and what it can do.Hussein Chalayan was making spookily futuristic automated catwalk dresses as long ago as 2006;Richard Nicoll showed a breathtaking light up dress at London fashion week in September. But nothing that thrilling seems anywhere near point of sale. We have been hearing about T-shirts that monitor heart rate and muscle density, which make sense for sports fans but are not as compelling as beautifully-cut trousers for those who are into fashion.Tory Burchhas produced branded fitness tracker bands, but to the lay consumer the distinction between these and similar iPhone apps is not obvious.Opening Ceremony has launched varsity jackets with integrated phone chargers, but the advantage over putting a charging case on your phone seems negligible. So far, wearable tech seems to be a way for early adopters to experiment and be seen at the vanguard of innovation, rather than creating burning consumer desire. None of the big British fashion retailers are putting wearable tech at the centre of their buying strategies for spring/summer 2015.Richard Nicoll’s light-up dress in his Spring/Summer 2015 show at London Fashion Week in September .Photograph: Tim P. Whitby/Getty ImagesThe Apple Watch has piqued fashion’s interest, however, with the company wooingAnna Wintour and Karl Lagerfeld at Paris fashion weekandthe Watch appearing on the cover of Chinese Vogue. But whether the Watch is an outlier – and whether it is a true wearable or a smartphone that happens to be strapped on to one’s wrist – is debatable. Similarly, two small but intriguing product launches for 2015 – US designerRebecca Minkoff’s bracelets that charge iPhones, on sale in February, andRingly’s vibrating rings, which activate when your phone rings and launch in January, seem more like chic gadgets than true fashion.Getting people “obsessed” – as the fashion industry would say – will require products with a useful, clear purpose that are aesthetically on point. There has been talk about whether women will wear bulky, masculine devices, and many of the resulting ideas – feminine, pastel-coloured trinkets – are at odds with trends towards functional wear and minimalism. The involvement of the industry’s most influential designers – the likes of Chanel, JW Anderson, Céline, Stella McCartney, Prada, and on the high street Topshop, Cos, Zara – would address this.Karl Lagerfeld sends a Chanel haute couture model down the Paris catwalk in trainers in January 2014.Photograph: REX/REXIn January 2014,Lagerfeld sent Chanel’s couture models down the catwalk wearing trainers, bestowing fashion’s official blessing on flat shoes, and a million tills started ringing. Wearable tech needs such a watershed moment. You can bet design houses are quietly meeting experts, eager to ensure they are not left behind, but cautious about rushing out a product that flops.In Britain, Burberry may well make the first move. The company is famed for technological innovation and has a dedicated “what if?” division exploring such areas. Still, 2015 feels a bit early for that turning point – unless someone in the industry has a closely guarded secret up their sleeve. In any case, with the Apple Watch a sure topic of conversation at the next round of fashion weeks in February, this will be the year fashion’s enthusiasm for wearable tech truly flourishes.Hannah Marriott
For most people with a smartphone or tablet, their most-used apps weren’t released in 2014. Facebook, Twitter, Google Maps, Candy Crush Saga, Kindle, Spotify, Clash of Clans, YouTube... these apps have been out for years, albeit regularly updated since their original releases.Does that mean there aren’t any good new ideas in the world of apps? Nope. There were plenty in 2014, from useful productivity apps for iPhone and Android smartphones, to inventive tablet games and creative, educational children’s apps.I’ve been tracking new releases throughout the year in the Guardian’sBest Android AppsandBest iPhone and iPad Appscolumns, and rounding up the best of them in a series of pre-Christmas roundups.If you’ve unwrapped a new device for Christmas, or simply fancy browsing the best apps that 2014 has to offer, here are some tasters of the top apps in those roundups, with links to the full articles, and to similar pieces from previous years.Mailbox for Android.The best Android apps of 2014“Mailbox: one of the better ways to attain the fabled Inbox Zero – or at least try to – by swiping unwanted emails aside like they’re unwanted matches in Tinder. Slick design, its integration with Gmail and the ability to “snooze” non-urgent emails made it a useful productivity tool...”Read the full roundupMonument Valley for Android.The best Android games of 2014“Beautiful puzzler Monument Valley won bags of critical acclaim in 2014, deservedly. It’s a surreal shape-shifting game that sees you guiding a mysterious princess through a series of impossible-architecture levels by tapping and swiping. Short, but wonderfully sweet...”Read the full roundupEndless Reader for Android.The best Android apps for kids of 2014“Endless Reader is full of character: an app where a troop of colourful monsters teach your children how to spell a series of words, as well as acting them out. The app focuses on tricky words (“sight” words in some schools) that children need to recognise as they learn to read. Six words come for free, with more available for parents to buy using in-app purchases...Read the full roundupSwiftKey Keyboard for iOS.The best iPhone apps of 2014“The most popular keyboard-replacement app on Android, SwiftKey Keyboard, made the leap to iOS in time for the launch of iOS 8, with its emphasis on the way it learns your writing style – with Facebook, Twitter and Gmail logins able to give it a head start – to make its predictions even smarter...”Read the full roundupPixelmator for iPad.The best iPad apps of 2014“If you want more from a photo-editing app than simple filters and cropping, Pixelmator is just the thing: a powerful yet easy-to-use image-editing app with more retouching tools than you can shake a (paintbrush) stick at, tapping Apple’s iCloud service to run across devices...”Read the full roundupVainglory for iOS.The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014“Vainglory takes one of the most hardcore PC gaming genres – MOBA – and makes it marvellously enjoyable (yet no less hardcore) to play on a touchscreen device. At its best on iPad, it throws you into beautiful-looking three-on-three battles, with a system of in-app purchases that takes great care to avoid “pay-to-win” dynamics...”Read the full roundupJack and the Beanstalk for iOS.The best iPhone and iPad apps for kids of 2014“British books and apps publisher Nosy Crow has made a succession of beautiful fairytale apps, all with a strong eye on encouraging reading, not just tapping on interactive whizziness.Jack and the Beanstalkwas their best effort yet, blending storytelling and light gaming with the company’s now-familiar voice narration from children, not grown-ups...”Read the full roundupIf that’s not enough apps, here are some links to previous years’ roundups, to help stock your new device ready for 2015 and beyond.•The 50 best apps of 2013•The 50 best Android apps of 2013•50 best apps for kids from 2013•50 best games for tablets and smartphones (from 2013)•The best new apps of 2012•The top 50 iPad apps (from 2011)
It's Christmas Day! Once you've opened your presents and eaten all your brussels sprouts, come here and chat about the games that Santa brought you!
If you’re on Facebook, chances are your news feed is currently full of “It’s been a great year!” slideshows posted by friends using the social network’s end-of-year review feature.Annoyed? At least clicking on them only leads to photos of those friends. Other Facebook posts were much more malign in 2014, as malware makers and other scammers targeted users of the social network.Online security firm BitDefender has identified seven of the most common examples, warning that while they may seem obvious scams, many people were taken in.“Millions of people fell for Facebook scams in 2014. They lost money, reputation and even their jobs after simply clicking on the wrong social media link,”claimed the company in a blog post.“Though security experts, companies and tech-savvy users militate against Facebook cyber-attacks, unwary users fall victims to scams on the social network every day, and veteran users continue to fall for the same old e-threats.”The scams identified by the company include apps promising Facebook users the ability to see who viewed their profile – not a feature that’s possible on the social network – but which installed malware to spy on their web browsing.BitDefender claims that almost a quarter of all Facebook scams over the past two years have used the “see who’s viewed your profile” format, which suggests that enough people fall for it to make the scam worthwhile.The company also claims more than 1,000 Facebook users installed the Trojan.FakeFlash malware in March 2014 after seeing a link promising naked videos of their friends.Other scam videos include one claiming to show a woman dying during a fight, another woman supposedly beheaded by her husband, and faked nude photos of actor Emma Watson.Separately, BitDefender has warned that “malicious links hidden in atrocious Facebook videos” will increase in 2015, with beheading and murder clips dangled as bait to entice people to download malware.“Behaviour analysts and psychologists say teenagers are the most susceptible to clicking on shocking videos, as their empathy for victims of violence is lower,” explained the company in its 2015 cybersecurity predictions report.Facebook has been taking more steps to help its users deal with malicious activity in 2014, however. In December,the social network launched a free anti-virus scanner, provided by security firm Esset, after partnerships with rival companies F-Secure and Trend Micro in May.•No, you can’t get free Audi R8 cars on Facebook – it’s a scam
It was an afternoon like any other. Then, Lyn Ulbricht’s life changed shape, speed and direction, in a single moment.In November 2013, a journalist called Ulbricht’s home in Austin, Texas. Her son Ross had just been arrested, and was accused of running the Silk Road website, known as an Ebay for illegal drugs. Ross was, said the FBI, a drugs kingpin. Lyn Ulbricht says she went into shock, and panicked: “This can’t be true, there must be some mistake.”“Ever since then, I’ve had the feeling of being carried along by a tidal wave,” she says.That day, the phone was “ringing off the hook. There were TV camera crews coming into our neighbourhood and filming the house.”Small wonder. Not only was her 29-year-old, physics graduate son accused of being the criminal mastermind of a revolutionary, online multimillion dollar worldwide drug-smuggling network, he was also, at that point, allegedly the cold-blooded author of two gangland hits. Later, that number would increase to six.At his bail hearing, the prosecution added four more murder-for-hire charges, and said he paid for the torture and murders of blackmailers and informers. It was alleged he paid undercover officers $500,000 in Bitcoin, the anonymous currency used at the Silk Road, to kill his enemies.“Ross was a wonderful child – the easiest baby I have ever met, and sweet with it,” says his mother. “I know every mother thinks that. But he was a sweet, compassionate and caring adult, too.She can’t comprehend the possibility that we would casually order a hitman.“He’s a totally peaceful person who never hurt a soul. Anyone who knows him will tell you that it’s inconceivable that he would ever have anything to do with murder. He is a man of staunch principle. I cannot imagine him betraying those principles by harming others with violence or in any other way – especially for selfish reasons. It is too out of character.”Ulbricht’s chargesFive of those murder-for hire charges have now been dropped. “For very good reason,” says Lyn Ulbricht. “I suspect that is because they do not have the evidence.”He is still facing one hire-for-murder charge in Maryland, though a trial date has not been set.Even though Ulbricht is not now formally charged with all of the original murder charges, they are included in submissions to the jury who will decide his fate. The case is due to start in January and many legal experts say could it define the limits of law in the digital age.Now, Ulbricht faces charges for which he could be jailed for life: narcotics trafficking; computer hacking; money-laundering; engaging in a criminal enterprise, and conspiracy to traffic in fraudulent identities.The court must decide if he is guilty of these, or if the FBI has over-reached itself in the pursuit and capture of one man who, with breathtaking audacity, and acting mainly alone, is alleged to have outgunned the war on drugs on multiple fronts: legal, technical, economic, and philosophical.Ross Ulbricht is shown with his lawyer, Brandon LeBlanc, in a courtroom sketch.Photograph: STRINGER/ReutersUlbricht’s lawyers say the case represents a turning point in legal history, and without admitting liability or any wrongdoing, have questioned whether an owner of a website can be found guilty for the crimes of its users. They say the case has the potential to reconfigure the boundaries of state power in the pursuit of justice.Ulbricht’s lawyer is Joshua Dratel, the first civilian attorney to defend a Guantanamo case. He took the case on at cut-price rates, describing it as containing “naked allegations”. He says the Ulbricht trial matters for every American who cares about freedom and privacy in the digital age.“The case does represent an effort by the government to expand the concepts of vicarious liability over the internet – ie what is the responsibility of a website operator for the uses to which people put products sold on that site? – and to demonise certain very legitimate means of personal privacy protection, such as [the anonymsing software] Tor and Bitcoin.“There are also legal issues with respect to the government’s ability to monitor, collect, and, or intercept electronic communications, and the means by which the government can collect information on the internet. Can the government hack, geolocate, or use illegal means to pursue an investigation?”A legal and ethical precedentThe answers to these questions could set a legal and ethical precedent for an entire generation of web users, redrawing the limits of personal freedom and state power in the digital space.The FBI claims that Ulbricht is “Dread Pirate Roberts”, the pseudonymous, swashbuckling, owner-operator of a website that enabled anyone with an internet connection to buy illegal drugs with little chance of capture. DPR, as he was known, was prone to rabble-rousing, Libertarian-themed speeches on the site rejecting state power over individuals: “I won’t rest until children are born into a world where oppression, institutional violence and control, world war, and all the other hallmarks of the state are as ancient history as pharaohs commanding armies of slaves. The drug war merely brings to light their nature and shows us who they really are,” wrote DPR on the site’s forums.His mother, unsurprisingly perhaps, insists her son is innocent of all charges.At its peak, the Silk Road had almost 1 million user accounts registered and a turnover of over $20m a year, and has inspired dozens of imitators.Whatever the allegations, his mother says she is now obsessed with getting her son a fair trial. “It dominates every moment I’m awake – I’m thinking: ‘What can I do for Ross?’ As the trial approaches it becomes more intense. I have come to realise that this case is about more than Ross. The outcome will set a precedent that will have implications for internet freedom,” she says.Kirk and Lyn Ulbricht: ‘It dominates every moment I’m awake’Photograph: The GuardianShe and her friends pledged $1m after her son’s arrest – with many placing their homes as security. Despite Ulbricht having no previous criminal record, the judge refused his bail, ruling the now-dropped murder-for-hire charges indicated he was a dangerous criminal that posed a flight risk.“Twenty-seven friends and family (none wealthy) stepped up and pledged their homes, life savings and property towards bail,” says Lyn. “Over and over again they told me they weren’t worried. They knew Ross was a man of his word and he’d never do that to them.”Ulbricht has been in jail in Brooklyn for over a year, forbidden even from exercising in the open air. He was initially jailed in solitary confinement for six weeks. “It was horrendous seeing him brought in wearing an orange suit, in handcuffs. We were in adjoining locked rooms and talked through plexiglass,” says his mother.Ross was, she says, a physics graduate fond of hiking and respected as a generous, peaceful man. “Ross would never deliberately hurt or cheat anyone. He is one of the most compassionate, non-violent, life-loving people I know. He is known for his integrity and honesty. He is an outdoorsy, nature-loving person,” says Lyn. “He has not been outside to feel the breeze for 15 months, to see the sky. He can see the sky a little bit from one window.”Friends recall how he would often wander into class shirtless; others reveal how he once lost a bet and wore a skintight dress to an exam as forfeit. All speak of a fiercely intelligent student who could master any discipline he focused on.How did investigators identify the server?After months teaching yoga and physics to fellow inmates, Ulbricht has only recently gained access to the evidence the government will use to prosecute him. On a PC – without internet access – Ulbricht must examine over 6TB of data.Curiously, the mass of data does not contain technical details of what security experts say is a critical piece of evidence: how investigators identified the server where the illegal marketplace was hosted.Ulbricht’s lawyers had claimed that the FBI’s search and seizure of the Silk Road server, which they carried out without a warrant, violated Ulbricht’s Fourth Amendment constitutional rights, which protect US citizens against unreasonable search and seizure.In October, district dudge Katherine Forest of the Southern District of New York, ruled that the Fourth Amendment did not apply in Ulbricht’s case, as his lawyers did not, despite repeated opportunities, claim ownership of the server – meaning he had no right to claim Fourth Amendment protection.But Ulbricht was in an impossible catch-22: admit ownership of the server, and he would have admitted ownership of the site. By refusing to stake a claim in the illegally searched server, though, he waived the protection that the US constitution would have offered him.A screengrab of Silk Road takedown notice.Photograph: David Colbran/David Colbran/Demotix/CorbisPolice say Ulbricht was captured as he was logged on to the Silk Road server’s admin panels in a public library in San Francisco. The FBI says it found a Bitcoin wallet containing approximately 144,000 bitcoins, equivalent to more than $20m at the time. It also claims to have found an asset sheet and journal in which he detailed the set-up, history and day-to-day operation of the site.The FBI’s submission of how it found the server is, by their own account and according to several experts, not only technically impossible but also demonstrably untrue.“The logs provided to the defence by the FBI don’t match the FBI’s own story,” says Nicholas Weaver, of the International Computer Science Institute, a non-profit research centre in Berkeley. “To put it simply: the FBI agent says: ‘I did this’, but the FBI’s own evidence to the defence says: ‘He probably didn’t.’“The investigation itself was just sloppy. A good online investigator should have a continuous log of all activity, including full packet captures of any non-encrypted traffic. There appears to be none of this.”Robert Graham, another cybersecurity expert, calls the FBI’s claim gibberish. “I cannot read his declaration and figure out what, exactly, he did to find the servers. It’s clear that [the FBI officer who lead the search for Ulbricht] doesn’t understand what he’s talking about.”Nicholas Weaver says defence arguments about the constitutionality of the server capture are now immaterial.“The defense refused to declare a fourth amendment interest in the server even after the judge provided multiple chances. Such a declaration would constrain Ulbricht’s testimony, but is not an admission of guilt. Because he did not claim the server as his, Ulbricht has no formal privacy interest which would impact his fourth amendment rights. As such, the FBI’s tactics don’t matter: since Ulbricht never claimed that the server was his, the judge couldn’t consider the constitutionality of the search.”In a Facebook posting on Independence Day four years ago, Ulbricht reflected on freedom – personal, political, and individual – in an essay that four years later, resonates with dark irony as he faces the rest of his life in a jail cell.“We live in a most unique time, and are freer, as a generation, than any that has come before us. Let us be thankful for our freedom, and build a world where we, and the generations that follow us, will be freer than any that have come before!” he wrote.In a New York City winter as and her son’s trial approaches, Lyn Ulbricht recalls Ross’s brightest memory this year.“In the summer, Ross was so happy. The sun began to slant in one of the windows. He and a prisoner from the Domincan Republic would lie in the ray. He told me that it gives him energy. He said: ‘You don’t realise how you miss it until you’re deprived of it.’• The headline on this piece was amended on 26 December 2014 to more accurately reflect the article’s contents
Will 2015 be a happy new year for internet users? Not if cybercriminals have their way.Online security companies have been making their predictions for 2015, from the malware that will be trying to weasel its way onto our computers and smartphones to the prospect of cyberwar involving state-sponsored hackers.Here’s a summary of what you should be watching out for online in 2015, based on the predictions of companies including BitDefender,KPMG,AdaptiveMobile,Trend Micro,BAE Systems,WebSense,InfoSec Institute,Symantec,Kaspersky,ProofpointandSophos. The links lead to their full predictions.Targeted attacks and sophisticated spamThe more we do and share online, the more vulnerable we may be to “targeted” attacks to steal our passwords and data. “It is possible that our willingness to share and shop online will let criminals become more selective about who they target,” suggests Stephen Bonner of KPMG.“They won’t need to maintain the current ‘hit and hope’ approach of spear phishing, instead only attacking specific users and computers based on the data these give away about their owners.”Meanwhile, you may see more spam emails in your inbox in 2015, as the technology used to send them becomes more sophisticated.“Cybercriminals upping their game are perfecting their campaign abilities previously associated only with advanced, targeted attacks. These advanced tactics designed to evade most modern email security solutions are quickly becoming the new norm as more sophisticated email threats increase,” suggests WebSense.“As a result, although spam volumes are decreasing, most users will begin to witness an increase in the amount of spam they receive in their inbox, because most email security measures will be incapable of detecting them in the Cloud scrubbing prior to passing to a user’s inbox.”Banking and healthcare companies at riskA parallel trend cited by several of the companies is the prospect of attacks on bigger companies in the private and public sector, with cybercriminals having specific goals in mind.“Cybercriminals will go after bigger targets rather than home users as this can generate more profits for them. We will see more data breach incidents with banks, financial institutions, and customer data holders remaining to be attractive targets,” suggests Trend Micro.“Weak security practices like not using two-factor authentication and chip-and-pin technology continue to persist in the banking sector. These practices will cause financially motivated threats to grow in scale throughout the coming year.”Healthcare is also expected to be a target. “Companies operating in the sector are a privileged target because of the wealth of personal data they manage, and that represents a precious commodity in the criminal underground,” notes InfoSec Institute.“Healthcare data are valuable because medical records can be used to commit several types of fraudulent activities or identity theft. Their value in the hacking underground is greater than stolen credit card data.”WebSense’s Carl Leonard agrees. “The healthcare industry is a prime target for cybercriminals. With millions of patient records now in digital form, healthcare’s biggest security challenge in 2015 will be keeping personally identifiable information from falling through security cracks and into the hands of hackers.”Ransomware on the riseOne of the most common forms of malware in 2014 was “ransomware” – cybercriminals trying to extort money from victims either by locking their devices and demanding a fee to release them, or by accusing them of various unpleasant crimes.“Users should remain sceptical of any message accusing them of various crimes such as zoophilic behaviour and distributing child pornography,” claims BitDefender. “These threats may be part of ransomware campaigns and could also hit social networks.”Symantec notes the growth of one particular strain of ransomware, Cryptolocker, which it claims accounted for 55% of all ransomware in October this year, encrypting people’s files then demanding money to unencrypt them.“Holding encrypted files for ransom is not entirely new, but getting the ransom paid has previously proven problematic for the crooks. However recently ransomware makers have started leveraging online and electronic payment systems such as Bitcoins, Webmoney, Ukash, greendot (MoneyPak) to get around this challenge,” it explains.“Crooks like the relative anonymity and convenience of electronic payments and these are already readily available, putting businesses and consumers at greater risk from losing data, files or memories.”Mobile payments could be hot... for criminalsOne of the big announcements for Apple in 2014 was the launch of its mobile payments service, Apple Pay. However, several security companies expect cybercriminals to make a concerted effort to crack it and rival services in 2015.“Apple Pay is not alone in the market – other payment systems have or will be introduced by other companies and trade associations. Not all of these payment systems have been thoroughly tested to withstand real-world threats, and we may see attacks targeting mobile commerce in 2015,” claims Trend Micro.“Apple Pay certainly addresses some of the weaknesses that have facilitated recent attacks on Point-of-Sale (PoS) systems. However, this should not be cause for complacency, since attackers will usually look for other weaknesses once an avenue of attack has been closed off,” adds Symantec.For now, those weaknesses may come in other forms of payment, according to Sophos. “Cybercriminals will be looking for flaws in these systems, but the present designs have several positive security features. Expect cybercriminals to continue abusing traditional credit and debit cards for a significant period of time as they are the easier target for now,” it suggests.How popular Apple Pay and rivals are will also be a factor. “Criminal hackers tend to attack popular platforms where the yield is likely high. If no one adopts Apple Pay, then no one will target it. However, if Apple Pay is as popular as Apple’s other traditional and mobile offerings, then we may be writing about Apple Pay hacks sooner rather than later,” claims Kaspersky.Mobile malware aims at Apple, not just AndroidIt’s now traditional for Apple’s senior executives to take pops at Android on-stage over malware, hammering home their claims that the biggest rival to iOS has more security problems. Will they be able to continue that line of attack in 2015? Some security firms think Apple will be under more scrutiny too.“The Masque bug in iOS and the corresponding WireLurker malware targeting iOS devices via Apple and Windows port-machines, had a lot of experts saying that the age of Apple malware is finally upon us,” says Kaspersky, although it also points out that this is still most likely to affect people who’ve jailbroken their devices.“Apple’s closed-by-default ecosystem makes it harder for malware to successfully take hold of the platform, though some users — particularly those that like to use pirated software — will disable these features.”Others suggest that Android will remain the principal target for cybercriminals, as well as predicting a more general increase in mobile scams and attacks. “We will see more vulnerabilities found in mobile devices, apps, and platforms in the coming year. Cybercriminals will target data stored in these mobile devices,” claims Trend Micro.“A new exploit kit specifically developed to compromise mobile platforms will be available in the wild,” adds InfoSec Institute. “The attacks will benefit from a significant increase of phishing attacks on mobile devices, as malicious links and applications downloaded from third-party stores redirect users to websites hosting the malicious exploit kit. Once visited by victims, their mobile will become infected.”Open source code still a targetSome of the most high-profile vulnerabilities in 2014 – Shellshock and Heartbleed – provoked discussion about the security of open source code. Several security companies expect this debate to continue in 2015.“These vulnerabilities were undetected for years and were only brought into light recently. Due to the massive impact of these vulnerabilities, cybercriminals and attackers may decide to investigate the existing code and see if other dormant vulnerabilities are present,” suggests Trend Micro.“From Heartbleed to Shellshock, it became evident that there are significant pieces of insecure code used in a large number of our computer systems today,” adds Sophos. “The events of 2014 have boosted the cybercriminals’ interest in typically less-considered software and systems – so businesses should be preparing a response strategy.”WebSense agrees. “Old source code is the new Trojan horse waiting to be exploited, and open-source code is only the beginning. With so much code written and in use, it’s impossible to catch every dormant exposure point until they’ve been executed,” says Leonard.“Because of this, any time source code is altered or integrated as part of an application or service upgrade, these unknown systemic vulnerabilities have the potential to expose networks to attack.”Criminals hiding on the darknetTechnology like Tor is used for a variety of reasons, including activists anonymising their online activities when under pressure from authoritarian governments. However, this kind of technology will also be used by more cybercriminals in 2015.“We’ve seen cybercriminals leveraging Deep Web and other darknet services as well as untraceable peer-to-peer networks (e.g. Tor, I2P, Freenet) for selling and exchanging tools and services,” claims Trend Micro. “Takedowns and collaborative efforts beween researchers and law enforcement agencies have disrupted cybercrime gangs, giving them more reasons to go further underground.”BAE’s cyber security boss Scott McVicar also thinks criminals will “go to greater lengths” to hide their identity, which will have an impact on efforts to identify them and nullify their efforts. “Researchers will need to adopt practices from the professional intelligence community and tread more carefully when drawing conclusions about who is ultimately behind cyber attacks,” he says.Social media malware and malvertisingThe huge number of people using social networks like Facebook is proving an appetising target for malware developers: BitDefender has already published itsroundup of popular Facebook scams in 2014, for example.“Malicious links hidden in atrocious Facebook videos will be on the rise in 2015,” warns the company. “Malicious ‘beheading and murder’ videos are expected to multiply in the following year. Behaviour analysts and psychologists say teenagers are the most susceptible to clicking on shocking videos, as their empathy for victims of violence is lower.”Proofpoint has stats on the growth of this kind of threat. “Already in 2014, Proofpoint found a 650% increase in social media spam compared to 2013, and 99% of malicious URLs in inappropriate content led to malware installation or credential phishing sites,” explains the company.“In 2015, Proofpoint expects inappropriate or malicious social media content to grow 400percent as attackers target enterprise social media accounts to perpetrate confidence schemes, distribute malware, and steal customer data.”The company also suggests that “malvertising” – malware distributed through online ads – will also continue to be a threat in 2015. “In 2015, attackers will become more refined in their ability to infect sites, target users and deliver payloads while evading detection by most common scanning and gateway tools,” it claims.Internet of Things a rising concernAs more of our devices talk to one another – the “Internet of Things” – there may be a range of new cybersecurity headaches to think about. Although it might not be us doing the thinking.“While at present subscribers play an active role in spam prevention by reporting incidents to their operators, with IoT the challenge will be spotting the threats that can infect IoT devices,” claims AdaptiveMobile. “‘Things’ are going to be less security and spam-aware than consumers and so the responsibility will fall on the operator to secure IoT services and devices at the network-level.”WebSense thinks that in 2015, attacks on the Internet of Things will focus more on businesses than individuals with gadgets. “While many hacks of refrigerators, home thermostats and cars have found their way to the headlines, the likelihood of a major attack campaign via connected household items in the age of the Internet of Things is minimal,” it claims.“While you may have to worry about cybercriminals successfully melting your butter or spoiling the milk in your refrigerator, there is little reward in attacks against your connected domestic devices. The criminal element has set its sights elsewhere.”Symantec disagrees. “Attacks on the Internet of Things (IoT) will focus on smart home automation: With smart home automation gaining popularity amongst consumers across Asia Pacific and Japan, Symantec anticipates that commoditised “plug and play” consumer devices such as CCTV cameras and remote access controls for alarms, lighting and climate control will be exploited by cybercriminals,” predicts the company.“We won’t see any large-scale attacks leveraging IoT, but instead one-off attacks against connected devices such as home routers, Smart TVs and connected car apps, for example, for sensitive and private information.”Cyberwar as criminal/state boundaries blurAs 2014 ended with the now-infamous hack of Sony Pictures – with intense debate about whether North Korea was involved – security firms see 2015 bringing a greater prospect of cyberattacks on behalf of nation states, even if they don’t run them themselves.“Cyber warfare is very attractive to small nations. The development of a government-built malware is cheaper than any other conventional weapon and far more accessible to any nation-state. Cyber warfare represents for every government an efficient alternative to conventional weapons,” notes InfoSec Institute.“North Korea, Syria, and Iran are among the countries that have developed great capabilities that pose a serious threat to major Western states. The risk of a serious attack on the critical infrastructure of a Western government is high, and its attribution will be even more difficult.”The boundaries between cybercriminal gangs and governments may also blur. “Criminal groups will increasingly adopt nation-state tactics,” predicts Kaspersky.“State-sponsored, advanced persistent threat hacking groups, like we’ve seen in cases such as DarkHotel, Regin and Crouching Yeti/Energetic Bear, will begin to merge with hacking campaigns perpetrated by criminals, like those targeting JP Morgan Chase, Target and others.”“State groups could also contract their espionage activities out to criminal groups, that will use criminal tools and expertise to perform spying activities, steal intellectual property or gather intelligence about vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure systems at the behest of government groups.”•How to keep children safe online: what cyber-experts tell their kids
With more than one billion downloads so far on smartphones and tablets, Temple Run has become one of the biggest mobile-born gaming brands. Now it’s running into the virtual reality market.Developer Imangi Studios has released Temple Run VR for Samsung’s Gear VR headset, which went on sale in early December. The game is a free download for the device, which uses technology from Facebook-owned Oculus VR.“This wave of VR is in its infancy. There’s tremendous buzz around Oculus. This is the first stab at having a dedicated platform for VR games. We’re excited to see how many are going to play this thing,” Imangi’s co-founder Keith Shepherdtold VentureBeat.“For us, this is really cool technology. It’s something we want to be involved with, whether or not it is something that will make money. That’s why it’s free.”Temple Run VR has already been praised by Oculus’ chief technology officer (and Doom / Quake lead developer) John Carmack:Temple Run on Gear VR breaks a lot of the &quot;comfort rules&quot;, but it has been the most &quot;Must. Try. Again.&quot; game for me by far.&mdash; John Carmack (@ID_AA_Carmack)December 23, 2014The new version follows the mobile editions of Temple Run in being an endless runner game, but with the twist that it is now controlled by the player tilting their head to run and move.“Putting a 2D Temple Run into virtual reality was cool, but it didn’t feel right. So we reimagined it as a visceral experience. It lets you feel what it is like running for your life,” said Shepherd.The original Temple Run game was released in August 2011 for Apple’s iPhone and iPad, before being ported to Android devices. It has since spawned a full sequel, Temple Run 2, as well as branded spin-offs for the films Brave and Oz.In June, the franchisepassed one billion downloads on smartphones and tablets– a figure only previously surpassed by Angry Birds and the Talking Friends games.•Temple Run: ‘Our goal is to build something that lasts’
General knowledge paper 2014-2015, sat by the pupils of King William’s College, Isle of Man“Scire ubi aliquid invenire possis, ea demum maxima pars eruditionis est”1. During 1914:1for whom was Potiorek’s invitation disastrous?2where did Harry make it six, a record still standing?3in whose composition were they called in from the glen?4which composition brought some colour to the state of Missouri?5who was brutally attacked as she lay naked in her boudoir eight years after her move from the north-east?6who (fortuitously) evaded Sydney and led his men from Tikus on an epic journey which would last 195 days?7where did the commander and officers of the Third Cavalry Brigade threaten “mutiny”?8what, despite her name, lost her way off the Berwickshire coast?9who deprived a leading French newspaper of its editor?10how did monkey hangers gain an unenviable first?2.1What agent eradicated the Candorians?2What tragedy is enacted in Hilljoy Square?3What did Vincent develop from Gunga Din?4Who was the daughter of Keikobad, king of the spirits?5Where did Dan sham death before sending Nora packing with the Tramp?6In mourning her lost son, what have the power to shake Margaret as they pass?7What is life, apart from being a strutting and fretting poor player?8What is play’d in a box whose candle is the sun?9What includes some echoes from the hills?10What was hidden beneath Rite of Man?3.1Who died following mutual insults at Madame Larina’s ball?2Who killed a gentleman of the bedchamber to King James near Bergen op Zoom?3Who was saved by a large button in a duel following a performance of his opponent’s Cleopatra?4Who killed a French baron for calling his king “the arrantest coward in the world” at a dinner party?5Which duellists fought unknowingly with unloaded pistols, following an accusation of cheating at the Lamb Inn?6Following victory in a duel in Bengal, which ship’s surgeon operated on himself to remove a bullet from his chest?7Which future president shot and killed his opponent following a suggestion that his wife was a bigamist?8Which antagonists both missed their target when duelling on the golf course beyond Juan les Pins?9Who fought in the Forêt de Saint-Germain following a contretemps in the Café Guerbois?10Which two ladies fought, first with pistols and then with swords, in Hyde Park?4.1Which particular ear listens to everything?2Which books did Luther compare unfavourably to Aesop?3Who eviscerated himself and then shook his intestines at the onlookers?4Who likened a bird-scarer among gourds to a thorn much-favoured by birds?5Who stabbed the royal pachyderm from below and perished when the dead animal fell on him?6The theft of food set out for which idol was revealed through clerical footsteps in the prepared ashes?7Which scribe inspired the creation of the Gudger, Ricketts and Woods families?8Which bathing beauty owed her vindication to conflicting descriptions of a tree?9Whose scimitar required two strokes to divide his cervical vertebrae?10Who was blinded by passerine droppings as he slept?5.1What game was depicted by Morland?2Who were the victims of a triple caudectomy?3The restoration of whose sight was depicted by the Greek?4Who wondered whether a matchbox would hold his clothes?5Which blind man’s dictation to his three daughters was depicted by the alleged bastard son of Talleyrand?6Following the escape of the lugger from the Hole, who expressed gladness at having trodden on which blind man’s corns?7What blind musician’s noble title recalls his appreciation of a Palacio Real?8How do the visually impaired benefit from a golden duck?9Deafer than the blue-eyed cat and thrice as blind as what?10Who blinded the cannibal son of Thoosa?6. What dual enterprise:1produced 693?2has come to manage without corporal liberation?3started with the well-heeled clientele of Eastbourne?4moved to magnificent premises next to Marylebone Lane?5combined one of Queen Anne’s footmen and a Somerset House porter?6began when two pharmacists were inspired by a gourmet’s Bengali experience?7confusingly operates under the sign of the coffee-grinder?8after 86 years brought Aquila chrysaetos to the Borders?9had its foundation in a Bolognese’s pursuit of a diva?10was a favourite West End meeting place?7.1Who played hide and seek on Crete?2On what type of craft did Murad Reis lose his head?3What strange gas was identified by Ramsay and Travers?4Who described the retreat from Mesopotamia to Trebizond?5Where was there a place of pleasure associated with a sacred subterranean river?6Who won a famous land battle, but was defeated at sea and failed to conquer Greece?7What palpebral disfigurement may signify a susceptibility to arteriosclerosis?8With whom did the son of the late Antonio compare Kate?9To what pigment does the fall owe much of its beauty?10What represented the fossils in a popular carnival?8.1Where did Mac and Gin defy Cruz?2Who wrote of the impartiality of the rain forest?3Whose failure to “Mind the gap” sadly cost him his life?4Which industry developed from the initiative of a Charentais entrepreneur?5Which home-grown war hero was awarded an OBE which was later rescinded?6What mountain retreat was established following an episcopal search for a missing person?7For what did the company agree to an annual rent of 6,000 Spanish dollars?8Which administrator was fatally speared during his riverside ablutions?9What was swapped for a penal settlement in Sumatra?10Who left footprints when he was over 90?9.1Where is French cricket played?2What did Jake find good company at the Marinas?3What, confusingly, depicts the premises of a neighbour?4What was depicted by two dancing clowns made of gold and pearls?5What was the cherished bottle that wine-buff Miles drank in solitude?6What was considered to have “a good and most particular taste” at the Royall Oak Tavern?7For whom did Kandinsky succeed Chagall, who had succeeded Mir?8What did Vesper and James share on the train to Montenegro?9What did Pettigrew-Robinson try out on his Lordship?10 What was presented to Bertrand by Berald?10.1Who led the great exodus to Persia?2Which great patriot was lauded by Keats, Hunt and Coleridge?3Which celebrated concert pianist signed the Treaty of Versailles?4Who shot the president at an art exhibition five days after his election?5Whose work on pitchblende probably led to death from leukaemia more than 35 years later?6Who was imprisoned in a Tyrolean castle by the Holy Roman Emperor on her way to join her fiance in Rome?7Which polymath canon of a northern cathedral challenged the opinion of Ptolemy?8Whose martyrdom was recalled 900 years later at whose promotion?9Who holidayed on Majorca with Aurore and created a Raindrop?10Who is commemorated in the Upper Galleries of the Rock?11.1Which volcano was explored by Dante?2Which eruption brought the Olympiad to London?3What was named after the commander of HMS Monarch?4Where did the activities of Queen Mary necessitate a rescue operation by RIL?5Having entered via Snæfell, where did the professor’s party make its explosive exit?6Which princess and warrior are joined by a saddle named after a stout conquistador?7Which volcano was depicted in the death of a sexagenarian philosopher by Rosa?8Which explosion is estimated to have generated around 180 decibels?9Which eruption was probably witnessed by Columbus?10What volcanic glow was a magnet to Resolution?12.1What was renamed after Mr Pusey’s boss?2Who rose to a great height following her marriage?3Which Gypsy wore an old red blanket and a chip hat?4Whose death in a Norwegian outpost precipitated a constitutional crisis?5Which widow allegedly poisoned her husband with powdered glass in his coffee?6Who joined in stabbing the heir to the throne, perhaps fictitiously, atop a mole-hill?7Who supported the proclamation of her apparent nephew as King Richard IV?8Who looked to Basingstoke for the restoration of sanity?9Who might be regarded as the last Queen of Mann?10Who, “in death, was not divided” from her brother?13.1Who reflected?2Whose murder was intended to save 100,000?3Who unwisely suggested that starving people should eat grass?4Where were clerics executed en masse in a novel and breathtaking manner?5Whose grand-nephew lent him his cloak, enabling his escape, and was executed in his stead?6Where did the Frogs put the portable guillotine to good use while the Lobsters guarded the ford nearby?7Who, disguised as Benjamin Rosenbaum, led his adversary to Père Blanchard’s hut?8Who were the two deputies flung into the river at Savigné-l’Evêque?9Who succeeded the novice duellist as deputy for Ancenis?10Justify deux cent quatre-vingts.14.1What is “cut up wi’ ready slicht”?2What recipe was created at Twomey’s?3For what innovation did Roth use a Mirror?4What North African creation includes rice, liver and heart?5What is described as picante or dulce depending on the paprika?6To what are chitterlings put to good, if malodorous, use in Aube?7What sanguineous rye mixture is enjoyed with puolukkahillo?8What beauty is smoked over juniper in tuyés?9What can be found at Schützenstrasse 70?10For what is sage the main additive?15. Where is or was:1a guineafowl worth ½?2a partridge worth 1?3a magpie robin worth 2?4a heron worth 3?5a hornbill worth 5?6a capercaillie worth 10?7a bee-eater worth 258a woodcock worth 50?9a nightingale worth 100?10a spectacled owl worth 25,000?16.1Who knocked out Jake at the Café Suizo?2Whose cuffs were decorated with buttons of dental origin?3Who reported the exchange of a treasured turquoise for a monkey?4Whose cadaver was swapped for that of a pauper and dissected at St Luke’s?5Who persuaded Wilfred to fight on behalf of his daughter, who was accused of witchcraft?6Who presented his colleague with a contracted Dupuytren hand, preserved in spirit of wine, in Gibraltar?7Who sent his daughter to a nunnery before feeding all the nuns with poisoned porridge?8Who sang the Kol Nidre at the expense of the opening night on Broadway?9Who worked at St Mary Axe, then settled with a troglodyte?10Who responded to an SOS from his arachnophobe ex?17.1Who let Olafsson have the Sudreys?2Where was Don Nicolás’s Galician invasion crushed?3Which monarch was killed by which Mormaer near Elgin?4By what treaty was independence secured for the next 275 years?5Who released the Kirk from English supremacy, placing it under direct Roman jurisdiction?6Who aimed to see Scotland seated at the United Nations in her appropriate alphabetical position?7Whose longevity was compared to that of Solomon at his funeral service?8Whence did the general flee from his nest like an ill scar’d bird?9What regal title was assumed by the Bishop of Frascati?10Who killed Badenoch in Greyfriars Kirk?18. During 2014:1whatever happened to the lats?2and whatever happened to Pom Pom?3who has finally capsized, while his cat lives on?4who have rekindled memories of Holmes and Sutcliffe?5how did coughing in Bali leave two German doctors exposed?6how have we had a final reminder of the labial requirements of whistling?7with what overseas challenge was the IWBKA confronted?8what was the singular achievement of Connor Hobson?9where did Gorillas and Rhinos go top by 575m?10which gatekeeper has lost his place?• The answers will appear next term.
150 million years ago, Stegosaurus dinosaurs roamed the Earth. In 2014, thanks to 3D printing technology, they could be roaming classrooms and homes.3D printing firm MakerBot has launched a96-piece Stegosaurus skeletonon its digital store, for teachers and amateur paleontologists to download and print out.The skeleton design was created by the company’s in-house designers, takes around 48 minutes to print, and is being sold for $14.99 (around £9.65). It follows a previous T-Rex skeleton design launched by MakerBot.“Our designers visited the American Museum of Natural History in New York City to take photos and study the anatomical details of actual Stegosaurus fossils,” explained the company ina blog post unveiling the new model.“Back at the studio, they worked to bring the skeleton to life in 3D by creating 3D renders of the skeleton, scaling the model down, and making sure it was reliably 3D printable. Once it was ready, they broke the design apart into multiple pieces to print on MakerBot Replicator 3D Printer build plates.”The company is suggesting that the model may be useful for teachers in biology or geology lessons “to incorporate physical manipulatives in your instruction”, as well as for students exploring the potential of 3D printing itself.The model shows how 3D printing could complement – note, not replace – the real dinosaur skeletons housed in museums.London’s Natural History Museum recentlyacquired the world’s most complete Stegosaurus skeleton, “Sophie”, and put her on display in its Earth hall. Sophie’s skeleton is 5.6 metres long and 2.9 metres tall, and 85% intact – more than any other Stegosaurus specimen.MakerBot’s 3D-printable version sits alongside a growing collection of designs on its digital store, includingSesame Street characters,houseware from lifestyle guru Martha Stewart, theUS Library of Congress, andmodels of historic ships.•Jet parts, icebergs, crime scenes: 30 things being 3D printed right now
1. Endless Reader (Free + in-app purchases)Endless Readeris full of character: an app where a troop of colourful monsters teach your children how to spell a series of words, as well as acting them out. The app focuses on tricky words (“sight” words in some schools) that children need to recognise as they learn to read. Six words come for free, with more available for parents to buy using in-app purchases.2. Toca Boo (£1.99)Toca Boomay have been released for Halloween, but its appeal will last all year round. It gets children to play as a girl named Bonnie, who dresses up in a sheet and floats around the house scaring her family members by jumping out at them and shouting “BOO!”. Genuinely funny, and beautifully designed.3. Night Zookeeper (Free, optional subscription)Night Zookeeperisn’t an app you download from the Google Play store: instead, it’s a website that works on tablets. It’s a wonderful thing too: part game and part creative studio where your children draw animals to fill a magical zoo, illustrating their own stories as they go. It’s free, but parents can choose to pay for a subscription that includes a physical zookeeper welcome pack.4. Skylanders Trap Team (Free, tablet pack needed)It needs a pretty powerful Android tablet and lots of space – 2.5GB – butSkylanders Trap Teamis impressive: a proper, full-blown Skylanders game to match the console version, complete with its own joypad and portal stand so that kids can use their physical Skylanders toys. The game is free, but you’ll need to buy the physical “tablet starter pack” to play the full thing.5. Tynker (Free + in-app purchases)All primary-school children should now be learning computer programming skills (or at least “algorithmic thinking”) as part of the curriculum.Tynkeris one of the apps that aims to help them practise at home: a collection of “coding puzzles” teaching kids about programming, with a sandbox mode to make their own games. In-app purchases buy additional puzzle packs.6. Me Books (Free + in-app purchases)Me Booksis a digital equivalent to a children’s picture-books shop, acting as a store to buy e-books including Angry Birds, Peppa Pig, Skylanders and Frozen, but also as an app for reading them. Its most fun feature is the ability to re-record the voice narration with your children. Comics were recently added too.7. BBC CBeebies Storytime (Free)The UK-onlyCBeebies Storytimeis the second official app from pre-school channel CBeebies: a collection of digital stories, rather than the games in CBeebies Playtime. Popular characters including Sarah and Duck, Peter Rabbit and Charlie and Lola star, with stories accompanied by questions to provoke discussion with your children.8. Toca Hair Salon Me (£1.99)Another app from Toca Boca, which is one of the most well-loved brands in the children’s apps world.Toca Hair Salon Metakes a photo of your child (or you – thiswillhappen by the way) then creates digital hair for them that can be grown, cut, shaved or dyed any colour your child likes. It can be very silly, but also very creative.9. Makies Fashion (£1.99)There are dozens of not-that-good dressing up games for Android, butMakies Fashionis a cut above: an app that gets children to create their own outfits for virtual dolls, then snap pictures of them as they strut down a catwalk. As kids get used to it, their creations will get more ambitious, which is wonderful to watch.10. Toca Lab (£1.99)More Toca Boca, and this is one for any parent who’d love to show their children how fun science can be. Set in a laboratory,Toca Labgets kids to explore the periodic table, albeit one that’s more... fluffy than you might remember from school chemistry lessons. They’ll be mixing, heating, freezing and spinning the elements.11. Dr Panda’s Toy Cars (£1.79)Dr Panda is another well-respected children’s apps brand, with a range of apps offering playful takes on grown-up professions.Dr Panda’s Toy Carsis pure playtime though: children drive various vehicles around a pair of cities, with a deliberate lack of a storyline to provide space for them to tell their own tales.12. Ladybird: I’m Ready to Spell! (£2.99)One of the UK’s most famous pre-school book brands, here, with a neat educational application.Ladybird: I’m Ready to Spellhas a space theme, and is based on the phonics that kids will be learning in their first years at school. They work through three games, each with three difficulty levels, to reinforce what they’re learning in the classroom.13. The Snowman And The Snowdog 2014 (£2.99)Last year’s Snowman and Snowdog game was “freemium” – free but using in-app purchases. This year, it’sreverted to a pay-upfront game, which some parents will prefer. It’s a beautiful game though, as you soar over London, San Francisco, Japan, China and Australia collecting snowflakes. Stress-free fun for fans of all ages.14. Toca Town (£0.69)And still more Toca Boca: you might be understanding why many parents happily pay out for every new app from the company.Toca Townis a freeform world full of characters – some of whom featured in the company’s previous apps. Children can move them around, interact with items and – crucially – make up their own stories about what’s happening.15. The Very Hungry Caterpillar &amp; Friends (£2.99)The Very Hungry Caterpillar &amp; Friendsis a reworking of Eric Carle’s classic book and illustrations, in the form of a digital “pop-up app” modelled after printed pop-up books. Aimed at pre-schoolers, it helps them practise counting, sorting and memory skills in fun mini-games, as well as encouraging healthy eating.16. Sarah &amp; Duck – Day at the Park (£2.99)More Sarah and Duck,this time in their own apprather than just as part of the CBeebies Storytime app. It gets across all the charm of the animated TV series, as Sarah and her quacking pet head to the park for a series of six mini-games and activities, from hide and seek to kite-building.17. Moonbeeps: Fireflies (£0.63)This isn’t an education app or a game:Moonbeeps: Firefliesis a playful, relaxing bit of fun where children catch fireflies in a virtual jar, then watch them fly about. There are four to catch, with kids able to experiment with mixing their colours before releasing them back into the wild.18. Dr Panda’s Postman (£1.79)Another appearance for that moonlighting doctor, this time inDr Panda’s Postman(or Mailman, as it’s known in the US). This app gets children delivering the post to 10 animals, wrapping packages, writing postcards then exploring the scenery as they deliver. It’s great open-ended fun.19. The Journey of Alvin (£2.11)This story of an old man riding a lawnmower across the US to visit his brother is the perfect base for a well-crafted road trip, with children watching and playing through the scenes.The Journey of Alvinlooks lovely, and its meditative tone makes it very good if your kids’ tablet time tends to be in the evening.20. Stampy Cat (Free)Stampy is one of the biggest stars on YouTube as far as many kids are concerned, with his Minecraft videos watched as eagerly by tens of millions of children as any mainstream TV show.This is his official app: a simple way to watch his new YouTube videos without risk that a child will end up somewhere else on the video service – for example, swearier Minecraft videos from other YouTubers.21. Yo Gabba Gabba! Awesome Music! (£1.49)If you’re new to the charms of US children’s TV show Yo Gabba Gabba!, get thee to a cable channel (or, yes, YouTube) – it’s brilliant. And its growing range of apps retains the charm for tablets.Yo Gabba Gabba! Awesome Music!puts its focus on the songs and characters from the show, with fun mini-games.22. Dr Panda’s Restaurant 2 (£1.79)The sequel to a previous cooking app from developer TribePlay,Dr Panda’s Restaurant 2adds more ingredients, and more ways for children to cook them up into a variety of tasty dishes for visitors to their virtual restaurant. There’s even a vegetarian mode.23. Toca Pet Doctor (£1.99)One more Toca Boca app, this time for budding young veterinarians.Toca Pet Doctorpresents children with a waiting room full of cartoon animals looking sorry for themselves, with kids having to work out how to cure their ailments. Perfect for three and four year-olds.24. The Foos: Free Code Hour (Free)This is another app that aims to get children interested in programming: a taster for a full app that’s coming in 2015 from developer codeSpark. The idea behindThe Foos: Free Code Houris that children guide the colourful Foos characters to the end of each level by dragging instructions into place in their mini-routines.25. Gory Games TV Play-along (Free)Another BBC app – and thus, one for British children for now – which ties in to the quiz show spin-off from Horrible Histories.Gory Games TV Play-alongwas one of the first mainstream “second screen” apps for kids, designed to be used while watching the TV show. Children answer questions and compete with the on-screen contestants. And it works with the repeats!
1. Jack and the Beanstalk by Nosy Crow (£2.99)British books and apps publisher Nosy Crow has made a succession of beautiful fairytale apps, all with a strong eye on encouraging reading, not just tapping on interactive whizziness.Jack and the Beanstalkwas their best effort yet, blending storytelling and light gaming with the company’s now-familiar voice narration from children, not grown-ups.2. Toca Nature (£1.99)Now one of the most well-trusted brands in children’s apps, Toca Boca had another good year in 2014.Toca Naturewas its standout app: a creative sandbox for children to grow trees, raise mountains and dig rivers and lakes, to see what kind of wildlife their mini-ecosystem attracts. Wonderful.3. Sago Mini Road Trip (£1.99)Sago Sago is the preschool-focused sister studio of Toca Boca, and all of its apps are a treat for children.Sago Mini Road Tripoffers a great way in to its collection though: a road trip starring a colourful cartoon cat and his friends, with different cars to drive and plenty to see and tap on.4. ScratchJr (Free)Scratch is one of the most popular languages used in schools when children are learning computer programming schools.ScratchJrtook the idea to tablets this year, from a team including MIT, which was responsible for Scratch. It’s an app that gets children to create stories by slotting together blocks of code: fun and creative.5. Night Zookeeper (Free + optional subscription)Night Zookeeperisn’t an app you download: instead, it’s a website that works on tablets. It’s a wonderful thing too: part game and part creative studio where your children draw animals to fill a magical zoo, illustrating their own stories as they go. It’s free, but parents can choose to pay for a subscription that includes a physical zookeeper welcome pack.6. Teach Your Monster to Read: First Steps (£2.99)Based on the well-regarded educational website,Teach Your Monster to Readwas an excellent app introducing children to synthetic phonics, as a complement to their learning in the classroom. Its fun, accessible games introduced the letter sounds although – important note – it’snotdescribing your kids as monsters. Instead, teaching the in-game monster to read is key to the app’s structure.7. Noisy Neighbours by Ruth Green: Tate Read &amp; Play (£2.99)Even art galleries were releasing children’s apps in 2014:Noisy Neighboursfrom Tate was a treat for children and parents alike. Based on Ruth Green’s charming book, it tells the tale of Sid the Snail, and his efforts to get some sleep. Your children have to draw their own characters while recording their noises, to take part in the story.8. Skylanders Trap Team (Free, separate pack needed)Skylanders Trap Teamis impressive: a proper, full-blown Skylanders game to match the console version, complete with its own joypad and portal stand so that kids can use their physical Skylanders toys. The game is free, but you’ll need to buy the physical “tablet starter pack” to play the full thing.9. Twelve a Dozen (£1.49)Developer Bossa Studios made its name with games like Surgeon Simulator and Thomas Was Alone, which are more for adults.Twelve a Dozenis different though: an excellent educational adventure with a focus on helping children practise their maths skills while saving heroine Twelve’s family. It’s never dry.10. Nosy Crow Jigsaws (Free + in-app purchases)Another app from Nosy Crow, but this time it wasn’t a story. This was a digital jigsaws app using the artwork from several of the company’s apps and books: one of the best attempts yet to take the idea of piecing puzzles together to the touchscreen.Nosy Crow Jigsawswas also a responsible example of in-app purchases: parents could buy extra jigsaws via an in-app store, but if you own other Nosy Crow apps, their puzzles are unlocked for free.11. Star Walk Kids (£0.69)The two Star Walk apps have millions of happy adults using them to gaze at the nighttime skies. This year, their developer made a separate app for children:Star Walk Kids. It’s a cleverly-redesigned version of the adult app, helping kids point their iPad at the stars and learn about some of the constellations – with additional animated short films about the cosmos.12. LumiKids Park by Lumosity (Free)Another example of an app for adults spinning off another version for children. Lumosity has millions of people using its main brain-training app, butLumiKids Parkwas strictly for kids: a series of simple, colourful educational mini-games to help them practise core skills like sorting, paying attention and visual-motor coordination.13. Endless Wordplay (Free + in-app purchases)All of developer Originator’s apps are worth a look:Endless Wordplayfollowed previous apps Endless Alphabet, Endless Reader and Endless Numbers. This latest app focused on spelling and word building, with a characterful troop of monsters acting out the rhyming puzzles. Nine words are included for free, with other packs available at £2.99 each as in-app purchases.14. Curious Words (£1.49)Another developer whose back catalogue is worth digging into is Curious Hat, which makes creative, quirky apps that often aim to get children out into the real world, not just staring into a screen.Curious Wordsis a good example: it challenges kids to record one-second videos based on random words, then turns them into mini-movies. Great fun for children, but just as good to collaborate on with you.15. Toca Boo (£1.99)Toca Boomay have been released for Halloween, but its appeal will last all year round. It gets children to play as a girl named Bonnie, who dresses up in a sheet and floats around the house scaring her family members by jumping out at them and shouting “BOO!”. Genuinely funny, and beautifully designed.16. Mickey’s Magical Maths World (Free + in-app purchases)The first in a new series of educational apps for children by Disney:Mickey’s Magical Maths Worldis a collection of five mathematical mini-games hosted by Mickey, Minnie, Donald, Daisy and Goofy. They’re elegantly done, with some features available in the free download, and others unlocked by parents through in-app purchases for each game’s zone.17. Tynker (Free + in-app purchases)All primary-school children should now be learning computer programming skills (or at least “algorithmic thinking”) as part of the curriculum.Tynkeris one of the apps that aims to help them practise at home: a collection of “coding puzzles” teaching kids about programming, with a sandbox mode to make their own games. In-app purchases buy additional puzzle packs.18. Makies Fashion (£1.99)There are dozens of not-that-good dressing up games for kids, butMakies Fashionis a cut above: an app that gets children to create their own outfits for virtual dolls, then snap pictures of them as they strut down a catwalk. As kids get used to it, their creations will get more ambitious, which is wonderful to watch.19. Toca Town (£1.99)Toca Townis a freeform world full of characters – some of whom featured in the company’s previous apps. Children can move them around, interact with items and – crucially – make up their own stories about what’s happening. Every child will discover their own favourite characters and locations, too.20. Gruffalo: Games (£0.69)The Gruffalo finally got his own app in 2014, although it wasn’t an attempt to retell Julia Donaldson’s story. Instead,Gruffalo: Gameswas a collection of mini-games based on his world and characters, from playing snap against the terrible-clawed fella himself, through to catching nuts and playing matching pairs.21. Dino Dog - A Digging Adventure with Dinosaurs (£1.49)Dino Dogwas a good example of one of the interesting children’s app trends of 2014: a move towards a form of digital storytelling that isn’t trying to be just a book, an animation or a game, but something that combines those elegantly. Here, that meant setting off on a quest for dinosaur bones with heroes Doug and Bonnie.22. CBeebies Storytime (Free)The UK-onlyCBeebies Storytimeis the second official app from pre-school channel CBeebies: a collection of digital stories, rather than the games in CBeebies Playtime. Popular characters including Sarah and Duck, Peter Rabbit and Charlie and Lola star, with stories accompanied by questions to provoke discussion with your children.23. Dinosaur Mix (£1.99)More dinosaurs here, in a well-crafted app by British developer Cowly Owl for young children.Dinosaur Mixfeatures a dinosaur stomping along, and chomping meat or foliage every so often, as it appears. But along the way, eggs appear too, with new parts to help kids mix’n’match their dino bodies.24. Dr Panda’s Toy Cars (£0.69)Dr Panda is another well-respected children’s apps brand, with a range of apps offering playful takes on grown-up professions.Dr Panda’s Toy Carsis pure playtime though: children drive various vehicles around a pair of cities, with a deliberate lack of a storyline to provide space for them to tell their own tales.25. Gory Games TV Play-along (Free)Another BBC app – and thus, one for British children for now – which ties in to the quiz show spin-off from Horrible Histories.Gory Games TV Play-alongwas one of the first mainstream “second screen” apps for kids, designed to be used while watching the TV show. Children answer questions and compete with the on-screen contestants. And it works with the repeats!
It's Christmas Eve!
The transport app company Uber has apologised for dramatically raising its prices during last week’s Sydney siege, when passengers were asked to pay up to four times the usual rate for a lift out of the central business district.Parts of Sydneywere in lockdownafter Man Haron Monis took hostages in the Lindt cafe in Martin Place on 15 December. The 16-hour siege culminated in the death of Monis and two hostages,Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson.“The events of last week were upsetting for the whole community and we are truly sorry for any concern that our process may have added,” Uber said on Wednesday morning.“Our priority was to help people out of the CBD safely in the midst of a fast-moving event. The decisions we made were based only on helping to achieve this but we communicated this poorly, leading to a lot of misunderstanding about our motivations.”Uber users hadheavily criticised the companyfor increasing the minimum fare to $100 while the siege was unfolding, leading the company to backtrack and offer free rides instead.The company said it now regretted jacking up the prices in the middle of a crisis. “As an increasing number of people were requesting rides that morning in the CBD, surge pricing came into effect automatically, and this is when you might have seen higher prices,” Uber’s statement said.“We didn’t stop surge pricing immediately. This was the wrong decision. We quickly reversed course and offered free rides to people needing to leave the CBD. In the end, no rider was charged to leave the CBD on Monday and all higher fares resulting from surge pricing earlier in the day were fully refunded.“It’s unfortunate that the perception is that Uber did something against the interests of the public. We certainly did not intend to. We will learn from this incident and improve as a result of this lesson.”Uber’s US parent company has pledged to cap prices during crises and disasters, and the Australian subsidiary said it was working on standardising “a global policy to ensure we’re serving communities” effectively.
It’s possibly the most achingly zeitgeist story of the year: a rich coder buys a huge mansion in Beverly Hills (reportedly outbidding Beyoncé and Jay Z in the process) and then his house ends up being depicted in the block-building mega game that he wrote. That’s celebrity, real estate, successful geeks, video games and an ironic meta-narrative in one shot. Christmas has come early.In mid-December, Markus “Notch” Persson, the creator of the multimillion-selling building sim Minecraft, bought his new pad for a reputed $70m. He immediately tweeted a photo of himself, luxuriating in front of his massive candy tubes:pic.twitter.com/umDb1p5Se2&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)December 18, 2014Very quickly, an estate agent video of the vast 23,000 square ft property emerged online, showing off the wine cellar, infinity pond and a breakfast bar long enough to have the entire LA Lakers squad over for Lucky Charms.No one was ever in doubt that Persson had money. Since its official launch in 2011, Minecraft has sold more than 50m copies on consoles, PC and smartphones, a spectacular feat for a small independent project built by a handful of coders in Sweden. From the beginning though, the game attracted a dedicated and creative community that aided in its development and growth – and helped to publicise it through blog posts and videos. Persson’s studio, Mojang, has since been bought by Microsoft for $2.5bn, taking Minecraft with it, of course. Persson just wants to make little indie games and maybe fiddle about with his iPad-controlled fountains.The circular appeal of MinecraftAllowing players to mine an attractively blocky world for resources before building anything they please while avoiding zombies and giant spiders, Minecraft is more like a digital canvas than a traditional game, and skilled participants have used it to build everything from the Starship Enterprise to the city of King’s Landing from Game of Thrones. Some of the biggest YouTube presenters in the world, the likes of StampyCat and Ali A, produce almost daily videos of themselves building and larking about in the game.So it was inevitable that at least one Minecraft enthusiast would seek to replicate Notch’s new house – itself a surreal and rather chunky edifice – within the game. Step forward Dan Bovey, the UK-based modeller and YouTuber who posts to the video-sharing site on his channel,BoveyBrawlers.He has not only intricately recreated the house, he has recreated the real estate video itself, together with swooping camera shots and even matching natural environment:So that’s the house bought by the creator of Minecraft recreated in Minecraft. It is, to put it bluntly, someta.But then of course, Minecraft is used to meta-narratives. For years it was described as the Lego of videogaming. Then in 2012, members of Lego’s creative community, Cuusoo, designed a small selection of playsets based around the game. The ideas were officially approved and the sets went into production, as collector-focused micro-sets. They proved so popular however, that this year has seen the release of several full-size Lego Minecraft sets, and more are to come.There is, of course,a movie in production too. Apparently, it will be a “live action” film produced by the team behind – yes, you guessed it – the Lego Movie.But of course, whatever the film looks like, you can be sure of one thing: a month or so later, there will be a shot-for-shot remake in Minecraft.
When Twitter co-founder Biz Stone’s new company started to wobble he turned to “bright spot theory” for an answer.The 40-year-old multi-millionaire’s first post-Twitter foray, a Q&amp;A app called Jelly, was struggling to attract users after its January launch. But the ever optimistic Stone saw an opportunity, one that last month became a quirky new image- and message-sharing app called Super.Stone talks about “bright spot theory” in his book, Things a Little Bird Told Me. It’s a concept tailor-made for Silicon Valley. The basic idea is that when the clouds roll in, you look past the disappointments and identify at least one ray of sunshine, however small it might be. You then double down on that and ignore everything else.That’s what Stone says he was ready to do a few months after launching Jelly. Originally envisioned as a way for people to tap social network users for answers to questions, it didn’t catch on the way Stone &amp; Co had hoped. So the team holed themselves up at the Cavallo Point lodge in San Francisco to search for a solution.“When we launched Jelly, it was kind of my first thing since Twitter, and it zoomed to 1m downloads in like 48 hours,” Stone said. “It had taken us two and a half years to get to 1m downloads for Twitter, so it was like – oh my God, this thing is crazy. And then three months in, things weren’t looking right.“The biggest problem was that people either didn’t want to ask a question or didn’t have a question to ask. When they did have questions, it worked like a charm. The problem was we didn’t have enough people asking questions. I figured we had enough money in the bank and talent to work on Jelly for the next four or five years. But even though my hallucinogenic optimism told me all people want to do is help each other, my hunch was that Jelly probably wouldn’t be the next big search engine.”It was an insight that shifted Stone’s ambitions down a different path. Rather than launch another product that depended on gathering as many users as possible from the get-go, Jelly would change course. The new focus: build something new that was just fun instead, and worry about the rest later. Stone said he was thinking at least in part about Twitter’s early days, when the founders first cobbled together a social playground with seemingly few rules and then turned users loose on it, watching the behavior patterns that followed.There was no master plan for Twitter at the start, he points out. The plan, and the service’s identity, evolved over time.“If you build something fun, people are more likely to use it,” Stone said. “And if a lot of people use it, then it has the potential to be important.”Figuring out what his company’s new fun thing would be started with Stone quizzing Jelly COO Kevin Thau over what the numbers were saying about Jelly. Thau told him, basically, it was a flop.“I asked him to tell me what was good, and he said the usage was flat, we’re screwed and everything sucks,” Stone recalls. “I said, ‘Really? C’mon, let’s look at it together. And we found something interesting going on. For the questions that were being asked, the ratio (of questions to answers) was bonkers. One question could get like 30 answers. It was clear some people really love answering questions. I said, ‘Kevin, people seem to like to publish their opinion online.’”So the team locked themselves in a room and decided not to leave until they had a pitch for a new product to build. Ideas were bandied about on variations of Jelly’s question-and-answer model, while Stone instead decided the question piece of the puzzle was just getting in the way for most people.He sketched an iPhone that displayed an image of the Golden Gate Bridge, over which was written the number of rivets that are part of the bridge and included a simple declaration that “it’s awesome!” How about something like this? Stone suggested. What if we give people a way to share images and write text on top of them in a stylized way, as an outlet through which to creatively express themselves?Talk then turned to what kind of constraints to employ, and the Jelly team came up with the idea that users could express any opinion, but they had to do so using phrases the app would start them off with. Phrases like “The Best,” “I Love” or “Current Status.” The “starters” tended to be superlatives, someone pointed out. So they decided to name the app Super.“And why wouldn’t you want to download something called Super?” Stone continued. “It took two weeks to hack together something that worked. And then once we were using it, we were just giggling and laughing and stuff. It’s like when we started Twitter, we were totally just goofing around. Anything other than that is revisionist history. Snapchat is the same – it’s this silly, fun thing but has become an important communications tool. Facebook started with people hooking up in dorms, and now it’s one of the most important companies in the world. We said, let’s let everyone be a little pop artist. I started out as an artist, and now we’re making this fun thing that lets people create bits of art that are expressive and fun. That’s really all it is. I’m not trying to say this is disruptive. It’s just like graphic design, which mashes up existing things to create something new.”Already, users of Super range from L’Oreal to high school students in Florida. The goofy-looking posts are heavy on design, true to Stone’s roots. He said the app’s aesthetic was inspired by his fascination with American pop artist Barbara Kruger, who layers collages of words over striking images. Whether Super can find a following remains to be seen. Stone’s old Twitter pals Ev Williams and Jack Dorsey have both gone on to found interesting new businesses. Medium, Williams’s writing platform, now has 17 million visitors a month; President Barack Obama has been among its high-profile writers. Square, Dorsey’s online payments system, is duking it out in the competitive, and potentially very rewarding, world of mobile money. Stone’s pitch is more whimsical.“The same motivation has always been true for me, which is you want to build things, and you want to leave something behind and all that jazz,” Stone said. “I never really stopped being an artist. It occurred to me a few years ago that although I don’t paint as much as I used to, I now create these systems so other people can be artists. So it’s like, that’s my art. My art is these elaborate, self-organizing tools of communication that enable people to become artists themselves.”
As Charlie Brooker put it inhis latest Guardian column, “Goodbye, cruel 2014: we promise not to miss you once you’ve gone.” Although there have been some exceptional releases, the games industry has had a challenging time of it this year. Developers are still getting to grips with the Xbox One and PlayStation 4; there have been server meltdowns and hacked gaming services; there has been Gamergate.Perhaps it’s because of these trials that the year has also provided a wealth of very good writing on games – and not just from the dedicated gaming press. 2014 has seen an increasing number of mainstream newspapers, magazines and websites exploring the medium. The New Statesman, for example, has had the Labour MP Tom Watsonsumming up the merits of Destinywhile the New Yorker regularly employs the Guardian contributor Simon Parkin to consider such sublime subject matter as“the kiss that changed video games”.For all the noise it generated, the Gamergate controversy has produced little writing of lasting brilliance that can be taken out of its exact chronological placing and enjoyed as a work in its own right. Jenn Frank’s article for the Guardian,“How to harass a women who works in video games”is an uncompromising look at the culture of suspicion that surrounds high profile women in the industry; Zoe Quinn explored similar territory in her post for Cracked,“Five things I learned as the internet’s most hated person”.Jon Stone’s“You and your damned games”is a beautifully written and damning assessment, and for its inventive use of language few polemical works got close to Chris Klewe and“Why Gamergaters piss me the fuck off”. Meanwhile, on the periphery of it all, Claire Hosking’s feature“Bound Women: why games are better without a damsel to save”is a perceptive study of Anita Sarkeesian’s YouTube video series, Tropes vs Women in Video Games.On the other side of things,Milo Yiannopouloshas been cunning in his ability to exploit the fury of Gamergate followers with a slew of rabble-rousing editorials. He is now planning a book on the controversy. Lord help us all.Culture and community in gamesElsewhere, there has been some excellent writing on the minutiae of game cultures and communities. Keza MacDonald has covered the arcane worlds ofMonster HunterandPokemonwith insight and humour, while Philippa Warr has done great work on eSports for Rock, Paper, Shotgun, although my favourite article of hers was“The impossible architecture of The Stanley Parable”– a chaotic and engrossing interview with the game’s writer William Pugh. Nathan Ditum used his experiences as a father to highlightthe uneven gender aspirations presented by games.Andy Kelly steadfastly deconstructedAlien: Isolationand then wrotethe definitive piece on Oculus Rift sex games. Laura Hudson’s article for the New York Timeson the interactive fiction tool Twineand its most creative exponent, Porpentine, captures that creative scene in all its emotional depth and resonance.There have been great articles too on design and mechanics. Austin Walker’s piece“Real Human Beings:Shadow of Mordor,Watch Dogsand the New NPC”is an illuminating study of how intelligent non-player characters can deepen the narrative experience. In“Form and its usurpers”, game developer Brendon Vance uses titles like Spelunky and Problem Attic to explore questions of content and freedom;“Stop crying about choice”is similarly weighty on the idea of choice and consequence in games. There was also Time Magazine’sinteresting experimentwhere it sent a war photographer into the post-apocalyptic adventure The Last of Us to capture images as though it were a real battle zone.On the subject of embedding, you should also read all of Cara Ellison’s wonderful“Embed With...”series. The Guardian contributor has spent the year traveling the world, living with a series of interesting independent game developers. The intimacy of this approach has allowed her to convey the lives and motivations of designers like Nina Freeman and Tim Rogers with incredible clarity. It is a unique project.Elsewhere, Christian Donlan has had another astounding year at Eurogamer. His feature onMonopoly and World War Twois a fascinating tale that could and probably should be a books and a movie, while“Hooray for games that are hard to talk about”, is a superb thinkpiece on the joy of idiosyncratic design. But it was his feature onhow games have helped him cope with multiple sclerosisthat set a new bar for games writing as a method of exploring the human condition.There were some great offbeat pieces too, like Andrei Filote’s“Open letter to guards everwhere”, an affectionate ribbing of non-player characters, and Jamin Warren onwhat you can learn about game design by visiting Ikea. These are a fitting reminder that although more mainstream sources than ever are writing on games and game culture, dedicated sites likeUnwinnable,KillscreenandCritical Distanceare still knocking it out of the proverbial ball park, whatever terrors a year in video gaming may bring.
1. VaingloryVainglorytakes one of the most hardcore PC gaming genres – MOBA – and makes it marvellously enjoyable (yet no less hardcore) to play on a touchscreen device. At its best on iPad, it throws you into beautiful-looking three-on-three battles, with a system of in-app purchases that takes great care to avoid “pay-to-win” dynamics.2. Monument ValleyBeautiful puzzlerMonument Valleywon bags of critical acclaim in 2014, deservedly. It’s a surreal shape-shifting game that sees you guiding a mysterious princess through a series of impossible-architecture levels by tapping and swiping. Short, but wonderfully sweet.3. Threes!Threes!might have been the most moreish mobile game of 2014: a puzzler so simple in theory you wondered why no one had thought of it before. As it turned out, lots of people thought of it afterwards: there are hundreds of Threes! clones. But the original, adding 1s and 2s together, then 3s and upwards, remains the most addictive.4. 80 Days80 Dayssits in between books and games as a piece of work: a retelling of Phileas Fogg’s journey around the world in 80 days, with an added layer of steampunk culture and technology. There’s plenty of reading, but also plenty of decision-making as you plot a route and explore the cities along the way.5. Hearthstone: Heroes of WarcraftBlizzard Entertainment’s card-battling spin-off from World of Warcraft found its perfect medium on tablets. Like Magic: The GatheringHearthstoneinvolves building a deck of characters and spells, then battling other people. It’s a deep, engrossing strategy game, but perhaps the best thing about it is the way it makes the genre accessible for newcomers too, with a well-designed tutorial.iPad-only6. Crossy RoadIt might not have been the most high-profile game of 2014, butCrossy Roadpicked up intense buzz from players, critics and YouTubers alike for its simple-yet-brutally-addictive “endless arcade hopper” gameplay. Has one of the strongest “just one more go” factors in this roundup.7. Leo’s FortuneLeo’s Fortuneis lovely: a platform game with puzzles that’s one of the most well-crafted iOS games of the year. It’s spread across 24 varied levels, but doesn’t outstay its welcome as you navigate fuzzy ball Leo through the game to recover his lost gold.8. TwoDotsDots was brilliant. Its sequel,TwoDots, was brilliant too. An ideal pick-up-and-play puzzler, as you connected coloured dots over 135 levels, challenging friends as you went. Some purists still prefer Dots’ more open-ended formula, but TwoDots was sufficiently different to pick up its own fans.9. Best FiendsBest Fiendsis a polished puzzler that sees you matching coloured items to battle slugs, upgrading your own critters as you progress from level to level. And yes, the difficulty level starts getting genuinely... fiendish once you’re into the thirties and fourties, level-wise.10. Boom BeachBoom Beachwas the third game from Supercell, the developer that’s enjoyed huge success with Clash of Clans and Hay Day. It was more like the former with its mix of base-building, defence and attack, except with a military theme rather than the fantasy characters of Clash of Clans.11. Bean DreamsIf anyone ever tells you platform games can’t work well purely on a touchscreen, make them buyBean Dreams. Honing the interface down to simple tapping enables you to focus on timing and exploration of the eight beautifully-crafted worlds. An indie treat that deserves a big audience.12. Papers, PleaseThis “dystopian document thriller” has won sacks of awards, and deservedly so:Papers, Pleaseis bleak but thought-provoking, as you play a border inspector for the fictional state of Arstozka, letting immigrants in or turning them away according to your orders from above.iPad-only13. SeabeardIf you ever fell in love with Animal Crossing on Nintendo devices,Seabeardis the best attempt yet at bringing its charms to iOS – albeit with plenty more added on top. It’s a piratical adventure game that sees you exploring, fishing, fighting and meeting a host of characters.14. FTL: Faster Than LightFTLwas one of the hardest iOS games of the year, yet also one of the most rewarding if you stuck at it. This space-based thriller was a deeply addictive yet deeply challenging game of resource management. Complete with “permadeath” to ensure that if you made a mistake, you’d be regretting it well into your next game.iPad-only15. Thomas Was AloneAlready a hit on browsers, PCs and consoles,Thomas Was Alonebrought its solitude to iOS this year too. And while a platform game where you play a rectangle called Thomas might not sound appetising, this is a lovely piece of work.16. Twisty HollowIn an app store stuffed with match-three puzzlers,Twisty Hollowwas a breath of fresh air: a puzzle game involving rotating circles to match different items and characters, creating goods for a fictional town. It had originality and verve in spades.17. Skylanders Trap TeamA proper, full Skylanders game, complete with its own joypad and tablet stand to use with the Skylanders figures. New to the game?Skylanders Trap Teamis a monster-battling fest aimed at children, with new features including the ability to trap beasts then play as them.iPad-only18. Candy Crush Soda SagaYes, the Candy Crush games have plenty of haters. But they have even more fans playing on the sofa, on the train, in the loos at work... For them,Candy Crush Soda Sagawas a sequel worth playing: the same sweet-swapping action, but with new touches (rising soda and hidden bears, for example) to provide new appeal.19. Football Manager Handheld 2015Still the top football management franchise in the world, on smartphones and tablets as on computers.Football Manager Handheld 2015was well worth paying for even if you owned the last version, with its revamped match engine, tweaked scouting system and an in-game data editor for players who can’t resist the urge to give themselves some artificial assistance.20. Game of ThronesTelltale Games’ excellent Walking Dead games were accompanied byGame of Thrones, an official adventure based on the TV show. For fans, it was an absorbing chance to play within the world without just rehashing the plot. And for newcomers to GoT, it was an excellent introduction too.21. Angry Birds TransformersCan Angry Birds have a hit with games that don’t play like the traditional Angry Birds games? Rovio tried hard in 2014, although the jury’s still out on its performance. But quality-wise,Angry Birds Transformerswas great: stompy robots (in disguise) shooting merry hell out of blocks and bots.22. World of WarriorsWorld of Warriorsis the work of Mind Candy, the company behind children’s virtual world Moshi Monsters. This game was for an all-ages audience, though, as you collect and train warriors from various historical periods, then send them out to fight. Well-crafted and very playable.23. World of Tanks BlitzWorld of Tanks has been very popular on PC, but this year the multiplayer tank-battler crossed over to iOS asWorld of Tanks Blitz. It’s very much focused on that multiplayer aspect too, with seven-on-seven tank battles and a big battalion of vehicles to choose from, according to military taste.24. Desert GolfingIf your favourite iOS games developer (or journalist, for that matter) was distracted from their work this year,Desert Golfingwas more often than not the reason. Described as “the best worst game in the world” by Kotaku, it was even more compelling than Flappy Bird, and became something of an industry craze.25. FramedThe developer ofFramed’s mantelpiece was already groaning with indie festival awards by the time it came out for iOS. It was worth the fuss though: part comic-strip and part sliding puzzle, as you swap panels around to affect the storyline.
1. PixelmatorIf you want more from a photo-editing app than simple filters and cropping,Pixelmatoris just the thing: a powerful yet easy-to-use image-editing app with more retouching tools than you can shake a (paintbrush) stick at, tapping Apple’s iCloud service to run across devices.2. Auxy: Beat StudioAuxyis an accessible but deceptively powerful music-making app, where you create beats, bass lines and melodies then string them together into tracks to share online. It’s stylish, fun and has plenty of flexibility, with more features for preserving your work added since launch.3. Microsoft WordMicrosoft finally brought its Office suite to iPad, including individual apps for its different elements. Word represents them all in the context of this roundup, then: it was a serviceable tablet port of the company’s flagship word processing software, with Microsoft’s Office 365 subscriptions built in.4. Pacemaker DJThere have been DJ apps for iPad since the tablet’s earliest days, butPacemaker DJbrought a big new feature to the table: it drew on streaming service Spotify for tracks to play, rather than just your own collection. But it was also an inventive take on tablet DJing for other reasons: its tactile interface worked really well.5. Toca NatureToca Naturewas an app from children’s publisher Toca Boca: a creative sandbox for exploring nature. Kids raise and lower the land to create mountains, valleys and lakes, then plant trees to attract foxes, bears, woodpeckers and other wildlife.6. Molecules by Theodore GrayPublisher Touch Press had a huge hit in the iPad’s early days with its Elements app. This year it followed up withMolecules: a beautifully-crafted app that has a book as its guts, but layers on top some wonderfully-playful simulations of 348 molecules to interact with using tactile controls.7. Kitchen StoriesApple choosing this as one of its apps of 2014 may have surprised some, but not cooks for whom it had become a trusted kitchen companion.Kitchen Storiesis a cleanly-designed recipe guide app, with videos, photos and step-by-step instructions that even a cuisine dunce would be hard-pressed to misinterpret.8. American InteriorAmerican Interiorwas this year’s album from Super Furry Animals’ Gruff Rhys, but it was also a book, a film and an app telling the story of adventurer John Evans’ quest to find a fabled Welsh-speaking native American tribe. The app uses a mixture of text, video and music, and is a great way into the book, film and album.9. ScratchJrThe coding-for-kids category got crowded on the app stores this year, butScratchJrcame from a fine source: MIT, which was responsible for the Scratch visual programming language that inspired it. Aimed at 5-7 year-olds, this app gets children to create stories by slotting together blocks of code.10. Storehouse – Visual StorytellingNot telling you stories: an app for you to use to tell your own tales, using photos, videos and text.Storehouseis one of those apps that Apple can hold up in defence when people say its iPad is for consuming, not creating. This is a simple way to turn your digital media into stories for sharing on various social networks.11. GloseBooks might not be social when you’re reading them, but they can be hugely social when you’re discussing them later – ask any book group. No digital service has ever quite nailed the idea of social reading, butGloselooked like a promising attempt this year, with its community features.12. Radio Times MagazineI’ll be honest: I still buy a print copy of the Radio Times every Christmas and ring loads of programmes with a red biro (then manage not to watch most of them). But the popular UK TV listings magazine also releaseda smart iPad app this year, for couch potatoes wanting more than their EPG.13. Brian Cox’s Wonders of LifeThis book-app from HarperCollins followed its first app collaboration with TV’s Brian Cox, Wonders of the Universe.Wonders of Lifeturned its attention to life on earth, with 3D creatures and habitats to explore, and plenty of video, images and articles to inspire you.14. LearnistPitched as a “knowledge social network”,Learnistwas one of a growing number of apps designed for keen self-educators, harvesting information and videos on a host of different topics for you to browse and digest. A fertile source of ideas and practical advice alike.15. Timeline WW1 TanksAuthor and TV presenter Dan Snow thinks apps are ideal for teaching history to all ages, andTimeline WW1 Tankswas one of the apps from his own company Ballista that showed his thinking. It was a fascinating history of the tank, based around an interactive timeline, with a wealth of multimedia material to explore.16. KORG GadgetSynthesizer makerKORG’s new appwas expensive – launching for £19.99 – but it was marvellous value for music enthusiasts. It’s a collection of mobile synths and drum machines which you can mix and match to create songs, then share them via SoundCloud, Facebook and/or Twitter.17. Vivaldi’s Four SeasonsTouch Press had a busy year, with this being its latest classical music app: a sumptuous multimedia version ofVivaldi’s Four Seasons. Multi-angle video of an orchestra playing the music, along with a “BeatMap” feature to show which sections are playing at any one time, and the ability to solo instruments and find out more about Vivaldi himself.18. Star Wars Scene MakerA real treat for Star Wars fans:an iPad appfor dreaming up your own scenes within the movie universe, using 3D models of characters and settings, then cutting in dialogue from the Star Wars films or your own recordings. And then sharing the results. Think of the fan-fiction possibilities...19. Mickey’s Magical Maths WorldThe first in a new series of educational apps for children by Disney:Mickey’s Magical Maths Worldis a collection of five mathematical mini-games hosted by Mickey, Minnie, Donald, Daisy and Goofy. They’re elegantly done, with lots of extra interactivity for kids to explore – and a smart parental companion app too.20. PDF OfficeDeveloper Readdle has made a succession of very-useful productivity apps: and itsPDF Officeoffered another angle: it creates editable PDF documents on your iPad, including by taking photos of physical forms and converting them. Once you have it, you’ll realise how often it could come in handy.21. Think Like ChurchillAnother Touch Press app, this time with a famous collaborator: London mayor Boris Johnson.Think Like Churchillaims to help you understand Winston Churchill by putting you in his shoes for some of his most famous political dilemmas, using his writings, advice from colleagues and other real historical documentation.22. Next for iPadIf you like nothing more than settling down on the sofa of an evening and browsing graphs of your expenses... Well, perhaps check out Netflix or board games. ButNext for iPadis nevertheless an excellent expense-tracking app, taking good advantage of the larger touchscreen to present your finances in a clear and simple way.23. Post-it PlusA Post-it app? It sounds like a ridiculous novelty, but actuallyPost-it Pluswas a clever idea: an app capable of photographing your Post-it scribbles from a meeting, then turning them into a digital board for further organising, editing and sharing.24. Duet DisplayReleased right at the end of 2014,Duet Displaycould be a real boon for anyone who needs more display from their desktop, but doesn’t want to shell out for an extra monitor. This turns your iPad into an extra display, promising – and delivering, as far as I can tell – “lag-free” performance.25. iPlayer Radio for iPadAnother release late in the year, here in the UK,iPlayer Radio for iPadis the official iPad version of the Beeb’s radio app, optimised for the bigger screen in both portrait and landscape modes, with simple navigation to get to your favourite stations and shows quickly.
1. SwiftKey KeyboardThe most popular keyboard-replacement app on Androidmade the leap to iOSin time for the launch of iOS 8, with its emphasis on the way it learns your writing style – with Facebook, Twitter and Gmail logins able to give it a head start – to make its predictions even smarter.2. FireChatFireChatseemed like an innovative novelty when it came out, with the ability to text-chat to people even when internet access was down. But then came the Hong Kong protests, where it proved its mettle as a way to communicate in those kinds of situations, when rival apps struggled.3. ReplayNow billed as a “video editor for Instagram”, that’s sellingReplaya bit short, since it’s a slick standalone video editor in its own right too. You can add in up to 200 photos or video clips, then pick styles to turn them into professional-looking videos for sharing on various social networks. Instagram included.4. Glow NurtureUS startup Glow’s first app helped women track their fertility cycles when trying to get pregnant. This year, it followed up with a companionNurtureapp for people who succeeded: a pregnancy health tracker providing daily updates, the ability to track all manner of stats, and yes, bump-photo sharing.5. Star Walk 2More than 10m people have used the original Star Walk app for some amateur stargazing. This year’s sequel,Star Walk 2, was a good step on. You could use it to identify stars, but now it also had 3D planetary nebulae to browse. Great for stargazers of all ages and experience.6. Inbox by GmailAnother rival to Gmail, exceptInboxwas produced by Google itself – albeit as a complement to its flagship webmail service. Initially invite-only, it takes a similar approach to Mailbox and other apps in its efforts to make your inbox manageable, including an inventive feature bundling similar messages together.7. WireLaunched towards the end of the year,Wirewas a potential Skype-killerbacked by one of Skype’s own co-founders, Janus Friis. Focused initially on text messaging and voice-over-IP calls, it made a big feature of its design, with security including end-to-end encryption of calls.8. Peak – Brain TrainingBrain training games may have popped into the mainstream’s attention with Nintendo’s DS, but mobile devices have their own grey-cell-improving brands, from Lumosity to this year’sPeak. Its mini-games focus on memory and attention, with strong detail in its feedback on your performance over time.9. MediumMediumis trying to put a purdy new face on blogging platforms, and this year the company released its first mobile app. It wasn’t for writing, though: instead, this was an app for reading the best pieces on Medium, whether written by friends or strangers.10. SwypeSwypewas theotherhigh-profile Android keyboard replacement app that finally made it to iOS this year, alongside rival SwiftKey. Tracing your thumb over the virtual keys rather than tapping them worked well, as on Android, with a choice of themes to suit touchscreen typists of all stripes.11. Seasonal CitiesSeasonal Citieshad an interesting twist for a travel app: its city-guides got rewritten every three months to take account of the current season. It’ll also tweak its recommendations depending on the next few days’ weather when you’re using it.12. Silent Text 2Silent Text 2was a rewritten version of Silent Text, the secure messaging app from security firm Silent Circle. You can ping text messages and file attachments to friends, with the app encrypting them throughout the process. A sign of encryption getting more accessible to regular smartphone owners.13. 7 Minute Superhero WorkoutDeveloper Six to Start has taken an inventive approach to fitness applications, blending health and games to get people up and moving. Best known for its Zombies, Run! game, this year it turned its attention to superheroes.7 Minute Superhero Workoutgets you to punch to blast aliens and crunch to recharge your exosuit.14. BreezeBreezewas the work of fitness-tracking startup RunKeeper, one of the first fitness apps built for Apple’s iPhone 5s and its motion coprocessor. Rather than tracking workouts, it tracked more regular activity: walking, with location features and the obligatory pretty graphs.15. Lingua.lyA great educational app for people learning in their own time:Lingua.lyfocused on language learning through a clever, simple system of digital flashcards. Handy whether you’re revising your rusty skills in a language you learned years ago, or exploring one for the first time.16. Overcast: Podcast PlayerThanks to Serial, there was a surge of interest in podcasts towards the end of 2014.Overcastwas a stripped-down podcast app that let you listen offline, create playlists and set push notifications for new episodes among other features, developed by Instapaper creator Marco Arment.17. Sleep BetterStep-tracking apps have been popular for a while, but 2014 saw a flurry of interest from developers in monitoring what happens when we’re not active – i.e. at night, when we’re sleeping.Sleep Betterfrom fitness startup Runtastic tracks your sleep cycles, and tries to wake you up at the right point to avoid morning grumpiness.18. DiceFor now,Diceis only available in London, but as it expands, more music fans will realise why it’s such an exciting app. The nutshell pitch: buy tickets for gigs without booking fees. But Dice also acts as a feed of recommendations for new bands to see, and the company even employs people to be at the venue to make sure your night out goes swimmingly.19. Hyperlapse from InstagramHyperlapsewas Instagram’s new thing: a completely separate app that shoots video footage and turns it into time-lapse videos at up to 12x speed, while also applying (very impressive) stabilisation tech to fix your shaky camera-hand. A novelty, yes, but it produced some great results.20. Genius by Rap GeniusGeniushas become a popular site for looking up not just lyrics (initially rap, but now rock and poetry too) but the meanings and references within those songs. Its mobile app came out this year and was excellent: a quick way to search the site on the go, including Shazam-like identification capabilities.21. Peek CalendariPhone owners aren’t lacking in decent alternatives to their smartphone’s default calendar app.Peek Calendarwas the pick of 2014, making neat use of colour and swipes to help you navigate your upcoming appointments, and get on top of your schedule, however crowded.22. WorkflowReleased towards the end of the yearWorkflowlet you create combinations of actions you do on your iOS device, then automate them. Examples: turning Safari pages into PDFs, tweeting a song that you’re listening to, and turning a contact into a homescreen icon that calls them.23. Wakie – Social Alarm ClockWaking up with a stranger can be a disorienting experience. WithWakie, at least they’re on the other end of a phone call: the app gets you to set your alarm, then wakes you up with a call from a real person: one of its other users. Apparently there are already 1.5 million of them too.24. SnowbuddyAn essential download for winter sports folk,Snowbuddyprovides maps and weather forecasts for pistes around the world; tracks your speed and distance while skiing and snowboarding; and has some inventive social features to challenge friends.25. OpinionIf Serial inspired you not just to listen to other podcasts, but make your own, thenOpinionwas well worth downloading: an app for recording and editing podcasts before uploading them to SoundCloud, or emailing them if you prefer to use another hosting service. Simple and effective.
It's Tuesday.
Argostook a beatingwhen it launched its first Android-based Bush MyTablet last year. Happily,this year’s Windows 8.1-based versionseems to be one of the better models in a growing market. It’s good value at its current £99.99 price, reduced from £129.99. However, it faces stiff competition from similar products from Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Staples and other stores, as well as PC industry stalwarts such as Acer, Asus, HP and Toshiba.At the start of the year, Windows tablets – Microsoft’s Surface, Dell’s Venue Pro etc – typically cost from £250 to £500 or more. The new wave models run from around £80 to £180, mainly because Intel and Microsoft are desperate to get into the mass market for tablets. Intel has reportedly been selling Atom processors at promotional (loss-making) prices, while Microsoft has made “Windows 8.1 with Bing” available free (as in beer) for smartphones and tablets with screens smaller than 10in.The free “Windows 8.1 with Bing” package also includes a year’s subscription toMicrosoft Office 365 Personal, worth £59.99. This covers one PC or Mac, one tablet, and one smartphone, and includes a terabyte of OneDrive cloud storage plus 60 minutes ofSkype world phone callsper month. (For comparison, Google charges $9.99/month for a terabyte, and Dropbox £7.99/month). The whole bundle would cost more than the hardware. Of course, Microsoft expects to make money from the people who keep subscribing after the first year, but it’s still a good deal.Microsoft also expects to get a return from setting Bing as the search engine in Internet Explorer 11, because not everyone will change the default. It could even pick up some new customers because you need a Microsoft account – an Outlook.com, Live Mail or Hotmail address – to log on to the tablet. Well, you can create a local account without using a Microsoft email address, but then you can’t simply save files to OneDrive by default, or use the online versions of Office programs.Microsoft’s services are now integrated into the operating system, much like Google’s with Android and Apple’s with iOS. The difference is that Microsoft’s ecosystem covers PCs and servers, tablets, Windows Phone smartphones and Xbox One games consoles, with the aim that every device will be able to run the same apps from the Windows Store.MyTablet hardwareMost of the new 7in and 8in Windows 8.1 tablets have very similar specifications. Usually they have a quadcore 1.33/1.83GHzIntel Atom Z3735Gprocessor with Intel HD graphics, 1GB of memory and either 16GB or 32GB of eMMC Flash memory storage (eMMC is slower than SSD, but still fast). The multi-touch screen has a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels, and there are 2 megapixel cameras front and back, plus one or two tiny loudspeakers. The main connections are a 3.5mm stereo jack, a microSDHC memory card slot, microUSB OTG and HDMI ports, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth 4.The Bush MyTablet has an 8in screen, 32GB of storage (24GB free), and only one speaker. It measures 215mm x 123mm x 8.6mm and weighs 330g, so it’s tablet-sized. The top edge has an on-off button and a Windows Key button, separated by a volume rocker.It is well finished and feels reasonably solid in the hand. It doesn’t have a huge bezel, and with its black front and silver back, looks smart rather than cheap. The styling is quite iPad-like. (In fact, it looks a lot likeCube’s Iwork7in tablet.)There are, of course, compromises at the price. The IPS screen is bright and has good viewing angles, but the resolution is relatively low, and creative types may want to recalibrate the colour profile. The solitary loudspeaker is on the back, doesn’t go very loud, and sounds tinny, though headphones were fine. The cameras are OK for Skype but you wouldn’t use them for photography, unless you’d lost your smartphone.Storage space is limited, but I think WIM (Windows Imaging Format) makes it viable. Briefly,WIMBootruns Windows 8 from a compressed image file, which is slightly slower but takes up much less space. Either way, if you want to carry a lot of photos or movies around, you’ll need to add a microSD card. Fortunately, 32GB and 64GB cards are now affordable.Perhaps MyTablet’s biggest compromise is battery life, which is half what you’d hope for. Argos quotes “up to 6 hours (depending on usage)” but that must be with the standard screen setting. I had to turn the brightness up, and my usage included Bluetooth and playing YouTube videos. I easily got through a day of casual use, but if you want to do real work on MyTablet – which is certainly possible with a Bluetooth or USB keyboard and Microsoft Office – then you will want to be near a mains plug.Software and performanceThe main appeal of the Bush and similar tablets is that they come with the full Microsoft Windows 8.1, which runs Flash, Java, the desktop version of BBC iPlayer and so on. TheAsus Transformer T100TAhas already shown that 32-bit Windows 8.1 performs well on aBay Trail Atomwith 2GB of memory, but reducing the memory to 1GB – the most the Z3735G can handle – is pushing it a bit.I found MyTablet ran Windows Store apps smoothly, and that IE11 was efficient enough to make browsing comfortable. If you’re used to similarly-priced Android tablets – or last year’s £99.99 Android MyTablet – you could well find the Windows version offers a worthwhile increase in performance. It certainly has no problems playing videos. If you’re used to a Windows 8 laptop or desktop PC, you’ll be more aware of its limitations for multi-tasking, loading lots of browser tabs or running big programs in just 1GB.The Windows Experience Index benchmarks expose another relative weakness: graphics. MyTablet’s scores were 5.9 for the processor, 4.5 for the memory, 3.3 for graphics, 3.7 for desktop graphics, and 7.0 for the Flash drive.Being a tablet, MyTablet necessitates a shift from using desktop programs to running “modern” (formerly Metro) apps from the Start screen. There are more than 100,000, so most major areas are covered. However, the Windows Store doesn’t offer the vast riches of the Google Android and Apple iPad markets, or the quality. In many cases, this doesn’t matter because you can instantly switch to the desktop, where the program selection runs into the millions. The problem is that desktop Windows programs look very small on a 7in or 8in screen, and it’s quite hard to hit tiny icons and menu items with a fat finger. (We’re still waiting for Microsoft to produce touch-oriented versions of Office apps like the ones it has released for the iPad.)You may want to resort to a stylus, but these cheap tablets don’t have the high-precision Wacom or N-Trig screens that lift Microsoft Surface tablets and a few other devices to a different level. What I did was switch to aMicrosoft Universal keyboard(£79.99 or less) – a stunning bit of kit that also works with Android and Apple devices – and anArc TouchBluetooth mouse (£69.99 or less). At Amazon.co.uk discount prices (£102 the pair) this doubles the cost of MyTablet, though if you use multiple tablets and smartphones, it may be better than buying three different keyboards.VerdictIf you already use Windows and, especially, a Microsoft Office, then 7in and 8in tablets have fallen to the sort of price level where you may not need to think too hard about buying one. Having a tablet that removes almost all the problems of moving files around, changing formats, learning new apps and so on is a tremendous boon. And although the specs are worryingly low, the Bush MyTablet works much better than you might expect. It’s obviously not in the same league as aSurface Pro 3, or whatever, but you can get MyTablet with a Bluetooth keyboard/case and stylus for the price of a Surface Pro keyboard.However, small, low-resolution screens make desktop programs harder to use. Someone who mainly wants a cheap Windows machine should consider a convertible 2-in-1 laptop such as the Asus Transformer T100TA orAcer Aspire Switchinstead. These work better as laptops, while also working as tablets.Whether it’s better to go for a 7in or 8in model is a trickier question. I tested the 8in MyTablet alongsideTesco’s 7in Connect tablet, which has the same spec but costs £21 less (£79). The smaller Connect – which is a lot like the Linx models from Sainsbury’s and Staples etc – is more portable and has better sound quality. In the end, my defective eyesight was happier with the slightly larger text on MyTablet, and I preferred its styling and finish, so that’s what I bought. Your view may be different.Star rating: 3.5/5Pros: great value, especially if you want the Office bundle. It looks, feels and works better than you’d expect from a £100 tablet.Cons: poor battery life, and limited selection of Windows Store apps. Other constraints – RAM, storage, screen resolution etc – are excusable at the price.
The bitcoin entrepreneur Charlie Shrem has been sentenced to two years in jail for his part in a money laundering scheme, after a bitcoin exchange he ran was found to be aiding users of the Silk Road black market.Shrem was previously a senior figure in the bitcoin community, sitting on the board of the foundation which oversees the cryptocurrency, while also running his own exchange, BitInstant. He resigned as a board member after his arrest in January.“I’ve been sentenced to two years, to self-surrender in 90 days,” Shrem tweeted. “Considering I was facing 30 years, justice has been served.”In September, he pled guilty to the charges of money laundering, and asked forgiveness from the trial judge. “I screwed up,” he said. “The bitcoin community, they’re scared and there is no money laundering going on any more. They’re terrified. Bitcoin is my baby, it’s my whole world and my whole life, it’s what I was put on this Earth to do. I need to be out there. If your honor grants me that, I can be out there in the world, making sure that people don’t do the same stupid things that I did.Shrem was accused of running a scheme with Floridian Robert Faiella to sell bitcoins anonymously to users of the Silk Road website.According to prosecution documents, Faiella ran a business on the Silk Road website under the name BTCKing, where he let users exchange cash for bitcoin anonymously in exchange for a cut. Faiella fulfilled those orders using BitInstant, where Shrem was chief executive and chief compliance officer.Under US federal rules, BitInstant was a money transmitter, and required to report substantial transactions, or patterns of transactions, which indicated suspicious activity. Shrem never filed any such reports, and the prosecution claimed that he knowingly partnered with Faiella to ensure that the latter would continue to have access to the exchange.“There’s no question that Mr Shrem, over a period of many months, was knowingly, wilfully, to some extent excitedly and even passionately involved in activities he knew were, in part, involved in serious violations of the law,” the judge said, according to Bloomberg.In January, the man accused of running the Silk Road website, Ross Ulbricht, is due to stand trial. According to prosecutors, Ulbricht operated the site under the pseudonym “Dread Pirate Roberts”. He is accused of facilitating the trade of illegal drugs, as well as allegedly ordering the assassination of a business associate.
Nintendo’s game design chief, Shigeru Miyamoto, has confirmed that a successor to the current Wii U console is already in development.Inan interview with Associated Pressthe creator of the iconic Super Mario and Zelda games said, “For the time being, our focus is on the Wii U hardware, but Nintendo as a whole has groups working on ideas for new hardware systems.“While we’re busy working on software for the Wii U, we have production lines that are working on ideas for what the next system might be.”Launched in November 2012, the console, which comes with a special tablet-style controller called the GamePad, did not fair well to begin with. It sold slowly and gamers complained about the paucity of titles available for the system.This year has seen an upturn in interest, though, with critically acclaimed titles such as Mario Kart 8 and Bayonetta 2. The machine has now sold more than 7m units worldwide, which is still a long way behind its competitors, the Xbox One (10m) and PlayStation 4 (13m).For a while, there was speculation that Nintendo may choose topull out of the hardware market, instead concentrating on producing its hit software titles for other consoles, as well as smartphones and PC. It is the route Sega took after the comparative failure of its Dreamcast console in 2000.However, in May, the Nintendo CEO, Satoru Iwata, confirmed to investors that the company wouldremain in the hardware market, although would not be drawn on further details.Miyamoto’s confirmation will no doubt lead to speculation that the company is set to announce a new machine at this year’s E3 conference in Los Angeles. But with several key Wii U titles due in 2015 – including a new adventure in the blockbusting Zelda series – this is unlikely.The legendary game designer did hint at a possible launch title, though. Talking about the evolution of his Mario character over the past 30 years, he said: “I think that maybe when we release the next hardware system, you can look forward to seeing Mario take on a new role or in a new game.”According to many pundits at the time, one of the major weaknesses of the Wii U launch was that it was not backed with any big titles for classic Nintendo characters. The company is unlikely to make that mistake again.
An attempt to use data protection regulations to force a campaign group to hand over personal information relating to a billion-dollar mining deal has been defeated.The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) has ruled that Global Witness does not need to surrender material gathered in the course of its investigation into the Simandou ore mines in Guinea, west Africa.The decision is believed to be the first in which legal protection available to media organisations has been extended to others carrying out journalistic work and sets a significant precedent.Lawyers for four people connected to the mining conglomerate BSG Resources (BSGR) launchedthe highly unusual legal action last year, claiming damages for breaches of their data protection rights.The Israeli businessman Beny Steinmetz, one of the world’s wealthiest men, controls BSGR through family trusts. Those associated with the company complained that BSGR was the subject of “a sustained, negative publicity campaign by Global Witness” and that it was illegal to retain personal information. They now plan to appeal against the ICO’s latest ruling.In a letter sent to both sides last week, the ICO concluded that Global Witness did not need to comply with the request to surrender the information.The ICO statement said: “We are … satisfied that Global Witness’ aim is to publish reports about the Simandou controversy and the personal data requested by the data subjects’ is being processed in connection with those reports.”“We do not consider Global Witness’ concerns about the negative effect that complying with … access requests would have on [their] journalistic activities to be unreasonable.“We are, therefore, satisfied that Global Witness is only processing the personal data requested by the data subjects for the purpose of journalism.”Global Witness, which was founded in 1993, has described the legal action as an attempt to stifle journalism and investigations carried out in the public interest.It welcomed the ruling as confirmation that exemptions for journalism in the Data Protection Act 1998 apply to anyone engaged in public-interest reporting, not just the conventional media.“It is a victory for press freedom because it defines journalists by what they do, not whom they work for,” said Leigh Baldwin, an investigative journalist at Global Witness.“With non-traditional media playing a growing role in exposing corruption and human rights abuses, all journalists - and their sources – need to know they can rely on the same protections available to the mainstream press.”A spokesman for those associated with BSGR said: “The ICO has not applied the law correctly and we will be asking the courts to review its decision.”Last year Dag Cramer, the chief executive of Onyx Financial Advisers, an adviser to BSGR and one of those who has brought the action, said: “We tried for more than a year to avoid this outcome, because we consider Global Witness’s declared aims to be laudable. Unfortunately, the organisation has entirely failed to live up to its own principles.”In April, Guinea stripped BSGR of its concession to mine the Simandou mountains.
The human body depends on myriad feedback mechanisms ensuring instantaneous adjustments to cell activity, for the correction of imbalances in temperature, hormone levels and other functions essential for life. A complicated engineering system such as a Boeing 748 Dreamliner is likewise crucially reliant on the presence of a web of feedback loops. These ensure that information from monitoring devices translates into corrective control action to suppress deviations from the desired flight path, prevent stalling, and so on.John Westcott, who has died aged 93, was one of the pioneers in the study of feedback design in an engineering or biological context. Two names given to this study are control engineering and cybernetics. Along with advances in electronic communications, information theory and signal processing, progress in these fields grew out of second world war military research and the ensuing computer revolution.In 1942 John was seconded from his industrial job to the Air Defence Research and Development Establishment in Malvern, Worcestershire. He was involved in several top-secret programmes including Shell Splash, which achieved dramatic improvements in the accuracy of coastal gunnery through the use of the latest radar technology.The hothouse of wartime military research presented young scientists and engineers with excitement and a level of responsibility unthinkable in the civilian world. John acquired a can-do attitude in the face of formidable technological challenges and an eye for the engineering implications of advanced scientific theories.In 1946, inspired by his wartime reading of classified reports on the use of automatic devices to correct the performance of mechanisms by means of an error-sensing feedback, John successfully sought funding from the Institute of Electrical Engineers to become a research student. He was accepted at Imperial College London, with control engineering his chosen field.He spent a year at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, absorbing the ideas of Norbert Wiener, the father of cybernetics, who was opening up new approaches to controller design, based on prediction and probabilistic modelling. They underlie today’s most sophisticated control systems, such as those used in fly-by-wire military aircraft and advanced chemical processing.John was one of the first to bring such ideas to Europe, and his early research provided important improvements that took account of real-life constraints. Shortly after his return to Imperial in 1949, he was invited to join the Ratio Club, a group of scientists who gathered to share ideas at the point where automation, computing machines and brain functioning meet. The club spawned many of the leading figures in neuroscience and automation of the following decades and was an incubator for the basic concepts on which these fields are built. At one early meeting both John and Alan Turing gave talks.On completing his PhD in 1950, John was appointed lecturer at Imperial, and in 1961 professor of control systems. As a research manager, he liked to interact with bright people and treated members of his research team as his intellectual equals, regardless of their age or position. He also understood the importance of creating a stable funding environment, and tirelessly tracked down sources of funding from government and industry.Throughout his career, he was involved in industrial consultancy: he was able to talk the language of both engineers and board managers, and to explain the potential of new technologies in terms that they understood, having experienced the industrial environment from the shop floor up.Industrial applications included steel and aluminium rolling, but John had a strong interest in the broader implications of control principles, as in economics. For two decades from 1972, he directed a research programme into the construction of economic models and their use for prediction and economic policy evaluation. His work contributed to the emerging field of econometrics, and influenced government policy, notably over the Treasury’s own choice of models for economic planning.Following on from his consultancy work with IBM in the early 1960s, the company gave Imperial its first real computer, a state-of-the-art IBM 7090 mainframe. In 1968 John became the first head of a computing department at the college, and set up undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses from scratch.John was heavily involved in professional societies throughout his life. The most important was the International Federation of Automatic Control, which enabled control engineering to acquire a separate identity built out of a bundle of disciplines. He was awarded fellowships of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1980 and of the Royal Society in 1983, and became emeritus professor in 1984.Born in Chiswick, west London, John was the son of John and Margaret (nee Bass). He studied at Wandsworth school and City &amp; Guilds College. His father, a mechanical engineer, believed in a “bottom-up” engineering education, so John deferred taking up a scholarship to attend university and, instead, accepted an apprenticeship with the British Thomson-Houston Company, the British subsidiary of the American General Electric Company. He attended evening classes in electrical engineering that led to a degree from Battersea Polytechnic Institute. It was towards the end of his apprenticeship that he joined the war effort.John was a modest and reserved man. It was difficult to square his gentle manner with the powers he could summon to fire up boardrooms and persuade sceptical managers to put money behind his ideas.He is survived by his wife, Helen (nee Morgan), known to some people as Fay, whom he married in 1950, his daughter, Gill, and his two sons, Tom and Nick.• John Hugh Westcott, control engineer, born 3 November 1920; died 10 October 2014
Monday! A bit late! Sorry!
Although the general consensus is that 2014 was not a vintage year for games, there were easily enough blissfully entertaining experiences for us to fill our top 25 with ease – and with leftovers.Here then, are the games that didn’t quite make it, all of them definitely still worth a look, especially if you find them in a post-Christmas sale and have already broken/completed everything Santa bought you.Mainstream misfitsSims 4 - now with even more emotionPhotograph: PRThere were plenty of big budget treats that we couldn’t quite agree on this year. Jordan Erica Webber, Cara Ellison and I all played and thoroughlyenjoyed Sims 4, despite the removal of some key features from previous titles. The intuitive character modelling and house building systems, together with some hilariously unpredictable AI, led to plenty of laugh-out-loud moments of social awkwardness. It’s basically an interactive version of The Only Way Is Essex, but with charm.A couple of our games writers also put in votes forSunset Overdrive, Insomniac’s crazily effervescent action adventure about energy drink mutants. It’s beautiful to look at, runs at about 100 gags a second and has some lovely ideas, including an in-game TV show that regularly updates with new content.Another of our regular reviewers, Rich Stanton, loved Plants vs Zombies: Garden Warfare, an action-packed shooter spin-off from Popcap’s popular “tower defense” series. He also played the hell out ofMetal Gear Solid: Ground Zeroes, the fascinating prequel to MGS: Phantom Pain, due next year. It’s an ostensibly brief open-world adventure, but one that hides hours of extra content and side-missions. And it’s Metal Gear.Steve Boxer wanted us to acknowledge the size and scale of Halo: The Master Chief Collection, a mammoth collection of the first four Halo titles. However, my “no re-boots, no re-releases” rule disallowed it. Sorry Master Chief!Oh, we’ve also got to mentionD4: Dark Dreams Don’t Die, the latest title from one of Japan’s most eccentric designers, Hidetaka “Swery” Suehiro. It’s a typically bizarre time-traveling murder mystery which makes extensive and often really strange use of the Kinect controller.Digital delightsValiant Hearts: The Great War … ‘successfully brings home the horror of the first world war’.Photograph: .So many great games are delivered via online app stores these days that it’s easy to overlook really strong titles. PlayStation 4 and Xbox One have both bolstered their burgeoning software libraries with decent digital treats, and on PC, Steam is a constant source of fresh gaming experiences.Ubisoft’s hauntingWorld War One adventure Valiant Heartsis a wonderful story of love and sacrifice, and it’s definitely worth a look; like This War of Mine, it provides a very different perspective on War.Several of our writers also really enjoyed the latest episodic adventures from TellTale Games: The Wolf Among Us and Walking Dead Season Two – both crammed with intriguing puzzles and difficult moral conundrums. The first episode of Game of Thrones came in a little too late for us to consider, but looks promising.I also really enjoyed the side-scrolling hack-’em-up Strider , a reboot of the classic Capcom arcade series. You’re an assassin and you... assassinate things – in a rich and frenetic sci-fi environment. Our writing team also picked out two other similarly fast-paced, retro-tinged digital releases: the PS4 and Vita platformer/blasterVelocity 2Xfrom Futurlab and Llamasoft’s latest Tempest-derivativeTxKon PlayStation Vita.Another one picked out by several members of our writing team wasTransistor, the gorgeous futuristic RPG from San Fran-based Supergiant Games, creators of Bastian. This small team has developed its own singular approach to the genre, and the soundtrack is absolutely beautiful.Indie iconoclastsEther One – a psychological first-person adventure from White Paper GamesPhotograph: public domainWith Sony and Microsoft’s new consoles struggling to find themselves, there were plenty of idiosyncratic independent titles lining up to steal some of the attention and discussion.On PC, we had Nina Freeman’s clever and funnyHow You Do It, in which a young girl tries to learn about sex by manipulating her dolls into interesting positions. There was alsoJazzpunk, a luminous comedy adventure set in 50s Japan andEtherOne, an unsettling psychotherapy adventure in which you explore the memories of a disturbed patient. I’m also going to cheat by mentioning the visual novelSteins;Gate, about a group of friends who invent a way of communicating with the past. It was originally released in Japan four years ago, but got its Western PC debut this year and is well worth a look. And if we’re on the subject of great English translations of odd Japanese titles,pigeon dating sim Hatoful Boyfriendis essential. Because it is a pigeon dating sim.We’ve managed to neglect the Wii U in this list so far, so let’s chuck in the gorgeously nostalgic role-playing adventureShovel Knightand the compulsive puzzle title,Art of Balance.Finally, I’m only just getting to grips with Croteam’s engrossing PC strategy puzzlerTalos Principle, a sort of cross between Portal and the Steven Spielberg movie, AI. You’re a newly created robot getting to grips with the idea of existence through a series of challenging puzzle tests involving lasers, patrolling guards and force fields. Released in early December, this is the perfect winter diversion for thinking gamers who don’t want to go outside until the spring.Top 25 games of 2014
Whether it’sWatch Dogs,DestinyorAssassin’s Creed, 2014 has been filled with ambitious open-world action games that ultimately proved a little underwhelming. Fortunately,Far Cry 4isn’t one of them. Players control Ajay as he travels to the fictional Himalayan region of Kyrat to scatter his mother’s ashes, only to get embroiled in a civil war. It’s an epic adventure, with an enigmatic villain and beautiful visuals. Swooping over the landscape in a glider is a delight, while combat is satisfying, particularly during bow-and-arrow stealth quests, and the game is huge as well. There are hundreds of missions, including some built for co-operative play, plus deadly animals to deal with – from rhinos and elephants to crocodiles. There are flaws here – the driving mechanics feel clumsy (but can be tweaked), while the menu system is convoluted – yet these are trivial complaints, asFar Cry 4is that rare beast: an open-world game that delivers.
The creative hotbed of developers that is Guildford studio Media Molecule, responsible for the LittleBigPlanet series, are busy on the nextTearawaygame and have handed their charge to fellow UK outfit Sumo Digital. To, no doubt, the great relief of fans, the new key holders have done a decent job with the beloved franchise.Much remains the same inLittleBigPlanet 3; at its core is a charming platforming world built from virtual cardboard and digital cloth. The level design and music are highlights, but it is the introduction of three new playable characters with distinct abilities that breathes the most fresh air into the sails of the LittleBigPlanet formula. As before, there are also elaborate level creation tools, offering a stream of new content, while an all-star cast delivers the dialogue, including series stalwart Stephen Fry. The performances are solid, but so verbose is the scripting that some contributions border on the irritating. It could also have done with another layer of polish mechanically, but nonethelessLittleBigPlanet 3remains a great and wonderfully atypical platformer.
1. Monument ValleyWhat we say: Beautiful puzzlerMonument Valleywon bags of critical acclaim in 2014, deservedly. It’s a surreal shape-shifting game that sees you guiding a mysterious princess through a series of impossible-architecture levels by tapping and swiping. Short, but wonderfully sweet.2. The Room TwoWhat we say: The original The Room was one of the best puzzlers on Android, and its sequelThe Room Twocontinued the quality. “A physical puzzler, wrapped in a mystery game, inside a beautifully tactile 3D world,” as its developer put it, this was carefully-crafted 3D puzzling with plenty of head-scratching challenge.3. Clumsy NinjaWhat we say:Clumsy Ninjawas the best new character in an Android game this year, thanks partly to spiffing animation. His game is all about training the little guy to be a lot less hapless, from popping balloons and trampolining to playing basketball – with Clumsy as the ball. Joyful.4. The Walking DeadWhat we say: Telltale Games’ Walking Dead games are gripping, polished adventure titles that adopt a TV-style episodic format to tell their stories. You’ll want to binge-play them just as you might binge-watch the zombie-apocalyptic show that they’re based on. And while I’ve chosenSeason Onefor this roundup,Season Two follows on perfectly.5. Threes!What we say:Threes!might have been the most moreish Android game of 2014: a puzzler so simple in theory you wondered why no one had thought of it before. As it turned out, lots of people thought of it afterwards: there are hundreds of Threes! clones. But the original, adding 1s and 2s together, then 3s and upwards, remains the most addictive.6. 80 DaysWhat we say:80 Dayssits in between books and games as a piece of work: a retelling of Phileas Fogg’s journey around the world in 80 days, with an added layer of steampunk culture and technology. There’s plenty of reading, but also plenty of decision-making as you plot a route and explore the cities along the way.7. Hearthstone: Heroes of WarcraftWhat we say: Right at the end of 2015, already-classic card-battlerHearthstonemade its way from iPad to Android tablets. It’s a deep, engrossing strategy game, but perhaps the best thing about it is the way it makes the genre accessible for newcomers too, with a well-designed tutorial.8. Leo’s FortuneWhat we say:Leo’s Fortunewon a design award from Apple this year, and its Android version was every bit as good as on iOS. A lush platform game with excellent level design, controls and visuals – and bags of charm too.9. Surgeon SimulatorWhat we say:Surgeon Simulatorwas of the goriest games on Android this year, even though (in theory) you were trying to avoid the bloody bits. This port of the popular PC game saw you operating on “the world’s unluckiest patient”, transplanting teeth, eyes and double-kidneys with some... unorthodox equipment.10. TwoDotsWhat we say: Dots was brilliant. Its sequel,TwoDots, was brilliant too. An ideal pick-up-and-play puzzler, as you connected coloured dots over 135 levels, challenging friends as you went. Some purists still prefer Dots’ more open-ended formula, but TwoDots was sufficiently different to pick up its own fans.11. Best FiendsWhat we say: Released right at the end of 2014,Best Fiendsis a polished puzzler that sees you matching coloured items to battle slugs, upgrading your own critters as you progress from level to level. And yes, the difficulty level starts getting genuinely... fiendish once you’re into the thirties and fourties, level-wise.12. Boom BeachWhat we say:Boom Beachwas the third game from Supercell, the developer that’s enjoyed huge success with Clash of Clans and Hay Day. It was more like the former with its mix of base-building, defence and attack, except with a military theme rather than the fantasy characters of Clash of Clans.13. Thomas Was AloneWhat we say: Already a hit on browsers, PCs, PS3 / PS Vita and iOS,Thomas Was Alonebrought its solitude to Android this year too. And while a platform game where you play a rectangle called Thomas might not sound appetising, this is a lovely piece of work.14. Fish Out Of Water!What we say: Developer Halfbrick made its name with Fruit Ninja, butFish Out Of Water!deserves to sit alongside that casual classic. It sees you skipping a group of colourful fish across the waves, each with their own bouncing pattern. Your job is to make them go as far as possible, while being scored by crab judges. Sounds weird, plays excellently.15. Twisty HollowWhat we say: In an app store stuffed with match-three puzzlers,Twisty Hollowwas a breath of fresh air: a puzzle game involving rotating circles to match different items and characters, creating goods for a fictional town. It had originality and verve in spades.16. Skylanders Trap TeamWhat we say: It needed a pretty powerful Android tablet and lots of space – 2.5GB – butSkylanders Trap Teamwas stretching the platform to good effect. A proper, full-blown Skylanders game to match the console version, complete with its own joypad and portal stand so that kids could use their physical Skylanders toys.17. Candy Crush Soda SagaWhat we say: Yes, the Candy Crush games have plenty of haters. But they have even more fans playing on the sofa, on the train, in the loos at work... For them,Candy Crush Soda Sagawas a sequel worth playing: the same sweet-swapping action, but with new touches (rising soda and hidden bears, for example) to provide new appeal.18. Football Manager Handheld 2015What we say: Still the top football management franchise in the world, on smartphones and tablets as on computers.Football Manager Handheld 2015was well worth paying for even if you owned the last version, with its revamped match engine, tweaked scouting system and an in-game data editor for players who can’t resist the urge to give themselves some artificial assistance.19. XCOM: Enemy WithinWhat we say:XCOM: Enemy Withinwas expensive at just under a tenner, but you got plenty of value for money from this mobile port of the engrossing sci-fi strategy game. Tooling up your cyber-soldiers was part of the fun, but careful tactical planning – i.e. not just blundering around shooting – was key to getting the most out of it.20. Game of ThronesWhat we say: What a year for developer Telltale Games, whose Walking Dead games (see earlier) were accompanied byGame of Thrones, an official adventure based on the TV show. For fans, it was an absorbing chance to play within the world without just rehashing the plot. And for newcomers to GoT, it was an excellent introduction too.21. Kingdom Rush OriginsWhat we say: It’s traditional to talk about fending off hordes of enemies in tower defence games, but it’s fair to say Android gamers are also used to facing hordesoftower defence games on the Google Play store.Kingdom Rush Originsis one of the very best, though: fun and challenging in equal measure.22. Angry Birds TransformersWhat we say: Can Angry Birds have a hit with games that don’t play like the traditional Angry Birds games? Rovio tried hard in 2014, although the jury’s still out on its performance. But quality-wise,Angry Birds Transformerswas great: stompy robots (in disguise) shooting merry hell out of blocks and bots.23. RépubliqueWhat we say:Républiquewas one of a number of games in 2014 proving that Android – and mobile in general – is perfectly capable of delivering rich, console-style games as well as casual fare. This stealth-action-puzzler featured a beautifully-realised world, and lots of originality.24. World of WarriorsWhat we say:World of Warriorsis the work of Mind Candy, the company behind children’s virtual world Moshi Monsters. This game was for an all-ages audience, though, as you collect and train warriors from various historical periods, then send them out to fight. Well-crafted and very playable.25. World of Tanks BlitzWhat we say: World of Tanks has been very popular on PC, but this year the multiplayer tank-battler crossed over to Android asWorld of Tanks Blitz. It’s very much focused on that multiplayer aspect too, with seven-on-seven tank battles and a big battalion of vehicles to choose from, according to military taste.
1. MailboxWhat we say:Mailboxis one of the better ways to attain the fabled Inbox Zero – or at least try to – by swiping unwanted emails aside like they’re unwanted matches in Tinder. Slick design, its integration with Gmail and the ability to “snooze” non-urgent emails made it a useful productivity tool.2. WhoSampledWhat we say: If you love your music,WhoSampledis a marvellous rabbit-hole of sampling culture, exploring the samples used in hundreds of thousands of songs and tracing them back to the original tracks. Once you start along this discovery path, don’t expect to surface for a while.WhoSampled for Android.3. Sunrise CalendarWhat we say: Just as Mailbox provided a genuinely-appealing alternative to Gmail, soSunrise Calendarhas taken on Google’s cloud-calendar service. It makes neat use of colour and social data on top of the usual diary management features, and if you’re not quite ready to break with Google, it works fine with that too.4. FireChatWhat we say:FireChatseemed like an innovative novelty when it came out, with the ability to text-chat to people even when internet access was down. But then came the Hong Kong protests, where it proved its mettle as a way to communicate in those kinds of situations, when rival apps struggled.5. Inbox by GmailWhat we say: Another rival to Gmail, exceptInboxwas produced by Google itself – albeit as a complement to its flagship webmail service. Initially invite-only, it takes a similar approach to Mailbox in its efforts to make your inbox manageable, including an inventive feature bundling similar messages together.6. Tynker – Learn to CodeWhat we say: All primary-school children should now be learning computer programming skills (or at least “algorithmic thinking”) as part of the curriculum.Tynkeris one of the apps that aims to help them practise at home: a collection of “coding puzzles” teaching kids about programming, with a sandbox mode to make their own games.7. WireWhat we say: Launched towards the end of the year,Wirewas a potential Skype-killerbacked by one of Skype’s own co-founders, Janus Friis. Focused initially on text messaging and voice-over-IP calls, it made a big feature of its design, with security including end-to-end encryption of calls.8. HERE for AndroidWhat we say: Microsoft may have ditched the Nokia brand for its smartphones, but Nokia the company remains a separate enterprise back in Finland. ItsHEREmapping app debuted on Android as a beta this year, showing off Nokia’s experience in mapping, navigation and transport/traffic information.9. 7 Minute Superhero WorkoutWhat we say: Developer Six to Start has taken an inventive approach to fitness applications, blending health and games to get people up and moving. Best known for its Zombies, Run! game, this year it turned its attention to superheroes.7 Minute Superhero Workoutgets you to punch to blast aliens and crunch to recharge your exosuit.10. djay 2What we say: Will a few DJs at new year’s eve parties this year be wielding Android tablets? Perhaps, if developer Algoriddim has any say in the matter: itsdjay 2app was an impressive steel-wheels replacement for Android, with the ability to mix songs from your own collection or Spotify’s wider catalogue.11. Yahoo News DigestWhat we say: Yahoo’s take on news aggregation came after it bought (then shut down) British startup Summly in 2013.Yahoo News Digestis a neat app that sucks in news from various sources, and packages it up in “atoms” of quotes, images, videos and background context, delivering it twice a day.12. CourseraWhat we say:Courserais one of the companies trying to shake up the world of online education: in its case, by providing more than 600 courses from universities around the world. Expect video lectures to stream or download, and a wealth of knowledge to tap in to.13. Parallels AccessWhat we say: Parallels is already well known to people using remote-access software on other devices – for example to get to their work computer from home. This year brought an officialParallels Access app for Androiddevices, accessing files and applications on Windows and Mac computers as part of an annual subscription.14. 1PasswordWhat we say: With online security always high in mind in 2014, the time was ripe for an app like1Passwordon Android. As on other devices, it creates and stores passwords for the various sites you use – proper, strong passwords – and then helps you log in using a single tap on the screen.15. IFTTTWhat we say:IFTTTis an excellent tool for connecting up different web services using simple “If this then that” instructions. Automatically save your Instagram shots to Dropbox, trigger emails when specific RSS feeds are updated, and so on. Those two examples don’t even hint at the power once you get stuck in though.16. Google DocsWhat we say: Google Docs has been available on Android for years, yes. But this year, Google split out its Google Drive services for smartphones, including this standaloneGoogle Docsapp for its word processing tool. It proved a neat, accessible way to edit your documents on the go (or, as in my case, on the sofa).17. Hype MachineWhat we say: There’s a world of passionate music bloggers out there, but if you don’t have time to keep track of them all,Hype Machineis marvellous. It monitors trending tracks in the blogosphere and serves them up to you as streams, with useful social features to peek at what friends are listening to as well.18. Lingua.lyWhat we say: Another great educational app for people learning in their own time:Lingua.lyfocused on language learning through a clever, simple system of digital flashcards. Handy whether you’re revising your rusty skills in a language you learned years ago, or exploring one for the first time.19. Autodesk SketchBookWhat we say: Apple’s iPad has tended to hog the limelight when it comes to artists and illustrators working on tablets, but Android is building up its own library of drawing and painting apps too.Autodesk SketchBookwas one of the best yet, with plenty of depth yet an accessible interface for the scribblers among us.20. Sleep BetterWhat we say: Step-tracking apps have been popular for a while, but 2014 saw a flurry of interest from developers in monitoring what happens when we’re not active – i.e. at night, when we’re sleeping.Sleep Betterfrom fitness startup Runtastic tracks your sleep cycles, and tries to wake you up at the right point to avoid morning grumpiness.21. Pause: Curated Music StoriesWhat we say: This will sit neatly alongside Hype Machine on the homescreen of any music fan – and again, it’s very good for catching up on online music writing that you’ve missed.Pauseis a quarterly digital magazine (“well-curated music periodical” in the words of its developer) that gathers reviews, features and streaming audio and video from a host of sites.22. Clue – Period TrackerWhat we say: There are quite a few menstrual cycle-tracking apps available now, butCluewas one of the easiest to use, with effective design and plenty of features. Its also suitable for various uses: general period tracking, as well as keeping tabs on sex and cervical fluid if you’re trying to get pregnant.23. DroptaskWhat we say: It can be hard to recommend a single productivity-management app, as people tend to have very specific needs. Even so,Droptaskhas a growing number of fans online for its visual take on to-do lists and project management. Its Android app is very new, but looks a sensible way to bring the idea to mobile devices.24. Madefire Motion Books &amp; ComicsWhat we say: I love print comics, but I’m fascinated by the experimentation going on around digital comics too.Madefireis one of the companies playing with the format, and it’s worked with publishers including DC Comics, IDW and Dark Horse. Its Android app provided a great introduction to its catalogue.25. Camera51What we say: Photography is another category where personal tastes vary tremendously, butCamera51was an impressive app for all-comers this year: it promises to detect and analyse faces, objects and lines to help you take better shots using its “Aim-Box”.What did we miss? The comments section is open for your recommendations for fellow Guardian readers: what Android apps did you find particularly useful or entertaining in 2014?•The Guardian’s Best Android Apps column
Companies often fail to move with the times. That’s different from self-harm. But this is exactly what the record industry has done. Not just once, but many times.Imagine a supermarket offered a £100-a-month all-you-can-eat service. Then imagine it offered free food to 75 per cent of its customers as a kicker. This is Spotify. Amazing for customers. A disaster for the music industry. Why? Because when you’re not getting paid, the talent well begins to run dry.Who’s to blame?Music is a subjective business by definition. Then there are the drugs, the lifestyle and the egos. The industry is a million miles away from the likes of Unilever and its commoditised products. So there’s no prize for guessing the type of person that is attracted to the music business.When Napster first blew up the industry with free music, record executives panicked. What they should have done was calmly get together and agree a digital platformcontrolled by the industry. What they did instead was abdicate responsibility for working it out to Apple. Strike one.Strike two – YouTube. What an amazing idea! A great opportunity for people to watch music videos, gain critical exposure and break new artists. Except… YouTube was making all the money. In another panic, the industry cobbled together Vevo. Five years on, it has lost a fortune and is up for sale.Strike three – Spotify. All the music you could ever want. Brilliant! But again there’s a wrinkle. Three quarters of Spotify’s users don’t pay. The more Spotify grows, the more free users – 37.5 million at the last count. This is why it loses so much money – €93 million in 2013. And if Spotify doesn’t get paid, who takes the hit?Keen observers may rememberMinistry of Sound sued Spotify over its use of our compilations on its playlists. Wesettled out of courtand some of our music is now on Spotify. But that doesn’t address the root problem.In ten short years, music has gone from being valued and paid for to being commoditised and free. Industry revenues have declined from $30bn to $15bn. Profits have been even harder hit.We in the business only have ourselves to blame. And long-term the trend looks dire. Add Spotifiers to YouTube’s one billion users to countless millions using other free music services, and what do you get? A generation who’ve never paid for music.Now for strike four – the new iTunes subscription service due to launch in 2015. Havingacquired Beats, Apple plans to pulverise Spotify by offering subscription at half its price. There will also presumably be a free introductory offer. Again, you don’t need to be a genius to guess how the music industry will respond. The terms are probably already agreed.Around and around we go. Will there be a strike five? Almost certainly. Six and seven? Why not? The answer from the industry’s lacklustre executives is always that ‘we must support progress’. And that ‘progress’ means free music.As chief executive of Ministry of Sound, one of the world’s largest independent labels, my Christmas message is short but simple. Stop giving it away! We’re smart enough to work things out between us. To control our own destiny. To stop the rot.More than anywhere else in the world, the UK punches way above its weight in music. We’re home to some amazing talent – Ed Sheeran, Sam Smith, Adele, London Grammar, George Ezra to name a few.Let’s put our numerous suitors on hold, invest in developing our own platforms and routes to market. Let’s seize back the keys to the music kingdom.•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
It’s (nearly) time to celebrate. Or, to be more accurate, it’s absolutely time to go panic-shopping because you have six people still to buy presents for, and somehow the turkey got forgotten too.Also, this is the last Guardian Tech open thread of the year. Which makes it an ideal time to sit back, crack open the Baileys and ask you what your big technology stories of 2014 have been.What stories or themes were truly meaningful this year, as opposed to tech fluff that barely made an impact? And, with a view to 2015, what areas and companies do you think we should be covering more on Guardian Tech in the year ahead, based on what’s happened in 2014?The comments section is open for your thoughts. Be nice! But there are, of course, some other stories worth talking about today too:BitTorrent wants to help release The InterviewRadiohead’s Thom Yorke released his latest solo album through BitTorrent, but could the film at the centre of the Sony Pictures hacking farrago follow suit? BitTorrent hopes so. “BitTorrent Bundle is in fact the very best way for Sony to take back control of their film, to not acquiesce to terrorist threats, and to ensure a wide audience can view the film safely. It would also strike a strong note for free speech...”Facebook under scrutiny over page about Putin rivalRussian dissident Alexei Navalny is facing a 10-year jail sentence, so supporters set up a Facebook page to protest. But the Washington Post reports that after Russian internet regulators demanded that Facebook remove it, the page was inaccessible to Russian users of the social network. The regulator says that Facebook has bowed to its request.The most popular websites since 1996Some fun research in the US tracking the most popular websites (in the US) in December every year since 1996. Top spot has been held by only three sites: AOL, Yahoo and Google. But the 1996 rankings make for interesting reading thanks to the likes of Webcrawler, Infoseek, Prodigy, Compuserve, GeoCities and, ahem, Penthouse.The trouble with TaskRabbitAn interesting piece on Medium about the impact changes at work-for-hire startup TaskRabbit had on the actual workers. “What it meant in practice was a set of severe changes to the system’s mechanics that many of the taskers I spoke to said destroyed much of their freedom...”Reddit Notes revealedWhen Reddit raised a funding round in September, it promised to redistribute a portion of it to users – with the backing of its investors. Now it’s revealed more details of its plans for Reddit Notes: “We plan to give away reddit notes in a random lottery. As of this point, it looks like we’re going to have approximately 950,000 reddit notes to divide among active user accounts...”What else? The comments section is open for your views on the stories above, and your recommendations for other stories worth reading today.
Lara Croft’s latest journey to the archaeological badlands returns to the puzzle-riddled tombs that saw her first make her name. For better or worse,Temple of Osirisplays almost identically to its superb predecessor, the last top-down multiplayerTomb Raider,Guardian of Light, meaning a hefty focus on co-op adventuring – hence two of us tackling this review together – as players gather artefacts to defeat the Egyptian god, Set. Played in isometric perspective, and supporting up to four temple-plundering team-mates, gameplay cycles between light run-and-gun combat and mental or navigational challenges that scale in accordance with the number of players.Sadly, the co-op focus is betrayed by some genuinely crippling bugs. Cut-scenes give way to players falling into an infinite abyss, leaving only a looping animation of their endlessly plummeting silhouette, and the save data between group and solo play also corrupted during our play through. Consequently, a game that should be remembered for its graceful level design and collaborative spirit is, instead, condemned to the tomb of missed opportunity – a fine concept undermined by technical shortcomings.
Originally released more than a year ago, to widespread critical acclaim and its fair share of controversy, it seems unlikely at this point that anyone will come toGrand Theft Auto Vcold. A multifaceted sandbox game, featuring a trio of distinct lead characters – theGoodfellas-esque Michael, wayward youth Franklin and meth-head misanthrope Trevor – the fifth instalment ofGTAretained the series’ satirical edge, painting it on a greater canvas than ever before. This shift to next-gen consoles will allow everyone to discover, or rediscover, the vast expanse of San Andreas – and the plethora of story and side-quests that can be enjoyed – with a new graphical sheen.This is most apparent in the lush greenery, which now quivers in the wind with greater verisimilitude as heretofore unnoticed wildlife scampers about. The other major change is the introduction of a first-person viewpoint. While it makes the title more challenging – it throws you into the action in unprecedented fashion – the ability to make it switch you back automatically to the traditional over-the shoulder, third-person view when covering in a firefight, or while driving, makes it more than just a graphical gimmick. A next-gen update, then, that is unlikely to persuade the unimpressed, or offended, but for those who have yet to experienceGTAor who simply want to dive back in, this is the definitive version of an all-time great title.
When you walk into my GP’s surgery, the first thing you see is a screen on the receptionist’s counter. Displayed on it are the words (all in capitals) “TOUCH THE SCREEN TO ARRIVE FOR YOUR APPOINTMENT”. Being pedantic, the first time I saw it I pointed out to the receptionist that Ihadarrived for my appointment. She grimaced. I then asked if the medical implications of asking every patient to use the same touchscreen during, say, a flu epidemic had been considered. Another grimace. It was, she explained, “a new system”.This system was provided byEpic Systems, a US corporation based in Wisconsin, which may explain why its software designers seem unfamiliar with the verb “to arrive”. It’s one of eight major vendors of healthcare information systems, all of which are based in the US, and it got its foot in the NHS door quite a long time ago. My doctor’s surgery has been using it for a while. At the beginning, the system’s user-interface was abysmal and dysfunctional. Now, several years on, it’s merely ugly. But at least it works.On 26 October, our local hospital, Addenbrooke’s, which is run by Cambridge University Hospitals Foundation Trust (CUHFT), made anexcited announcement on its website. “A new patient record system to improve patient care at Cambridge University Hospitals has been switched on. eHospital went live across the Trust this morning at 02:00. The new system will improve the quality of care for patients by ensuring that doctors, nurses and other clinical staff can access relevant patient information wherever they are, at the click of a button and on bespoke software that has been designed by and for clinicians.”The hospital’s chief information officer declared that he and his colleagues were “delighted that this revolutionary new system has now gone live. It is the biggest single investment the Trust has ever made in the quality of patient care, and will make a real difference for everyone who comes into the Trust... Instead of having to wait for paper records to be delivered to the ward, nurses are able to bring up patient notes on their handheld devices. Patients will get their medication quicker, nurses can spend more time with their patients and people who are treated here will get home sooner.”Now spool forward to 2 November, when I received an email from a friend who had broken her foot and gone to Addenbrooke’s.“I had the bad luck to arrive the day after the hospital switched on to its ‘revolutionary new patient record system’, eHospital,” she wrote. “My son and I got to A&amp;E at about 9pm to find posters up everywhere boasting about this, the usual endless queue of waiting patients and most of the staff clustered around computers, unable to do anything until they had logged on, and apparently finding constant glitches.“Both patients and staff were really struggling,” she went on. “It’s not just teething troubles. The staff I’ve spoken to have huge doubts about the system itself – they say there was some consultation with them, but their responses were very selectively received. I doubt if they consulted patients. From the patients’ point of view,” she wrote, “it is quite dehumanising. Staff now approach [while] gazing at a mobile device and trying to find you on it; then they check you in with a wrist barcode. There is no time for conversation or even often for eye contact. Some of this might improve as they get more confident with the system but they are deeply unhappy with the change in culture and they say all the real nurses will leave.”My friend’s observations cannot be dismissed as the biased grumblings of a pissed-off patient. They are confirmed in an official report to the local health committee by Jessica Bawden, director of corporate affairs, Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Clinical Commissioning Group. “On the evening of Saturday 1 November,” Bawden reported, “the Epic system became unstable. The decision to switch to a read-only version of the software was taken at approximately 11.15pm. Following expert technical advice and action from suppliers, the system was restored at 2.27am. Business continuity plans were deployed and a ‘major incident’ across the system was declared. All agencies came together during the night to support CUHFT; for example, all ambulances were rerouted to different hospitals for a five-hour time period.”Just for the avoidance of doubt, this is not an anti-NHS rant. Addenbrooke’s is a pretty good hospital. And the NHS badly needs a paperless health-records system. This is just the latest instalment in a long-running saga in which British public institutions display their inability to introduce complex IT systems without causing chaos and distress.We’ve been screwing up like this for two decades. Isn’t it time we tried learning from our mistakes?
1) Which UK politician was – surprisingly – the first this year to call for refugees from the Syrian conflict to be granted immediate asylum in Britain?2) And, perhaps just as surprisingly, who were brought indoors at Chicago Zoo to keep them warm after bitter snow swept the eastern US seaboard?3) The Environment Agency faced fierce and Ratty criticism during the spring floods for sacrificing residents’ safety and wellbeing for those of which small wetland dweller?4) The official campaign for Scottish independence was found to have been almost entirely financed, perfectly properly, by Chris and Colin Weir. How did they come by all that money?5) During a January advertising shoot, a professional tonsorial artiste charged $800 to basketball star Kobe Bryant for hairdressing fees. What, apart from basketball stars having possibly too much money, was noteworthy about this?6) What officially went on sale in Colorado on the first day of the year?7) Which royal, 15th in the line of succession, sold pictures of her baby, Mia, toHello!?8) In March, the prison service was found to be prohibiting what from being sent to prisoners? Perhaps they’d been watchingThe Shawshank Redemption…9) In which case did judge Anthony Leonard, QC have to tell the jury: “It is inevitable in a case dealing with this sort of graphic detail that members of the jury want to burst out laughing. Can I ask you to settle down, and remember where you are?”10) Who is Victor Spirescu, who got a job washing cars in an Aldi near Biggleswade? Who is Meriam Ibrahim, of Sudan? And who is the inscrutable South African Thokozile Masipa?11) Which event left the Conservative Party in third place for the first time ever in a national poll?12) Its address is 30 St Mary Axe, City of London, and it was bought by Joseph Safra for more than £700m. What’s it better known as?13) Why did we say bye-bye to Pom Pom this stormy year?Motormouth: why was Jeremy Clarkson in hot water this year?14) The BBC only warned Jeremy Clarkson, but sacked David Lowe, a Radio Devon presenter for 30 years. With reference to which word?15) Whose was the most popular Instagram post of 2014? Actually, ever – with 2.4m “likes”.16) In Yunnan, China, fire destroyed the 300 houses of the Tibetan town of Dukezong in Zhongdian, the name of which had been changed to what to attract lotus-eating tourists?17) The US National Security Agency was shown to be spying on users of which mobile app?18) Boko Haram had another murderous year. What does its name translate as? And in Spain a new party, Podemos, arose: what does that translate as? And what, albeit briefly, did Isil stand for?19) Teesside Crown Court heard that who, briefly famous in 2002 for his watery death but today very much alive, has paid only £121 of a £679,000 proceeds-of-crime order?20) In February David Cameron shared a presumably delicious, albeit reluctant, lunch of potted shrimps and trout, washed down with two halves of Hook Norton bitter, at the Swan public house in Swinbrook with which beleaguered, unfaithful European leader?21) The sausage-munching borough of Copeland was found to be the place in England with the most fat people: 76% against a national average of 64. Which county?22) According to a survey of 274 UK occupations by the Legatum Institute think-tank, members of which profession attain the most satisfaction – and which the least? The clue is in the phrase “drink and the devil”.23) Penguin India bravely agreed to recall and pulp all remaining copies of a book by Wendy Doniger, an American academic, dealing with which subject?24) A French court awarded €1 each to five fans who had ridiculously sued a doctor for the “emotional damage” they had ridiculously claimed to suffer after the death of which musician?25) Which Hollywood actor and director, by performing the Heimlich manoeuvre (sans cigarillo), saved the life of a golf-tournament director who was choking on a piece of cheese?Germany wins the World Cup, but who did they thrash on the way to the final?26) Who did Germany beat 7-1 in the World Cup?27) Students elected Edward Snowden, leaker of American state secrets, as rector of the university of which city, whose art college also burned down this year ?28) What won the Oscar for Best Picture, at a ceremony watched by 43m in America?29) Britain, with Russia and the United States, is a signatory to the Budapest Memorandum of 1994. What (roughly) did it guarantee, of huge significance this past year?30) In Canada, what incentive was offered to people who encouraged sexual intercourse between moose?31) In April, viewers turned on subtitles in a BBC dramatisation of which Cornwall-set novel in order to make out the dialogue?32) When and why did Yorkshire turn yellow?33) The United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain banned which Hollywood film starring Russell Crowe, because it depicts a prophet?34) Margaret Hodge, chair of the Commons public accounts committee, suggested that who might “show a bit of contrition by giving back his OBE”?35) A hatch where babies could be abandoned at a welfare home had to be closed after 260 babies were left in 48 days. In which country?New arrivals: David and Victoria Beckham chose a funny gift for whose new baby?36) To whose baby did David and Victoria Beckham send cashmere travel sets that, ironically given the father’s career, included sound-cancelling earmuffs?37) Can you annoy the branding managers by failing to identify these three shops from the ollowing clues: a) Great War football; b) a toy penguin, c) Jools Holland?38) Which A list-actor published what was widely described as the most execrable poetry this century? EntitledMy Heart is a Wiffle Ball/Freedom Pole, its first stanza ran: “I reared digital moonlight/You read its clock, scrawled neon across that black/Kismetly… ubiquitously crest fallen/Thrown down to strafe your foothills/… I’ll suck the bones pretty.”39) “It is wonderful for [him] to be able to do what he does so well,” saidVogue’s editor. “It’s been a waste not being able to benefit from his passion…” Who was forgiven by the fashion industry in a return to a high-profile post with Maison Martin Margiela? And which particularly ugly passion, now illegal in France, had got him into trouble in the first place?40) Which small man’s tall daughter was criticised for having no fewer than three prams for her new baby: a Stokke for £1,148, a Bugaboo for £879 and a Silver Cross Balmoral, customised with Swarovski crystals?41) Who did Luis Suarez bite during the World Cup? The defender’s nationality will suffice.42) What was Britain’s entry toEurovision, and who sang it?43) What’s going to be different about the newGhostbusters?44) A committee in which country called a neighbouring president “a wicked sycophant and traitor, a dirty comfort-woman for the US and despicable prostitute selling off the nation”? For an imaginary bonus point, what was the name of the committee?45) Which adopted Scot caused the biggest #indyref twitterstorm through a donation to Better Together? And whose emotions got the better of him when he tweeted for a Yes vote: “lets do this!”?46) Who asked whom, onNewsnight, whether he had called Angela Merkel “an unfuckable lard-arse”? Clue: few surprises here.47) “Darling, do you know what? Don’t go to university. Start work straight after school, stay at home, save up your deposit — I’ll help you, let’s get you into a flat. And then we can find you a nice boyfriend and you can have a baby by the time you’re 27.” Whose homemade neofeminist words to her putative daughter, in an interview with theTelegraph?48) Ofsted inspected 21 schools in Birmingham against the background of allegations of attempts of a Muslim takeover, in Operation Trojan Horse. In one, music had been removed from the curriculum. How many, in total, were faith schools?Don’t panic: who is starring in the remake of Dad’s Army? BBC49) It was announced that a new film ofDad’s Armyis to be made. Starring who as, respectively, Captain Mainwaring and Sergeant Wilson? Give yourself a point for either actor.50) What will be Britain’s newest garden city? Its target of 30,000 homes is set to double its size.51) Just days after cricketer Phillip Hughes died after being hit by a ball, a similar if relatively unremarked fate befell a man in white at a match in the Israeli city of Ashdod. What position did he hold?52) Pre-World Cup, a cover ofPrivate Eyefeatured the English football team arriving in Rio by plane. What eerily prescient speech-bubble was emerging from the pilot’s cockpit?53) What was the flight number of the aeroplane which occupied an inordinate amount of search-and-rescue efforts, and inconclusive headlines, during the first half of the year?54) Which “revolutionary” was awarded the Plain English Campaign’s “Gobbledygook Award” for 2014? Here’s a sample of his work: “This attitude of churlish indifference seems like nerdish deference contrasted with the belligerent antipathy of the indigenous farm folk, who regard the hippie-dippie interlopers, the denizens of the shimmering tit temples, as one fey step away from transvestites.’’55) Which French clothing law was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights?56) Adam Mugliston travelled the 1,167 miles from Land’s End to John O’Groats in four days, 10 hours and 44 minutes, beating the record of five days, seven hours and 25 minutes. On which form of transport?57) Zach Brown from Ohio used crowdfunding to make a bowl of potato salad; within five days he had raised $40,000. How much had he originally sought?58) A man from Turvey, Bedfordshire, withdrew his daughter from school because it would not let her wear which health prophylactic?59 Which Nobel Prize-winning South African novelist died, aged 90?60) In Britain, which two UK party leaders resigned?61) Why did the figure 888,246 first become artistically significant in August?62) A radiator salesman mistakenly received hundreds of abusive tweets intended for the TV commentator deemed to have made a dismal job of describing England’s opener in the World Cup. What name did they share?63) Why did the deputy president of the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party complain about the Scottie dogs that preceded each team at the opening of the Commonwealth Games?Nicholas Winton with one of the children he rescued.Photograph: PA Archive64) Sir Nicholas Winton travelled to Prague to be honoured for his role in saving 669 children, mostly Jews, from the Nazis. How old is he?65) Who played the saxophone solo on Gerry Rafferty’s “Baker Street” and died, aged 60?66) Why did lead Rosetta scientist Matt Taylor’s exuberant joy, on a successful comet landing, turn within a day to tears of shame?67) The tomb of which prophet was said to have been deliberately destroyed by Islamic State?68) Lord Bannside died, aged 88. By what name had he been far better known?69) Pakistan’s Saeed Ajmal was suspended by the International Cricket Council for bowling with his arm bent by more than how many degrees, the legal maximum?70) There were official complaints about the amount of human excrement being deposited annually on top of Britain’s second highest mountain. What’s it called (the mountain, not the excrement)?71) Which faith, 25,000 of whose adherents fled into the mountains to escape Isis, believes the world is in the care of Malak Taus, the Peacock Angel?72) What was the name of the second US journalist shown being beheaded by Islamic State?73) Which high-street chain went into administration, putting in doubt 5,596 jobs at 720 outlets?74) Which word did Ed Miliband use no fewer than 51 times, in a speech during which he accidentally forgot the deficit?75) A hotel in Mogadishu in Somalia installed its entire country’s first-ever what?Answers1) Nigel Farage2) The polar bears3) Water voles4) A lottery win of £161m5) Kobe Bryant is bald. There’s more hair on a basketball6) Marijuana7) Zara Tindall8) Books9) The indecent-assault trial of Max Clifford. Jurors had been told that his genitals resembled a ‘button mushroom’10) The first Romanian to arrive at Luton airport looking for work after a lifting of EU restrictions; the woman sentenced to death (and, thankfully, spared) for apostasy; the judge in the Oscar Pistorius trial11) The spring Euro-elections12) The Gherkin13) It was a famous Dorset rock stack, washed away in the January storms14) ‘Nigger’ – Clarkson said it in an eeny-meeny rhyme, not even broadcast; Lowe was unaware of its existence when he broadcast a 1932 version of ‘The Sun Has Got His Hat On’. He was paid £95 a week, and thought it would be a ‘nice, safe choice’15) Kim Kardashian. It was a photograph of her wedding16) Shangri-La17) Angry Birds18) Western Education is Forbidden; We Can; Islamic State of Iraq and Levant19) John ‘Canoe’ Darwin20) François Hollande21) Cumberland22) Clergymen (most); publicans (least)23) The Hindus: An Alternative History24) Michael Jackson25) Clint Eastwood26) Brazil27) Glasgow28) 12 Years a Slave29) To ‘respect the independence and existing borders of Ukraine’30) Tax breaks31) Jamaica Inn32) In July, for the Tour de France33) Noah34) Gary Barlow35) China36) Simon Cowell’s first progeny, Eric37) Sainsbury’s; John Lewis; Aldi38) Kristen Stewart39) John Galliano; antisemitism40) Bernie Ecclestone’s daughter Tamara41) Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini42) Children of the Universe sung by Molly Smitten-Downes43) All-female cast44) North Korea’s Committee for Peaceful Reunification of Korea speaking of South Korea’s Park Geun-Hye45) JK Rowling; Andy Murray46) Jeremy Paxman; Silvio Berlusconi47) Kirstie Allsopp48) None49) Toby Jones and Bill Nighy50) Bicester51) Umpire52) ‘Shall I keep the engines running?’53) MH37054) Russell Brand55) The niqab ban56) Bus57) $1058) An Ebola mask59) Nadine Gordimer60) Alex Salmond (SNP); and Nick Griffin (BNP)61) The number of poppies around the Tower of London, to represent the British and Commonwealth servicemen killed in the Great War62) Phil Neville63) It was ‘disrespectful’ to Muslims, some of who view dogs as ‘unclean’. In some areas there has been a call for a jihad on dogs64) 10565) Raphael Ravenscroft66) The shirt he was wearing was condemned as sexist. It featured women and guns67) Jonah68) Dr Ian Paisley69) 15 degrees70) Ben Macdui71) Yazidi72) Steven Sotloff73) Phones4U74) Together75) Cash dispenser
You can not only find someone online willing to rent you a room in their house, but someone who will share their car, their desk, their power tools, their child’s toys. You can find someone to walk your dog, deliver your dinner, assemble your furniture, lend you clothes or hold your place in a queue for the latest iPhone.This is the “sharing economy”, hailed by the government for creating “micro-entrepreneurs” and by economists for putting “excess capacity” to use. Traditional businesses and workers – from hotel owners to taxi drivers – have been less welcoming.The sector is growing fast.Airbnbclaims to have more than 1m rooms available, compared with the 13m rooms provided by formal hotel chains (not including bed and breakfast rooms).Ubercan claim thousands of drivers – some poached from other lift services, or working for more than one. Not all companies are doing so well:TaskRabbit, which puts you in touch with vetted “taskers” to take whatever chore you want off your hands, has struggled to grow beyond its current 19 cities, which include London.As poster children for the sharing economy (even if Uber shrugs off the title), both Uber and Airbnb have been accused of riding roughshod over the regulations other companies have to play by. The list of places where Uber has been banned now runs to Berlin (and later Germany), the state of Virginia, New Delhi, Belgium, the state of New South Wales in Australia, Spain, Portland in Oregon (it went ahead anyway), Thailand and Seoul in South Korea. A number of those bans were later lifted.The ride-hailing service, started by Travis Kalanick after he found he couldn’t use his smartphone to hail a cab in Paris, has been the lightning rod for much of the anger at the disruption being caused by these new companies. In a number of cities, including London and Paris, taxi drivers have protested at the presence of the firm, claiming its avoidance of many regulations enables it to undercut them on price; in other cities, Uber “drivers” – the company insists they are not its employees – have protested too.Meanwhile Airbnb, started by two designers who in 2008 hosted three people looking for a temporary place to stay, has had a series of run-ins with US regulators. New York state in particular has taken the company to task over whether its activity constitutes sub-letting, thus breaking the leases of many residents who offered rooms or homes. In April 2014,New York state authorities foundthat two-thirds of the apartments being offered there broke the law in that way.In Amsterdam last week the company agreed to collect potentially millions of euros in tourist taxes after complaints from hoteliers.But for Patrick Robinson, Airbnb’s public policy director in Europe, there’s no question its users should enjoy lighter regulation than some other businesses. “It’s manifestly obvious to me that somebody renting out their flat shouldn’t have to obey the same rules as a Park Lane hotel,” he says.His views were echoed by agovernment-commissioned reportin November that recommended “[existing] regulations must be examined to ensure they are still fit for purpose and meet peoples’ expectations – particularly for accommodation and task-sharing platforms”.The recommendation was that regulations should change, but only for those small groups – and the government seems broadly sympathetic: in a foreword to the report, the Tory business minister Matthew Hancock said that new services such as Airbnb andPeoplePerHour“are unlocking a new generation of micro-entrepreneurs”.The report itself was written by Debbie Wosskow, who runsLove Home Swap, described as a “peer-to-peer travel club”. That fact itself irked the British Hospitality Association, whose members view many “sharing economy” participants as enjoying a free ride, with no oversight apart from the cumulative reviews on the site itself. By contrast, hotels and B&amp;Bs, the BHA’s members, face constant scrutiny.The court cases hoteliers have faced in recent years over whether they can turn away would-be clients are in stark contrast to the laissez-faire approach of internet-based rivals which are free to reject anyone, risking nothing worse than damaging their online reputation, which may affect future bookings.The key that has enabled all this is the internet and smartphones: as commerce moves online and the internet pervades so many areas of life, it has become easier to create businesses linking people who want to be on either side of a deal. In effect, it seems every transaction can be managed by a sort of dating site.A classical economist would argue that these systems are releasing surplus capacity into the economy: there are car seats going begging on various journeys that could be more efficiently shared, and the exchange of value (read: payment) between participants would be good for all. It should increase efficiency and lower the price of those goods; so you might expect that the arrival of ride-sharing services would drive down prices for existing, regulated services.There are signs that this is happening in some areas. In New York the cost of a “medallion” for an official yellow cab has fallen from its million-dollar peak recently. But both Robinson and the BHA say there’s no sign that Airbnb is pushing down the price of hotels, or official bed and breakfast accommodation.Tony Greenham, head of finance and business at the New Economics Foundation, cautions that in many cases the label of the “sharing economy” is a fig leaf for companies that are just as rapacious as any around now.“The starting point has to be realising that the label has been used to describe wildly different things. At one end there’s Uber, which is trying to dress a traditionally capitalist business model in the cuddly clothes of ‘sharing’. But that doesn’t mean the whole area is just marketing.”There are also potential downsides, or what economists call “externalities”. Greenham says: “Driving down the cost of taxis encourages people off buses and into taxis. That means you’re actually using more resources, at an overall higher cost to everyone because you have all these people owning and running cars.”He also points to the fact that every driver (and every passenger) is rated by each other; if a driver’s rating falls too far below 5/5, they are liable to be dropped.“It’s really important to question whether these services make the relationship between people more or less uneven,” Greenham cautions. “Uber has all the power in this relationship. It reminds me of nothing so much as longshoremen turning up at docks a century ago hoping to be hired by the foreman – the sort of situation that led to the formation of unions.”With accommodation services, there are other immediate concerns: Jackie Grech, legal and policy director at the British Hospitality Association, cites loud parties disturbing neighbours, even premises being used as brothels.For Airbnb, Robinson argues the company has brought benefits through the hiring of cleaners for accommodation. And he argues that “a two-bedroom bed and breakfast has the same requirements placed on it as a two-bedroom Airbnbhost”. There are no compulsory safety inspections on either.He also says that the expectation placed on the company is far higher: “Inviting somebody into your home is a big step.”But what would happen if an Airbnb guest was harmed by fire, or a carbon monoxide leak – a constant concern for hotels. Airbnb’s site says owners “should” make sure they have a functioning CO detector and are following gas safety regulations. But although the money for any stay is paid via Airbnb, Robinson says he doesn’t know who would be responsible if someone were injured that way.“I’m not a lawyer,” says Robinson. It seems surprising that the eventuality hasn’t come up in business meetings, but Robinson declines to discuss it.It’s a scenario that has exercised insurance companies, which are wrestling with the question of who is liable in a collision involving a car being driven on an Uber journey, or one of the other car rental services, or a complaint involving Airbnb clients. Premiums might rise, or need extra tweaking.Everyone involved agrees that these businesses look unstoppable. The question is how far regulations will shape them to behave more like the traditional businesses that they’re trying to supplant.“What I would be impressed by is the ‘sharing economy’ companies trying to get social justice,” says Greenham. “The whole concept of sharing isn’t very compatible with the accumulation of private capital, after all.“What’s irreversible is the technological element. But maybe some of these platforms would be more socially responsible if they were owned by the users, rather than venture capitalists in Silicon Valley.”
Price £45,000Top speed 160mphMPG 41.50-62mph 4.5 secondsSometimes the word “driving” just isn’t enough to describe the visceral, elemental, sense-tingling, skull-popping overload of… well, driving. But then along comes a truth-seeking missile of a vehicle that reminds you just what an incredible experience driving a car can be.Alfa Romeo’s exquisite new 4C– a small, two-seat, rear-wheel-drive sports car – puts performance and pleasure front and centre. As it hugs each bend, sweeps down every straight and surges up every rise it reminds you howalivea car can make you feel…In many ways, the 4C is the car Alfa Romeo – and fans of Italian sports cars – have been waiting for. Its voluptuous curves coupled to the promise of pure driving nirvana have the task of knocking the historic brand out of reverse and steering it back to profitability and desirability. It’ll do this by unlocking the cash-rich markets of America and China. And early signs are very promising.Smooth operator: curves and dramatic air intakes make the 4C a feast for the eyes.It was unveiled to a drooling public at the 2011 Geneva motor show and went from concept to reality in just 28 months – a process that usually takes at least five years. Inspired by the legendary1967 Alfa Romeo 33 Stradale, the 4C was designed and engineered by Alfa’s in-house team, with the actual building of it is being done by Maserati at its Modena factory. So, it’s a proper Italian job.Considering the heavy lifting expected of it, the 4C is a sprightly bantamweight, tipping the scales at just 895kg. Its mighty engine is positioned right behind you. It sits so close to your back that it feels like it’s breathing down your neck. Turn round and you’ll glimpse it through a narrow lepers’ squint of a window, as if it’s some rare exhibit. The power from this all-aluminium 240hp 1,750cc turbo engine is astonishing. You’ll hit 62mph from a standing start in 4.5 seconds and you can then crack on up to a top speed of 160mph.Inside story: the snug cockpit of the 4C.With its swirling bodywork and tantalising shell-like air intakes, the 4C ismolto bello. But, like those things that require a sophisticated palate to truly appreciate – I’m thinking whisky, Wagner, maybe a little light bondage – your first taste of the 4C might be a bit painful.Its doors are heavy and climbing in is difficult, while getting out is hilarious – I ended up crawling on to the road at one point. If you have a bad back or weigh more than 14st forget it. The materials used inside are borderline crap. That’s not a technical word. The plastics would barely make the grade at the Little Tikes factory. The radio is dismal; rear visibility is nonexistent; the boot is pathetic. And the horn! It sounds like an apologetic parp escaping from an old vicar as you kneel at the altar rail. But… and it’s a huge BUT… turn the key and, boosh, the metamorphosis begins.Into the sunset: the rear view of the 4C – what most of your fellow road users will see...The engine burbles to life. The sound is amazing: a grunting, phlegmy clatter. On top of that the road noise is massive. At times it feels as if you are dragging a wooden dinghy up a shingle beach. Unassisted steering means it’s hard to manoeuvre and almost impossible to park. But who cares, parking is for losers.And so you’re off. Squeeze the throttle, in fact stamp on the throttle, and, bam, you find yourself in another world. The 4C is hungry, responsive, agile, wonderful. The acceleration is electric, the handling all-engrossing. It lives for the open road and the more you drive it the tighter it seems to fit around you. In many ways, it isn’t happy unless you are doing at least 40mph. And you won’t be happy unless you are doing more than that.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Mississippi’s attorney general, Jim Hood, on Friday called a “time out” in his legal battle against Google, shortly after the search giant filed a lawsuit against him.Hood has challenged Google to limit third-party information available through its search and advertising services. The company says his request violates the open principles of the internet and was made at the behest of a major film lobbying firm. Major Hollywood studios are trying to crack down on the distribution of pirated movies on the internet.“In an attempt to resolve some of the problems the states’ chief law enforcement officers have raised,” Hood said in a letter on Friday, “I am calling a time out, so that cooler heads may prevail.”He also said he would reach out to Google’s legal team “to negotiate a peaceful resolution”.On 27 October, Hood issued a 79-page subpoena, saying the state had reasonable grounds to believe Google had violated the Mississippi consumer protections act and asking that the company turn over information about its search engine and sales of illegal drugs, pornography and other materials.In its lawsuit, Google said it was “an enormously burdensome subpoena” and that Hood’s complaints were not in the jurisdiction of state law.The company also accused Hood of violating federal law by attempting to intervene in its search results at the bidding ofthe Motion Picture Association of America(MPAA).The New York Timesreported this week that documents obtained through the Sony hack and open records requests showed that the MPAA had created a lobbying campaign, Project Goliath, on behalf of major studios to get attorney generals to challenge Google with subpoenas and lawsuits. According to the emails, Hood is a key figure in the campaign.In a statement responding to Google’s lawsuit Kate Bedingfield, an MPAA spokesperson, said: “Google’s effort to position itself as a defender of free speech is shameful. Freedom of speech should never be used as a shield for unlawful activities and the internet is not a license to steal.”Google said in the lawsuit it agrees that “much” of the content Hood is trying to block is “objectionable”, but said it was voluntarily working against such content on its own. The lawsuit says: “… If a state attorney general can punish, irrespective of well-established federal law, any search engine or video-sharing platform whenever he finds third-party content he deems objectionable, search engines and video-sharing platforms cannot operate in their current form.”Google asked that while the case is pending, the court should prevent Hood from enforcing the subpoena or bringing criminal charges against the company, with a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction.
You can take a role in testing the effect of warming skin on memory. Or you can involve yourself in Britain’s first bid to land a spaceship on the Moon. Or you can help researchers understand the social behaviour of the dwarf mongoose.It is a mixed bag – but it has a common theme. For all these scientific projects, and hundreds more, are now getting the go-ahead through a new approach to supporting research projects: crowdfunding.Now worth more than £3bn worldwide, the crowdfunding industry involves the raising of money for a project or venture by appeals on the internet. In the past, many appeals raised funds for local projects – repairs for schools or parks – but now the practice has spread as scientists have discovered its potential.An example is provided byLunar Mission One, a project aimed at landing a UK spaceship on the Moon. Set up last month, the crowdfunding appeal aims to raise £600,000 to get the mission started.Earlier this year Natalie Jonk establishedWalacea, a crowdfunding agency that raises money to fund a number of different projects, including studies of the dwarf mongoose and the impact of ocean acidification on mussels.“Some of Britain’s best brains are employed by large corporations in jobs that do not challenge them,” said Jonk. “At the same time, there are thousands of young scientists seeking a chance to do exciting work. We want to help them do that.”A recent example of the scientific value of crowdfunding is provided by Professor Tim Birkhead of Sheffield University. His 42-year project monitoring guillemots on Skomer island in Walesfaced the axe this yearafter a newly formed quango,Natural Resources Wales, announced it would not continue to fund the £12,000-a-year survey – despite its importance in understanding the wellbeing of the sea birds’ population and the health of our seas in general. However, the zoologist’s project was rescued after he launched a crowdfunding appeal, raising more than £14,000. “I have to say, I didn’t expect such an amazing response,” said Birkhead.Another example is provided by Walacea’s first crowdfunded project. It has provided support for research based at the Sorabi Rock Lodge Reserve in South Africa’s Limpopo province, where a joint research endeavour by the universities of Bristol and Pretoria is exploring the social behaviour of the dwarf mongoose. “I am looking at vocal communication with a long-term aim of trying to provide some clues to human language evolution,” said researcher Katie Collier.Professor Tim Birkhead’s long-term study of guillemots on Skomer island, Wales, was in danger of having its funding cut until he launched a crowdfunding appeal.Set up in 2011, the project involves studies of eight groups of wild dwarf mongooses who have been carefully habituated to the presence of humans, so that researchers can get an intimate view of their social interactions. “In the morning, we go out and either look for a dwarf mongoose group or go back to where they slept the night before,” said Collier. “When we find them, we sit with them until they wake up and then follow them for a few hours.”The mongoose project involves individual animals licking cotton buds to provide DNA samples and being weighed. “They really like boiled eggs, so if we throw some into a box on a scale, they will jump in and we can weigh them,” she added. Giving the animals near-constant attention is essential to the project’s success – identification marks need to be refreshed, territories monitored and new pups noted. A couple of weeks without human contact and the mongoose’s habituation wanes.And that is a pricey business in a cold climate for funding. As principal investigator Dr Andy Radford of Bristol University pointed out, the competition for funds is fiercer than ever, making it tougher and tougher to secure cash from research councils. “It is not impossible [to get funds] but it is harder and harder, so we are all having to search for alternative sources.” Hence Radford’s decision to join the number of researchers who have turned to crowdfunding for help.Working with Walacea, Radford is hoping to raise funds for further studies of the impacts of bonds that exist between mongooses. “What we are interested in is the day-to-day, minute-by-minute benefits of having friends,” Radford explains.The team is hoping to raise £4,000 through crowdfunding, though Radford insists it’s not just about raising money: the platform also offers rewards for those who pledge financial backing, from video diaries to field trips. Involvement is intended not only to be entertaining but educational.This point is backed by Jonk. “Obviously we cannot compete with research councils that, in the UK, dish out billions of pounds of funds for research which, although being important, is often complicated to understand. With crowdfunding, the public can become involved in research that interests them. They will learn a lot of interesting science in the process, while scientists, in taking a role in explaining their work, will gain skills in making their research understandable to the public. There is a lot to be gained.”
The chief executive of a company attempting to deliver a transport system that could send commuters from Los Angeles to San Francisco at speeds of up to 800mph says he is confident of securing the funding needed to turn the project from a pipe dream into a viable transit option for Californians.Dirk Ahlborn believes his California-based startup JumpStartFund will be able to develop the Hyperloop project, which would take travellers from LA to San Francisco in 35 minutes (current driving time? About six hours). Hetold Wiredthis week: “I have almost no doubt that once we are finished, once we know how we are going to build and it makes economical sense, that we will get the funds.”The journey began in August 2013 when Elon Musk announcedhis next project. The South Africa-born tech investor, who made a fortune from PayPal and had gone on toco-found electric sports car brand Tesla, as well ascompeting with Nasa, said he was planning to revolutionise travel within the US. His idea was Hyperloop, a solar-powered transportation system that would fire people across the country in pods, using a network of tubes, which would travel at speeds of up to 800mph. He claimed it would mean commutes between San Francisco and LA would only take 35 minutes, and cost around $30.The concept art looked like someone had combined an aqua park ride and the Japanese bullet train, theshinkansen, and initial reaction was understandably skeptical. In a blogpost laying out his idea, Musk asked: “Is there truly a new mode of transport – a fifth mode after planes, trains, cars and boats – that meets those criteria and is practical to implement?” Critics of the design pulled apart his idea. They said the system – which relies on a low-pressurized tube – would overheat, cost far too much (Musk himself estimated up to $10bn) and fall at hurdles such as the costly and time-consuming land acquisition needed to get the project off the ground.René Lavanchy, who wrote anop-ed piece for Comment is freeabout the project, summed up many people’s feelings about it: “As far-sighted technology evangelism, the Hyperloop is laudable and deserves deeper discussion. As an intellectual idea, or the groundwork for some speculative fiction, it is fascinating. But as a shovel-ready infrastructure project, it is dead on arrival.”Musk confessed to not having time to implement his own plan, but JumpStartFund – which created the sub-company Hyperloop Transportation Technologies Inc to develop the system and has a collective of engineers based around the US and uses crowdsourcing and crowdfunding – is attempting to develop Musk’s plan. Overseen by Ahlborn, the network of engineers (which numbers around 100 people who also have day jobs) take responsibility for different areas of the project depending on their areas of expertise. Many of the people on board work for companies such as Airbus, Boeing, Nasa and one of Musk’s own companies, SpaceX, as well as a group of UCLA studentswho have worked on the potential route, stations and the Hyperloop pods. In exchange for their work the engineers and students are given stock options in the company.Ahlborn now estimates the project will take 10 years to be realised and ultimately cost around $16bn, with its technical feasibility study due in mid-2015. The main stumbling block for the project now is the technical question of how to get the pods to travel at the speeds they need (the team is working on air compression systems and magnetic levitation), and the more practical issue of raising several billion dollars in funding. Ahlborn is confident they can get the money, and whether Hyperloop changes the way we travel forever or simply remains a dream will depend on it.
I have an irrational dislike of Smart cars. They’re always tricking me in the multi-storey near work. I arrive after everyone with proper jobs, when all the prime spots have gone. Often, I’ll think I’ve struck lucky, only to find one of these toy-mobiles nestling smugly near the back of what looked like an empty space.From the same German stable (Mercedes) comes the Smart ebike, which couldn’t hide in any bike shed. It’s not much smaller than a sit-up-and-beg Dutch beast and its space-age frame is painted an attention-seeking white and green. At 26.1kg, it’s the heaviest bike I’ve ever ridden, much heftier than my favourite ebike, theGocycle, which is “only” 16.1kg. It’s not a problem when buzzing along, unless the battery dies – in which case, I hope you’re wearing a wicking fabric. But even getting this clodhopper over the two steps into my house was a mission. The prime targets for ebikes are those too frail or unfit to pedal, so the weight alone would rule out any without a garage.There’s a good reason for the bulk. Unlike every other electric bike I’ve tested, this one can charge itself en route, thanks to some technological wizardry in the rear hub. If you’re brave/strong/daft enough to ride it without the electric assist, that is. When switched to “generator mode”, the motor converts kinetic energy into electrical energy, which is returned to the battery. I didn’t bother, though. You don’t buy a Ferrari to bumble along in third gear, and if I’ve blagged an ebike, I will ride it on full power. The manual told me to save level 4 for “extremely steep uphill gradients”. There aren’t any in Manchester, but I rode it on 4 anyway, almost coming a cropper when a car underestimated my acceleration at the lights and attempted a nearly fatal left turn. Despite my brush with death, I’m always a bit disappointed by how slow ebikes are. Blame the EU. The curved banana ban may have been bunkum, but Brussels killjoys have set the speed limit on “pedelecs” at a tedious 25kph (15.5mph). You can get up to 20mph, but only with strong legs, a fair wind and a big descent.There’s still a lot to like. There’s a fantastic inbuilt lighting system, an easy-maintenance drive belt instead of a mucky chain, and a display panel that calculates everything from the temperature to average speed. It’s very easy to charge, too, so long as you have a socket in your garage: just plug the jack lead into the battery pack without wrestling it from the bike. Shame it’s so grossly overweight.Smart ebikePrice£1,800MotorRear-wheel hub motor from BionX, which offers four speeds in drive modeGears3-speed SRAM hub gearsBatteryLithium-ion, integrated into the frameBattery rangeUp to 62 miles, if you go easy on the electric assistCharge time5 hoursExtra22-tooth belt pulley instead of a chainIn three wordsA space-age elephantFollow Helen onTwitter.
Best gameBayonetta 2, Wii UExclusive to Wii U, and therefore only available to a small minority of players, Bayonetta 2’s surreal tale of demon-busting is played out in a series of almost indescribably stylish battles involving guns, swords and magic-infused martial arts, rewarding tactics and timing over button-mashing.Best multiplayerMario Kart 8, Wii UIt has pristine cartoon looks and family-friendly gore-free weaponry, but Mario Kart is one of those games that produces streams of foul-mouthed invective; its races are always incredibly close and prone to heroic reversals of fortune just before the finishing line.Best driving gameForza Horizon 2, Xbox One &amp; Xbox 360Tearing through southern Europe in ludicrously overpowered sports cars is fun, but Forza 2 removes the limitation of roads, letting you plough across country in a game that steadfastly refuses to punish you for anything, instead encouraging greater heights of foolishness.Most frighteningAlien: Isolation, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS4, PS3 &amp; PCTaking its cues from the tense and atmospheric original Alien film rather than its more ammunition-intensive sequels, Isolation puts you on a decaying space station with crazed survivors, calmly murderous androids and a single unutterably deadly alien. A wonderful and terrifying experience.Best for childrenSago Mini Friends, Android &amp; iOSCat, dog, bird, rabbit and friends need your help in a series of familiar scenarios. Ring on a friendly animal’s door and feed them some snacks, help them assemble a model train, dress up or build a nesting box. Charming, text-free joy for under-fives.Best puzzle gameMonument Valley, Android &amp; iOSThe wordless journey of a small hat-wearing figure through impossible landscapes and architecture, Monument Valley is like an interactive MC Escher drawing, confounding your expectations about perspective as you solve its artfully constructed spacial reasoning puzzles.Best first-person shoot ’em upFar Cry 4, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS4, PS3 &amp; PCHunting wild animals and wily humans through the invented Himalayan kingdom of Kyrat involves discrete skirmishes, which range from interventions to save a couple of rebels from a rabid honey badger to invasions of entire enemy fortresses. Light on innovation but replete with awesome.Best rebootWolfenstein: The New Order, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS4, PS3 &amp; PCAs well as catering for both stealthy and Rambo-inspired approaches to its meaty, violent face-offs, Wolfenstein: The New Order also blended absurdly over-muscled cartoon characters with a curiously moving, emotionally honest plot. A disarming combination and a great game.Best free-to-playBoom Beach, Android &amp; iOSThe dreaded “freemium” game (which involves paying to unlock additional content) doesn’t have to be a soulless assault on your wallet. Boom Beach, with its honed mix of tower defence and real-time strategy, manages to retain its attraction and fine sense of balance while enthusiastically eating weeks of your life.
BlackBerry shares fell on Friday despite the smartphone maker announcing better-than-expected orders for the new Passport phone, as well as slashing losses.The Canadian company lost $148m (£95m) for the three months to 29 November, a dramatic turnaround from the $4.4bn loss for the same period a year earlier.However, sales were $793m – significantly below analysts’ expectations of $927.8m and almost $400m lower than last year.In September BlackBerry launched the Passport – an unconventional smartphone about the size of a closed passport with a large square touchscreen as well as a keyboard.John Chen, chief executive, said the flagship model sold out “a number of times in the quarter”, creating a backlog of orders that reduced revenue in the period.While some 200,000 Passports were sold, he said that some orders slipped into the fourth quarter. It is now available in the UK for about £460 unlocked on a network or from £28 a month on contract with a network such as O2.Chen said recently: “BlackBerry has survived; now we have to start looking at growth.”Shares fell 5% to $9.57 in New York, valuing the company at $5bn. The stock has risen more than 25% this year as fears that BlackBerry could go under abated.Chen, who took over in late 2013, set a goal of selling 10m phones a year – just a quarter of the number of iPhones sold by Apple in three months.This week BlackBerry launched the Classic, essentially the Bold in a different case, which has the traditional keyboard beloved of many BlackBerry users despite the wholesale move to touchscreens on almost all smartphones.The company hopes its core business user customer base will embrace the Classic, with the new device.BlackBerry now accounts for only a small fraction of US smartphone sales after controlling almost half the market as recently as 2009. It is still making handsets despite trying to become an enterprise security and consumer software business.It said that 46% of revenues came from hardware, with another 46% from services. Software and other revenue accounted for 8%.
Flickr has announced it will stopselling wall-art prints shot by its community of photographersafter a heated debate around Creative Commons licensing.On Thursday, Flickr apologised, saying the service – which offered high-quality mounted and canvas prints – wasn’t in the “spirit” of the Creative Commons community.“We’re sorry we let some of you down,” Flickr’s Bernardo Hernandezwrote in the apologetic blog post.Flickr said images licensed through Creative Commons have been removed from the Flickr Wall Art pool, and those who have purchased prints of such images will receive refunds.“As a first step, we’ve decided to remove the pool of Creative Commons-licensed images from Flickr Wall Art, effective immediately. We’ll also be refunding all sales of Creative Commons-licensed images made to date through this service,” Hernandez wrote.“Subsequently, we’ll work closely withCreative Commonsto come back with programs that align better with our community values.”Even though Flickr, which is owned by Yahoo, has decided to exclude Creative Commons images, users can still order Wall Art products using their personal images and those shared by “licensed artists”.Backlash against the service came from those upset that Yahoo was turning a profit on the backs of the sharing community.Under the original plan, Flickr would keep the profits from sales of prints based on photos shared to Flickr using theCreative Commons “commercial attribution” license, while photographers of images not covered by the license would receive 51% of the revenues.Though the service sparked controversy, it wasn’t illegal. The prints were made from photos shared to Flickr using the attribution license, which allows commercial use.Responding to the outcry, the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s intellectual property director, Corynne McSherry, said: “It doesn’t appear that Flickr is doing anything wrong.”
