We'd mentioned Yahoo'sFinds of the Yearpreviously, but now the "People's Choice" winner has been revealed...And, deservingly, it goes toWeebl's Stuff.When the category winners were announced, Jonti Picking - the twisted genius behind Weebl - said "I never imagined I'd win anything". Now he's made it two in a row.
Sound of musicOnline's coverage of the Consumer Electronics Show mentions as an afterthought "software to teach the tone deaf to sing". This may well be mildly frivolous to some, but I have two profoundly deaf daughters, one of whom loves to sing. What she lacks is good feedback to help her control the pitch of her singing voice. I have been looking for simple software that could give her the feedback she needs, and I've drawn a complete blank so far.Phil MacMullenJack Schofield replies:Two programs, Singing Coach and Singing Coach Unlimited, were launched at CES by Carry-A-Tune Technologies, and both come with a headset and microphone. The press release says: "The software tracks their pitch as people sing and displays it as a pitch-tracking line on the screen, superimposed above either a 'sheet music' or 'graphic' view of the song. This system allows the singer to actually see what they are singing on a real-time basis." Singing Coach costs $49.99 (&#163;27) and runs on Windows Me and 2000/XP. Singing Coach Educational Edition will be launched this year. Seewww.carryatune.comfor details. Unfortunately, the website will only accept US billing addresses.SIM storageI have lots of telephone numbers, addresses and so on in the computer and I'd like to have them on my mobile as well. I seem to remember seeing gadgets advertised to interface between a computer and a SIM card, but I don't see any advertised now. My phone is a Trium 110 (Mitsubishi).Tony HuttJS:If you do a search that includes the words "USB SIM card reader" then you will find there are several products available in the UK, including the LM Technologies USB SIM Master and the iNex SIM Master, which are sold online by eXpansys UK Ltd. It is not clear whether you can move contacts from an address book to the SIM. Normally this would be done by synchronisation software such as Microsoft ActiveSync or Intellisync Phone Edition (http://masl.to/?X5FD2434A), if your phone is supported. In this case, it isn't.Ring it upDo you happen to know where I can get the Internationale as a ringtone for my cell phone?Mary RussellJS:Google seems to do a good job of finding ringtones, and in this case, you can simply search for "Internationale ringtone". It might help if you added the brand name of your mobile phone.All accessMy problem is getting a message up two flights of stairs between a desktop PC and an ADSL modem connected through a telephone cable. Sometimes internet access takes minutes to connect and sometimes it doesn't connect at all.Chris EdwardsJS:Telephone cables are notoriously variable in quality and easily damaged, so the simplest solution could be to replace the cable with something better. An alternative would be to move the master phone socket so that it is closer to the PC, and use a shorter, better cable. However, I'd guess you are using a USB modem, so you could replace it with an Ethernet ADSL modem/router that sits next to the phone socket, then connect it to the PC's Ethernet (RJ-45) port using good quality Cat-5 cable.Backchat&#183;Last week, I pointed out that Grisoft had withdrawn support for its free AVG 6 anti-virus software and that readers needed to move to the new version 7. Leslie Hall and John Griffiths say the new version has caused problems, and David Wood adds: "Most people are now recommending Avast!, which can be downloaded fromwww.avast.com/eng/down_home.html".&#183;Penelope Shore had bought a "firewall router" and wondered if she still needed a software firewall. I said yes, because it was advisable to monitor outgoing traffic, and that the minimum requirement for Windows users was the one included in the SP2 service pack. C Corbin says: "It is a common misconception that the SP2 firewall checks both incoming and outgoing traffic. The firewall in Windows XP SP2 only filters 'unsolicited requests'. This amounts to incoming traffic only. Using another firewall which also does egress filtering would help the cautious user." I agree.&#183;Talia wanted her Windows Explorer settings for directory details to be retained. I mentioned that theTweakXP.comwebsite had published a tweak that explains how to change the registry to maintain settings for more than XP's 400 standard views. Nick Ireland says: "You might like to point out that XP SP2 changes the folder detail's cache size to 5,000 by default, and hence changing the value to 2,000 via the Tweak XP.com tip is no longer necessary. You'd need to use a higher value than 5,000 to gain any advantage, obviously."
Martin Schwimmer, who runs TrademarkBlog, has got people thinking by asking to be removed fromBloglines. His reasons arehereandhere.The crux of the argument is that "Bloglines was reproducing the Trademark Blog, surrounding it with its own frame, stripping the page of my contact info. It identifies itself as a news aggregator. It is not authorized to reproduce my content nor to change the appearance of my pages, which it does."One waits with interest for a response fromWinged pig, the blog written by Mark Fletcher, CEO of Bloglines, butthisis interesting background.
Transmeta, the company that launched the horribly slow Crusoe processor, is hosting a conference call tomorrow, and this is expected to herald more job losses and yet another change of business plan.The company became famous mainly because it hired Linus Torvalds, the original developer of the Linux operating system kernel, in 1997. This attracted a lot of attention from journalists who mostly didn't have a clue about the company's business, to which Torvalds was almost completely irrelevant. Transmeta did a public offering on the back of the resulting hype, the shares boomed, and foolish investors lots big bundles of money.An article in the Mercury News,Transmeta -- how a great idea, brilliant minds and big investors equaled a big flop, says:Transmeta proved to be master of the Silicon Valley hype machine. The company created early buzz by keeping a tight veil of secrecy over its work in the late 1990s. Outsiders knew only that Transmeta promised a "whole new world of mobility'' while maintaining a mysterious two-page Web site that offered no details."They definitely promised their architecture would be better than anything on the planet,'' said Kevin Krewell, editor in chief of Microprocessor Report. "Of course, they also claimed they weren't creating the hype.''Yes, Transmeta did have a clever idea. However, millions of dollars and hundreds of jobs have gone down the drain, and the company has still never had a profitable quarter.
Volkswagen is at the centre of a global row after a disturbing film featuring a Palestinian suicide bomber in a Polo car flew around the world on the internetThe short film is made in the style of a TV advert and shows a man hopping into the car wearing the distinctive check scarf made famous by the late Yasser Arafat. He drives around a city before blowing himself up - apparently killing himself but leaving the car intact outside a restaurant. Then the slogan, "Polo: small but tough", appears.Volkswagen said last night it was outraged by the spoof advert, which  became the fifth most talked about item on internet weblogs."Volkswagen UK and its agencies strenuously deny that they have any   involvement in the creation of a viral advertisement that has been accessible   through the internet depicting an explosion taking place inside a Volkswagen   Polo," the car maker said in a statement.One explanation is that the film was created by a maverick advertising wannabe trying to get work from Volkswagen.The mystery deepened after MediaGuardian.co.uk tracked down the makers of the film, who revealed that some distinctively professional techniques had been used:  it had been shot on 35mm film, not something an amateur would usually do, and cost  £40,000, not a sum an amateur could afford."Lee", who refused to give his surname, apologised for the spoof advert, which he  said was released accidentally, but refused to say who funded it."We made the advert for Volkswagen," said Lee. "We never really intended it for public  consumption. It was principally something we made to show people in the   industry but it got out somehow."About half the work we do is for our own purpose, it is self-promotional. The ad's a comment on what's happening at the moment. People see this on   the news every day," said Lee, who operates a website himself,leeanddan.com.He said as far as he was concerned "the car comes out of it as a hero"   because it stops the explosion.The advert had received a "very positive response" on websites. Things had "gone crazy" after the ad hit the internet and its makers had even   been interviewed by the New York Times, he added.Viral advertising campaigns are used by companies as a way to avoid paying   TV channels money to screen adverts, and because the unregulated nature of the internet enables adverts of dubious taste to get aired.Last year Ford distanced itself from a viral advert that showed a Sport Ka viral showing a cat's head being cut off by a car sunroof.But virals are also produced by creatives looking for work. A spokeswoman for Volkswagen's advertising agency, DDB, later said that it had been contacted by the duo who sent the viral to the agency.Matt Smith, of the ad agency Viral Factory, said he thought the advert had been made as a "test" in order to get work."My suspicion is that it was made for a very small audience in order to get   work. It's such a risky piece - it wasn't meant to be seen by a mass audience."A spokesman for Volkswagen said the company was considering legal   action and blamed the advert on "two young creatives who are trying to make   a name for themselves"."We don't take these sorts of risks with our advertisements. We regard   ourselves as honest and respectable."&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
More than 130,000 people's unemployment benefit was delayed last month when new IT, rushed into service to support changes in the law, turned out to be full of bad data. An everyday story of a government computer fiasco. Except that it happened in Germany - proof that Britain is not alone in its struggle with big, new IT systems.Ian Watmore, the UK government's new chief information officer and head of the IT profession in government, says enough is enough. "2005 must be the year people begin to regain confidence in our ability to deliver," he says.Two weeks ago, Watmore invited IT chiefs from across government to work together. This "council of chief information officers" will meet three or four times a year to share experiences and to pick up early warnings when things go wrong.There is no time to waste. Many multibillion-pound IT projects, including the national identity register and the NHS electronic health-record scheme, will be rolled out in the next few years. The prime minister regards these as "mission critical" to the government's programme,   presumably meaning that heads will roll if they fail.Some of Watmore's ideas for avoiding failure will appear in the first government-wide IT strategy, due to be published this autumn. This first strategy for decades will not prescribe technology for individual departments or councils, but deal with questions arising when those systems need to communicate, as well as other "pan-government issues".Top of the list is the question of how citizens identify themselves electronically to government, the so-called authentication issue. At the moment, each of us is known by many different identification numbers. Some are familiar, such as driving licence, national insurance and passport numbers, while others operate only in the bowels of authority.According to Watmore, a decision must be made this year on how to simplify the system: "It's clearly desirable that we have fewer than today." The plan is for "one or a small number of identifiers," Watmore says.In practice, we will probably still have at least two: the as-yet-undecided "identifier" stored on an identity card and our 10 digit NHS number, introduced in the 1990s with a ministerial promise that it   would be used only for healthcare. The main reason for urgency is the planned modernisation of tax systems, which today are based on flawed identity registers.While the IT strategy is in the works, Watmore plans to create a personal taskforce to improve the way government runs its projects. A team of "heavy hitters" - experienced project managers - will be recruited by cabinet office and deployed where needed.Inquiries into IT disasters have shown project management to be a systemic shortcoming in government. Senior civil servants generally run a big project only once in their careers, learning as they go along and then being promoted to a more   senior role, whether or not they succeeded. Initially, Watmore wants to recruit between five and 10 experts, either from public or private sectors.He is confident of attracting the right talent and believes this will be a stimulating challenge for the best people around. "Government is inherently more complex and does things in very large numbers," he says. "Some of the systems we are implementing are the largest of their kind in the world."Creating a career path for project experts is a key part of Watmore's plan to build a higher profile IT profession in government. Watmore's colleagues in the new council of government chief information officers will take this message to heart.About 30 people turned up to the inaugural meeting at the Civil Service College in Sunningdale two weeks ago. They included the heads of IT at all major Whitehall departments and, in a novel departure, three local authorities. The NHS and the police were also represented, as well as several chief information officers lured from big jobs in private industry. Five of the 30 are women.By pulling together, Watmore says, government IT chiefs can be taken seriously by their civil service masters and by industry. "We want to make sure that government policy is backed up with the best advice on IT."This means getting involved at an earlier stage in new government ideas - and not being afraid to blow the whistle when things do not go according to plan.But first, Watmore's squad needs to demonstrate its competence. Five years since the landmark McCartney report recommended new ways of avoiding disasters - implement ideas step by step and make sure someone is in charge - Watmore says the government's track record is getting better.The message, however, is not yet getting through. "We have no public perception of competence - most of the public read about problems rather than successes," Watmore says. "It has never been more strategically important that we get it right."
Next month, government-funded researchers begin a two-year study on the management of identity in public services. The Oxford Internet Institute plans to examine eight case studies of IT-based services, asking questions about the extent to which users need to identify themselves, the balance between efficiency and security, and many more.Such research is badly needed. But don't expect the results to have much influence on the most ambitious electronic identity scheme ever attempted.By the time the academics report, in January 2007, work on the national identity card and its underlying IT systems will be well under way. Many critical decisions will already have been taken.The expression "putting the cart before the horse" emerged several times at a seminar on the identity card, organised by the Institute of Public Policy Research (IPPR) this week. There was a consensus that the government has picked its technology - biometric smartcards - and cobbled together a bundle of useful things to do with it. "The solution came first and the application came later," said Liberal MP Richard Allan, to general applause.Whether this is true or not scarcely matters to the ID card debate. By fudging its reasons for wanting the card, and hiding behind crime and terrorism, the government has only itself to blame if opponents' arguments are equally muddled. Perhaps it is all a dirty trick so that opponents can be written off as a bunch of wild-eyed cypher punks hostile to   government and civil society.The IPPR seminar heard a plea from a more interesting critic - Andrew Pinder, the government's former e-envoy. Pinder declared himself in favour - anything else would have been an astonishing recantation - but he shared concerns about officialdom's tendency to over-identify.He also said that, instead of arguing the catch-all objection "it's going to create a police state and it won't work anyway", there should be three separate debates.One debate is whether there should be space for anonymity in everyday life. Pinder thought there should: "There are times when people are entitled to be anonymous." Another is the extent to which data should be shared around government. If we will be able to opt out of the NHS's   electronic health record, shouldn't we be able to opt out of more?Finally, and quite separately, there is a debate about whether the government is capable of making the whole thing work. For the record, Pinder thought it could be done.All reasonable points, but with the government implacably committed to the card and a wide coalition of lobbies implacably committed against, there is little prospect of a reasonable debate. This is depressing. For what it's worth, I used to be mildly in favour, as a means of preserving the welfare state in a society of porous borders and from a general dislike of anonymity in public life.Now I'm not so sure: this cart-before-the-horse government brings out the wild-eyed cypher punk in all of us.
It is the first major TV series to be made for the mobile phone. On January 30, subscribers to Vodafone's new 3G service will be able to watch the first of two dozen "mobisodes" of hit drama series 24. The 60-second splices, exclusively shot by 20th Century Fox, will be timed to coincide with the launch of the new series on British television and run throughout the show's forthcoming fourth series.While none of the characters from the hit show will appear in the mobile series - which is screening in Europe weeks before the US - the specially made-for-mobile 24: Conspiracy is the most high-profile example of an emerging genre. While it is already possible to stream live television over the cellular networks, mobile video content has until recently consisted of television content scaled down for the tiny screen. 24 represents something new, which some US analysts are already calling "snack TV".The appetite for short bursts of mobile drama tailored for the tiny screen was   first developed in the Netherlands. For the past 18 months, a mobile soap opera called Jong Zuid has gone out twice a day to 30,000 Dutch teens, who are happy to pay the &euro;1.10 (&#163;0.77) weekly subscription fee.The success of the award-winning series has inspired Endemol, makers of Big Brother, to follow with Fantesstic, a teeny soap that follows Tess, a young female DJ, around the party island of Ibiza. Unlike the mobile 24, Jong Zuid and Fantesstic are delivered as a series of MMS picture messages.That Fantesstic is sponsored by a leading optician implies the difficulty of translating more complicated forms of drama on to mobile phones. The eagle-eyed marketing opportunity for Specsavers marks a challenge for mobile movie-makers as they attempt to squeeze meaningful content on to the smallest of screens.Despite low production costs, easy-to-translate MMS messages and half the world's phones being net-enabled, creating compelling drama for such a space will not be easy. Expect lots of close-ups and super-simple plots, say the experts.None of this is deterring mobile operators and handset manufacturers from releasing the first generation of made-for-mobile content. In October, O2 commissioned a series of short, south Asian films for its O2 Active portal, and produced a short documentary about the fashion designer Alice Temperley.T-Mobile has signed a deal with Warner Bros which promises scaled-down episodes of Loony Tunes and Harry Potter as well as behind-the-scenes clips of US teen soaps.Orange, which has mobile video-editing technology, is searching for mobile phone film-makers by means of its Paper Films competition.And 3 recently offered subscribers out-takes of ITV series The X Factor.Before Christmas, the 10-day pilot of Cjaq - which beat 24 to the honour of being the first made-for-mobile video drama series - went out to 60,000 owners of high-end i-mate mobile phones. Glasgow-based Cool Crew Media's series is billed as "a concentrated hit of fast-paced drama, twisting storylines, mistrust and conspiracy" (sound familiar?), and was filmed using production values we would usually associate with terrestrial TV. It is reported to have cost &#163;200,000, or &#163;10,000 a minute, to make.Cjaq takes its name from the practice of "bluejacking", the relatively harmless pastime of hacking a stranger's mobile phone using an available Bluetooth connection. The intention is that the intrusion will lead to a bit of fun, friendship or even a new relationship.The pioneers of made-for-mobile projects are attempting something similar - to push video content at a largely unsuspecting public in the hope that the intrusion will lead to a new relationship. This time, however, it is for hard cash. With viewers in Europe and the US increasingly abandoning TV for the internet and computer games, the logic is that mobiles will be the next platform to seduce the young.And the coming of mobile TV could upset more than television schedules. Hugo Manassei of Nesta (National Endowment of Science, Technology and the Arts) says mobile TV could "stimulate a new distribution channel where directors could sell their short films directly to the public".Nesta is currently running Pocket Shorts, a mobile film-making competition that echoes the ongoing Nokia Shorts competition attached to the Raindance film festival. Eight winners will receive a grant of &#163;2,000 to make a made-for-mobile movie, which will be distributed at film festivals via a Bluetooth Jukebox that beams the films into visitors' phones.Today, all but the most basic phones come with picture messaging and many have basic video capability. But does this mean users will be willing to pay for video content? A recent   ICM report found that 80% of mobile users were not buying premium services, although the industry was relieved to learn of "encouraging uptake" among 16-to-24 year olds."That still leaves 20% and that's still a huge market," says Beverley Morrison, who runs Cool Crew Media. "Essentially, what you've got is a little TV in your pocket. The sound and picture quality on the new phones is pretty sharp now. If there is good content, people will reach for it."
MacworldBack to the futureOne of the most popular stands at Macworld - apart from Apple, of course - was Griffin Technology. The Tennessee-based firm, which has gone from strength to strength on the back of a superb range of iPod accessories, unveiled more products, including the SmartDeck, which won the Best in Show prize at San Francisco. It is an intelligent car stereo adapter that lets you plug your iPod into your tape deck. The idea of playing MP3s through a cassette drive is not new, but Griffin has taken the concept further by allowing users to control their iPod interface through the cassette player's controls. It is far from a perfect solution, but at $30 (&#163;16), the units will be vital to some when they ship in the spring.www.griffintechnology.comA wonder to beholdElgato, which provides TV solutions for Macintosh, unveiled its low-cost EyeTV Wonder. Produced with ATI, the handy-sized Wonder allows you to record television straight to your Mac's hard drive simply by creating a connection between your TV antenna and your USB 2.0 port. Retailing at just &#163;104, the EyeTV Wonder can help you record, rewind and timeshift live TV on a variety of resolutions - at up to 2.7GB per hour at the highest DVD quality setting. The package comes with its own editor for removing unwanted content, and can be combined with Toast 6 Titanium to burn your footage to DVD.www.elgato.comWhat's in storageIf you download a lot of audio/visual material, you may want increased storage space. Hard-disk storage has been dropping in price over the past few years while size has been on the increase. At the top end of the digital storage market, LaCie had its immense Biggest F800 range on display at Macworld. Aimed at small businesses, the F800 comes in three configurations - 1TB, 1.6TB or 2TB - and prices should begin at about &#163;1,000.www.lacie.comDigital radioGetting personalEstablished US radio manufacturer Eton is to launch a pair of digital (DAB) radios in the UK market. Due in spring, the range features a desktop model,   the P7131, and a carry-anywhere personal, the P7132. Eton claims the personal radio is the only one of its kind to feature DAB and FM radio tuners. The pair, which have been developed in conjunction with Porsche Design, also boast a large LED screen to display station names and track information, and come with integrated stereo speakers. The P7131 will sell for &#163;149.99, the P1732 for &#163;99.99.www.etoncorp.co.ukMusic playersSize it upCreative has unveiled a colour screen version of its rival to the iPod mini, the Zen Micro. Dubbed the Zen Micro Photo and scheduled for an early summer launch, the player's headline feature is a 262k colour OLED screen for displaying JPeg images or album artwork. It comes with either a 5GB or 6GB hard disk, plays MP3 and WMA music, including tunes downloaded from online music stores, and is available in 10 colours. There's no confirmation of price. Creative will also deliver a new version of the Zen Micro in 1GB, 4GB and 6GB versions.www.creative.comHardwareMobile mediaSamsung's long-promised, Microsoft-powered Portable Media Center, the YH-999, finally goes on sale in the UK this week. It will retail for &#163;399.99 and sports a 3.5in colour TFT LCD screen, a 20GB hard disk, and can store and play back Windows Media Video (WMV9) files at 320 x 240 resolution and 500kbps. It is also compatible with Windows Media Audio, MP3 and JPeg image files. The YH-999, designed to work seamlessly with Microsoft's Media Center PCs, can house and play back up to 80 hours of TV transferred from a Media Center PC's hard drive. Files are moved to and from the player via its USB 2.0 connector.www.samsung.co.ukStat of the week: Phishing attackseBay hit the headlines again after a fresh phishing attack. Cyota, an anti-fraud company, says examples have doubled in the past six months. Anti-spam company CipherTrust, meanwhile, says almost a third of phishing attacks originate in the US.
Tape-free camcorders, which archive video on to Flash memory, were everywhere at CES. But few could capture more than a couple of minutes of footage or record in quality MPeg2, as opposed to the compressed MPeg4, format.JVC's Everio GZ-MC200 rewrites the rules, however, as it can archive up to an hour of DVD-quality video (MPeg2 at 720 x 576 pixels at 50 frames per second) on to its 4GB MicroDrive. In spite of its chunky base and swivelling lens, it rivals traditional DV cassette camcorders in terms of performance. The footage can be transferred to a PC via the USB 2.0 cable or by inserting the removable MicroDrive in a CompactFlash card slot.It has weaknesses, though. It doesn't perform well in low light conditions, its zoom is a little over-eager and the 1.8in LCD could be brighter. At &#163;800, it is also pricey.Nevertheless, the Everio is a breakthrough, and for those who want quality images from a small-ish camcorder, it is worth investigating.www.jvc.co.uk
The cost of travelling overseas is about to get a lot cheaper. On Friday, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) bowed to the inevitable and removed the restrictive rules that prevented the buying and selling of overseas airline tickets. So many travellers were buying cheaper foreign tickets over the internet, said the Geneva-based association - which represents more than 94% of all international scheduled air traffic - that the task of identifying the country in which passengers book online tickets had become impossible.From internet-only, low-cost airlines and cheaper car hire to more convenient hotel booking, the internet is transforming the travel industry. IATA's ruling offers hope for high-street travel agents who have been losing their grip on a market they have controlled for decades. But the reality is that a generation of independent travellers, lured by low prices and the opportunity to deal directly with airlines and hotels, have been learning to live without them.Last week, internet monitoring firm Hitwise reported that visits to UK travel sites were up 14% in the first week of this month, compared with the same period last year. Travel websites, which are regularly among the most popular sites in the UK, accounted for one in every 20 visits to the web in the UK.The news confirmed recent data from the European Travel Monitor, which reported that online bookings increased by 39% in the first eight months of last year. Britons, it also discovered, booked more online holidays than any other Europeans. Areport published by Mintel found that UK expenditure on independent   holidays - those not booked through high-street agents - has more than doubled from &#163;5.5bn in 1998 to &#163;11.7bn last year. The market research group also said the number of independently booked breaks (which included call centre bookings) had risen by 60% since 1998.This shift from traditional high-street agents is reflected in the annual January travel advertisements on television. This year, online companieseBookers.comand Travelocity joined the mid-winter jamboree for the first time.The demise of the package holiday, invented by Thomas Cook in 1841, has long been predicted, but it has survived the arrival of Teletext and call centre booking. Indeed, figures released in November showed that for the first time in living memory, package holidays made up less than half the total holiday market, falling from 53% in 2002 to 49% in 2003. Independent bookings were expected to top 24m last year, up from less than 22m in 2003. The switch is even more pronounced when you consider that many of the millions who still traipse down to the high street to book a holiday are likely to have already used the net to research the best deal or asked a friend to do so.The travel industry was probably the first non-computer industry to be overhauled by the internet. The black-and-green "view data" systems employed by agents in the early 1980s were a foretaste of the internet. A trained agent was needed to manipulate the data on a screen that faced away from the customer. Today, anyone with a net connection has access to a similar amount of data and can manipulate the screen themselves. The downside is that experienced agents are losing their   jobs. According to the Association of British Travel Agents (Abta), the number of high-street agents registered with it has declined sharply. In 2000, Abta counted 7,054 head offices and high-street branches in the UK. Last year, that fell to 6,302.Even so, says Sean Tipton of Abta, the industry is trying to remain upbeat. "Five years ago, we were very concerned our members would be left behind in the internet revolution." To survive, high-street agents have had to diversify. Many independent travel agents are even establishing themselves as tiny tour operators, selling niche breaks over the net. "Companies that have gone down that road have increased their profits," Tipton says. Those sticking to traditional booking systems have either closed down or are suffering.It is not just holidays being booked elsewhere. Increasingly, airlines and hotel groups are reducing costs by cutting out agents' fees (which can be as much as 10%) and selling directly   to the customer. British Airways, for example, sells nearly 60% of its short-haul flights fromBA.com.More than 100,000 BA customers have learned how to check in themselves, choose a seat online and even print out a boarding pass, weeks before they leave. It is, according to Simon Parks-Smith, head of e-commerce at BA, the future of travel. "The simple stuff you do yourself; the complicated stuff - that's where our staff help you." It's an uncomplicated concept, but one that BA - which recently announced a massive cut in staff - says will have saved the airline &#163;100m by April."If you look back at the past four years, it has been the most extraordinary period of disruption in the flights market, with the low-cost carriers causing the most unbelievable price competition in the UK and Europe," explains Hugo Burge, ofCheapflights.co.uk, one of the most successful UK travel companies to emerge from the dotcom boom. "The   new IATA ruling was inevitable and it throws away an unnecessary piece of bureaucracy that the travel industry is so renowned for."With virtually no advertising budget,Cheapflights.co.ukhas blossomed from being a fringe start-up running out of an attic in Clapham into the fifth busiest travel site in the UK, with offices in Boston, Massachusetts and London's Marylebone Road. Unlike high-street agents - who maintain specific booking agreements and bonus commission programs with hotel chains and tour operators - Cheapflights does not sell tickets. Instead, it sifts through more than 17m flight deals from more than 900 travel partners every day and displays the best 1m flights. Each time you click through to one of the fares it advertises, Cheapflights gets about 24p.As Burge admits, "there's no silver bullet for finding the cheapest deals", but there will soon be more competition for the company. If we   want to find, say, a recipe for jambalaya or the lyrics for Tom Browne's Funking for Jamaica, we automatically reach for a search engine. It has been more difficult to do the same for a holiday as there are so many methods of finding and paying for them online.But recent announcements by internet aristocrats Yahoo and AOL that they are developing specialised travel search engines that will allow users to compare prices from a range of travel agents, airlines, hotel groups and hire car companies could change that. These new offerings will be in direct competition with "metasearch" travel companies such as SideStep, Qixo and Skyscanner, as well as sites such as Cheapflights. But they have one considerable advantage.What is different about the Yahoo Farechase service - which has launched a beta version in the US - is the way it incorporates travel search into ordinary search results. For example, if someone does a search for "book flights" on the regular search page, a link pops up that directs the user to Farechase. Analysts believe it has the potential to create the most powerful travel database in the business."We believe this helps people find what they are looking for faster," says Yen Lee, general manager of Travel Services at Yahoo. "The service will give our users the ability to find relevant travel information from multiple sites quickly and easily - and even complete the transaction directly with the supplier."But not everyone is so convinced. American Airlines recently took Yahoo to court to try to prevent its flight data appearing on the Yahoo   site, although the two brokered a deal out of court.In early February, the Travel Technology Show will open at London's Olympia and the traditional agents will be debating the best way to bounce back. "The traditional package holiday companies are responding with something called dynamic packaging," says David Chapple, the event's director. "It describes the process of "pick'n'mix" package holidays where the online consumer can choose hotel, flight, excursions and car hire in a single deal instead of buying into a fixed package."Whether it is enough to save the package holiday is a moot point. But one thing is for certain, the way we travel in the future will include greater choice for the net-savvy independent traveller. As Hugo Burge says: "Never has it been so important to shop around."Shop aroundBritish Airwayswww.ba.comCheapflights.co.ukwww.cheapflights.co.ukYahoo!Farechasehttp://farechase.yahoo.comTravelocitywww.travelocity.comebookerswww.ebookers.comSidestephttp://flights.sidestep.comSkyscannerwww.skyscanner.netQuixowww.qixo.comTravel Technology Showwww.traveltechnologyshow.comAssociation of British Travel
Agentswww.abta.com
Set for cult statusProject Zero II: Crimson Butterfly (Director's Cut)Xbox, &#163;39.99 Tecmo/Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;If you're tired of the Christmas blockbusters and fancy something a little more leftfield then this should fit the bill. This superior survival horror game is genuinely unnerving, despite some annoyances.It is a dark and gritty tale. The game dumps you in a series of spooky locales as you take control of twins Mayu and Mio after they stumble into a seemingly deserted village.In true survival horror tradition, progress involves finding keys and solving puzzles. The main difference between this and the likes of Resident Evil is the choice of weaponry. The girls defend themselves by using a camera that can see and destroy the ghosts that inhabit the game.Typical play involves creeping around in the flickering light, becoming aware of something in the room and quickly changing to the camera view as a deformed ghost gets closer. It may lack the guns'n'gore of Resident Evil but it is far more chilling.The audio deserves a special mention as white noise and ethereal voices combine to create a disturbing atmosphere. Annoyances are few, but important. The controls, while not as rigid as Resident Evil, are still constricting, and progress can be halted by innocuously missing a cut-scene. Less experienced players could find the game a stop-start journey as they puzzle over what to do next.But overall, Project Zero 2 is wonderfully atmospheric and destined to become a cult classic.Greg HowsonClassic funCastlevania/ Dr Mario (NES Classics Series)GBA, &#163;14.99, Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Nintendo never likes one of its own classic games to die and just in case anyone forgot where we came from in the run-up to the launch of the new DS handheld, it has brought out a series of NES games for the Game Boy Advance. Whereas the first release in this series was a mixed bunch, the second wave of four titles is a big ol' helping of goodness.Metroid and Zelda II: The Adventures of Link need no introduction, but the first outing of Konami's Castlevania series and Dr Mario, one of the best Tetris clones, bring up the rear in splendid fashion. Both are pretty much direct ports of the originals and neither suffers for it.Castlevania, which features the whip-toting, holy water-throwing Simon Belmont versus the non bat-biting Prince of Darkness, is still devilishly tricky. Even though the graphics might be squashed and muted by today's standards, the side-scrolling gameplay is solid and fun.Dr Mario is still fairly challenging. This time it is raining vitamin pills like an explosion in a health food shop and you have to arrange the colours to vanquish evil germs. It is   basic, but hideously addictive and the Doc is also brought up to date with a multiplayer mode that runs through wireless adapters or a link cable. Both titles are true classics.Rhianna PratchettCheap and cheerfulFord Racing 3PlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &#163;19.99 Razorworks/Xplosiv, &#42;&#42;&#42;The games industry always receives flak for churning out games on the back of films that are little more than merchandising, so a cynical public might not be very impressed by a racing game based on something as mainstream as Ford. However, Ford Racing 3 costs half the price of average games and, unexpectedly, has some merits.It cleverly takes cues from the popular Burnout 3 - the single-player mode presents a selection of racing mini-series, each containing varying modes that you work through in quite a non-linear fashion.The ultimate goal is a racing series that puts you behind the wheel of the Ford GT. This is probably the closest any of us will ever get to a GT, as only a limited quantity are being made and its introduction has been repeatedly delayed - even Jeremy Clarkson has not received his yet.With Gran Turismo 4 - a deadly serious racing game with classic and ultra-modern machinery - apparently imminent, it is easy to ask why anyone would want to buy this. But it is on sale now, cheap and full of classic Ford cars, ranging from the Model A to the GT90 concept car. At first, it seems laughably easy, but it eventually offers a challenge by introducing modes in which the last two cars are eliminated at the end of each lap, and in which sticking to the racing line earns you nitrous oxide boosts.It is a credible arcade-style racing game that the Ford-obsessed will enjoy. As a happy BMW owner, I wanted to hate it, but could not.Steve BoxerTop 5 gamesGameCube1The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords2The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run3Metroid Prime 2: Echoes4Sonic Heroes5Sonic Mega Collection&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Go to any computer expo and you can probably use most of the hardware and software on show. Things are different in consumer electronics, and most of the products that dominated last week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas had no immediate relevance to the UK market.The big hits were HDTV high-definition television and portable satellite radio: I'd like UK versions of both, and can't have them. There were also lots of phones that would only work in the US or sometimes South Korea, the mobile industry being notorious for such compatibility problems.HDTV has really taken off in the US. Screen Digest was predicting that 12.6m US households would have an HD display by the end of   last year, climbing to 45m by 2008.Indeed, Americans are buying HDTV sets even if they cannot yet receive any of the fast-growing number of HDTV broadcasts. They use them to watch movies in their "home cinema" systems, which suggests high-definition Blu-ray DVDs will be an instant hit.At CES, there were lots of stunning 60in and larger flat screens showing 1080p images, which means 1,080 lines with progressive scan (no interlace flicker), ie 1920 x 1080 pixels. I expect US broadcasters will come under pressure to support this format as well 1080i (used by CBS) and the 720p that is also the European Broadcasting Union's preferred HDTV format. In the UK, we still have 576i50, which is an interlaced 576-line display (out of 625) refreshed 50 times a second.It is easy to understand HDTV's appeal if you've seen America's old NTSC television standard (480i30, or 720 x 486 pixels). It is similarly easy to understand the appeal of satellite radio if you have heard many local US stations. Satellite radio offers hundreds of specialised digital stations with few or no commercials. (Sometimes you get vintage commercials, with 1950s ads adding to the authenticity of 1950s music stations.)The satellite radio business is being driven by competition between two major suppliers, XM and Sirius, both of which charge a monthly subscription. And while these services mainly seem to be used in cars, the arrival of small portable satellite radios such as the Delphi XM MyFi could attract a wider range of subscribers.Although Sky broadcasts free   satellite digital radio across most of Europe, there is no UK equivalent to the US business, so don't expect to see an XM MyFi on sale here soon.Buyers get lots of advantages from global standards. They provide the largest possible market and make it easier to ship products between different regions, which helps increase the availability of products and drives down prices. Consumer electronics products should also be simpler and cheaper if they don't have to support multiple incompatible TV, telephone and other standards.The good news is that national and regional product variations are becoming much less significant than they used to be. The bad news is that there's not much advantage to having a global market in devices if the services are not there to support them.LinksDelphi XM MyFiwww.xmradio.com/myfi
What is the role of a technology-based research lab? And how do you quantify its success? Those questions are weighing on many minds following the closure on Friday of Dublin's Media Lab Europe, the first "franchise" spin-off from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's famed Media Lab.You know the Media Lab - the celebrity child of MIT, always in the news for what people consider to be either ultra-cool or despicably undisciplined research, with projects such as wearable computers, virtual storytelling, funky robots and the hyperviolin. It was founded by Nicholas "Being Digital" Negroponte, a man who impishly courts controversy and inspires either adoration or fury.MLE was an ambitious project "to bring the look and feel of Media Lab-style research and innovation to Europe," says Negroponte. He says many felt "the work in Dublin was more edgy than at MIT".Negroponte is the first to admit that the lab faced endless difficulties. The business plan to raise its budget from European corporations was "freakishly untimely" as MLE launched into the teeth of the 2000 tech crash. It could not raise enough funding, and had no parent institution, such as MIT, to cushion it financially. In addition, "research in Europe &#91;is&#93; way behind, held back by bureaucracy and lifestyle", Negroponte gripes.From the start, MLE was at the centre of bitter rows: why was the Irish government importing a costly glamour lab, when Irish researchers then had one of the   most feeble budgets in Europe?MLE also ran through three directors in four years - beginning with founder Negroponte and ending with Simon Jones, formerly dean of engineering and design at the University of Bath - raising questions about management.Many accused MLE of being distant. Those involved with a sister government project, the Digital Hub technology and business development - of which MLE was the trumpeted "anchor tenant" - fretted that MLE wasn't interested in helping to commercialise the projects of its young companies.This suggests a big problem was mismatched expectations between government and MIT. MLE, a commercialising research partner to fledgling Irish industry? Please. That veers away from the research ethos of Media Lab and points to a   wilful ignorance by the Irish, as MLE's role was always to be a European, not Irish, institution.It also raises the old question of what a research lab should do. Is Media Lab just experimental hot air? Many science types think so. They hate the fact that Negroponte despises peer review, and perhaps that 170 corporate donors backed the lab for nearly 20 years. And they really hate the lab's publicity.But can't research have a broader remit? There is only one Media Lab, pushing into areas that merge the arts, social sciences, psychology and technology. The public, and media, respond to that.A shame, then, that European businesses and governments ultimately chose not to fund a lab that makes what many see as the coldness of scientific research warmer, more tangible and more human.
Art of the matterNow you can explore Tate Britain without going to Pimlico. The gallery's new microsite provides an interactive layout of the Tate's rooms full of British art, so you can plot your own course. If you are stuck for ideas, follow the route left by "great explorer Michael Palin". It is a bit of a tedious process, but you can also search by artist and it's available in an impressive range of languages including Arabic, Bengali and Japanese. The commentaries are mostly useful and interesting, too, so this is a good way of planning a visit, rather than a substitute for the real thing.www.tate.org.uk/britain/exploreCelebrate scienceThis is Einstein Year, and the Institute of Physics has launched a special site to celebrate the centenary of his papers on special relativity, Brownian motion and the photoelectric effect. There's also a poetry competition run by the British Association for the Advancement of Science, with poems from Terry Pratchett and Patrick Moore to get you started. The closing date is February 11. You've already missed the world's first Einstein Flip, designed by a physicist and executed on a BMX bike. The Science Museum is organising a number of events, and the BA has a directory of those being held around the UK.www.einsteinyear.orgwww.sciencemuseum.org.ukwww.the-ba.netStill searchingGoogle's power in the search engine market hasn't stopped new companies launching regular rivals. Accoona attracted attention by enlisting former US president Bill Clinton for its launch last month. He was an interesting choice for a service backed by China Daily Information and China Communications Corp, but it is based in New Jersey. Accoona's claims to fame are that it uses artificial intelligence (AI) software that "understands the meaning of words", and "takes the search experience to the next level by merging information from the web and the Accoona business database in real time". Sadly, the results are mostly unimpressive, it hides destination addresses and doesn't offer cached pages. At least it finds a few hits for Falun Gong.www.accoona.comGoes to showIn the last Web Watch column, I mentioned new multimedia search engines Go Fish and AOL's Singing Fish. Yahoo is now angling for a place in the market. It has been experimenting with video search and the service has now reached the beta test stage. It's very similar to Google's image search feature, so if you type in a search term you get lots of thumbnails with file names. Searching for Pink Floyd, for example, finds "about 144" clips and tells you the name, size and format, such as: Time - MTV... 0x120).avi 105x78 - 402 sec - 7.2MB.The Advanced Video Search page lets you eliminate unwanted file formats such as QuickTime, Windows Media and Real. There is also a Safe Search feature to cut out adult content, but this eliminates 30 Floyd videos with titles such as Comfortably Numb. Many results don't seem to have much relation to the search term, so this has some way to go.Blinkx has also launched a standalone video search site, so you don't have to download the Blinkx desktop search application. It searches an impressive selection of TV broadcasters including BBC News, Sky, CNN and HBO, plus NPR and BBC Radio. This could be useful for some purposes, which don't include searching for Pink Floyd videos.http://video.search.yahoo.comwww.blinkx.tvLaw and warderBritain's Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) has launched a redesigned website that makes its main function impossible to miss: it's where you go to "report illegal content". This is mainly child pornography anywhere in the world, and criminally obscene or criminally racist content hosted in the UK. The IWF's remit does not cover legal pornography, phishing, bomb making, suicide sites and things that happen via peer-to-peer networks or instant messaging.www.iwf.org.ukYahoo's top sitesYahoo.co.uk has announced its selection of the 10 best British websites that appeared in its web picks section last year. Winners range fromyouramazingbrain.org.uktouglycars.co.uk. The People's Choice 2004 award, based on an email vote, will be announced by the end of the month.www.yahoo.co.uk/findoftheyear2004Six of the bestSuper Bowl XXXIXOfficial sitewww.superbowl.comNFLwww.nfl.comESPN coveragehttp://sports.espn.go.com/nfl/www.superbowl-ads.comAlicia Keyswww.alicia-keys.net/aliciakeys.htmThe Simpsonshttp://tv.zap2it.com/tveditorial/tve_main/1,1002,271|92972|1|,00.html
Virtually thereJulian Baggini's experience of writing a book over email (Touched by your absence, January 6) is not unique. My co-author, Kate Allan, and I did not speak on the telephone until after the first draft of our historical adventure romance, The Lady Soldier (Robert Hale, May 2005), was finished. Email and writing across the internet appears to be a growing phenomenon.Our collaboration came about after discovering each other on a writing bulletin board. In many ways, not having to know the "whole person" helped keep the writing relationship on a professional rather than a personal level. We were able to concentrate on telling the story, rather than searching for inner meaning in the words of the other person. It also meant we were able to deal with problems that arose in writing, quickly and thoroughly.Michelle StylesHexhamApple attackLike James Clark (Feedback, January 13), I use both a Mac and a PC at home. This makes me feel a little like an outcast in any Mac v PC debate because I can see the merits of both. However, it has alerted me to how badly the press reports Apple. When Apple was struggling, the press hounded the company for new products and a PC beater. Now that Apple is successful, the press are happy to demonise them.It gets worse because Apple PCs are used by large companies such as IPC Publishing. Are these geeks? No, I don't think so. And finally, we come   to the Guardian - what PCs do you use? Well, I know, so why don't you report them fairly and properly?Steve HookerSouth YorkshireOut the WindowsJames Clark is right about Macs - they are a doddle despite being powerful. But I have yet to find anything Windows can do that a Mac can't - and plenty I can do that Windows experts shake their heads at, and say, "No, can't do that".Jason DaviesLondonAt all costsIn response to Mike Turner's query about domain name transfer costs (Feedback, January 13), if he has a global domain name (.com, .net, .biz etc), Iomart is probably acting illegally in forcing him to pay a release fee. Icann, the governing body for global domain names, forbids registration companies from preventing customers from moving to a new registrar, except in specific circumstances. Icann introduced this rule in November and is seeking feedback on companies that are still breaking the rules. If Turner has a UK domain, there is less protection. However, Nominet (www.nominet.org.uk), the .uk domain name body, will transfer his name for &#163;25 plus VAT.Graham RossLondonTransfer trapsSome web hosts levy charges or penalties for outward-bound domain transfers. In some cases, domain name registries make a charge that could be passed on to a customer via a web host. However, it is essential that you ask your previous host directly who it is levying any fees - them, the registry or both?Details of when charges are made by domain name registries are clearly available on their websites so you can check. Large multinational web hosts such as 1&amp;1 do not charge their own   fee for transfers out and we recommend that you always check transfer procedures before buying a domain.Richard Stevenson1&amp;1 Internet LtdKeep the changeThe best thing to do when purchasing domain names is to buy them a different registrar to the one that hosts your website. That way you can ensure that the listed registrant, administrative contact and technical contact are you, and you don't have to pay if you want to change the webhosting company.Olusola FaderoLondonPrice of freedomIn reply to Richard Gregory (Feedback, January 13), I recommend not accepting a deal with free connection and other goodies in exchange for a 12-month locked contract. That &#163;50 connection fee is going to be recovered, probably in poor service of some kind. Go to a survey site such ashttp://ispreview.co.ukand read all conditions carefully. Watch for prices quoted ex-VAT and limits on usage, with big fees if you exceed them.I plumped for Eclipse 250 flex, a plain 250K up-and-down service, at &#163;18 a month. There is no limit on usage, no penalty for terminating the contract and it works.Colin RourkeUniversity of WarwickZen experienceRichard Gregory asked for recommendations for a reliable broadband provider, so I'd like to suggest Zen Internet. My office switched to Zen after a frustrating experience with BT Openworld, and I've since installed it at home with no problems so far. It also has a back-up dial-up service for those unavoidable times when broadband simply falls over.Hannah VlcekBrighton
After five minutes explanation from Bob Teo, the inventor of the abKey ergonomic USB keyboard, I could easily write down all the alphabet's key positions on a blank paper template. I still can't do that after 35 years of touch-typing on a Qwerty keyboard - or not without a lot of "pretend typing" to figure out the bottom row.The ease of learning, ease of typing and ergonomic advantages of his keyboard have persuaded Teo, a Singapore-based entrepreneur, that he can start a revolution that will finally displace a standard that has lasted more than 120 years.In this he is far from unique: probably hundreds of people have designed Qwerty keyboard replacements. However, abKey, launched at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last week, is the first one I've seen that has a chance - albeit a slim one - of succeeding.This is important, because if the abKey keyboard is successful, it will save countless billions of dollars.The main savings come from the shorter learning time and more efficient typing, especially by people who can't touch-type. You can learn the abKey layout in five minutes or less (see box). Teo claims familiarity takes an hour, but says: "Most people take 42 hours to learn Qwerty." Even then they can't remember it.Other savings come in health costs. The most common Qwerty keyboard design puts the hands in an unnatural position, which leads to repetitive strain injuries such as carpal tunnel syndrome. The costs include lost production, lost wages, medical expenses and compensation claims. Split ergonomic or "natural" keyboards are available, but Teo reckons splitting the Qwerty layout makes it doubly hard for most people to use.Big companies, local authorities, schools and far-sighted individuals should therefore be ready to adopt a new design. The problem is that, so far, nobody has come up with an alternative that makes economic sense.There are, for example, various "chorded keyboards" that are more ergonomic and more efficient, and they have their uses, eg for making transcriptions in   court. But Teo argues that they have been too expensive and too hard to learn for widespread adoption.There are also alternative keyboard layouts such as the one developed by Dr August Dvorak in the 1930s. This is easy for personal computers to support, and for PC manufacturers to supply - after all, they probably need more than a dozen layouts just to cope with different European languages.The problems with Dvorak are that "it takes as long to learn as Qwerty, and it takes a long time to switch," says Teo.   "There have also been some studies that showed Dvorak wasn't as good as it claimed to be."In fact, research by two American academics, Stan Liebowitz and Stephen Margolis, suggest Dvorak's results were fudged. The US government's "carefully controlled experiment designed to examine the costs and benefits of switching to Dvorak" - conducted by Earle Strong, a professor at Pennsylvania State University, in the 1950s - "unreservedly concluded that retraining typists on Dvorak was inferior to retraining on Qwerty", according to Liebowitz and Margolis.While the pair have been debunked by Dvorak supporters, one fact remains: even after years of pro-Dvorak hype, hardly anybody uses it.My experience is that most people can make significant advances in typing speed and accuracy if they spend a few hours learning to touch-type or improving their technique, whereas switching to a different system instantly makes them dramatically worse. If people can't be bothered to make the effort to achieve real gains in the short term, they are unlikely to make the much greater effort required to achieve the long-term gains promised by alternatives such as Dvorak or, perhaps, abKey.But Teo still reckons he has a chance, because of the potential market among the billions of people who have not yet learned Qwerty - young children, and the populations of developing countries such as India and China."We're not saying everybody must switch," he says. "Kids are our prime target. If they grow up with a simple keyboard, they are never going to switch to a harder one."Teo has run trials with Chinese, Indian and Malay children that show they make better progress with abKey and prefer it to Qwerty by two to one. If Asian governments were to mandate the abKey layout in schools, that could have a profound impact - but it hasn't happened yet.Teo also argues that the populations of China, India and Indonesia will make up the bulk of the earth's population and could soak up the most of the next billion PCs to be sold. I agree - but I still reckon Chinese buyers are more likely to adopt Qwerty keyboards that cost $7 or less than Teo's much nicer $99 design.Also, while abKey users can simply plug their own keyboard into PCs with USB ports, it will be harder to get notebook manufacturers to incorporate the new design. All this suggests adoption will be an uphill struggle."Will people change? We have no answer to that," says Teo. "All we can do is go out and try."Memorable designKeyboard designers have at least two things to think about. The first is to make the key layout memorable and easy to learn, which generally means making the order alphabetical. The second is to make typing fast and efficient, by putting the most common keys under the "home" fingers and reducing finger travel. Teo's layout is clever in providing a compromise that offers close to the best of both worlds. There is just one "gotcha".Teo's design makes it possible to type fast by putting the vowels under the left hand and some of the most common consonants under the right hand. This is hard if the keyboard is kept symmetrical, so Teo has split the keys: there are three rows of three keys on the left and three rows of five keys on the right.The left hand's keypad handles BCD on the bottom row with FGH on the top row. The right hand then gets the three remaining chunks of characters formed by removing the vowels: JKLMN, PQRST and VWXYZ. This is where the "gotcha" comes in. As a touch typist, you have two "home" positions for the right hand, with the fingers either on RST or shifted two places to the left.One difficulty remains: how do you fit five vowels on to the three keys provided for the left hand? Teo's solution is to provide big round buttons for the A and U, with the E, I and O on the middle row of typewriter keys in between. It's not quite as elegant as the rest of the design, but it is practical.Links: The key positionsabKeywww.abKey.bizDvorak primerswww.dvorak-keyboard.comwww.mwbrooks.com/dvorak/Typing Errors, by Stan Liebowitz and Stephen Margolishttp://reason.com/9606/Fe.QWERTY.shtmlThe Fable of the Keys, by Stan Liebowitz and Stephen Margolishttp://c2.com/cgi/wiki?TheFableOf TheKeys
In the next two years, many offices will put in wireless networks, and users with laptops will be able to work where and how they please. But workers will get a surprise when they take those laptops home: they will have much faster connections in their living rooms, thanks to new wireless technology.The problem with wireless has been its unpredictability. Signals bounce off some obstacles, and are distorted by others, creating confusion. Now a smart antenna technology is going to turn these echoes to advantage. Mimo (multiple-input-multiple-output) systems have more than one antenna, and clever signal processing. They can separate those reflected signals and use them to set up more than one channel between sender and receiver.Mimo can double the capacity of a wireless network, and create a more stable connection. It also makes the network go further. Perhaps the most surprising thing about Mimo is that you don't have to throw out what you already have to get the benefit.You can easily add Mimo cards to existing laptops. But even if you don't, your Mimo access point will work with laptops that support the widespread wireless standards, 802.11b and 802.11g, and, most surprisingly, tests have found that the Mimo access point will even boost the speed and range you get with an 802.11b or 802.11g laptop.The main makers of consumer wireless kit have jumped on Mimo. Belkin has a &#163;100 router, and a laptop network card, which work reliably at 40Mbps, compared with about 20Mbps for 802.11g wireless. Linksys also has a Mimo base station,   and Netgear has promised one this month. D-Link is waiting for the next generation of Mimo chips, but it will not be far behind.So, will office networks get in on the act? Probably not. Office wireless Lans (local area networks) are still catching up with 802.11g, and most use 802.11b, which has a throughput of around 5Mbps. Office users probably won't have Mimo networks until around 2007.It will be one of the biggest paradoxes in technology. Home networks will run at nearly 100 times the speed of the broadband connection they are sharing, while office wireless networks, which have a big connection to the internet, will be much slower.The reason is that home routers with wireless Lans are cheap and simple. The "Wi-Fi" brand is trustworthy, and the technology is mature. Most laptops now have Wi-Fi built in, so you can "unplug" and go.Office wireless networks are much more complex, and expensive, and IT managers are only just starting to trust wireless and see the benefits.Office networks often involve more than one access point and lots of users on laptops; they carry critical information, and they need to be reliable. IT managers already have Ethernet networks that work, and don't want new headaches.Things are changing, however, according to market research company Dell'Oro. "IT managers spent about $200m &#91;&#163;107m&#93; on wireless Lans in the last quarter of 2004," said Dell'Oro analyst Greg Collins. "It finally overtook the consumer sector." But while IT managers may be spending more money, they are getting fewer networks: consumers   got at least 10 times as many network access points for their money.One sign that office wireless will grow faster is a move by networking giant Cisco: last week, it bought the leading office wireless start-up company, Airespace, for $450m.Airespace, and rivals such as Trapeze and Aruba, offer clever centralised management technology, and advanced security for office networks. But none has Mimo.Why not? For one thing, office users don't seem to need the bandwidth. "If customers needed more bandwidth, they would be running 802.11a," says Michael Coci, director of technical marketing at Trapeze. Another Wi-Fi alternative, 802.11a, gives more channels and better signals, but is rarely used. "I think &#91;this&#93; indicates customers have not yet hit the performance ceiling."There are also no standards for Mimo. Consumers can buy what they like (it's only an access point and a plug-in card), but most IT managers won't move without standards. A non-standard system for hundreds of users could be an expensive dead end.The world gets its wireless Lan standards from the 802.11 working group of the IEEE (the US Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers). The group is one of the most active and efficient standards makers ever, but it still takes time to create and agree on a formal standard.Mimo will be the basis of a new faster wireless standard, 802.11n, which is not expected to be completed until 2006. There are two front-runners from industry consortia. The WWise (worldwide spectral efficiency) group is aiming for 135Mbps with two antennas, and an   option of up to 540Mbps with four. The TGnSync group - which includes Intel and wireless chip specialist Atheros - wants to provide 243Mbps with two antennas and up to 600Mbps with four.Also, speed is not enough. "Enterprise chipset vendors haven't produced a Mimo chip that supports enterprise features," says Coci. Businesses need features such as higher security and the ability to run multiple wireless Lans in the same space."I see 802.11g to 802.11n/Mimo as a   replay of the move from Ethernet to Fast Ethernet to Gigabit Ethernet," says Coci. "There must be a business case for the upgrade - perhaps a new application like video telephony - before customers can justify paying the premium that Mimo will have for the first year or two."For consumers, it's different, but Mimo may bring problems at home, warns Coci. "We are starting to see channel conflict with consumer products. Imagine what doubling the coverage area will do to interference issues."
Top eCouncilsOldham Borough Council's website is the best-performing local government site, according to automated testing by SiteMorse. The result is an average of tests based on the Web Accessibility Initiative, including responsiveness, error-free operation, HTML standards compliance and accessibility. Oldham attributes its success to Steria's fine tuning of its website, following an analysis by the company's Content Solutions Practice. Previously, Steria raised Spelthorne Council 297 places up the list in a similar exercise. The fastest downloading site is Scilly, while Chiltern has the fastest response time.www.business2www.com/news.html?id=1153692670Tsunami email virusA computer virus is being circulated in emails with the subject line "Tsunami donation! Please help!" according to Sophos, a leading anti-virus company. The email has an attachment called tsunami.exe that, if Windows users run it, could start a denial of service (DoS) attack against a German hacking site. The virus is a mass mailing worm known as Zar.A or VBSun. A different worm called VBS/Geven-B has been circulating in a message that claims the tsunami was God's revenge on "people who did bad on earth".www.sophos.com/virusinfo/articles/vbsuna.htmlExpress yourselfNotebook PCs with ExpressCard slots will start to appear this month. The ExpressCard standard is a faster and smaller replacement for the PC Card (ex PCMCIA) expansion modules used on laptops. Intel - one of the companies behind the standard - has released a supporting chipset called Alviso. ExpressCards may also be used on some desktop PCs as a preferred way to connect devices that are usually installed on expansion cards fitted into internal PCI expansion slots - this should make it simpler and safer for novices to expand their systems. Many users still have PC Cards for other uses, so new laptops will have both slots.www.expresscard.orgHard sellSiebel is upping the stakes forwww.Salesforce.comwith the release of On Demand Version 6, a hosted CRM (customer relationship management) suite targeted at specific vertical markets. Salesforce, its rival, relies on the breadth of its Customforce platform to allow companies to build their own CRM applications. Siebel is drawing on the 23 industry-specific options of its products to offer versions that are hosted online and charged out per user, per month. The first four offerings are for financial services, high tech, life sciences and automotive sectors. The focused nature of the products has allowed Siebel to include a Sales Guidance feature, which recommends actions and relevant content.www.crmondemand.comWhat's in a nameMicrosoft is planning to start beta testing the next version of Windows, codenamed Longhorn, in March. A revamping of its edition names is planned for mid-year in preparation for release in May next year. There are two main versions of Windows XP, Home and Pro, but there are also special editions for Tablet PC, Media Center and a Starter Pack. Microsoft says it plans to develop more "friendly" names for all of these. There is also a plan to release a superset version that integrates the Media Center and Tablet PC extensions.http://msdn.microsoft.com/longhornMaking a moveHewlett-Packard hopes to hold on to its OpenVMS users with the lure of a move from AlphaServer computer systems to Intel Itanium-based servers. The company inherited the VAX VMS operating system with its acquisition of Compaq, and has promised to support its "millions of users". OpenVMS was still a profit centre for HP in 2003, and the release of OpenVMS 8.2 this month will provide a migration path from the AlphaServer line, which is being phased out. This will mean four operating systems will be available for HP's Integrity Itanium 2 range: HP-UX Unix, Linux, Windows and OpenVMS.http://h71000.www7.hp.comVirus creator arrestThe Scottish Drug Enforcement Agency is prosecuting a 27-year-old man for setting up a zombie network to extort money from companies around the world. Matthew Anderson was arrested at a farm near Elgin following information from the US Secret Service. He is accused of creating a virus that may have infected hundreds of PCs, causing them to attack specific websites with spurious traffic and make them uncontactable. This DoS attack, is often used to blackmail companies into paying to have the threat removed. Anderson is on bail pending a trial under the Computer Misuse Act.
Betamax v VHS. Sky v BSB. Super Audio CD v DVD-Audio. There is nothing the consumer electronics industry enjoys more than a format war, and at the CES exhibition in Las Vegas earlier this month, it got the hottest one in a decade.Toshiba, with its HD DVD format, went head-to-head with Blu-ray, developed by Sony with support from much of the industry, in the battle to deliver the long-term successor to the DVD as a playback and recordable system.HD DVD and Blu-ray have a great deal in common. They use a blue laser system, offer the huge amount of storage required to house high definition video (at least 10GB), boast interactive facilities and will also be used to store PC data and games. Yet they are incompatible, and both are heading for US stores this year and next.At CES, both sides put out a flurry of announcements. The HD DVD camp rolled out Hollywood studios - Paramount Home Entertainment, Warner Home Video, Universal Studios Home Entertainment, HBO and New Line Cinema - and announced there would be 100 titles available by the end of the year. They also promised a late 2005 launch for both players and recorders, and spent much of the show emphasising that HD DVDs would be cheaper and easier to produce than Blu-ray discs.Sony, meanwhile, stressed how Blu-ray discs would hold significantly more data than HD DVD ones. In theory, one disc could store a series of programmes. Sony also talked up Blu-ray's gaming potential - it is sure to be part of PlayStation 3's specifications.Yet while there is a huge potential market for both in the PC world, given the amount of storage they offer (where ironically they could be storing downloaded high-definition video), it might be a different story in the consumer electronics arena, particularly in countries such as the UK, where high-definition TV is yet to gain a foothold.According to Adrian Justins, the editor of What Home Cinema magazine, UK consumers might not get the chance to store high-definition video on Blu-ray or DVD HD as Sky, the company that will pioneer HDTV, could prevent punters from archiving broadcasts.And as for the playback movie market, while Hollywood might be keen on another way to sell movies, Justins believes there isn't much of a need for a "better than DVD video" format among consumers.So is it possible we will see a re-run of the battle fought by Super Audio CD and DVD-Audio to replace the CD in the early part of the decade? Neither side won and both formats ended up as niche products with minimal market share. It couldn'thappen again, could it?
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
I was on the train this morning, a bit tired, a bit hungover. Stupidly I'd left my new DS at home but my GBA SP saved the day and I soon got stuck into someZelda: Minish Cap. While I was busy collecting figurines across Hyrule I noticed a couple of commuters giving me that "what is a grown man doing with that" look. Philistines obviously, but it does raise an important point for the new handhelds. They need to be designed so that over 18s would be happy to use them in public.Of course, the most important factors are the games, pricing and, sadly, the marketing, but Sony/Nintendo and the rest need to make sure the design is right too. Embarrassment is not an option - remember thesidetalking nightmarethat Nokia had with their original N-Gage?The Game Boy Advance SP was an understated and pleasing design while the PSP is no slacker in the looks department, but I'm not sure how the DS will go down.I remember being at the GBA SP launch when David Gosen, then MD of Nintendo Europe, mentioned how adults wouldn't feel ashamed using the SP on a train. And he was generally right (today was the first time I've noticed any reaction). But the DS may be a different story. Its distinctive, and slightly cheap, look certainly can't compare to the PSP, but if you want to play Mario, Wario Ware and other dual-screen goodies - and I do - then the DS is the one. I'll see how it goes this week when I take it out in public for the first time. Be interested to hear how any of you importers have got on.
1.Need for Speed: Underground 22.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3.The Simpsons: Hit and Run4.Fifa 20055.The Incredibles6.Pro Evolution Soccer 47.Prince of Persia: Warrior Within8.Football Manager 20059.Call of Duty: Finest Hour10.Lord of the Rings - Third AgeLeisure software charts compiled by Chart  Track, (C)2001ELSPA(UK) Ltd
German developerLiving Mobilehas announced that its Java versions of classic Hudsonsoft title Bomberman have attracted 500,000 paid downloads across Europe since November 2004. It's a pretty impressive figure considering the fact that many still see downloading games to mobile handsets as a niche activity.The company also mentioned that it will be extending its range later this year with two new titles, Bomberman Kart and 3D Bomberman, both aimed at 3G phones. Of course, what the fans really want is a mobile version of the near-mythical ten-player version of Bomberman, first created for thePCFX console, before making an appearence on the Sega Saturn. Over a smooth 3G connection with each player only seeing the portion of the maze their character is in... Bomberman bliss.
The 'plug-in video game entertainment' market has really taken off over the last two years with classicNamcoandAtariarcade sticks selling like hot cakes over Christmas. Now, toy tech company Radica has announced two enticing new addition to itsArcade Legendsrange of multi-game retro units.Due for release in March is Arcade Legends Street Fighter II Special Champion Edition, celebrating the 15th anniversary of the SF series. Based on the Mega Drive version of the hit game, the pack features two authentic six-button Mega Drive controllers, and a bonus game, the wonderful Ghouls and Ghosts.Are your retro senses tingling yet? If not, try this for size. Through licensing deals with Codemasters and Sega, Radica is also set to release a plug-in game based around the work of cult British developer Sensible Software. Due for release in May, Arcade Legends Sega Mega Drive Sensible Soccer Plus (catchy title that) also includes Cannon Fodder and Mega-Lo-Mania.Yeah okay, so you can play most of these games via PC emulators, but these chunky little joystick devices provide you with decent controllersandput the Mega Drive action where it belongs: on your TV, in your living room.
Monkey Madness posted a couple of sexy pictures of Bill Gates on Sunday:Bill Gates Strikes a Pose for Teen Beat Photospread, 1983. He's posing in his office with an IBM PC screen, but as many have noticed, there is also a pre-launch Mac in the background. (This is assuming Monkey Madness has the date right.*)The Mac Observer has responded with a stunning pic of super-cutieSteve Jobswith what looks like an Apple IIc.*BoingBoingsays: "Mark was the first to point out that the Macintosh on the desk behind him would indicate that this photo was taken in 1984 at the earliest." This argument is wrong, of course. The Mac was launched in January 1984 -- it was 10 months late -- but lots of people had them in late 1983, including me. Since Microsoft was the biggest Mac application software house, you can be sure they had a few.Update:As a comment below notes, the pictures are now on Snopes. Yes, they are really of Bill. No, they were not taken for Teen Beat. As Snopes says:Status: Real photos; inaccurate description.
"If you're a blogger (or a blog reader), you're painfully familiar with people who try to raise their own websites' search engine rankings by submitting linked blog comments like "Visit my discount pharmaceuticals site." This is called comment spam, we don't like it either, and we've been testing a new tag that blocks it. From now on, when Google sees the attribute (rel="nofollow") on hyperlinks, those links won't get any credit when we rank websites in our search results. This isn't a negative vote for the site where the comment was posted; it's just a way to make sure that spammers get no benefit from abusing public areas like blog comments, trackbacks, and referrer lists," saysGoogle's blog."We hope the web software community will quickly adopt this attribute and we're pleased that a number of blog software makers have already signed on."
IBM, the world's biggest computer company, benefited from strong sales and a weak dollar in its latest quarter. Fourth quarter revenues grew 7% to $27.7 billion, while net income jumped 12% to $3.1 billion.AsBusiness Weeknotes: "Revenues from services were the big story, rising 10%, to $12.6 billion. Consulting was up an impressive 12%. IBM signed services contracts totaling $12.7 billion and ended 2004 with a backlog of $111 billion."Hardware revenues came in at $9.5 billion, up just 4%. While sales of Windows servers increased 25% and Unix servers were 15% higher, mainframe revenues shrank 4%, and Personal Systems Group revenues increased just 2%."IBM's software revenues grew 7% to $4.5 billion for the quarter, with a gross profit margin of 89%, and by 5% to $15.1 billion for the year.Total revenue for the year was $96.5 billion, up 8%, and earnings were $8.4 billion, up 11%.The IBM press release ishere.No doubt IBM will finally push its annual revenues over $100 billion this year.
There's been a buzz in various comments sections on this blog about gay gamers, running along the lines of "Well, what about gay gamers?" Well, yes. What about 'em?Gay gamers are possibly the least-considered group of interactive entertainment adoptees (besidesChristian gamers, but that's another blog and one which I keep promising I'll write...), yet games have, throughout their history, toyed with the idea of homosexuality. FromUltima VII: The Black Gate, in which male visitors to Britannia's local baths could have a massage from "Gilberto" or a waiting female attendant, toThe Sims Online, where virtuality offers a legal option for gay marriage, games play with traditional notions. If they don't, gamers will play with them anyway.A good example of pushing the boundaries isThe Temple of Elemental Evil, a title released in 2003 which featured gay marriage in the plot, and received attention from various writers and thinkers including Slate columnistClive Thompson. Thompson argues that games "have long allowed players to experiment with new and taboo identities". Academic research into internet communities and massively multiplayer online games has highlighted that these anonymous environments are excellent avenues to try on a new identity to determine whether it may fit in the real world. Thus far, however, the taboos which have been broken in games includegender bending(common for women who play offline games, more prevalent among males in online games),sexual fetishes, and, er, violent gangland criminality. While none of these has appeared to cause significant discomfort for current games players, the explicit inclusion of a homosexual character has made many straight gamers uncomfortable.For those people not interested in examining their sense of Self through game play, identification with a character is a prerequisite to immersion in a plot. That's why groups promoting women in games actively encourage the inclusion of at least one strong playable female character option in the design of games. As back stories become more elaborate and hero profiles become more important, why not include a gay character for the potential gay gamers out there? Certainly the inclusion of countless "types" of people just makes the involvement with the character, the plot and the game more enjoyable for everyone? How dull is it to play the same cardboard cut-out again and again and again?Gamespot'sthoughtful article on the trials and tribulations of being gay in a gamer's world highlights that it's rarely the developers who are the problem. Some are even - shock horror - gay themselves. Companies have no issue with including a gay character in a game; it's the response of the larger gaming community that's the issue. Yes, that online heckling can get pretty offensive.Still, developers have been pretty progressive since the beginning. Armchair Arcade's essay onGay Games Charactershighlights just a few. Admittedly, most characters have been straight, bar a few titillating avatars. The girls from Fear Effect 2 leap into mind.For more information on the gay gaming community, check outAllOutGames,Gamers ExperimentationsandGaymer.org.
Ever tried usingHabbo Hotel? It's a simplified kind of virtual world-slash-chat room, used by around 3 million people every month - mostly teenagers.You may be hearing a lot more about it: venture capital firm 3i has decided to invest serious money in Habbo owner Sulake Corporation."During this year we will focus in the further development of the Habbo Hotel concept and its launch in the promising Asian markets, particularly China and Korea," said [Sulake's] Timo Soininen."Our strategic aim is to build Habbo into a new type of youth brand which is anchored in the largest online teen community. Habbo brand will also extend to include mobile games and content, animation series and merchandising products.Habbo is a quirky little creation that raised my interest because it takes the massively multiplayer gaming concept (which is particularly popular in Asia) and turns it into a teeny-brand marketing opportunity. So could this be a watershed for online communities?
Yet more convergence shenanigans.Sony have confirmedthat they are developing a web browser and productivity software for their PSP handheld. All well and good, but it would be much better if they concentrated on new game ideas rather than rehashing the likes of Ridge Racer. Oh, and spend some time sorting out the allegedlyweedy battery lifetoo.
I know, I know: it's the hot question that's been on everybody's lips. Whatever happened to awful 80s synth-pop starletThomas Dolby?Well, today's Wall Street Journal has the answer...He's been writing ringtones for a living:The British-born musician still earns his living making music -- writing ditties with titles like Tropical 2, Groove and Jazzy, to name just a few of Dolby's compositions that have become ringtones for cellphones.French media and technology company Lagardere SCA recently launched BlingTones, a U.S. division that signs artists for the purpose of having them write original ringtones.Until just a few years ago, a musician in Dolby's position -- post-peak rock star looking to stay in the music business -- would likely earn his living writing advertising jingles. But with more advertising campaigns using familiar hit music instead of jingles, cellphones are the primary market for anonymous, behind-the-scenes musical compositions.It seems fairly appropriate that Dolby, who blinded us with science way back in 1983, should be earning his crust at the erm, blunt edge of technology.I just hope he isn't responsible for thatCrazy Frogringtone, which is annoying enough to warrant being listed as a crime against humanity.
You might have missed the Observer's profile ofKevin Rollins, the man who took over from Michael Dell as the chief executive of Dell Computers last year.He's pretty ambitious, saying that the idea of doubling the firm's share of the home computer market (it currently stands at 18%) is "not irrational".He also does a nice line in being completely un self-deprecating:'I'm also a big alpine skier and I race motocross motorcycles, which is maybe a strange juxtaposition with the classical violin,' he said.When does he find time for all that between, you know, pottering about with nuclear physics and solving Africa's Aids crisis?Dude.
Web retailers could soon have an extra advantage in the fight for custom, reports today'sFinancial Times:An Israeli scientist claims to have developed a technique enabling website retailers to predict which visitors to their websites are most likely to buy goods and services online.Amit Fisher, a researcher at IBM's Haifa laboratory, said his method could predict the long-term value of web shoppers to retailers, making it simpler for them, for example, to give valued customers preferential treatment or to target special promotions and marketing campaigns accurately.Actually, Mr Fisher says that his invention isn't just for the web, but can be applied to all shopping. Still, with the online retail market continuing to shoot up (American shoppers spent $23bn online at Christmas) this kind of 'gold card' system could prove useful to many sellers.
The sight of Kiefer Sutherland's anti-terrorism agent Jack Bauer with a flip-top mobile phone clamped to his ear, barking orders as he once again goes about saving Los Angeles from annihilation, has become one of the enduring images of hit real-time drama 24.Now, with the launch of the fourth series of 24 on Sky One fast approaching, UK fans of the show can sign up for 24: Conspiracy, a series of specially shot 60-second mini-episodes of the show available via Vodafone's 3G mobiles.Each 24: Conspiracy "mobisode" can be downloaded by Vodafone live! customers onto their 3G phones, offering a minute of exclusive video content that mirrors the action in the 24-part TV series on Sky One.Vodafone live! is offering the first Mobisode for free and after that each further 60-second video will cost 50p, or 24 fans can pay £6 to get the whole series on their 3G handset.The new series of 24 launches on Sky One on January 30 and in a marketing experiment, BSkyB will simulcast the extended two-hour first episode on Sky Travel, which is available to Freeview customers, in an effort to persuade some to upgrade to its Sky Digital pay-TV service.Fox launched the fourth series of 24 in the US the Sunday before last, with the show attracting nearly 15 million viewers - its best ever ratings in America.The drama's cast has received quite a makeover for the fourth series, with characters including Dennis Haysbert's President Palmer and Bauer's daughter Kim, played by Elisha Cuthbert, getting the chop.Bauer's latest longest day begins 18 months after the conclusion of series three, with Sutherland's character having been sacked from LA's counter terrorism unit for heroin addiction and re-assigned to protect a hawkish defence secretary, played by William Devane.The action kicks off with the bombing of a commuter train and the kidnapping of the defence secretary and his daughter, who also happens to be Bauer's new love interest.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
This week'sEconomistruns a long piece on the recent success of Samsung, the South Korean firm that's now one of the world's leaders in consumer electronics.The article's subscription only, so here's a few choice quotes:This week Samsung will announce record-breaking annual resluts, not just as South Korea's most profitable, but also as its most visible, company.Yet as Samsung was closing the books on a triumphant 2004, its future was looking less certain. The Korean won soared to a seven-year high against the dollar, reducing the value of much of its overseas earnings. While electronic gadgets such as digital cameras, mobile phones and flat-screen televisions remain as popular as ever, prices are falling. That cuts Samsung's profit margins.The company is... investing heavily... Research and development accounted for $2.9bn in 2003, around 8% of revenue... and more money will be spent on brand-building. A decade ago, Samsung was mostly seen as a producer of cheap televisions and microwave ovens.There's no doubt that Samsung is an extremely interesting company, one that seems to have become a household name without ever really having erm, a household name.It's giving Motorola and Nokia a run for their money in mobile phones, while in the general consumer electronics market it goes from strength to strength.And all this despite its image as, well, a cheap alternative to Sony and the other big hitters. But is it a false dawn? Perhaps not. The technology market is no longer a niche, and if Samsung can capitalise on their successes, they might just keep up the pressure.
EA's televisual ambitions have provoked plenty of discussion today, and, rest assured, if the proposed reality TV version of The Sims does succeed, it won't be the company's only foray into television. So what would a dedicated EA channel look like? Here's a possible evening line-up...7.30pm Games Industry Bargain HuntEquipped with a few million pounds and an aggressive corporate agenda, EA head of acquisitions David Dickinson hits the antique market that is the European games industry. Eidos? Ubisoft? Cheap as chips!8.00 Coronation Street: the Sims editionKaty and Martin improve their daily relationship score by making out, while Kevin starts another small fire in the kitchen.8.30 Medal of Honor Pacific Assault: the drama seriesEpisode Six. Frustrated by the linear nature of the war, Marine recruit Tom Conlin attempts to leave his squadron and devise his own way of beating the Japanese – with predictably disastrous consequences.10.00 News At Ten Street'Xtreme' news, sport and weather presented live from somewhere gritty and urban by Sir Trevor McDonald using the hip language of the street – as filtered through EA's marketing division.10.30 FIFA Football Match of the DayOnce again, EA pays a selection of the world's greatest players to re-imagine the week's key matches in a style more typical of the FIFA Football series. Tonight, Arsenal vs Bolton. Arsenal win 8-0, with seven superb overhead volleys from Thierry Henry and a Pires 30 yard screamer. Bolton, meanwhile, struggle to understand the first touch feature.
As there's been a bit of constructive discussion relating to gender bending in the comments to thepostI made last week, I thought I'd post up a few links to places which consider this most intriguing of online game practices. As for my own input, research I conducted last year, corroborated byNick Yee'sprevious research and other academic findings, seems to indicate that few women gender bend. Taking on the avatar of another gender is primarily a male thing. In fact, according toNick'soriginal research, "... about 48% of the female characters you meet in the game are actually played by male players."Dr. K fromWomengamers.comhas an insightfularticleabout the reasons why men choose to gender bend. Among them are free gifts from male avatars. Are they so simple?There's a great discussion about gender bending onTerra Nova, including some offline articles on the subject for those interested in delving deeper into the phenomenon.Gender bending happens in offline role playing games, as well as in online ones.Hazelhas a few thoughts on the categories appealing to members of the opposite sex.
An online glossary of technical sign language has been compiled to help deaf students studying science and engineering.The British sign language glossary was compiled by researchers at the University of Wolverhampton, based upon interviews with deaf academics and professionals, to establish which signs they use in the course of their work.It features almost 2,500 online video signs for terms such as "absolute zero" and "DNA", making it the most comprehensive catalogue of technical sign language, according to the creators.Diane Peacock, the project director for the glossary, entitled SignsOnline, said: "Students and interpreting staff were having problems getting easy access to sign language resources and reference materials. This project aimed to redress this problem by making resources available on the internet, where anyone can access them - any time, any where."The signs featured in the glossary were collected from the existing methods of communication used by the deaf community and were not created artificially. Researchers studied hours of television footage from programmes such as SignZone and See Hear to determine the signs used by deaf people. A panel of deaf linguists and professionals then evaluated the signs to determine if they were culturally and contextually appropriate. Terms for which no agreed sign could be found were left out.The new glossaries are available on two freely accessible websites - one for the sciences and one for engineering and the built environment. The project team have also updated their earlier website glossary containing signs for art students, containing terms such as "in camera-edit" and "aestheticism".The project was set up in 2002 and funded by the university through a grant of £143,000 from the Higher Education Funding Council for England.Ms Peacock, said: "The science and engineering glossaries will be available to all and we hope they will be used as a resource for deaf students, sign language interpreters and British sign language students."
Following on from Keith'sblog about Sims TV, it looks like EA have far bigger ambitions. The world's largest games publisher now wants to take on thefilm and TV giants. How will they do this? By making more emotional games, apparently. Also a huge international awards ceremony is planned. But does this mean better games or just more reliance on licenses?
Interesting piece in theWall Street Journal Europetoday about how technology firms are using power supplies to shut out the grey market consumers who want to buy their products in the US.It relates the tale of Chris Caine, a Fijian who bought his new G5 iMac from the US to save money.Soon after the computer arrived from the US he plugged it in. There was "a big bang, like an explosion, and white smoke out of the speaker grilles," he says. The machine then died.Mr Cain didn't have a defective unit. It turns out that unlike the 17 other Apple computers that he had purchased in recent years for his DVD-rental business, the new iMac G5s sold in the US are designed to work only with the electric power systems in the US and Japan, which pump out a lower number of volts than in most other countries.Mr Caine fell foul of a little-noticed trend: Some consumer electronics companies are designing products so they will work only in the US. For example, some of the latest printers from Hewlett Packard refuse to print if they aren't fed ink cartidges bought in the same region of the world as the printer. Nintendo's latest handheld game machines are sold in the US with power adapters that don't work in Europe.This also covers hugely widespread consumables like DVDs, of course, which are regionalised. In many ways it's a fascinating by-product of corporate globalisation that the corporates themselves have to regionalise products to protect their profits - especially when a powerful currency like the dollar is weak, and people want to take advantage of it.
Videogame news site Gamesindustrybiz posted astorythis morning claiming that EA is looking to expand its Sims brand into television with an interactive reality TV show. The publisher is apparently in talks with a number of top production companies and several concepts for the show are in discussion. EA's European VP of marketing and sales, Jan Bolz, is quoted as saying:"One idea could be that you're controlling a family, telling them when to go to the kitchen and when to go to the bedroom, and with this mechanism you have gamers all over the world 'playing the show'"Of course, the show will generate revenue in the same way as current reality TV franchises, by inviting viewers to interact via premium rate SMS messages. You have to hand it to EA, they're not short of ideas when it comes to making money.So, videogames as interactive TV - will this catch on? It'll certainly be interesting to see how far the show goes toward reflecting the original game concept. Will the family start wetting themselves because viewers have forgotten to send them to the bathroom? And how long before we get Celebrity Sims? I'm not sure I'd like to have control over Jackie Stallone's love life...
High street shoppers are to face a new hi-tech challenge. In addition to slaloming their way around leaflet distributors, petitioners and charity collectors, they will now face street marketing teams attempting to download promotional material to their mobile phones.The new marketing technique will see teams of pro motional staff given special sashes containing microchips that beam information to the mobile phones of passers-by. The downloads, sent to them wirelessly, could take the form of electronic money-off vouchers, competition entries or simply the phone number and website address of the company in question.Hypertag, the company behind the idea, said that advertisers were constantly looking for new ways to influence potential customers, particularly hard to reach demographics such as teenagers and young professionals.It already produces a version of the technology that can be placed in posters on billboards and bus shelters and has worked on campaigns for the mobile phone network O2 and Transport for London, among others. Interested passers-by are required to activate the infra red or "bluetooth" capabilities included on most modern mobile phones when in the vicinity of the advert to receive the information.A promotion for the publishers Pan MacMillan advertising a Meg Cabot book, Teen Idol, targets girls aged 10 to 14. Participants point their mobile phone at the poster to find out if they have won a prize, ranging from a shopping spree to lip balm or a branded screensaver for their phone.Hypertag's sales and marketing director, Rachel Harker, said the company had already signed up three clients who would be using the new wearable technology in the next month. One is a retail group and the other two will target crowds at sporting events, offering people a free ringtone for their phone or inviting them to take part in a competition.Trials of the system had already taken place in student bars around the country, she said. "They took them into unions and engaged with the students. They downloaded a website address to their phones, making sure they would remember it when they woke up the next morning."Ms Harker, one of three directors who co-founded Hypertag in 2001, insisted consumers would always have to give their consent to receive information from the promotional teams. "You have got to decided you want to interact. We did a lot of consumer research before we launched and we know that if they broadcast anything to their phone that they haven't asked for it will be a real turn-off." She predicted the technology could soon replace leaflets and flyers.
A cheap children's game has been withdrawn from sale because it features players pretending to be Osama bin Laden steering a passenger jet into New York's twin towers.The tasteless &#163;1 liquid crystal game - aimed at children aged five and over - has been removed from the shelves of a discount store in Warrington, Cheshire, after protests from religious leaders. Laden Versus USA also has packaging which features a photograph of the World Trade Centre on fire along with a picture of the al-Qaida leader and a grimacing George Bush.The game, imported from Asia, had been on sale at a Pound Store in Warrington. But, after protests, the company has agreed to remove it from the shelves. A headline in a local paper asked: "Is this the sickest toy ever?"Shaukat Rashid of Warrington Islamic Association said: "It's despicable that an act like that is being used to profiteer. The Islamic community in Warrington publicly condemned the perpetrators of September 11 and we would call on people to boycott the game. It is sick. What will it be next - a game based on the tsunami disaster?"The Rev Michael Finlay, of Warrington parish church, said: "I think it's rather sick that it's Bin Laden versus the USA. It would not be conducive to building relationships within other communities in the town."The store agreed to withdraw the game after learning of the protests. Imran Sodawala, the director of the company, said: "It's not the only shop that sells it. I've seen it in other Pound Stores. But if people are upset, then I will withdraw it straight away."Teenager Hannah Birchall, 16, said she had been sickened by seeing the toy on the shelves. "The images on the box bring back all the memories of September 11," she said. "I think it will desensitise children to what happened."Her friend Kim Walmsley, 17, was appalled. "I think the game is horrible and people caught up in September 11 will be very upset."
'Are you so ugly you have to hang pork sausages round your neck before the dog will play with you? Do you shave in the dark for fear of scaring yourself?' The website of Ugly Enterprises tells it how it is. It's a casting agency for actors of 'character', by which it means people with broken noses, bug eyes and terminal acne. Through the agency's warts-and-all handling many of these 'paper-baggers' will turn their looks - or rather lack of looks - to their own advantage.If Ugly Enterprises were looking to branch into motoring, they'd do well to sign up Fiat's Multipla. The short, stumpy, jug-eared car has got star potential written all over it. From the front it has wide, uncomprehending eyes set over
a grille so slack-jawed you almost expect it to start dribbling. From behind, it boasts the sort of rear-end that would get a shortsighted elephant excited down at the water hole. Around its middle it has a waist, of sorts, but only the sort that fat men have when they do their belts up too tightly.But, like all of life's aesthetically challenged, the Multipla has character and charisma in spades. So much so that in the four years since it was first launched on an unsuspecting road-going public
it has garnered an almost unprecedented number of awards. Its USP is its seating arrangement. It's the only car on the street that seats six adults in two rows of three. This means that unlike other MPVs, it's short - only 4m long - easy to park, easy to corner and even boasts a semi-decent boot.The new Multipla makes a great play of its numerous safety features - crumple zones, ABS, a full set of air bags and anti-intrusion bars (which aren't pubs with a strict door policy), but its main contribution to road safety is that thanks to the three front seats, parents don't have to turn round to administer a back-seat lashing to their squabbling children. You can keep the peace with them in the front next to you. Three adults up front is sociable,
to say the least, but makes you feel
a bit like three builders rammed into the front of a white Transit.The entire dashboard has been replaced with a single vast control carbuncle that contains dials, gear stick, CD player and climate controls. It's big, plasticy and clunky - it might have been made by Tonka Toys - but it's likeable in
a robust, tactile way. The rest of the dash has been carpeted and filled with ingenious storage pockets. All remaining buttons and controls have been moved to the ceiling.Two sunroofs, near-vertical windows, slim pillars and a high driving position all add to the car's feeling of light. Jaundiced babies and tomatoes would both thrive if you parked in the sun.It comes in several packages.I had the 1.9litre turbo-diesel, which sells for £14,495, and for that you get 0-62mph in 12.2 seconds and almost 45 miles to the gallon.The new version of the Multipla has been given a nip and tuck which makes it less ugly and, therefore, more ordinary. Which is a mistake. As in the world of acting, if you can't be the beauty, be the beast.
The New York Times has run a long and interesting CNetinterviewwithAndy Hertzfeld, one of the original Mac developers, in connection with his book,Revolution in the Valley: The Insanely Great Story of How the Mac was Made. (This will be pretty familiar stuff if you've read hisFolkloresite.)Some samples from the interview:Was it a mistake to not license the Mac OS?Definitely, but on the other hand it's just one of those things that you'll never know. It's so much in the genetics of Apple to control, to not be an open thing. And if the Mac was open like that, it would have just been so different that you can't ever say what really would have happened......How do you feel about the iPod being closed now?The same way. I think Apple is making a blunder not licensing FairPlay. Ultimately, when you boil it down, it comes to respect for your customer. I think Apple is showing disrespect to the customers by locking them in.Do you think they'll change?Hard to say. I've had discussions with Steve Jobs about that exact topic. He doesn't see it. What it will take is a really strong competitor......Apple chose a unique position regarding open source -- they took FreeBSD and layered their proprietary OS on top of it to get some of the benefits of open source. Do you think they should have chosen Linux? And what would that have meant?I think they still could choose Linux. The key decision was NeXT choosing Unix back in 1986. They're already Unix based -- that's good. Taking the commodity part where they're not really adding value and open-sourcing it, that's a great strategy -- Darwin and all that.(But) it's not enough. Apple is a closed platform -- they just opened the part they don't care about. I'd like to see them contribute a lot more, and I think there could be tremendous business gains. I've talked with Steve Jobs about this too, and he doesn't really see it. I had a talk with him about a year ago where I was telling him, "Hey, there's this huge opportunity, things are shifting." And he kind of said, "No, they're not. Windows is going to be dominant for at least the next 10 years." I said something like, "Is it going to be the rest of our lives?" He said, "Depends on how long you live."
It's been a busy week on gamesblog. What with Murdoch taking over the gaming world, sexist invites, retro C64 joy - read on...SundayGrown-up games?MondayGame design vs poetry. The ultimate face-offPrice hike is justifiedRecord sales in 2004TuesdayImportance of designWill price hikes inspire the indie games market?GTA coming to PSPBrand obsession gone madChild of our TimeWednesdayWhy don't they think?Mobile gaming and the cityThursdayOnline gamers: who in the virtual world are they?If only for ParadroidFridayA Trip too farThere may be trouble aheadThey were thinking…
Clad in black, a lone figure on stage wielded icons, spoke of their mysteries and whipped up the 4,000-strong crowd into ecstasy. Apple has always inspired religious devotion and, last week, as its chief executive, Steve Jobs, preached to the converted with revelations of a new iPod and Mac, the cult had never seemed more powerful.But the status that Apple has long enjoyed as a friend of the people - David to the corporate Goliath of Microsoft - is set to be sorely tested in the American courts. Apple has launched a legal suit against a fan website for giving away trade secrets by revealing the launch of its &#163;339 'Macintosh computer for the masses before the Mac Mini was formally announced by Jobs at last week's Macworld event in San Francisco.The move has shaken some of Apple's most fanatical supporters to the core. They say the company has previously been content to bask in internet gossip and speculation, giving its Mac computers and iPod digital music players the sort of publicity money can't buy. But when one website, Think Secret, obtained a leak about the cut-price Mac and the scoop was followed up by media around the world, Jobs decided to play hardball.The online community of Apple devotees, one of the most vibrant in cyberspace, is humming with a sense of betrayal and talk that the worm will finally turn. Speaking from San Francisco, Leander Kahney, author of the book Cult of Mac, said: 'Apple is biting the hands that feed it and there is a risk they will turn against it. Apple is seen as this hippie, friendly, alternative-living company, yet it's setting the legal attack dogs on people.'It is heavy-handed and counter to the image of the brand. Apple has used its customers as a marketing vehicle for about 10 years. Some have spent weekends in Apple stores as unofficial salesmen, or phoned schools urging them to buy Macs for pupils. Apple has always relied on that loyalty, but now it risks alienating a lot of people. By launching a lawsuit, it is also reinforcing and validating the speculation about the cut-price Mac. Which, of course, is another way of creating more press.'Apple would lose the case if it ever came to court, but is counting on scaring the wits out of the poor kid who runs this site. It is obsessively secretive and this guy is on an amazing run: he's had a lot of scoops this year and they do get chased up by the media.'Think Secret also recently broke news of a flash memory-based iPod, confirmed when Jobs announced the iPod Shuffle, starting at &#163;69 and no bigger than a packet of chewing gum.   The Shuffle plays the user's selection of downloads in order or randomly.The site's editor-in-chief, who uses the pseudonym Nick dePlume, said via email: 'We're confident that Think Secret's reporting is consistent with the rights protected by the First Amendment. The complaint is being reviewed, and Think Secret defers further comment until it has been analysed.'Kasper Jade, editor-in-chief of another fan site, Apple Insider, said: 'Apple is an intuitive and intriguing company with an enthusiastic following who are passionate about the company itself, its technology, Macs, and now the iPod. And while Apple does not necessarily publicly condone the free publicity generated by rumour sites, its actions appear to be a desperate attempt to control the marketplace and silence journalists.'Apple was defended by Dylan Jones, editor of  GQ  magazine and the author of a forthcoming book,  iPod Therefore I Am . 'It's a simple case of a company trying to protect its interests,' he said. 'There is so much riding on these events in terms of PR that anyone would be irritated by details getting out in advance.'They have enjoyed the free publicity in the past, but this leak was so specific that it represented a serious breach of security.'Apple is a mass market cult because it makes beautiful products. It has an awful lot of press attention because of that. But it has also gone through times when the press was very critical, and the fans and devotees and lunatics love Apple in spite of itself.'Apple has sold more than 10 million iPods since the product's launch in 2001, including a spectacular 4.6m in the most recent retailing quarter. But as some hail the company's march as unstoppable, rival computer giants such as Dell insist there is a longer-term view.Kevin Rollins, Dell's chief executive, told  The Observer : 'Those things that become fads rage, then drop off. When I was growing up, there was a product made by Sony called the Walkman. A rage: everyone had to have one. You don't hear about Walkman any more. In fact, after two or three years you didn't hear about it, so I believe that one-product wonders come and go, but you have to have sustainable business models, sustainable strategy.'Right now it &#91;the iPod&#93; is very hot, but I don't think there's anyone who believes that in three years or so it's going to be at the same level of fever pitch that it's at today. Everybody gets one, then it's done and then it's what's next, what's the next exciting technology?'Don't read that as any disparagement of Apple - they've done a nice job.'In keeping with tradition, Steve Jobs was yesterday unavailable for comment.
While the likes of Apple's Steve Jobs enjoy rock-star status, a quiet American with ungeeky good looks and a passion for classical music is driving the company which has a more genuine claim to world computer domination.Kevin Rollins is the violin-playing, alpine-skiing and motorcycling chief executive of Dell - a man who will apparently not rest until there is a PC in every home on the planet.Dell is the world's biggest PC manufacturer - 18 per cent of the market compared to Apple's 3 per cent - and has ridden out a three-year downturn in the industry to reach a worth of $50 billion (&#163;26.75bn), with limitless expansion plans.Reclining in an unostentatious conference room at Dell's no-frills headquarters in Austin, Texas, Rollins outlined the scope of his ambition. 'We own 18 per cent of the PC business,' he said. 'Is it conceivable to double the size of that business? Yes: 36 per cent market share is not irrational. That would take us from this year, $50 billion, to $100 billion just like that.'We believe that as a company we have to grow globally, in France and Germany and the UK, but also in India and China. We're not in Africa yet, but the same would apply.'Bill Gates's building of the Microsoft software behemoth is the stuff of legend and his nearest hardware equivalent was Michael Dell, who started the firm in his University of Texas dorm room in 1984. But, like Gates, Dell last year gave up the chief executive post while remaining chairman, handing the crown to Rollins, who at 52 is some 12 years his senior.'I didn't seek the position, which is maybe a little unique in our industry,' Rollins said. 'Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Michael Dell are in a class by themselves: they're founders, they've been very successful. My desire for recognition is very, very small: I have a suppressed ego when it comes to a need for fame.'Rollins is a classically trained violinist and performs three or four concerts a year. Active in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he is known as a family man who makes time for his wife, Debra, and their three children.'I'm also a big alpine skier and I race motocross motorcycles, which is maybe a strange juxtaposition with the classical violin,' he said.Rollins, who grew up in Provo, Utah, and joined Dell in 1996, is a voracious reader, saying he finds inspiration from biographies of famous politicians and leaders.
"Samsung has developed the world's first motion-sensing mobile phone. A user can dial the SCH-S310 phone by "writing" numbers in the air and control other functions by waving or shaking the phone. It goes on sale in South Korea in March," reportsWireless NewsFactor."The Samsung model SCH-S310 includes a built in accelerometer that the company says can detect movement in three-dimensional space and then carry out commands according to those movements. For example, the user can "write" the number "three" in the air. The mobile phone can read this movement and then dial 3. Shaking the phone twice will conclude a call or delete spam messages."Comment:Korea's LG also has motion-sensitive phones, the SV360 and SV3600, which are being launched at the end of March. In this case, what looks like a candy-bar phone opens up to reveal a portable games console. You can, for example, steer your game car by tilting the phone.The Samsung press release ishere.
