Yahoo has just released itsthird quarter financial results, and while sales rose 3% to $1.33 billion, profits plunged by 64% from $151.3 million to $54.3 million.According toBloomberg, analysts had predicted quarterly sales of $1.37 billion.The company also said that it would cut at least 10% of its staff as advertising spending slowed. Since it employs around 15,000 people, that would mean 1,500 jobs could go, saving $400 million a year.Yahoo's shares rose on the news. Bloomberg says they "rose 86 cents, or 7.1%, to $12.93 in extended trading after the job cuts were announced." They're still a long way below the $31 of Microsoft's initial offer, which puts co-founder and CEO Jerry Yang in a difficult position.A few days ago, asMarketwatchreported, Google announced that its quarterly revenues jumped 34% to $4.04 billion, while profits beat expectations at $1.35 billion.
Technology pioneer Apple has posted a dramatic increase in profits after seeing sales soar over the past three months.Announcing the company's results for the financial quarter ending in September, Apple said that it had seen sales of computers, mobile phones and iPods rise dramatically over the same period in 2007.The company shipped more than 2.6m Mac computers, 11m iPods and almost 6.9m iPhones, leading to revenues of $7.9bn and profits of $1.14bn. That increase marks a profit increase of more than 26% over the same period last year."Apple just reported one of the best quarters in its history, with a spectacular performance by the iPhone – we sold more phones than [BlackBerry maker] Research In Motion," said Apple chief executive Steve Jobs."RIM is a good company that makes good products, so it's surprising that after only 15 months we can beat them in any quarter. In terms of revenue, Apple has become the third largest mobile phone supplier in the world."Speaking to reporters and analysts, chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer called it a "record-breaking" quarter."We sold more Macs than in any other quarter; we sold more iPhones in the September quarter than in all previous quarters combined; we sold more iPods than in any non-holiday quarter," he said.He also confirmed that Apple has now surpassed its target of selling more than 10m iPhones in 2008 – largely on the back of a new version launched over the summer with 3G networking and built-in GPS, as well as a massive expansion of the number of countries in which the device is sold.Looking towards the future, both Jobs and Oppenheimer said they would remain "prudent" because of the banking crisis, but were confident that sales would remain high.Last week the company relaunched its popular laptop line, and in September brought out a new range of iPods."We are not economists. Your next door neighbour can likely predict what's going to happen as well as we can," said Jobs."We don't yet know how this economic downturn will affect Apple. But we're armed with the strongest product line in our history, the most talented employees and the best customers in our industry… and $25bn of cash safely in the bank with zero debt."
The old firm sides of the football simulation world are once again battling over the hearts and minds of joypad-wielding 'soccer' fans. In this week's UK games chart, PES has just shoulder-barged FIFA from the top spot with EA's title enjoying just one week as the biggest seller.But success is a game of two halves and, right now, FIFA is winning the fight for critical appreciation. Over at Metacritic, the PS3 version is on 87 while the Xbox 360 iteration stands at 88. The lad's done well. But, oh dear, Xbox PES is at the bottom of the league with 75, while the PS3 equivalent shoots for a faintly acceptable mid-table placing of 83. Still, Shingo 'Seabass' Takatsuka will not be over the moon with those figures.It's early doors, with everything to play for. It could go either way. And yes, I've even managed to bore myself with these all too obvious footballing cliches.Have you played both? Add your own punditry below...For now though, here's the rest of the chart...1 Pro Evolution Soccer 20092 FIFA 093 Saints Row 24 Lego Batman: The Videogame5 Wii Fit6 Mario Kart Wii7 Star Wars: The Force Unleashed8 Wii Play9 Tiger Woods PGA Tour 0910 Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway
You have to love Paul Boutin's latest bit of flamebait in Wired magazine. Here we have a Valleywag blogger saying blogs are just so over, and blogging the fact that he said it in the even moretiredold medium of print, courtesy of Wired. At the centre of this little set of Russian nesting dolls is, of course, a tweet. Which, he says, is all you need to read:@WiredReader: Kill yr blog. 2004 over. Google won't find you. Too much cruft from HuffPo, NYT. Commenters are tards. C u on Facebook?Take him at his word. You've read the tweet, so there's no need to check theblog postor theWired essay. But of course, plenty of people will. He got me, didn't he?Once you've enjoyed thematryoshka, however, you might wonder if Boutin has a point. Basically he's saying that lone bloggers can't compete with what are now professional online magazines (The Huffington Post. Engadget. TreeHugger), so all you'll get for your trouble is the attention of "the Net's lowest form of life: The insult commenter".By moving to Facebook and/or Twitter, however, you might reach more friends and fewer frigtards….True?
Googlehas pledged to try to stop the next global pandemic by investing $15m in a series of hi-tech health schemes.Money from the internet giant will provide funding for six projects that aim to detect new diseases and understand the conditions that help them spread – potentially saving millions of lives in the process."Business as usual won't prevent the next Aids or Sars," said Dr Larry Brilliant, the executive director of Google.org. "The teams we're funding today are on the frontiers of digital and genetic early-detection technology."In the first round of grants, $15m (£8.8m) is being spread among organisations working to identify and preventinfectious diseasesthat have the potential to become global pandemics.Among the biggest beneficiaries is theGlobal Viral Forecasting Initiative, a group that collects blood samples from humans and animals around the world in order to spot dangerous pathogens that leap from animals to humans.Examples of pandemic diseases that have followed this route includeHIV, Sars and bird flu – even if the link has taken years or even decades to be determined.The initiative will receive $5.5m from Google.org in order to expand its remit. Its founder, Dr Nathan Wolfe, said that the development could have a huge impact."Every hour, on every continent, viruses move from animals into people," he said. "Working in animal markets, with restaurant workers and with hunters at the end of the road, we sort through this traffic to stop deadly diseases before they spread."Google will also be contributing $2.5m to a scheme run by the Mailman School of Public Health, based at Columbia University in New York, which aims to speed up its programme to discover new pathogens.The other organisations receiving grants as part of the announcement include theInternational Research Institute for Climate and Society– also at Columbia – and theUniversity Corporation for Atmospheric Research, which will both receive $900,000 to improve weather prediction and forecasting.Although it may not appear that the weather has a strong influence on the spread of diseases, Google.org programme director Frank Rijsberman said it was crucial to improve forecasting in conjunction with the identification of disease "hot spots" across Africa and south-east Asia."We think it has a critical role to play," he said. "For example, the last major outbreak of Rift Valley Fever in Kenya – which affects cattle and spills over into people – was actually predicted several months in advance through a weather forecast. It was going to be wet, and that meant there were going to be a lot more mosquitos, and the mosquitos – if they reach a certain threshold – were likely to pass on the disease."TheWoods Hole Research Center, based in Massachusetts, will receive $2m to produce satellite images of forests in the developing world to help understand how the environment affects the spread of diseases.Google has pledged to contribute 1% of all its profits to charity, as well as giving Google.org 3m shares in the parent company – currently valued at more than $1bn.As part of its wide-ranging mission to develop new ideas in energy, the environment and global poverty, the organisation has already made significant investments in geothermal energy, solar technologies and wind power.Rijsberman said that how much more was put into these schemes would depend on how successful they become."In renewable energy we have started with large investments, while in this initiative we have started with grants but expect to move into investments in diagnostics companies later. Over the next several years we expect some of them might be more successful than others, or we might find better ways of putting our resources to work."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Mea culpa, mea culpa. I've only just had the chance to review the incredible - and I really meanincredible- entries which the gamesblog massive submitted for ourSpore evolutionary game design competition, and dang are they awesome.But while we got a bumper 24 entries from budding designers inspired by our evolutionary theme, we were sadly only able to choose five people to win a copy of Will Wright's newest sim. And the five winners are:Luke Morrowfor GermsAndrew Iresonfor The Gaia GameMatthew Ruigrokfor Pumpkin HarvesterJohn 'Killerbee' Kilbeyfor Race of LifeGeoff Burgessfor his first person shooterKeep reading for full details, and prepare to be amazed. Congrats as well to everyone who submitted; it was a tough decision and our crack team of gamesbloggers and game designers spent quite some time debating the final five.Luke Morrowfor GermsEvolve you germs and dominate the world(Stage 1)You start of as a single bad germ inside a human body .Your job is to survive and multiply your colony of germs and fight of good bacteria trying to stop you. The stage lasts until the human develops a cough, when this happens part of the your colony of germs is coughed out onto the humans hand.(Stage 2) (Time trial)This stage is more challenging as you have to make it to a surface or object before the human can wash his hands! You can either leap to a surface guided by the wind or when the human touches a surface move directly onto it.(Stage 3)There will be optional surfaces each with there own benefits e.g. door handle will be small but will come into contact with many humans, the kitchen sink will be larger with more chances to grow but there will be a higher risk of being attacked by good bacteria i.e. soap! Once you make it onto a new surface or object its time to start evolving into a stronger and more dangerous germ colony! Relying on environmental conditions e.g. other liquids mixing with your germs, food crumbs, other germs that you can join up with and form a super germ colony and most importantly temperature. Having taken over the object/surface completely, grown in strength and numbers,You will have achieved Virus status! The game then develops, suddenly something falls from the sky into your germ world, a huge £10 note! having used all the resources available your germs infest the £10 note (possibly time trial) just seconds from it being picked up and put into the humans wallet.(Stage 5)This is were the game switches to world infestation mode.Since moving onto the £10 note the super virus germ colony is now in your control as you try and spread the virus from the £10 note into supermarkets and banks and global companies until there is a global epidemic in which the humans do not know how to cure!You are now the King germ, you are the most evolved germ there is. You are no longer a microscopic liquid based life form, you are now a tiny being with arms and legs with a lot of aggression to be unleashed apon the human race! Now decided if you want to sell the cure to the humans or enslave them forever with illness!You Decide.Andrew Iresonfor The Gaia GameIn this game you start by terraforming an initially "dead" planet, creating an atmosphere that can sustain life. However, the planet goes through cycles of ice-ages, meteor strikes, deadly volcanic erruptions and tsunamis, meaning that all higher life forms suffer routine extinctions. The challenge is to evolve intelligent life which can develop the means to escape the planet before the next extinction. However, as more intelligent species develop, so their activities have an ever more dramatic impact on Gaia's natural cycles, which may be benefitial or determental. Its a race between evolution and Gaia's lifecycle. The species that escapes the planet successfully can then go on to colonise another planet, and the process repeats.You control a team of human scientists who arrive on the planet on a spaceship, and live in a small self-sustaining bio-dome. Your team and their descendants are thus immune from the earlier existinctions. You control the activities of the scientists, who must find ways of modifying the planets atmosphere, temperature, hydrology and ultimately biology.Matthew Ruigrokfor Pumpkin HarvesterSummary - Have you got green fingered aspirations, but don't want to get muddy feet? Now you can live out your horticultural hopes with Pumpkin Harvester. Based on real Pumpkin genealogy you can design and nurture your own pumpkins to be the ultimate "Pumpkin Harvester". You have the choice to become a PumpKing and build an empire by forcing them to develop quick and cheaply to ship to supermarkets or you can be the best organic grower and create the tastiest pumpkin possible.Features include: Rich pumpkin designer, real time pumpkin development, lots of awards including Gastro Pub pumpkin of the year and Harvest Festival's largest pumpkin. Real Pumpkin genealogy means no two pumpkins wills ever be the same and you can create your own varieties which our seed factory can produce and actually send to you to grow in your own pumpkin patch at home.GameplaySeed stage - Use genetic points to specify the colour, taste, size, fertility, resistance at the seed stage. This will result in the presentation and success of the pumpkin during later stages.Growing stage - Carefully balance resources of water, fertiliser (different sorts for different effects), pesticides (or other pest prevention methods for organic pumpkins) to ensure a healthy pumpkin so it can reach....Maturity stage - Choose when to harvest the pumpkin to either sell to Gastro pubs/supermarkets/organic farmer's markets (for different prices) or to try and cross pollinate with another pumpkin variety (multiplayer aspect) to gain new attributes for second generations pumpkins.Sit back and count your money/awards stage - Exactly what it says. Use awards and money to unlock new pumpkin attributes/equipment/growing capabilities. Carve Jack O Lanterns with your own pumpkins, make soup or throw them off tall buildings.John 'Killerbee' Kilbeyfor Race of LifeWhat: The aim of the game is to grow your tree faster than your rivals. You start off as a tiny sapling on the forest floor and must race against competing trees / plants and other hazards to grow through various stages of growth and development.What you do: Playing like a vertically scrolling shoot 'em up, you have to guide your sapling's growth upwards through the big bad rainforest.Rival trees are constantly springing up and will chase after you in pursuit of the sunlight (at the top of the level), so keeping your speed up by staying ahead of rival vegetation is the core facet to the gameplay.Along the way, you'll encounter all sorts of wildlife that will try to land on your tree and slow your progress. Initially you'll encounter small insects, but as your tree gets bigger, birds, squirrels and even monkeys will clamber onto your tree, weighing you down and hindering your rate of ascent. You can fend off invading animals by firing seeds, nuts and fruit at them."Lives" take the form of different branches for your tree – if one gets overwhelmed by rival trees, play switches to another branch until your tree is "dead". On completion of each level, you "level up" by growing an extra branch (extra life) or trade that for a strength or speed bonus to help you through the next level.Power ups come via raindrops which fall down and will give you key bonuses if you can catch them:-         "Leaf me alone!" - sprout a leaf to either side of your stem/branch to put an obstacle in the way of pursuing plants, slowing them down;-         "Lord of the Rings" - add another ring to your trunk: this increases your strength and reduces the negative effects of wildlife landing on you;-         "Audrey II" – evolve a carnivorous flower to eat the invading insects and animals. Complete with a funky song, natch.-         "Miracle Gro!" – a speed-enhancing drug. Beware: this could see you banned from the Gro-lympics for life.In true shoot 'em up fashion, the aim of the game is to get the highest tree (score) possible!Geoff Burgessfor his first person shooterA first-person shooter in which all the enemies evolve against you. Day and night cycles represent multi-generational evolutionary leaps, as surviving monsters cross-breed to mingle attributes.In the day cycle monsters jump, fly, swim and crawl over the landscape towards you: You blast them as best you can.In the night cycle the survivors interbreed, taking characteristics from each parent (and additional random mutations): the resultant generation attacking the next day. The new monsters may not be able to walk but will have huge teeth; they may fly right at you but be unable to inflict damage. The key factor is that their parents are the ones you allowed to live; the ones you couldn't kill.For example: If you aren't good at water sections and close-combat, the next generation will be sharp-clawed swimmers. Every game different. One player against an evolving horde.
OK, so even somebody as powerful as Nicolas Sarkozy canget their online bank accounts busted, but if you thought it was safe to go back to your keyboard then think again. Swiss researchers claim they have worked out ways toremotely sniff what you're typingon a wired keyboard. They've not yet published full details, but do havetwo videos onlinewhich they say demonstrate that they can monitor electrical pulses from up to 65 feet away and work out what you've typed.
Look away Greg, Aleks and seemingly about 90% of the Gamesblog readership - it's mobile time! Actually, stay with me, because theNokia Mobile Games Innovation Challengeis genuinely interesting. It's the second year of the competition and once again, developers from all over the world have submitted their most offbeat mobile titles for consideration. The three winners will be offered Nokia publishing contracts, which should see their efforts appearing on a glossy N-series phone near you.There's some bizarre stuff here, making brilliant, often subversive use of various mobile technologies. Here's the lowdown, together with quotes from Nokia's press release and occasionally extra info from me:CinemarenaActive Tecnologia e Consultoria Ltda. (Brazil)"Set in a movie theatre, controlling avatars on the big screen."BallCreatePlayShare (India)"Play any ball game on your mobile or even create your own new game." I think they need to work on the title.Ghost WireDifferent Game (Sweden)"Use your mobile device to communicate with ghosts." Do they meanrealghosts? Hmm, sort of an augmented reality Project Zero?WatchersEclipse Interactive (UK)"Conspiracy adventure game that uses Nokia Maps and other real world tools to find locations." Eclipse (who I just found out were co-founded by ex-Gamesmaster magazine dep ed, Les Ellis), say it's Memento and Majestic meets Enemy of the State.KweekiesInt13 (France)"Augmented reality virtual pet game that allows players to interact with their pet by utilizing the embedded camera of their mobile device." Games have been using the phone camera for a few years now, so it'll be interesting to see what this Parisian studio does with the technology.MelokeyJadestone(Sweden) andC4M(France)"A music game for mobile devices where you learn to master songs and play them against other in-game characters to win the hearts of your fans."Wave PiratesLemonQuest (Spain)"Turn into a pirate navigating the seven seas, looking for gold and glory." Doesn't sound spectacularly innovative, but Lemon Quest has good formComet HunterOnur Yazilim (Turkey)"A 2D shooting game which combines the excitement of shooting with natural sound effects made by players themselves."XDancerySimlife (China)"A music game where players can touch the screen, draw patterns on screen, shake the device or sing into it to hit the music tempo notes."Fun CamTechnoBubble (Spain)"A mixed reality game that connects your camera on your mobile device to the TV". This is pretty amazing - you plug your N95 into the TV and rest it on top -  the game then uses the handset as a motion sensing camera for a range of EyeToy-like minigames.Here's YouTube footageof it in action.The winners will be unveiled at Nokia's Game Summit in Rome next week. I'll be there to get more info.
Loren Baker, editor of Search Engine Journal, has published a pleadingOpen Letter to Google : Why Have You Taken Away my Google &amp; GMail Accounts?He complains:Since Google has decided to take my account away from me, the nucleus of our company communications has been taken away and now is replaced by a black hole. My small business communications are now ruined until my account is reestablished.Still, at least he now realises his mistake:Now the joke is on me Google. After being an advocate for cloud computing, networked email and open communications, Google has taken this all away from me. My mistake; trusting Google and not backing up everything I had stored in my Gmail account.Needless to say, "I told you so," several times. See, for example,Never assume your data is safe, even if it's online, andWhen Google owns you.... your data is in the cloud, andDon't have your head in the clouds about online services. I'll also be telling you again on October 30th, and probably a few more times in the future.You should always rememberSchofield's Second Law of Computing: data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. Preferably more.If you only have one copy on Google then you don't own it, Google owns you. And if you are running a business on that basis, then either you are naïve or you're an idiot.
A month or two ago, I stuck a note in my calendar to the effect that it would be nice to celebrate 25 years of computer coverage in the Guardian ... and then forgot all about it. Such are the wonders of computers, I did get a reminder that on Thursday October 20 1983 we published the first Futures Micro Guardian. If my memory is correct, this was an add-on to Tim Radford's science page, Futures, and it included the first of my weekly columns. (At the time, I was editor of a monthly computer magazine, Practical Computing.) Leader-writer Vic Keegan was also a pioneering contributor.In those days, of course, the UK microcomputer industry was a battle between Acorn and Sinclair, at least for home users, with education also being covered by Research Machines. The US was represented mainly by the Commodore 64, with a minor role for the Atari 800. The Amstrad CPC464 had yet to be launched. The IBM PC was still a business machine, like the ACT Sirius and new ACT Apricot computers.You'd probably regard prices as shocking. I seem to recall paying about £300 each for floppy drives for Apple IIe and Atari 800 computers, and around £100 for 16K memory boards. A Sirius cost around £2,500 while a full-spec IBM PC XT with a 10 megabyte hard drive and printer cost around £6,000 – six months wages, for many – and I remember picking up 512K of memory chips from IBM for only £999. Business applications typically cost around £400 each.This left a huge potential market for home computers from Acorn, Amstrad, Atari, Commodore, Dragon, Grundy, Oric, Sinclair, Tandy, Tangerine and many more, who could sell simple 8-bit machines to run cassette tape-based software for £200-£400 and falling. And that was the market we mainly targeted.Futures Micro Guardian was successful enough for us to launch Computer Guardian in September 1985. This became part of the online section in May 1994 (where we had a website that preceded Guardian Unlimited), which turned into today's Technology section with the Berliner relaunch in 2005. Which is where we are today.
Over the past decade, "Britney Spears" has been one of the most popular web searches, in a wide variety of spellings. And not always in a good way. Britney has certainly been through a period when she has mostly been in the news for reasons other than her singing career.Whether she has recovered remains to be seen, but she is restarting her career with a new single and a series of moves to exploit the internet. These include a newBritney blog-style website,a social networking site called Circus VIP, an email newsletter, aBritney Spears YouTube channel, videos and a Twitter feed,therealbritney.Like most pop stars,Britney also has long-running pages on MySpaceand Facebook, and her record label, Jive, also maintains afan site.It would be a full-time job keeping all these sites up to date, and Team Britney is doing the work. However, according to Mark Steines of Entertainment Tonight, quoted on BritneySpears.com: "Britney is taking a hands-on approach with the fun new site – which she told me is the best way to get past all the tabloid gossip and get the real news straight from the source!"Well, she's contributed a short "video blog".There's a lot at stake, because Britney's hit single, Womanizer, will be followed by an album, Circus, and a tour that includes the UK. There's also a new "cherry-themed fragrance", Hidden Fantasy.The blog has many of the elements of a fan site, and early posts include lots of pictures (child photos, red carpet snaps, magazine covers etc), and fan art drawn from Circus VIP. Since it's a blog, it accepts trackbacks and comments, most of which amount to (a) I love you; or (b) please come to Brazil/Mexico/Peru/Portugal/Florida/etc.You can sign up for Circus VIP with an email address and password. This allows you to create your own page with photos and blog posts, start a photo album, upload videos and remixes, import an address book to invite your friends, and add applications. So far there are 58 apps including Gmail chat, speed dating, some simple games and various information feeds. Most seem to have fewer than 10 users, but it's early days.Circus VIP also has groups and discussion forums, whereLauren K, who posts for Britney Spears, says:  "Of course Britney isn't running the site. I was hired by her team to help with her online presence. You can see that I've been transparent about my role as a community manager on the site."I assume the same features and applications are available on other social networks built on Ning, the platform used by Circus VIP. Ning was founded by Gina Bianchini and Marc Andreessen, who is better known as one of the founders of Netscape.Anyone can start a social network on Ning, and it's surprising that more pop stars haven't done it. After all, in the entertainment business your fans are your best customers. Getting them involved should pay off.
Those of you who were as excited as I was about this Friday's release ofLittle Big Planetwill be saddened to hear that the game's launch date has been pushed back to 'the first week in November' because the soundtrack has to be changed.On Friday, a post on theOfficial PlayStation Community forumrequested that the publisher take a closer listen to one of the audio tracks in the game. The poster explained,While playing your latest game, "LittleBigPlanet" in the first level of the third world in the game (titled "Swinging Safari";)), I have noticed something strange in the lyrics of the music track of the level. When I listened carefully, I was surprised to hear some very familiar Arabic words from the Qur'an...The words are:1- In the 18th second: "كل نفس ذائقة الموت" ("kollo nafsin tha'iqatol mawt", literally: 'Every soul shall have the taste of death').2- Almost immediately after, in the 27th second: "كل من عليها فان" ("kollo man alaiha fan", literally: 'All that is on earth will perish').I asked many of my friends online and offline and they heard the exact same thing that I heard easily when I played that part of the track. Certain Arabic hardcore gaming forums are already discussing this, so we decided to take action by emailing you before this spreads to mainstream attention.His concern is that some members of the playing public may find the mixing of music and words offensive.Sony announced that it has recalled all copies of the game, and will begin re-shipping them to North American retailers on 27 October.According toCNET,British game developer Media Molecule, creator of Little Big Planet, said it was as "shocked and dismayed by (the delay) as anyone – shellshocked and gutted. We can't wait for you all to get playing and creating!"The song in question is called Tapha Niang by Grammy award-winningToumani Diabate's Symmetric Orchestraand is a two-year old piece of music available to purchase online. You can also hear it on hisMySpacesite.
Monday's start-the-week edition of Chatterbox.
A motorcyclist who posted YouTube footage of himself speeding at up to 130mph and performing dangerous stunts was jailed for 12 weeks today.Sandor Ferenci raced on the wrong side of the road around Banbury, Oxfordshire, and carried out wheelies, wheelspins and skids before putting footage on the video-sharing site.The footage has since been removed from YouTube.The 28-year-old, who is as a care worker for an elderly woman, was also disqualified from driving for two years and ordered to take an extended driving test before being allowed on the road again.He pleaded guilty to two counts of dangerous driving at Oxford crown court.Judge Terence Maher told Ferenci he had carried out "lunatic and grossly irresponsible manoeuvres at considerable speed".The court heard that Ferenci was seen performing wheelies on his Yamaha R6 bike on the A422 Banbury to Brackley road on June 10.Brian Payne, prosecuting, said a motorist took down his registration number and contacted police, who traced him to his home in Banbury.The court heard that when officers arrived, Ferenci asked them: "Is this about the YouTube video?"Police then found he had posted video clips of himself on the internet.The footage, which was played to the court, had been filmed by a friend from various vantage points including a footbridge.It showed the bike performing wheelies, undertaking other vehicles and driving at speeds which police estimated could have reached up to 130mph.Gary Bell, defending, said Ferenci had read a story about a child who died as a result of a motorcycle accident and now understood the ramifications of what he had done.He said it was an "utterly sobering experience" for a "naive young man", adding: "He is truly remorseful."Ferenci pleaded guilty to the two charges at an earlier hearing at Banbury magistrates court and asked for a further offence to be taken into consideration.Maher told him: "We have heard the description of your driving, and the video clip ... shows an appalling piece of driving which your own barrister admits is extremely dangerous."Substantial pieces of road are passed on the rear wheel, and on two occasions you undertake motorists."It may be true that you posed the main danger to yourself, but there was a danger to other road users."He told Ferenci that driving any vehicle on the road was a responsibility and people had a duty to take care."A message must go out - if you drive in this way and are caught, serious consequences will follow," he said.
How times have changed. A year ago, a dotcom entrepreneur wanting to cash in would probably have opted for a stockmarket flotation. Clearly that option is no longer available, but one hi-tech financier believes there could be light at the end of the tunnel for patient investors.Dennis Miller, general partner at Boston-based Spark Capital, told the Guardian that while flotation was no longer an option, plenty of startups could still find themselves acquisition targets for larger companies.He singled out traditional media companies, many still desperate to succeed in the transition to digital business, as potential buyers during a downturn."The guys running these companies grew up in a linear, analogue world and don't necessarily have the DNA and the skill sets to move into the brave new world that's being thrust upon everyone," he said.However, he said that startups would need to tighten operations and slow their spending to attract the larger suitors."Most good venture capitalists have had the come-to-Jesus meeting with their portfolio companies," Miller said. "The consequence is that they all need to get through the next 15 to 18 months on the cash they have in hand."Spark, which specialises in early-stage investment, has stakes in a number of fashionable startups including messaging service Twitter, social gaming website I'm In Like With You and blogging system Tumblr.But with many young internet companies struggling to find a way to achieve profit, there have been questions over how they might negotiate what some have described as a "nuclear winter".Twitter – which lets users publish status updates across the internet and mobile phones – has come in for particular criticism after paring back its services as a result of the struggle to generate revenues.Last week chairman Evan Williams, a co-founder of Blogger.com who negotiated that company's sale to Google in 2003, announced he would be switching roles with chief executive Jack Dorsey.Spark partner Bijan Sabet, who sits on the board of Twitter, last week responded to questions about the company's profitability by saying that it would not be deciding on a revenue model until next year."I think it's very normal and expected for people in this economy to say, 'when is twitter going to show us how it can generate revenue'," Sabet said last week. "The answer is, stay tuned, they're working on it."Acquisitions have become an increasingly popular way for startups to cash in – and appears to be the only exit option now that the chance of public flotation has effectively been killed off by recent events on the stockmarket.However, the most recent MoneyTree report – a quarterly survey of venture funds produced by PricewaterhouseCoopers and America's National Venture Capital Association – showed that public exits had dried up even before the stockmarket turbulence of the past few weeks.The second quarter of 2008 was entirely devoid of IPOs from companies backed by venture capital, marking a low-water mark not seen since 1978.Miller said that within the context the outlook was better for early-stage investments and those who were prepared to fund startups with the longer term in mind."Nobody is contemplating a public exit in a meaningful way any time soon, and I don't think there will be a lot of them – but I think for folks like ourselves – we're usually investing with a three- to five-year time horizon," he said.
ON A PLATTE&gt;&gt; It will be interesting to see how many of these "satisfied customers" (if they're not all a figment of Bateup's imagination) will still be satisfied if Platte goes under for VAT evasion.mbsvictims.org.uk&gt;&gt; After several hours trying to remove the virus with no luck (it kept coming back), My dad contacted the phone number, quoting the 'customer ref' on the pop up. A 'very nice' lady offered to help if he paid the £29.99. Dad refused. However, she managed to con him into giving out his address to send a 'free' uninstall cd to him.We are currently seeking legal advice from the citizens advice bureau.How can people get away with this?"Nicola"Comment onmichaelpollitt.comKOREA, ANONYMOUSLY&gt;&gt; I'm not trying to be alarmist here, but only say that we must care about where our data goes. The game here is becoming more interesting, because the nature of the internet and even free speech is at stake. Yesterday, the Guardian wrote that the South Korea, a democracy, would like to more heavily police the internet and essentially terminate its anonymity (link). Steps away from anonymous data are harmful ones.jboriss.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; So what happens when the internet and sites like cVillain become legit and accountable?  Would there rise another villainous site (www.villainouscvillain.com) to support the prior cVillains who now hide in fear from the local Charlottesville Police Internet Netiquette Task Force (CPINTF, pronounced cuh-phin-tiff)?cvillain.com&gt;&gt; The first part is a bit comical - South Korea intends to rule that all speech on the network should be verifiable, real name, given that about half of the Korean population is called either Kim, Lee or Park.But secondly, it is also interesting that a country with such a strong online play culture would adopt this law. Without wishing to sound like the chaos researcher in Jurassic Park ( "nature find a way"), it feels like pretty soon people will move their uncomfortable opinions to online worlds in order to be able to maintain their anonymity.perikores.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; *snort* this falls into the "good luck with that!" territorytechnocrat.net&gt;&gt; Professor Zittrain brings up the obvious question when dealing with the Internet: How will the Korean government respond when users decide to start using websites based outside of Korea?futurizekorea.com&gt;&gt; The other problem is, the Korean government would also have to block all sites based overseas because it couldn't make them card Koreans at their virtual doors.netfamilynews.org&gt;&gt; It's been a bad week for free speech.broadband-guide.blogspot.comIT AND THE OLD&gt;&gt; Victor Keegan, who writes for the Guardian has had the same problems with the registration process of the Finerday web site. If anybody from Finerday is reading this blog please, please drop this over-complicated procedure. It looks clever but it is not suitable for the target market.20plus30.com&gt;&gt; From the cover of my first book (March 2005): "It will be the Baby Boomers who will be the first to pick and choose, to ignore and be seduced by leading-edge technology marfketing. There's a simple reason for this. We have the money to buy this stuff. Experts say we will continue to have the money for at least the next twenty years. Write us off at your peril."advertisingtobabyboomers.blogspot.com
"Hi everybody, welcome to the newBritneySpears.com. ... I'm going to take you where no paparazzi lens ever could," says the pop princess in her welcome video. In apress release, she says she wants to "connect with ya'll":"I wanted to create a place where I could connect with ya'll and share what's really going on in my life. I'll be sharing videos, stories, music, photos, and lots of other cool stuff," she says.The new web site is just part of what's going on. Britney also has aYouTubevideo channel, asocial networking site, an email newsletter, and she's now onTwitter, too. Well, I guess that's Team Britney. I don't expect she's going to provide hourly updates on her hair/nails/knickers from her BlackBerry 8700, or whatever she uses now. (TheWomanizer videofeatures a nakedNokia 5800 XpressMusictouch-phone.)Oh yes, there's also a new perfume calledHidden Fantasy, which is "a cherry-themed spinoff fragrance of the original perfume simply titled Fantasy." Sounds just what I need.OK, I don't expect Britney generates much love around here, but where Britney goes, lots of fans will follow…
Last week, Google rolled out a new version of its iGoogle home page with adramatic change: it now has a traditional menu with items listed down the left hand side. (Initially, this only affects US users.)Along with the change come16 new widgets(which Google calls gadgets), that support the new "canvas view".It's a bit of a shambles, even by Google standards. For example,I just changed my iGoogle theme to Autumn, which works for the top half of the menu, but the old theme remains on the gadget entries. My old Dilbert is broken, and doesn't load any cartoons at all: just empty boxes. And where the old iGoogle took you to the full Gmail, the new one embeds a cut-down iGmail. It's not just pointless, it's clueless. Asone blogger said:Of course, over on the Google Blog, it looks all rosy and fun, but try using the damned thing. It's truly awful.Amusingly enough, I just clicked on my Engadget feed, which I can't have used for a while, because iGoogle is still determinedly loading full items with pictures. It already has "more than 240 items" going back six days, and there's no sign it's ever going to stop. I wonder if I'll get the entire Engadget in a single page…Also,Yahoo has also screwed upbig time on the alias/profile front, and is taking a huge amount of abuse on its blog. One comment on Yahoo's post is as follows:Making a second rate copy of facebook while breaking everything else people come to yahoo for is a good way to go out of business.I wonder if this may also apply to iGoogle. It does look as though Google's long term aim for iGoogle is to be a crappier version of Facebook.Still, not everybody hates iGoogle. There's a vote at Lifehacker onHow Do You Like iGoogle's Canvas View?At the moment only 55% give it a Thumbs Down.Meanwhile, my Engadget page is still downloading. iGoogle has now got to October 6, which is "more than 396 items" on a single page. At least IE7 is still working fine, albeit a little slowly....
PS3 sales tumble in Japanis the headline on Gamesindusty.biz's little story based on Media Create's research into console sales. It says: "Japanese hardware sales have plummeted for the week ended October 12, hitting the PlayStation 3 hardest and reducing its sales down to 5,734 units, from 7,232 last week."One unexpected result is that the Xbox 360 also outsold Sony's PlayStation 2 in Japan, as well as the PS3. The numbers are 7,763 units against 6,982 for the PS2 and 5,734 for the PS3. Given the dire early sales of both Xboxes in Japan, Microsoft must be slightly chuffed.However, bear in mind that this is merely a fight to be a distant second: Ninteno's Wii was the top selling home console in Japan, shifting 22,877 units in the week. The Wii sold as many as the other three put together.During the whole ofSeptember, the Xbox 360 sold 54,793 units in Japan, against 31,798 units for the PS3.In the US, the Wii also led the way, selling 687,000 units in September, according to NPD. The Xbox 360 sold 347,000, while the PS3 did 232,000.In a postlast Monday, I noted that Microsoft had cut the price of the Xbox 360 and Sony had declined to match it. Gamesindusty.biz quotes Anita Frazier of NPD saying:"The price reduction on the Xbox 360 helped deliver a month-over-month unit sales increase for that platform of 78%."
Audi RS6 Quattro Avant&pound;77,730CO2 per km: 333 GramsMiles per gallon: 20.3Good for: alpha malesBad for: beta blockersJonathan grips the squared-off steering wheel in both hands and shouts at the track surging towards us: 'It's an animal. It's a beast...' He lets out the kind of laugh Peter Mandelson probably did when he 'got the call' from GB, and pushes the accelerator further towards the carpet. The massive engine ignites, sending us hurtling into the future. There seems to be no limit to the power available to us. It's a 12-course gastronomic menu of automotive adrenaline. Jonathan seems composed and capable, but my heart is in my throat with the vision-blurring velocity we are travelling at. I begin to worry my heart might actually burst out of my mouth. But then I remember he is a heart surgeon, and I calm down; he'd be able to shove it back in. At last, he hits the massive six-piston calliper brakes and we slow to a gentler pace, as does my heart... Audi should consider offering a 'cardiac consultant' as an optional extra on some if its models.The RS6 is the most powerful production estate car available on the road. There are only six other production cars which have a comparable level of horsepower shovelled into them. They are the Strasbourg geese of the motoring world: the Bentley GT Speed, Ferrari 599, Pagani Zonda F, Lamborghini Murcielago and a pair of Mercedes-Benzes, the SLR and the S65 AMG. Notice that there are no Porsches in the club. No Aston Martins. No Maseratis. No Jaguars. This Audi is a supercar, and yet it is also a family estate. Which raises the obvious question: who will buy a &pound;77,730 estate car with a 572bhp, V10 Lamborghini engine squeezed under its aluminium hood? The first answer is: not very many people. The planned total volume, to be drip-fed on to our streets over the next three years, is a meagre 1,400. Will the owners be family men who like to drive fast? Surely not. No one wants to do 155mph with their little darlings strapped into the back and a terrified Labrador behind the dog guard. High-mileage salesmen? The pitiful fuel consumption would soon put them out of business. Publicity-shy celebs? Possibly, but they aren't going to need five seats and a big boot. It can only be high-speed smugglers. They need the ample storage space for contraband and the rocket-like acceleration to out-gun the cops. The real answer, actually, is me, or Jonathan, or you - if only we had the cash. And the reason is simple. You will never drive a more exhilarating yet practical, understated yet beautiful car.The RS6 has more power even than the R8 racing car which won Le Mans in 2005. The standard measurement of power is bhp, or brake horse power. Years ago, as small boys, we used to talk in hushed reverence of a car's top speed. But manufacturers can now make cars that go so fast their engines have to be electronically limited - usually to 155mph. So BMW's M5, Mercedes's E63 and the RS6 all do exactly the same speed, 155mph - it's death to Top Trump players. Therefore we small boys have to get excited about the time it takes you to get to those speeds - and the more bhp a car has, the greater its acceleration. And the RS6 has more bhp than any other car in its class.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The availability of more powerful computing means that we can all watch the US election, and particularly the effect of changes in polls, in something approaching real time - at least, as fast as the data from the polls can be pulled in.There are three notable sites where you can see what's going on, and to me it's hard to put a paper between them: so (in alphabetical order)270towin.comandFiveThirtyEight.com, andRealClearPolitics(which provides polling data for ourUS Election 08 coverage; hey, look, there they are on the right!).Both run Monte Carlo simulations using the latest poll data to predict who will win the US election. That means that you don't always get the same result - if you try the270towin simulatortwice in a row then you'll get two different answers.But, because it's a Monte Carlo simulation, it will trend around an indicative average of what you would expect in the one-off of real life. (In brief: a Monte Carlo simulation rolls the dice, or spins the roulette wheel, on a given chance-driven situation; you get a stack of results. With a fair roulette wheel, you'd expect to see every number come up equally; with two dice, you'd expect it tocluster around a value of seven.(One of the fun - and scary - things is to look at the past choices that US states made in previous presidential elections.)FiveThirtyEight.comalso acts as a sort of political blog, but has lots of maps - including theremarkable result from 1984, when Reagan got 525/538 of the "electoral college" votes while getting 60% of the votes, andthe  amazing one from 1972, when Nixon got 62% of the votes cast but 520 "electoral college" votes. And then there's 2000, when.. oh no, let's not. Which goes to show how the first-past-the-post system, as used in the US states - and here, since you mention it - can distort things. (The 270towin site  shows how many actual votes were cast.)Any other sites we should know about?
Brothers In Arms: Hell's HighwayPC, PS3, Xbox 360The second world war's doomed Operation Market Garden provides the backdrop to the latest game to simulate resistance to the German menace in 1940s Europe. All the usual period settings and inaccurate weaponry feature, forcing a mild tactical leaning in which rather than take on the Axis like a traditional one-man army, you instead direct fire teams and vehicles to pinion and then flank enemy positions as you provide supporting sniper fire. While some of the voice acting is retro gung-ho, on the Xbox 360 the largely texture-free graphics just look old-fashioned, lacking the raw intensity introduced by Call Of Duty 4 or the subtlety of Full Spectrum Warrior's by-the-book advances. The result, while nowhere near as bad as the recent Medal Of Honor outings, still fails to stand out in an increasingly crowded market for pretend warmongering.• Ubisoft, &pound;34.99-&pound;49.99Lego BatmanNintendo DS, PC, PS2, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360The charming Lego-based plundering of the 20th century's most important cultural beacons continues. Having used up Star Wars and Indiana Jones, the plastic people this time take on Batman, ignoring the recent reboot, and with only the Danny Elfman score imported from the Tim Burton-helmed films. Everything else is lifted straight out of the campy 1960s TV series, from its featuring of Robin and Batgirl, to a cavalcade of familiar villains like Joker, Riddler and the Penguin, plus less famous faces such as Clayface and Killer Moth. Action, as usual, revolves around smashing up baddies, scenery and everything you can see to find bonuses, encouraging a friend to join in with a constantly beckoning co-op mode. Once you've played each section you can replay as any of the supervillains, supplying variety to each of the game's perfectly crafted levels.• Warner Bros, &pound;24.99-&pound;49.99Nintendo announces new handheldAfter months of rumour and denial, Nintendo has announced the successor to the DS Lite, their spectacularly successful dual-screen handheld that finally won over the last two traditional non-gaming audiences - old people and women - with titles like Brain Training and Nintendogs. The newDSi handheld, while outwardly very similar, will now feature a digital camera, bigger screens and, most importantly, an SD card slot on which you can store photos and downloaded software from theDSi shop. You'll also be able to import your Miis (little personalised avatars) from your Nintendo Wii, too. Released in Japan in early November for the equivalent of &pound;100, it will arrive here in March 2009. While hardly a revolution, new Nintendo hardware is almost always a reason for joy, even if in this case it may be portioned in relatively small sizes.
What Katy didbefore she kissed a girlAll our favourite tractor videosare in one placeWorking with a sociopathand five other baffling mistakes every movie criminal makesWe preferReese Witherspoon with a spoon rather than without a spoonTake On Meby A-ha is, now, literally the best video everIt's allGordon Gekko's faultThe eight phasesof datingThis is familiarWho's gotthe sex factor?What Banksydid next
A secret international website described as a "one-stop shop" for online fraudsters buying and selling stolen credit card details has been shut down after a series of raids around the globe, police said yesterday.Nearly 60 people, including 11 in Britain, have been arrested in connection with the DarkMarket forum, which operated for almost three years selling personal data such as online banking details, as well as allowing criminals to exchange information about how to commit fraud.The site, which could only be accessed by invitation, sold passwords to social networking and online email sites and electronic hardware. It was closed down on Thursday night after undercover FBI officers infiltrated it and spent nearly two years identifying the key users. The Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA), which led the UK arm of the operation, called DarkMarket "one of the most pernicious online criminal forums in the world".A man was recently convicted of buying &pound;250,000 of personal data on the site in only six weeks, it said, estimating that the information could have been used to commit &pound;10m of identity fraud.The FBI estimated the scale of potential fraud and loss from the site's activities at more than &pound;40m. It had 2,500 registered members at its peak.The British arrests, of men aged between their late teens and late 50s, were made in Leicester, Manchester, Humberside, South Yorkshire and London. Five took place in the past week while the others were within the past 18 months. Others were held in Germany, Turkey and the US. Some suspects remain at large.
Some VWs set your heart racing: curvy vintage camper vans, say, or pre-1967 Beetles. Not the Golf - it barely invites a blush. But that's not the point. Its marketing slogan says it all: Der Golf, Das Auto. You don't need A-level German to grasp that message - Golf is the bestselling, all-conquering life-blood of VW, if not its soul.The importance of the car to VW explains why it has chosen to unveil Golf's sixth incarnation in Iceland, no expense spared. It has built a handsome timber-and-glass pavilion in the mountains, where handsome Germans dressed in black efficiently commandeer a fleet of Golfs. But Iceland is a mistake. Its breathtaking black mountains, erupting geysers and shops selling cosy, hand-knitted mittens are just too distracting. VW would have been better launching the Golf on a particularly ugly stretch of the M25 - without cute Icelandic churches to divert the attention, you'd have nothing better to do than contemplate the dashboard or fiddle with the stereo. Furthermore, VW says this is the quietest Golf yet, thanks to improved door seals and thicker window glass: on eerily empty mountain passes, you never really put this to the test.The Mark VI arrives indecently hot on the heels of the Mk V, which was launched in 2004 and had the shortest model life of any Golf to date (the original lasted from 1974 to 1984). Quite simply, Mk V wasn't shifting enough cars, we are told over lobster thermidor, so its successor has been rushed out, production time slashed and costs lowered.Accordingly, there is no drastic redesign, just a gentle evolution overseen by design chief Walter de Silva to make it "more unmistakably Golf"-like. Translation: the front grille is designed to resemble the 1974 original - remember those? - with the Mk V's boxier version elongated horizontally. A small face-lift now that, at 35, the Golf is getting a few wrinkles around the eyes.It's the inside that's had the most work done. The finishes are more luxurious, the seats plumper and the white, deeply-set dials are stylishly backlit and trimmed in aluminium. All very Marc Newson. The steering wheel has new buttons to control the sound system and trip computer, but the result is too cluttered: I'm having enough trouble avoiding oncoming Nordic 4x4s with snow tyres without figuring out which of the many paddles turns down Bj&ouml;rk. And the wheel itself is contoured to such a degree that it acts like a driving instructor: my co-pilot is forced into the 10-to-two position by dint of it being the comfiest, when really he's a one-handed, six-30 kind of guy.The new 2.0-litre TDI diesel engine we drive has an impressive, six-speed automatic DSG gearbox and a nannyish optional cruise control that keeps you a safe distance from the car in front. More importantly, this model is one of the most efficient around. It will also be available later in 2009 as a BlueMotion 1.6-litre model, VW's laudable sustainability concept first introduced with the Polo in 2006. This hopes to achieve a positively planet-saving 74.3mpg, emitting 99g CO2/km.But, best of all, the new Golf rips along merrily: slam the gear stick into "sport" mode and it powers you with surprising ease up even the steepest Icelandic volcano - should you ever find yourself at the foot of one.
Who knew there was so much to say about the height of a celebrity? Here, debate rages about the true sizes of Sylvester Stallone and Brad Pitt, with many claiming that they - along, it would seem, with many other Hollywood stars - wear lifts that add up to five inches to their stature. To help discover the truth, readers are invited to send in photos of themselves stood next to the famous, while many snaps in the A-Z section feature site owner Rob Paul, who also offers up tips for judging a star's height (get them to stand next to 6ft 1in Jonathan Ross, for example). Elsewhere, there are some great tales about John Wayne's infamous love of a stacked heel and quotes from Nicole Kidman, who, upon breaking up with Tom Cruise, remarked, "Now I can wear heels again." You can also find out where you figure in the celebrity height chart.
It's farewell for quite a few months, I fear, as I head off to Africa, Mauritius, Indonesia, New Zealand and the Sea of Cortez to make a documentary about disappearing species. I shall be out of reach of broadband, mobile phone and even landlines for much of the time. That will not stop me from taking a suitcase full of cables, chargers, memory cards and connectors, however, and I thought I might, by way of valediction, give you an inventory of what this particular dork packs when he travels.First of all, should all else fail, I will make sure that there's at least one of Trevor Baylis's products in my bag. Baylis, you may remember, pioneered the wind-up radio. On the eco-gadget sitebiggreensmile.comyou can find his company's practical and hardy hand-crankable media players, the latest (the Eco Media Revolution) offering radio, video, music, photo, text, phone-charging, memo recording and storage in most of the useful formats and codecs, all for &pound;129.99. One minute of winding makes for 45 minutes of play, that's the promise: a big British bargain. The same site has a Freeloader solar charger for &pound;24.95 that will help with juicing up all my gadgets when I'm too hot and knackered to crank.I shall also take my iPhone 3G, without which I'm pretty much an empty vessel these days, but I will bring along a collection of sim cards, too, and my unlocked first generation iPhone, which can run on any network, in case there's a signal that the official iPhone can't receive. Because they're so colourful, pretty and neat, I will also pack one of the new iPod Nanos: they combine the old Nano clickwheel and anodised metal finish with a new-style accelerometer, so you can shake it to shuffle songs and turn it sideways to watch music and flick through album covers.As for reading, well, I have a Sony eReader, a Kindle and an Iliad, all dedicated electronic book readers, but the fact is, the iPhone has already proved itself (according to Forbes Magazine) the most popular ebook reader on the market. Nearly half a million people have downloaded the free Stanza application for iPhone (from the iTunes store). Via Stanza files, just about all the classics in prose and poetry can be easily downloaded and read clearly and easily on screen. You can transfer Kindle and pdf files from your desktop, too, so a vast quantity of books and newspapers is available. Electronic books are made (as the name suggests) of electrons, which weigh nothing; whatever one's view of the feel and qualities of a proper book, when travelling, zero ounces of electron is better than the heavy molecular mass that makes up the real thing.For photography I shall take the Canon 1000D I reviewed the other week, enraging loyal Pentax and Nikon users, for which I apologise: if Canon didn't exist, I'd be a perfectly happy Nikon/Pentax/Minolta user. I shall also pack a Sony Cybershot-W170, a competent all-round compact digital camera. I would rather take the slimmer and cuter Casio Exilim, but it has a complicated recharging station that takes up too much precious packing space.Cables, of course, are the bane of any globetrotting geek's life, and while there seems to be no perfect solution to the misery of self-knotting spaghetti, I am taken with the ease and simplicity of the Proporta magnetic cable tidies (&pound;2.95 for a pack of two, fromproporta.com). The same outfit's Gadget Bag (&pound;24.95) will house my Nintendo DS Lite, dozens of game cartridges and the phones and iPod. As for laptops, I shall flip a coin to decide whether to take a MacBook Air, the lightest of the MacBook range, or the Livono ThinkPad X300. Whichever I choose will come preloaded with as many films and TV shows as I can download. Their weightlessness will save me having to lug DVDs about.Thank you for reading this column over the past few months. I apologise for errors and inconsistencies. Yes, I believe in Open Source and Free soft-ware, but I'm too much of a fanatic to be pure about it. I like to try everything, even if it's proprietary and closed. And I like to share what's out there with those who are less assured in the digital world. By the time I get back, who knows what goodies and innovations will await me?
I have collected vinyl for 20 years and have more than 20,000 12-inch singles. Apart from spending months with a USB turntable, is there any way to transfer them to computer? If I were to download all the songs from a filesharing service, would I be breaking copyright laws?People who download from filesharing services such as LimeWire and eDonkey are breaking the law - even if they already own a copy in another format - but the music industry has so far focused on tracking down those who upload music so others can copy it.In fact, according to strict legal interpretation, you are not even supposed to rip music from the CDs or vinyl you own. Of course, that doesn't stop millions of people doing it, and the ripping rule is now considered an archaic piece of legislation that would crumble if anybody ever challenged it.Whatever you decide to do, the real problem with having such an vast catalogue of music is that many of the more obscure tracks are going to be difficult to find anywhere. After all, even if you could find 80% of the records you own online, you'd still be left with 4,000 singles to copy. You may need to start getting used to the idea of spending some serious time with your turntables.
Well lookee here, a hearty congratulations to The Guardian for landing MCV's coveted National Newspaper, Best Games Coverage award at MCV's Games Media Awards do last night. The only of us in attendance were blogger Greg and Steve Boxer, and as yet no photos have surfaced. But we're looking.Cheers to all who voted for us!
I've been playing final code ofFable 2over the last couple of days and am really REALLY enjoying it so far.   Fans of the original will get a nostalgic glow from the oo-ar English accents but there is no need to have played through the first game to appreciate the sequel. What *will* help though is an appreciation of Zelda, Oblivion and fairy tales generally. So think dungeons, exploring off the beaten track and digging for treasure all set in a classic fairy tale/fantasy medieval setting.  If this sounds appealing then you'll appreciate that Fable 2 is one of those classic "winter" games best played in on a snowy/rainy Sunday afternoon. Or maybe that's just me. But you get the drift – this is a world away from Saints Row 2 and the rest.So far I've done some exploring, fighting and questing but Fable is just as much about interaction with the locals. So far I've exchanged presents, flirted, farted and am saving up for a rather natty shop. There seems to be far more scope here than in the original game.  But perhaps the biggest hit is your canine companion, who you pick up early in the game. Having a pooch at your side as you explore the countryside is a great feeling and there is a definite emotional pull if he gets injured.The orb system – which shows other players as floaty orbs in the game, and allows you to send gifts and interact – looks like a masterstroke and adds an MMO buzz to the game, even in these early pre-release days.I've only briefly played the actual multiplayer – limited to two players - and wasn't 100% convinced. Basically you feel a very much secondary character to the player whose game you have joined. Yes, you get the gold and experience points to take back to your game but your world remains as it was when you left. This means you will need to repeat quests you may already have done in multiplayer. Not a gamebreaker though, but slightly annoying after playing the likes of Crackdown.Anyway, there is a review embargo until next Monday but from what I've played so far Fable 2 looks a good 'un.
Yokshiki Okamotois a games industry legend. He started at Capcom in 1984 and has his name on some of their biggest franchises, including Resident Evil, Devil May Cry, Street Fighter and the smash Monster Hunter. He's treated like a rock star in Japan, and has a keen insight into why some of his games do better than others outside of Japan. I met with Okamoto-san at the Tokyo Game Show last week and asked if he could offer any insight into the cultural divide between his country and the rest of the gaming world.What are the strengths of the Japanese computer games industry?The high level of polish it applies to its products.What are its needs?The courage to try new things despite the risk of failure or less polished products.  Especially among management and investors.What are the different strengths and needs of the European market?I'm not certain; maybe football games?You were the creative force behind Monster Hunter, a phenomenon in Japan, but a non-mover elsewhere. How would you design the game differently for a European market?Monster Hunter emphasizes cooperation over competition, which suits Japanese audiences perfectly, since most Japanese people enjoy cooperating and being part of a group.  This kind of gameplay is less suited to audiences drawn from Western cultures, which place a heavier emphasis on the independence of the individual from the group.  In designing a game for a European market, I think it is vital to maintain an awareness of this sort of fundamental cultural difference.I'll go out on a limb and try to give a detailed proposal here; I suspect that to be a hit in Europe, the same game would need to provide the player with a party of three realistic NPCs with good AI for offline play, sufficient to take on the roles you would expect to fill in online play.Increasingly, the consoles are offering new independent distribution channels for community to upload and publish their own games. How might this drive variation and innovation in the content released by the traditionally-conservative Japanese publishing scene?At this point the types of independent, community-driven efforts mentioned are still a relatively small issue, but it is possible they could bring about major changes.  At this point theｙ still need to deal with the issue of allowing the user to quickly and easily distinguish good content from bad content.Which non-Japanese companies do you feel produce the most innovative content that should work in Japan, but doesn't?Rockstar　Games. Rockstar is not unsuccessful in Japan, but their success here is on a much smaller scale than elsewhere in the world market.  The low Japanese sales of the sandbox-style GTA series simply do not make any sense to me.
One of the great claims about the internet has always been that it doesn't respect borders. John Perry Barlow, in his "declaration of cyberspace independence" – written way back in 1996 – claimed that national governments couldn't hold sway against the determined electrons of cyberspace: "Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours," he wrote.And then we have a week like this, in which police forces acting for those boring nation-based governments shut down somespammers allegedly responsible for generating one-third of all the world's spam, and then ascammers' website where criminals traded stolen bank and card details.Sounds like a bit of a win there for the nation state. Though to be fair, Barlow was writing a long time before the spammers and scammers had really discovered the net, and trying to make a point about free speech.What's also interesting is that the geeks' favoured solutions – technological ones – really didn't work. Bill Gates famouslypronounced that spam would be solved, and put Microsoft's brightest (well, I hope they were the brightest: how would you feel if you were drafted into it, looked around and realised everyone else on the antispam team was an also-ran?) into coming up with ways to beat it through technical fixessuch as SPF.Didn't work. Spam kept growing.Antivirus companies have been selling people products to safeguard their machines against trojans, bots and so on for years. Hasn't stopped a dramatic number of machines being infected (though one has to accept that more would have been infected than without), and people's details stolen. There have been more than 60 arrests so far.I score that as 2-0 to solutions based on law rather than technology. True, the technological fixes are often quicker – but they don't discourage in the way that say, a jail sentence or even the process of having your assets, computers and possessions seized, frozen and inspected by the police will. And with the greater transparency being forced on banks all around the world, it becomes harder for the illicit gains to be stashed away.It has taken some while for the law to catch up. There was the way that the creator of the Love Bug virus (the first that really had a global impact)got off scot-freebecause there were no laws in the Philippines against writing viruses. The author of the Melissa virus (which preceded Love Bug) wassentenced to 20 months in jail. But it is common in a field that's rapidly developing that the law takes a while to pull on its shoes and socks. Driving under the influence of alcohol (as opposed to being completely drunk) hasn't been illegal forever; in England (I'm astonished to have discovered in the course of writing this piece)strict limits were only introduced in 1967.But once you have laws in place, the game changes. That's the difference between technology and law. When you introduce a new technology – such as the internet – it creates huge, rippling effects on society as a whole. You can't predict them, and it's probably wiser not to try. But you can predict that criminals will try to exploit its downside, just as entrepreneurs will try to exploits its benefits.The wave washes over society, and then the ripples become smaller; we've integrated it into our lives. The internet hasn't finished overturning how we live, but it's a lot clearer what role it has. And that's where the law finally has a chance to catch up.Even so, governments have a way to go. The FBI in the US has done well, but in the UK the government hasn't shown enough signs that it's really au fait with what's going on. Richard Clayton, a security researcher at Cambridge University and one of the writers of the Light Blue Touchpaper blog,notesthat earlier this month the Home Officeannouncedthere will be aPolice Central e-Crime unit (PCeU), which – once it's operating next spring – will be able to tackle crime that's not big enough for the Serious and Organised Crimes Agency (which helped in the arrest of the ID fraudsters' ring), yet not localised enough for local police.Clayton thinks there's still a way to go, and points to Bonnie and Clyde – whose 1930s' inter-state bank robberies created jurisdictional problems, until robbing banks was made a federal rather than state crime – as the classic pre-internet example.As Clayton notes, we do have modern Bonnie and Clydes, "with criminals in one country fleecing consumers in another while using systems hosted in a third".But he says the problem isn't being tackled properly. "What isn't happening, or at least only in a handful of very specialised areas, is any international cooperation in setting priorities or selecting cases to pursue. Every country is doing its own thing about e-crime, and there's a widespread impression that any criminal who can operate from 'across the state line' is essentially immune from serious investigation."Well, that might have felt like it was true earlier this month. But maybe this week marks the beginning of a change in cooperative policing. It's about time, after all.
Luke Whittaker's Essex GirlIndie game developer Luke Whittaker latest game,Essex Girl, takes theSingstarmodel and adapts it to the indie scene. Inspired by - and created for 'electro-pop artist RiK' - the game gets you intimate with the song and the musician so you've got no other option but to buy it. Nice piece of marketing, that.Keep reading for the details, and find out what other games he's got on his plate (that's a reference, that is).Explain your game to my mum in 140 wordsIt's a music game with a new twist. The animated electro-pop artist RiK has launched a new single called Essex Girl, and simultaneously launched this game as a 'game single' to promote it at http://www.rikworld.com.  You can control RiK on the bass guitar, and direct the lights and camera of his live performance. The better you learn the tune and the more accurately you play, the higher your score.How do players control the game?Players use they keyboard, mapped to represent an ascending scale on the guitar, so you really are playing a version of the tune note by note and testing your musical ability. Additionally, you can gain bonus points by triggering lights and camera moves with the keys.What is your background?I set upState of Playthis year to start making bigger games.  As a freelance games designer I've been making games for around five years, usually taking on all the design and programming work myself, when I'd really like just to be designing and animating.  The games have become very popular and gone on to win awards at festivals like SXSW, and the time came when, to continue to create ambitious titles, the business needed to grow. State of Play was born, and we've now got full-time programmers and a producer. In the casual gaming world you don't need a big team, and we're smaller than most, but that makes us more flexible.Name your competitors.We don't really see it as 'us versus them', the plan is just to create innovative titles each time. It's not like trying to sell a new brand of washing powder to jaded masses, and that's a very good thing. It's about creating new game experiences which will draw in existing casual gamers, and grab new audiences along the way.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?Our games have been featured as the Number 1 game on Miniclip.com, which has over 43 million unique visitors per month, so it's fair to say we've had millions of players.  The target in twelve months is to make numbers like that come directly to our sites, rather than through one portal, which will give us more revenue and a greater control over where we take our business.What's your biggest challenge?Almost everything feels like a challenge when you place high an importance on innovation, and the most stressful things are often short term problems like code fixing, when you just desperately want to see your concepts working, although after much wailing and gnashing of teeth these things are always ironed out.  In a broader sense, the biggest challenge will be to keep this sense of innovation whilst building the business, but the best thing with the relatively low cost of creating casual games is that innovation can be economically viable. And the online gaming audience positively demand innovation, so that helps.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?I created a Baseball game for Miniclip last year, and I needed reference to draw all the player animations. 3D motion capture is reserved for the kinds of budgets only the big console developers can afford, so I found myself, in January in the middle of Kent, dressed in full Detroit Tigers baseball kit, leaping around a field infront of a video camera in the drizzle, freezing my baseballs off.  When I thought about how it would eventually look like I was in a beautfully sunny field in the USA, that seemed pretty weird.What's your distribution/publishing plan?The RiK game is distributed effectively for free on flash portals like Newgrounds and Hallpass, and the cost of hosting is borne by advertising partners like Gamejacket, and this method has already generated thousands of hits worldwide. RiK's presence on Facebook, Bebo, YouTube and MySpace is part of an integrated campaign, where the music promotes the game and vice verca, and the RiK community grows. Our upcoming project,Basebods, is building up a fanbase before launch with a similarly integrated presence on the web.  The plan is that the games will all become something much larger than before -  they'll have their own communities built around them.Are indie games the latest killer app?Oh yes. The power is shifting from the big players in the console market to those making online games.  Eventually, the amount of money spent on online casual gaming might creep up to that spent on console games, in which case companies will be tackling those challenges associated with large development teams.  For now though, the freedom we have is kickstarting a lot of interesting experimentation.Are you the next big thing?Yes, we think so. The RiK game and Basebods will have millions of players soon, and the communities around them are flourishing. We also have lots of exciting ideas lined up in the new year, and can't wait to get started. Onward!
Richard Stallman is about as hi-tech as they come. For decades he has been one of the world's most famouscomputer programmersand holds a position as a research affiliate at the renowned Massachusetts Institute of Technology.As founder of the freesoftwaremovement in the 1980s, Stallman has been the inspiration forcomputer hackersaround the world, and these days the 55-year-old spends his time travelling the globe and speaking about his work.But despite this hi-tech pedigree, he is one of a number of people who chooses to restrict his use of popular technologies in a way that may seem contrary.As a privacy campaigner, for example, he refuses to carry amobile phone. And even though most of his work takes place on a computer, Stallman only sporadically connects to the internet and purposely avoids surfing the web."Very often I'm on planes or buses, or in a place where there's no internet, so I couldn't possibly do my work if I couldn't do it offline," he told the Guardian from his office in Boston. "Fortunately I have a powerful computer, and it's capable of doing an awful lot without a web connection – something which many users don't seem to know about any more."'I don't do e-commerce'Stallman said that he might surf the web "if I'm visiting somebody's house", but says he refuses to indulge himself too much. "I don't identify myself, and I don't do e-commerce," he added.Stallman's approach is partly philosophical and partly about keeping on top of things. He only checks hisemailafter answering the existing messages, for example. In this he is not alone. Most of us know the feeling of dread when our computer pings and announces the arrival of yet another email, and research from the University of Glasgow has shown that 34% of us feel overwhelmed by the number of messages they receive.People working in the computer industry are often among those most affected by the weight of modern communications, since they frequently adopt the newest systems to help them stay always-on and constantly connected.However, despite the lure of email, blogs and the internet, some of the most accomplished technologists react by choosing to severely limit their interaction with the hi-tech world.Clifford Stoll, an astronomer who helped catch Soviet computer hackers in the 1980s,was an early internet sceptic and now campaigns against the introduction of computers in schools. Stoll rarely uses the net, although he retains a website where he sells homemade glass bottles.In the most extreme cases, technologists can become so disenchanted with the touted benefits of new systems that they end up disconnecting almost entirely.Life without emailRetired professor Donald Knuth, like many 70-year-olds, doesn't use email, but his lack of involvement was the result of a conscious decision made nearly 20 years ago. The computer scientist, who lives in a house on the campus of California's Stanford University – the institution that has spawned giant technology corporations including Google, Hewlett Packard and Yahoo – says he simply doesn't want to waste his time.The hours he saves from not indulging in constant communication allow him to carry on work on his most famous book, The Art of Computer Programming – which has so far taken nearly 40 years to write, and he's only reached volume four of seven."Email is a wonderful thing for those people whose role in life is to be on top of things," Knuth says on the university's website."But not for me: my role is to be on the bottom of things."The handful of high-technologists who have retreated from digital life are part of what Kevin Kelly, a founding editor of Wired magazine, has labelled the "Neo-Amish". Rather than succumb to hi-tech temptations, these highly competent engineers and programmers are choosing to drop out of the always-connected culture in favour of a better quality of life."Lots of people complain about being overloaded with email, blogs, Twitter, and so on," he wrote on his website earlier this year. "But very few who complain reach the ultimate logical solution: turn it all off."Such solutions may appear drastic, but the problem of information overload is remarkably common, according to Mark Hurst, author of Bit Literacy, a guide to keeping your digital life under control. He believes that many people are crushed by the amount of communication they receive, even if they won't admit it."People are carrying enormous amounts of stress and anxiety over this, and most people don't even understand how much it affects them," he said. "Untamed, this problem achieves gigantic proportions in their lives."Technology worshipStallman believes the problem is that too many are in thrall to the promises made by new developments. "It's almost as if they worship technology and they don't care about the social consequences of using it," he said.However, Hurst says that unlike Knuth, who has an assistant who brings him a new batch of messages every three months, or Stallman, who has the luxury of running his own organisation, not everybody is in a sufficiently privileged position to give up entirely."There are people on the extremes who can afford to do that. If you're extremely rich you can have an assistant, or if you live off the grid somewhere you might have little need for these technologies," he said. "But the vast majority of people have responsibilities that require them to be connected."
Down these mean streets a man must go, and if he's carrying a modern camcorder, then it's going to have USB 2.0, not FireWire. And that, in a nutshell, is why it's farewell, my lovely, to FireWire - according to no less an authority than Steve Jobs.There's been plenty of outrage and despondency from would-be Apple MacBook buyers over the fact that the latest versions of the low-end laptops don't have FireWire, the high-speed data transfer system invented by Apple and Sony that basically kicks USB's  bum (even USB2.0). It's being taken out the back and getting an icepick in the neck.And for why? Because, as Jobs explained to an upset customer who emailed him, andreproduced at The Unofficial Apple Weblog(which says it's checked the headers; we'll take it on trust), "Actually, all of the new HD camcorders ofthe past few years use USB 2."The guy's complaint being that "I used to tell friends: 'you can easily connect your digital camcorder and edit your own movies!' Now I'll just tell them that Dell and Sony still make affordable laptops that have a firewire [sic] connection."(I had almost exactly the same conversation with my own brother, who's considering a MacBook: I had to ask the video question, since people update their camcorders less often than their computers, I think.)True, Pure's Flip and the Kodak Zi6 and others do use USB2 - even though it's an inferior method for data transfer compared to Firewire (the reasons are complex, but basically USB2 involves the CPU, while FireWire is peer-to-peer, so if you're doing anything at the same time as moving data,Firewire is faster).So wait - FireWire is faster, yet USB2 wins out? Yup. Why? Because USB wasoriginally driven by a group that included Intel, which pushed it further with USB2. Intel dominates in this field; the Intel-backed standard wins. It's a classic case of "good enough" coming through in technology. (Apple uses FireWire for other things beside video, including a "Target Disk Mode" that lets you boot from an external FW drive - useful for repairing problems on your main disk from a backup, or transferring data from an old computer to a new one. That's not possible with USB2, apparently.)So say a long goodbye to FireWire; it became the little sister to USB. It's getting pushed out of a high window and you might not see it again. [Ta PointyShinyBurning for suggesting "a long goodbye".]
What's your favourite piece of technology?I love my iPhone, but I'm sure you've already had that though. I always used to have a cell phone AND an iPod, now I have it all in one. I just like to carry one device. I even have books on there. I have Eckhart Tolle on there reading The Power of Now and any time I need to fall asleep I listen to his very odd, soothing German voice talking about living in the moment and it just knocks me out. And I've got the calendar and I can synch it up – I'm a huge Mac fan. But I also love Xbox. Call of Duty 4, online, is a lot of fun because you can go online and shoot people. You can get all of your aggression out at the end of a long day. There's nothing more relaxing to me than shooting people in the side of the face.How has it improved your life?If you turn it on, you get really adrenalised but it's also very relaxing at the same time. I have a three-and-half-year old son and he doesn't even know it exists. He found my Xbox controller and asked what it was, so I told him it was the controls to a spaceship. So for several days he walked around in a pretend spaceship with my Xbox controller. He even took it to pre-school for show and tell. But a lot of actors get online with each other and team up and shoot other people.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I last used it when I was last at home and I used it for achieving harmony and inner peace.What additional features would you add if you could?I think it should be like a Wii, so you could run around in your TV room and aim the controller like a gun and shoot people. Although that's getting awfully violent. That might inspire kids to take guns into their high schools and colleges and cause far too much mayhem on the planet, so cancel that.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think in 10 years' time there will be gaming devices surgically implanted in your cerebral cortex and just any time you want you'll be able to turn it on with a single thought and go online in your head, battling imaginary demons and monsters and soldiers of fortune.What one tip would you give to non-Xbox users?Get a life.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I think I'm a combination. I love a lot of geeky technology but I'm not a total techno-nerd, it doesn't come easily to me and I have to get other people to teach me how to use it. But I look very convincing when using a gadget, I look like I should know what makes it tick but I need a lot of coaching. We need more geek coaches. You get personal trainers, why not a geek that shows up and teaches you how to be more geeky.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I don't own that much expensive technology. I bought a big flatscreen TV for my Xbox, I think that was $3,500. That would probably be it.PC or Mac?Mac all the way. Once you've had a Mac you can never go back. I've never known anyone go from Mac to PC, it's just completely obsolete. Macs are so effortless to use, in every way. They just make sense.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Radiohead – Bodysnatchers, off In Rainbows.Will robots rule the world?They already do. And they're controlling our every thought and move. We just don't know it yet.What one piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like a hovercraft. Can you hook me up? I think you should find me a hovercraft. I'd like a… [one lengthy iPhone Google search later: "because it'll be funnier if I give you a model…"] The 19XRW. I'd like a 19XRW Hoverwing by Universal Hovercraft…Rainn Wilson plays Dwight on TV's The Office: An American Workplace. His new film, The Rocker, opens across the UK today
It's been an awfully long time since we got together as the weekend approached and got our hands dirty with a Friday Afternoon Question or two. But hey, it's the end of the week... it's gone midday. What better time to get stuck in?And what better question to ask today than one to raise our spirits? After all, the world is going to hell in a handcart and everybody looks so miserable. Just the other day I woke up and discovered that doom is now a more valuable currency than the pound. Gah!So, to raise a smile why not tell us the answer to the following:What's your best ever geek joke?Your chortlisms, chucklebuster, rib-ticklers and classic groaners welcome. Cheer us up - the best joke gets to hold the title of Official Top Commenter. At least until next week.
I thought FAIL was a term used mainly by Twits in their tweets. However, Twitter's famousFail Waledoesn't even get a mention in Slate magazine'sEpic Win, by Christopher Beam, which provides a brief history of FAIL. Apparently:online commenters suggest it started with a 1998 Neo Geo arcade game called Blazing Star. (References to the fail meme go as far back as 2003.) Of all the game's obvious draws -- among them fast-paced action, disco music, and anime-style cut scenes -- its staying power comes from its wonderfully terrible Japanese-to-English translations. If you beat a level, the screen flashes with the words: "You beat it! Your skill is great!" If you lose, you are mocked: "You fail it! Your skill is not enough! See you next time! Bye bye!"But if you're just waiting for FAIL to fall on the scrapheap of short-lived internet slang, you may be disappointed. Slate reckons that "fail has the luxury of pre-existing forms. It already exists as a noun in the phrase 'without fail.' It's therefore likely to gain quicker entry into most people's lexicon than, say, a word that includes digits. In other words, fail will win."There's aFAIL blog,Shipment of Failand similar sites that tend to confirm the view that the usage will stick around for a while….
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Googledefied theglobal economic downturnand delivered another strong set of profits in the third quarter of the year thanks to strict cost-cutting measures and strong advertising revenue.The notoriously free-spending California-based company tightened its belt, pushing revenue up by 31% despite the escalatingfinancial turmoil. Internet surfers clicking on advertisements helped to drive the firm's profits up 26%.The company also drove down its costs by cutting back on capital expenses and holding back on hiring new staff.Analysts had lowered their expectations for Google's results in the three months to September after fears that the credit crisis was weighing on other web companies and could spread to the internet search market.But Google's focus on highly targeted online adverts appears to be better suited for weathering a slowdown in consumer spending, analysts argued. Its revenue climbed to $5.54bn (£3.2bn) from $4.23bn a year ago."It was just the shot in the arm that investors needed," Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Jeffrey Lindsay said.Google handled 63% of US online searches in August, twice as much as its two closest competitors, Yahoo andMicrosoft, between them. The spreading financial crisis is expected to hurt the internet advertising market as businesses cut spending or disappear altogether.The Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, described the current economic predicament as "uncharted territory". While the group held up in the third quarter, Schmidt was cautious going forward, saying that the company would be "very responsible in the management of our expenses"."What we have concluded is that we are going to keep doing our thing," Schmidt said in an interview. "There is no change in the plan at Google. We'll ride this thing out."Google grew by 519 employees, down from 2,130 a year ago, in what is typically a big hiring quarter. The company, which gives its employees free meals and other perks, now has 20,123 employees. Capital expenditures fell 18% from the second quarter to $452m ."It probably wasn't the leanest ship on the sea," said Anthony Valencia, media analyst for TCW Group. "Now they have shown they can rein things in and show good profitability without hurting continued investment in long-term growth initiatives."Google, which already has more than 70% of US search advertising spending, is looking to spur growth through new advertising strategies with possible opportunities in the video-sharing site, YouTube. Analysts are broadly confident about Google's growth prospects for the coming years.Shares in Google, which have lost nearly 20% in the past month, jumped 10% on the back of the results.Meanwhile, Yahoo also enjoyed strong share gains of 10.5% to $12.99 after the Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, suggested that his company would consider renewing discussions with Yahoo over a search partnership.Microsoft had offered as much as $47.5bn this spring to buy Yahoo, which spurned the offer and struck an advertising partnership with Google.
The Terminator might be running California, but that's about as close as a cyborg has got to taking over the world so far. But even if the robotic revolution isn't here yet, it's gathering pace, according to the annual 'state of the nation' review from the brainiacs at theInternational Federation of Robotics.They've just published the latest edition ofWorld Robotics, which shows the trends in robotics and states that there are now more than 6.5 million bots in operation all around the world... with hardware spending for 2007 coming in at a whopping $6bn.As you can see from this graph - taken from ourfriends at IEEE Spectrum- some robots are the industrial sort, but the vast majority are deemed to work in 'service'. That includeshuggable toysandmilitary machines.But most eye-catching are the predictions that the robot population will triple over the next few years. Will the economic gloom make that more likely or less?
People who use their mobile phones for long periods could develop an allergic skin rash, health experts said yesterday.The British Association of Dermatologists (BAD) said people may develop rashes on their cheek or ear due to the nickel contained in some mobile phones.The issue came to light after several reports of patients with unexplained skin disorders. Experts found that the reaction was caused by nickel in the casing or on the buttons of some mobile phones.BAD said doctors and the public should be aware of the risk, with cases estimated to be on the rise. People with a known reaction to nickel - a metal also used in jewellery - are thought to be most at risk.Reports of several cases have been published in medical journals, including the Journal of Investigative Dermatology and the British Journal of Dermatology.Dr Graham Lowe, from BAD, dubbed the condition "mobile phone dermatitis". He said: "If you have had a previous reaction to a nickel-coated belt buckle or jewellery, for example, you are at greater risk of reacting to metal phones."US doctors tested for nickel in 22 popular handsets from eight different manufacturers for a study published earlier this year and found nickel in 10 of them.Press Association
I missed Her Majesty's visit to Google's UK headquarters, but for security reasons, I don't expect she could do the "green" thing and walk. However, Google's office is just opposite Victoria Station, so if Her Maj used the back door to Buck House, it's not very far.TheAP story on Google Newssays:During the visit, the queen and her husband, Prince Philip, saw a demonstration of the company's technology and met schoolchildren who won a competition to design their own Google "doodles" — what the Mountain View, California-based company calls special editions of their blue, green, red and yellow logo.The royal couple met users of the Google-owned YouTube video Web site, including Peter Oakley, an 81-year-old known as "Geriatric1927." Oakley's videos on the site earned him a nomination for a YouTube award in 2006.I expect the Queen uses Google Search, like the rest of us, and she has her own channel on YouTubehttp://uk.youtube.com/theroyalchannelWe've added the Royal doodle to ourGallery.I'm a huge fan of Google doodles and wrote a bit about the man behind them,Dennis Hwang. I met him when he judged another Doodle 4 Google competition for British schoolchildren.
Ian Fogg of Jupiter Research has been musing on how the slowdown (we won't use the "R" - or even "D" - word*) isgoing to affect broadband.Looking across Europe, he thinks that in countries where there's been a housing slowdown, it will have some benefit for broadband operators because it will make retention easier - when people move, they are more likely to bin their supplier: "moving home is a key decision point in life when consumers are forced to reconsider what services they take." And since the number of houses being sold is at truly dramatic lows in the UK, a lot fewer of those decisions are being made.Next, broadband and pay TV will resist the slump - they're integral to our lives:Few consumers will wish to end home broadband access if they have time on their hands and need to job hunt, or have renewed impetus to use the Internet to bargain hunt for cheap deals on utilities or retail. Similarly, consumers with more time, will have more time for entertainment, although I do see consumers becoming more likely to switch down to cheaper packages with the same operator, especially where they pay for premium channels.One could even expect that if you lose your job, you'll need your connection more than ever to hunt for a new one - or to make some sort of money on the side. Broadband then becomes a need, not a want - quite a turnaround from the last slowdown of 2000/2001, and we didn't have t'interwebs in 1991/2. (Then it would have been a computer and a phone line. It was for me.)But with the "commercial paper" market - the one that big telecoms companies use to raise funds comparatively cheaply (much more cheaply than getting a loan from the bank) almost closed, capital spending is going to be in trouble:Fibre roll outs will take many years, rather than a few years. Current DSL and cable will dominate for longer. The result is that current home broadband networks will have to last. Product managers must become more creative with packaging and adding new features cheaply. In mobile, the much heralded WiMAX networks may never launch in Europe: WiMAX has, perhaps, a small window of opportunity after which cellular mobile broadband will be ubiquitous. If they miss that window, WiMAX will be in trouble.It's certainly going to be interesting to see what BT has to say about the rollout of its 21CN (21st century network that will be the internet-like backbone of the phone network) and of its ADSL2+ product.When wewrote about BT's ADSL2+ plans in April, we were told thatBy summer 2009, BT will have enabled around 850 exchanges serving up to 13 million users (it has around 5,500 UK exchanges) and aims to complete the "vast majority" of the work by 2011.Have to wonder if that will still be true, given the cost of upgrading exchanges.But now the key question: if speeds don't go up, will prices go down? Probably not, he says; stable sounds like the way forward. But any extended slowdown will weed out the weak or unsustainable players:We will see a weeding out of free, advertising-supported, and even some paid services that are not delivering financially. This opens opportunities for competitors with a better business model to clean up. I see a lot of the online video services at risk here, as well as some telecom operator IPTV services and cable provider free video on demand services, but there are many others too.So it's a mixed picture - mostly, the ball is in the broadband providers' court, and they don't even have to deal with toxic assets. Maybe that's the place to put your hot money.. if you managed to get it out of that Icelandic bank.*if you want to read about ways to define recessions, read thevery good Economist artlcle. Fogg referenced it, though I'd seen it before. Talking point: the definition of "two quarters of falling growth" was introduced by economists for then-President Reagan in the 1980s to evade the idea that the US might have moved into recession.
Better late than never, here's the second 'Best of' to be compiled, 'by the Gameblog community, for the Gamesblog community'. This time, Fantomex volunteered for writing duties with Office Pest providing some input and Limni editing.It's another grab-bag of pop culture references, innuendo and troubled home lives, randomly punctuated by - ta da! - some game chat. We wouldn't have it any other way.So, yeah, take it away, Fantomex!(Oh, and don't read the last quote while eating a Thai Hot n Spicy Cup Noodle like I did. Just a hint.)Top 5 TVA major discussion ensued midweek regarding the top five TV shows. The general consensus was that whilst America has some top dramas and Sci-Fi such as The Sopranos, The Wire, Battlestar Galactica and Heroes alongside some breakout comedies like Seinfeld and Curb Your Enthusiasm, it tends to be the last decade of British comedy that wins out in terms of overall quality.Not that we really expected Friends to be any cop in comparison to Brass Eye, Spaced or Alan Partridge.To aglet or not to aglet?Later in the week, the blog meandered from the motorway of randomness, swerving down an embankment into the murky stream of unfinished games talk.Satanallsmiles said:"My gf is always complaining that she never ever sees me complete games. She has seen me play games for weeks (months in the case of DragonQuest 8) and then lose interest just before finishing. There must be an expression for this kind of behaviour."CBPodge then created a marvelous new word to describe this gaming phenomenon:It's called agletting - willfully not completing a task despite a large amount of effort.We now all expect 'agletting' to be in the Oxford English Dictionary 2009. Get mailing them.Which? The Zombie edition.Adamskii brought in a fabulous question for Friday:"If you could be a zombie, rather than a sole survivor in the apocalypse, which distinguishing feature(s) would you have? Mine would be one sloping shoulder down to a useless arm and the eye on the same side as the sloping shoulder would be missing, replaced by a fat garden worm..."Some highlight answers included:"I can't think of a single zombie I would like to be. Maybe a conjoined twin zombie; but with the conjoined twin head still unzombified, if this is possible?I've changed my mind. It's technically unfeasible."LazyBones"I'd like to be a zombie which is still in its work uniform, like a postman or something. Still got my hat on, but missing a limb."HDStanton"I'd be a famous zombie. Maybe Des Lynam."Limni"I'd want to be a really camp zombie. Rather than lurching towards people I'd just flap effeminately from a distance."Art1eFufkinHowever, the best suggestion by far was from Satanallsmiles:"I'd be a zombie version of Barry Scott of Cillit Bang fame - Bang! And the flesh is gone!"Champion, that man.A vital questionAlunEvans, who got married on Friday (Congratulations!) asked:Which PS1 game would you choose to put on your PSP (if you have/had one) for a long flight? And Why?This led to some oldskool suggestions – FFVII, VIII and IX, Chrono Cross, Resident Evil 2, Broken Sword, Dune II, Dynasty Tactics…Not that anybody already has these games on their PSP. Honest.And another oneTonyHayers watching Battlefield Earth started off a topic of worst film ever. Here were the key contenders:The HappeningPredator 2Pirates of the Caribbean 3GodzillaHawk the SlayerBatman and RobinVan HelsingAny film with Bill Paxton in itElektraDisaster MovieEpic movieBatman and Robin took first prize with many, many votes.Games of the weekGames: Battlefield: Bad Company, FIFA 08/09, Final Fantasy Tactics A2, Fallout 3, Wipeout HD, Advance Wars: Dark Conflict, GTA4, The Force Unleashed, Valkyria Chronicles, LittleBigPlanet, Bioshock, PES 09, Mario Kart, FFVII, FFIX, Metal Gear Solid 4TV of the weekHeroes, Match Of The Day, Fringe, True Blood, Prison BreakQuote of the week"I really wasn't expecting to have to go to the chemist and buy some KY to install a domestic appliance, though it did work."CraggyIslands kitchen fetish comes to the fore in a frank, public admission, leading to a case of manly tool one-upmanship.Best of the rest"Very atmospheric. Had to switch it off after 10 mins as it was freaking the Mrs out, might pick it up pre-owned."silverfox073 on playing Bioshock. I include this with embarrassment, as I was freaked out by Bioshock, and Lady Fantomex mocked me for this. Less than manly?"Cyberdyne, a robotics firm, hopes to start mass producing the models within days, according to reports. Time to stock up on tinned food."Limni reports on the possible world-ending topic of advanced robotics that may or may not have the ability to terminate."As someone who didn't sign up 'til Monday I'm now getting concerned this blog is harming my productivity."PhilosopherK1ng feeling the gamesblog pressure, which subsequently brought down the global stock market. Possibly."Agletting: surely that was passed far too quickly? Shouldn't it take about a week of constant use to be accepted? During which everyone gets tired of using it and gives up after four days."Davefalse aglets on agletting. Tsk tsk."DSi somehow revolutionising handheld gaming? Less battery life and a crappy camera is hardly revolutionary."Crispycrumb vocalizes what we were all thinking about Nintendos latest DS incarnation."And I make a typo in my first sentence. Good grief."PhilosopherK1ng ruminating on blog spelling and grammar etiquette. Funnily enough, this isn't the typo."Heroes - Wasn't impressed with the first two episodes but three was better. There is some very bad acting in there. Much more obvious than the first two series."GhostDaz makes his thoughts known on popular geek TV. But then, has anyone seen a more changeable character than Mohinder?"I had an endoscopy exam the week before - hope they cleaned the camera from being up my ass before you had it shoved down your throat!Ask for the video under the Freedom of Information act and we can upload it to you tube, put the soundtrack to WipEout on it, and we'll have a hit!"Last, but certainly not least, Smellavision makes me feel better about a hospital visit, and comes up with the most amazing video idea ever.
In an article in today's Technology section,Asus aims for the 'gorgeous' market, I've tried to provide some insight into how Taiwan's PC business is developing. Basically, some of the leading OEM/ODM suppliers are trying to develop global brand names because the OEM/ODM business -- making systems that sell under names such as Apple, Dell, HP and Lenovo -- can easily be moved to Chinese, Vietnamese and other cheaper manufacturers, leaving you with nothing.One of the keys to having a viable brand name is having innovative products, of which the Asus Eee PC S101 netbook (seeAsus launches fashion-friendly Eee S101 MacBook Air killerandPicture special: A fashion-conscious look at the Asus Eee PC S101 launch) is a good example. It invites people to pay a bit more for something that looks and feels much better -- and is noticeably thinner -- than the bog-standard netbook.Asus's design lab in Taipei has also been experimenting with natural materials that could give notebook PCs a more distinctive appearance. These should stand out from the crowd -- being distinctive both for Asus and its customers -- and could therefore appeal to more upmarket users.Henry Yeh, general manager of Asus's Notebook Business Unit, describes them as "high sense" products: they should appeal to all your senses, but especially touch. "When you touch a natural material, you feel warmth," he says.Asus started with leather, "three or four years ago," and now has a bamboo model, which I tried in the design lab. It looks much better than I expected, and it certainly feels nicer than the usual plastic/metal notebook.The design does involve work beyond the veneer: Asus has tried to make sure the handrests stay cool, to protect the material. But how well it will age is anyone's guess.Yeh says Asus has built 200 units to introduce the bamboo notebook to the market. Then "we will see customer feedback."It might be worth grabbing one as a collector's item, and they'd look nice in a design museum. But as a user, would you actually buy one?
The internet giant Google got down on its corporate knee to the Queen when it made her itsGoogle doodle for the day.Other recipients of the honour - if that's what it is – have included Andy Warhol, Edvard Munch, and Paddington Bear.Google's move coincides with a visit by the Queen and Prince Philip to the company's UK headquarters, in London (perhaps the prince couldinspect the wiring)."Try Googling 'democracy', ma'am,"says the Republic blog, on which a commenter suggests boycotting Google in protest.But theDaily Mail and its readers are delighted.Who would you Google doodle for a day?
I'm one of the poor, deprived people who has not had a hands-on with the HTC-manufactured Google Android-poweredT-Mobile G1 phone(a few weeks ago, I sat next to someone who was using one), but they should soon be in circulation, and the first reviews are now hitting the web.Engadgethas a two-part review, which points out the hardware is somewhat plain and -- annoyingly -- lacks a standard headphone jack. The software, meanwhile:is thoroughly modern and attractive, but its high-contrast, almost cartoonish look might be a turn-off for some. In a sick, twisted way, that dovetails nicely with the fact that Google's stonewalling the enterprise market for the moment by leaving out support for VPN, Microsoft Exchange, and BlackBerry Enterprise Server; it's just a hip-looking, totally approachable UI that doesn't reek one bit of corporate starch.The phone also doesn't support PDF, Microsoft Office, and OpenOffice documents, except by Google converting them on Google's server, which I find a somewhat inadequate process. This is a bit of a killer for serious use.Also, you are forced to sign up for Google, of course, and one drawback for me is the very poor quality of Google's online contacts application. However:Forgetting for a moment how good or bad each app is on its own, we can't emphasize enough: the pervasive nature of your Google account throughout Android is an absolute boon, and these apps are the central reason why. Your data's just there without any fuss, and so far, we've had a hell of a lot fewer hiccups with it than [Apple's] MobileMe did in its infancy.Gizmodohas a shorter and snappier review. It complains about the keyboard and battery life ("you'll need to get used to a mid-day charge at work"), and concludes:The G1 phone and the Android operating system are not finished products. There are only three working Google Apps here -- Gmail, Maps and Calendar -- while Google Docs, Google News, Google Reader, Google Shopping, Google Images, Google Video, Blogger and Picasa are nowhere to be found. What's the deal?(Ahem, Gizmodo, didn't you notice years ago that Google's scattergun approach to buying in or developing products resulted in an amazing lack of integration?)In the New York Times, inA Look at Google's First Phone, Apple fan David Pogue says, wrongly, "The G1 is quite obviously intended to be an iPhone killer." This leads him to make observations such as "Where Android really falls down is in the iPod department" and "Nor is there an online store for music, TV and movies," which are frankly silly from the point of view of the vast majority of potential buyers, who actually want phones that are good for making phone calls. However, he also highlights the battery issue:There's also a removable battery. Good thing, too -- when all the G1's guns are blazing (Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS and so on), the juice is gone in about 3.5 hours of continuous use.The Wall Street Journal's Walt Mossberg is also a Mac fan nowadays, and his review is headedGoogle Answers the iPhone. But he recognises that "the two devices have different strengths and weaknesses, and are likely to attract different types of users," and he does a good job of highlighting the G1's advantages and disadvantages.The disadvantages include the quality of the keyboard ("only fair"), the very limited memory, and the battery life. Walt notes:In my battery tests, the G1 lasted through the day, but I had to charge it every night. That's better than the initial battery life on the current iPhone, though in fairness, Apple has improved the iPhone's battery life through software updates, and I found them to be about the same for mixed use.He also points out how much it ties you to Google:Another downside for some users: The G1 is tightly tied to Google's online services. While you can use non-Google email and IM services, the only way you can get contacts and calendar items into the phone is to synchronize with Google's online calendar and contacts services. In fact, you can't even use the G1 without a Google user ID and password.Also, he notes that the G1 can't synchronise with Microsoft Outlook, which I view as being a ridiculously stupid failing in a smart phone. As Walt says:It also can't synchronize any data at all directly with a PC or Mac. For instance, it can't sync with Microsoft Outlook or Windows Media Player on a PC, with Apple's iCal or Address Book programs on a Mac, or with iTunes on either Windows or the Mac. It has no PC-based synchronization software of its own, and it offers no way to automatically back up your settings, music, applications, videos or photos, either to a computer or to an online repository, though Google says it plans to add a backup feature.All in all, the first Android phone appears to have at least as many drawbacks as the iPhone, without having the sort of interface and browsing smarts that make people willingly put up with its drawbacks. It would have been much more useful to evaluate it against, say, Windows Mobile and Nokia/Symbian.Still, unlike the iPhone, the G1 isn't a closed, locked-down, proprietary system. T-Mobile and other hardware and software suppliers can take the Linux-based code and do better. Let's hope the G1 isn't just the first ever Android phone, it's also the worst ever.
