The debate over whether the recent cataclysmic floods in the UK were due to man-made climate change will rage on. In the digital world though, it’s clear that massive flooding of networks, involving data rather than water, is the result of actions taken by the men and women who created the internet in the latter half of the 21st century. And yet the problems they created can be solved.Over the last year, digital criminals have been exploiting age-old pieces of web architecture to amplify their attacks to epic magnitudes. Exempli gratia: content delivery network CloudFlare has been at the centre of two massive attacks in the last year, known as distributed denial of service (DDoS) hits because they kill websites with traffic coming from multiple sources.The first was in March 2013, when attackers wanting to take down an anti-spam organisation Spamhaus used a neat way of knocking their target offline. They realised that by pretending to be Spamhaus, spoofing the group’s IP address, they could send small requests to pieces of the internet that would return significant amounts of data, which would subsequently clog up the networks used by their enemy and taking them offline.The attackers were able to exploit a feature in domain name system (DNS) servers, which are normally used to translate searches for URLs (e.g. theguardian.com) into IP addresses (e.g. 216.27.61.137). Requests sent to open DNS servers give large responses, and so make for nice amplifiers. The eventual traffic generated by abusing this weakness was an epic 309Gbps, which disrupted portions of Europe’s internet.NTP = no tiny problemThat was a record until this February, when attackers used a similar method, but exploiting the Network Time Protocol (NTP), which is used to sync times across machines. By sending tiny requests to 4,529 NTP servers running on 1,298 different networks, they were able to generate just under 400Gbps as they attempted but failed to wipe an unnamed site offline, according to CloudFlare.Attacks over the time syncing protocol are the most pressing concern. In a paper published on 24 February, Christian Rossow, security researcher at the Ruhr University Bochum in Germany, notes the level of amplification over NTP is startling.In the worst case Rossow investigated, attackers abusing NTP would only need to generate 0.02% of the bandwidth that they want their victim to receive. NTP servers could be abused to amplify request trafﬁc sent by an attacker by a factor of anywhere between 556.9 and 4670. That’s simply massive.It’s all because of a feature that was left open until a recent release of NTP, known as “monlist”. It means that by sending just 8 bytes of data, an NTP server will relay data on recent clients that had connected to it, in up to 100 different data packets with 440 bytes in each payload.It’s like askingZoltara one-word question whilst standing next to someone you’re not particularly keen on, running away and the mechanical fortune teller’s response both deafening and knocking out that unlucky customer left alone to take the hit.It’s in the gameBut NTP and DNS servers aren’t the only problems here. There are other exploitable protocols, 12 of which Rossow details in his report, many of which were designed years ago, when the creators of what would become the modern internet had no idea how their code would be used for destructive means. Millions upon millions of potential amplifiers are now available to attackers.Others are more current. Servers used by gamers, namely those used by Quake 3 and Valve’s Steam client, could be abused in similar ways. For Quake 3, a request could be sent to a game server, which would respond with detailed conﬁguration data and a list of current players.Attackers wanting to exploit this would likely do so during busy gaming hours, when they could amplify their requests by over 80 times. The Valve-owned Steam protocol, used in massively popular games like Counter-Strike, Half-Life or Team Fortress, was found to offer less power but would no doubt still prove handy to attackers.“I’ve been in contact with Valve in January... They have acknowledged the problem and will investigate response rate limiting (on mid-term) and changing the Steam protocol (on long-term),” says Rossow. “Community-driven games like Quake 3 already address the weaknesses by proposing ways how to add rate limiting to open servers.”Valve had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.Legacy protocols, like the charmingly named Quote of the Day Protocol, which mainframe administrators used to broadcast a daily quote on request by a user, can also be abused. And there are millions of potential amplifiers across the BitTorrent peer-to-peer network too.SNMP = seriously nasty massive problemEven if they can’t generate anything like the power attacks over NTP can, these other exploitable bits of the Internet remain a cause for concern. Outside of NTP and DNS, the most worrying threat is amplification over the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), traditionally used for monitoring of devices connected to a network.Rossow estimates there are 4.83m SNMP servers that could be used for amplification, by sending a request for a “GetBulk operation”, in which a device returns a list of devices that can be monitored over the protocol. Attacker traffic could be multiplied by as much as 11.3 times.•The war over mobile ‘adware’•WhyTalking Angela isn’t dangerous for kids•Tinder was oversharing users’ location dataWhilst that amplification isn’t huge, Matthew Prince, CEO of CloudFlare, claims he has seen amplification at a factor of 650 over SNMP. That attack, which took place in 2012 and was a result of SNMP being enabled on Comcast DSL modems, only generated 25Gbps. Prince believes this will be the next big attack vector. “SNMP reflection is the really big bad one.”With most of these protocols, an attacker with reasonable programming skills would be able to find open servers in a “negligible” amount of time, according to Rossow’s paper. He found it takes around one minute to acquire 100,000 BitTorrent amplifiers, and around four to get the same number over NTP, DNS and SNMP.The amount of NTP (UDP/123) the Arbor ATLAS system is tracking globally. Graph: ArborGraph supplied by Jared Mauch.“We shouldn’t have designed these protocols in a way that they are vulnerable to attacks like this,” Prince adds. He believes malicious types will soon turn to combining amplification methods, in particular DNS, NTP and SNMP. This would make detection and prevention trickier. “Combine those three and you start to have attacks that start to threaten core parts of the internet’s backbone.”Overwhelmed much?All this might seem overwhelming, but there are two main ways to stem the tide of huge data floods. The first is simple: those running devices with the vulnerable protocols can fix their machines, either by installing a patch, as has been provided for NTP servers, or by closing off functions within servers, as can be done with DNS and SNMP.The fight to fix NTP servers is going rather well at the minute. When Rossow completed his research in July last year, there were 1.6 million NTP servers using the “monlist” command. There are now only 190,000 and the figure is steadily going down, Rossow says.Yet for attacks over DNS, the problem is only getting worse. One man who is particularly depressed about the situation is Jared Mauch, who, in his spare time outside of working for network company NTT, runs an initiative trying to reduce the number of exploitable DNS resolvers – the Open Resolver Project.A year ago, he thought he could cut the number down from 25 million to less than 10 million. Yet rather than go down, the number has only gone up. At last count, there were 32 million.  “Most people don’t take action until they feel the threat is relevant to them,” says Mauch, who also runs the Open NTP Project.“People don’t buy flood insurance until their house is going to be flooded. I think there are a lot of these hidden risks out there that deep technologists understand but the average person who just wants to use the Internet to get to YouTube and Netflix, whatever services they intend to use, it’s just plumbing to them. People don’t care about how their pipes work until they don’t work.“I don’t want to go as far as to call it irresponsible, but it’s definitely something where I wish more attention was paid to services that people operate and offer.”Global problem, little actionThere are technical reasons for the lassitude too. Open DNS resolvers are harder to locate and fix, as they can be anything from home internet routers to Android phones used as Wi-Fi hotspots. “It is very difficult to monitor and check whether or not you are running a vulnerable network. The average Android phone user doesn’t anticipate that when they put their phone in Wi-Fi hotspot mode that they are contributing to the DDoS problem,” adds Prince.Another way to prevent these amplified attacks is by getting network administrators to prevent IP spoofing. This is done by implementing what is known as best common practice (BCP) number 38 - a standard created by the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) that puts a packet filter on the edge of networks to stop spoofing.But again little action is being taken. As of July 2013, the Spoofer Project noted that 25% of Autonomous Systems worldwide, which includes internet service providers, allowed for IP spooﬁng. In mid-February 2014, the figure remains the same.This is a global problem, Rossow says. “Many countries are affected, [including those] in Europe, and also the UK. We can only hope that the current wave of amplification attacks raises the awareness of such providers.”Governments are now aware of the issue, as highlighted by national Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) alerts over amplification in recent months. That’s largely because security professionals like Mauch and Rossow warned them about it. But now it’s time for others running networks to take action.It may be hard to convince them to act, as their systems aren’t the ones suffering. But those apathetic few are imposing a cost on the rest of the internet. Whether they locate vulnerable systems or prevent spoofing, they will be doing so for the good of the internet.•Feeling smug that your iPhone can’t be hacked? Not so fast...•How can I keep my Android tablet or smartphone secure?
Sales of Apple’s 5C “plastic” phone are beginning to improve after price cuts, while “phablet” phones with screens over 5in are not a hit with users in Europe,according to new data from Kantar Comtech.Meanwhile the figures for the three months to the end of January 2014 show that Android is heading for a 70% share of phone sales in Europe, though Samsung is seeing its dominant share of Android sales being eroded by rivals including LG, Sony, Motorola and newcomer Wiko.Microsoft’s Windows Phone has also managed to maintain a share over 10% for the past six months aggregated across the “EU5” - the five largest EU countries, comprising Germany, the UK, Spain, France and Italy. However that disguises wide national variations: in Italy its share has been over 16%, while in Spain and Germany it has been around 5%. In the UK and France it has been around 11%.For BlackBerry, though, the figures brought no comfort, with its share of sales halving in the US, EU5 and Australia, to zero in Spain and Japan (from 2.1% and 0.3% respectively). The UK remains its strongest market, with a 2.4% share of sales - but even that is halved from 5.7% a year ago.Aggregate smartphone OS sales share, normalised to 100%, for the EU5 countries (Germany, UK, France, Spain, Italy). Source: Kantar ComTech. Photograph: /PR/KantarThe latest figures are not indexed, so they don’t reflect the growth in the size of the smartphone market from year to year. In 2013, the world smartphone market including China grew by 38.4%; excluding China, the figure was smaller, at around 22%, though developed countries have been seeing a slowdown in sales growth as markets head towards saturation.UK: a four-phone race?UK smartphone OS share of sales, three-month trailing. Note that total sales vary but the figures are normalised to 100%. Source: Kantar ComTech. Photograph: /PR/KantarKantar said that price cuts had begun to see the coloured iPhone 5C gain sales, after falling behind the higher-priced 5S model: “When Apple first launched its new iPhones in Britain the 5S outsold the 5C by 3:1,” it said in a note.“However, the iPhone 5C has gained momentum and was the third best-selling smartphone [in Britain] over the past three months, reducing the 5S/C ratio to 2:1. There is a stark gender divide between 5C and 5S buyers – in Britain 74% of 5C buyers are female versus just 36% for the 5S. There are also clear differences in how each device is used: 5S users are more engaged with their device, particularly for data-heavy functions such as watching mobile TV or downloading music.”The two handsets which outsold the 5C are the iPhone 5S and the Samsung Galaxy S4, though Kantar didn’t specify which of the latter two sold better. Apple’s UK share fell very slightly, from 31% to 30.7% of sales, while that for Android also fell slightly from 55.9% to 55.2%. The biggest gainer was Windows Phone which saw its share nearly double from 6.4% to 11.3% in the period which covers the two busiest sales months of the year.But comparisons are difficult: UK smartphone penetration has risen over that period, from 62% then to 70% now, while smartphone sales have risen from 83% of all phone sales to 86%. They point though to growth in Windows Phone sales: Kantar says that the low-end Nokia Lumia 520 was the fourth best-selling handset in the UK, “only just behind” the iPhone 5C.Dominic Sunnebo, strategic insight director at Kantar, commented that there are still 14 million featurephone owners who could be tempted to trade to a smartphone, and that the Nokia strategy - which will soon become Microsoft’s, when the takeover is complete - could pay off: “At some point Nokia will have to start making serious inroads into the smartphone competition, but for the time being its strategy in Europe is working. Crucial for Nokia will be its ability to keep low-end owners loyal and upgrade them to mid to high-end models.”Phablet differencesSales of phones with screens measuring over 5in diagonally - aka “phablets” - continue to drive strong growth in China, making up almost a third of smartphones sold there in the three months, and 9% had screens over 5.5in. Other research companies have suggested that sales in China during the fourth quarter (from October to December) were 90m - suggesting about 30m sales of phablets, including 8.1m with 5.5in screens or larger.But Kantar warned that there are serious differences between locations. “Phablet sales across Europe and US have been gradually rising, but it’s China which is driving demand. Phablet owners are less likely than the average consumer to own a tablet, indicating that phablets are increasingly being used as the primary device to browse online in China.“Interestingly, phablet ownership in China is skewed heavily to women, running counter to Europe and the US where it tends to be young, male early adopters.”He reiterateddata previously supplied to the Guardianabout how the first European owners of phablets are now coming to the end of their first contracts - and that a significant number, 40%, are choosing to get a smaller device.The data from Kantar suggests that over time the phone market will tend towards one where phablet owners make up about 40% of users, those with devices between 4.5in and 4.9in (about the size of the HTC One) make another 40%, and those with screens between 4in and 4.4in (such as the present lineup of iPhones) make up the other 20%.Rumours increasingly suggest that Apple will produce at least one phone with a larger screen this year - perhaps as large as 4.7in or even 5.5in as buyers show a growing tendency to move towards larger screens, and a diminishing tendency to buy smaller ones.•Nokia is aiming to bolster its low-end sales with a “Windroid” phone using the open source Android code with Microsoft services
WhatsApp is working on adding free voice-calling to its text messaging app for iPhone and Android, which was recently acquired by Facebook for $19bn.The WhatsApp founder and chief executive, Jan Koum, announced that the new Facebook company was working on voice calling to be introduced into the WhatsApp messaging app, initially on the iPhone and Android in the second quarter of the year, with BlackBerry and Windows Phone to be updated later.“I grew up in Russia, we had a telephone line, but a load of our neighbours didn’t. It became a shared resource for the whole apartment complex. People would come and knock on the door and ask to call their family in another city,” said Koum at the Mobile World Congress event in Barcelona.“We’re adding voice to WhatsApp so people can stay in touch with friends and loved ones no matter where they are in the world.”Koum explained that this is the next stage in the evolution of the WhatsApp service, continuing its mission to connect users and keep people in touch. He also explained that the company had taken the speed and efficiency of text messaging to voice, saying that WhatsApp had the best voice product out there.“We use the least amount of bandwidth out there, and have optimised the hell out of it. We’ve made sure the quality is there, though, just like the messaging functions of WhatsApp,” said Koum.Koum also explained that there were no changes planned for the company post Facebook acquisition. He said that WhatsApp would be allowed to operate as a standalone company, maintaining its startup mentality with 55 employees, as staying nimble and flexible was of paramount importance for survival in the changing industry.•Messaging app Telegram added 5m new users the day after WhatsApp outage
Deutsche Telekom, the German parent company of mobile carrier T-Mobile, is releasing a new app for all its users that encrypts voice and text messages.The company is acting on privacy concerns raised in the wake of the Snowden revelations in the creation of the app, which encrypts each voice or text exchange between two devices using a unique code.The app will be officially unveiled at CeBIT technology trade fair in Hanover, Germany, in mid-March. It is not yet clear when it will be made available to customers, but will initially launch for Android phones and come to iOS devices “later”.The service will be run by Deutsche Telekom’s enterprise unit T-Systems in co-operation with Germany’s Sichere Mobile Kommunikation mbH (GSMK), a provider of encrypted phone services and devices.“To the best of my knowledge, this marks the first time that a major network operator throws its full weight behind end-to-end mobile voice encryption,” GSMK’s chief executive Bjoern Rupp said on Monday.“This is not just in the form of a specialised niche product, but in the form of a mass market-compatible product that will be rolled out to all of its customers,” he told Reuters at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, the world’s biggest annual phone industry conference.Deutsche Telekom’s own secure communications unitprovides handsets to the German government, such as the modified Android phone used by Angela Merkel. But the version of the “Merkelphone” that the company sells to private buyers costs €1,700, preventing widespread adoption.“Smartphones are phones combined with high-performance computers. But in most cases we are far too lax in their use. With our new offerings for smartphone security, we want to close this very gap and put customers back in charge of their own data and security level,” said Dr Jürgen Kohr, head of the Cyber-Security unit at T-Systems.Rene Obermann, Deutsche Telekom’s CEO, has been vocal about the need for his company to throw itself behind privacy efforts. In November he went so far as to call,in an editorial in the FAZ newspaper, for Germany to wall its internet off from the USA and to create Europe-only clouds. Butcritics point outthat T-Mobile US, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, has worked with American intelligence agencies in the past.Deutsche Telekom said the encryption product would first be available to its business customers.•How Deutsche Telekom aims to turn mobile phones into Fort Knox
Nokia has launched three new smartphones that run on Google’s Android operating system, marking a surprising move away from Microsoft’s Windows Phone mobile software.The new X, X+ and XL smartphones are a brand new family of Nokia Android devices, marking the Finnish company’s first breakaway since committing completely to Microsoft’s Windows Phone in 2011.The new Android-based smartphones are aimed at developing and budget markets. While they run Android software like many other smartphones, including the Samsung Galaxy S4 and Google Nexus 5, it is unlike Google’s Android, instead resembling Windows Phone with Microsoft’s applications and services.“We’re bringing all our expertise to bear to connect the next billion people to the internet. The Nokia X family will introduce the next billion people to Microsoft and act as a feeder system for our Lumia smartphones,” said the Nokia chief executive, Stephen Elop, at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.Nokia’s style of AndroidThe Nokia X devices look similar to the company’s Lumia range of Windows Phone smartphones, with big, bold colours and plastic unibody design, as well as a tiled interface.The new range includes the €89 (£74) 4in Nokia X with 3-megapixel camera, which is available immediately in developing markets, as well as the X+ which includes more memory and a microSD card slot in the same design for €99 in the second quarter.Nokia also launched the €109 XL smartphone, which has a larger 5in display as well as a 5-megapixel camera and will be available at the same time as the X+.The 5in Nokia XL is the largest of the new Nokia Android smartphones with a 5-megapixel camera.Nokia App StoreThe new smartphones run Android, but lack access to Google’s apps and services. Similar to the way Amazon has “forked” Android for its Kindle Fire tablet range, rather than using the Android found on most mainstream Android smartphones, Nokia has modified the Android software. It has heavily customised it to including both Microsoft’s and Nokia’s own apps and services like OneDrive and Here Maps instead of Google’s apps like search, Gmail and Google Maps.Nokia has also launched an Android version of its Nokia Store, which will offer a curated collection of Android apps for download including EA’s Plants Versus Zombies 2 game. Nokia will also provide easy access to third-party Android app stores like Russia’s Yandex, when apps are not available through Nokia’s own store.Nokia and Microsoft at lower costNokia’s handset business is in the process of being bought by Microsoft, which is expected to complete later this year for $7.4bn (£4.4bn), making the Nokia X series Microsoft’s first Android smartphones as well as Nokia’s.Microsoft has put a tremendous amount of money and effort behind Windows Phone as a viable mobile operating system for smartphones over the last three years. It will be interesting to see what Microsoft does with the Android smartphones once it completes its takeover of Nokia’s mobile phones.With a dual-core Snapdragon processor, smaller screens and lower resolution cameras, the X is a significant down step from the powerful Lumia range, instead intended to be a step up from Nokia’s Asha range of affordable internet-connected mobile phones.Elop explained that Nokia and Microsoft were using Android as a way to reach customers at a lower price point, in markets where the majority of smartphone purchases were made under €100. The Nokia X is aimed primarily at developing markets such as India and China, although Elop did not rule out expansion to other markets like the UK.He also said that Nokia would launch lower cost Lumia smartphones in the near future, pushing the price of the Nokia X family of devices lower in the process.• After pumping billions in advertising money into Nokia, Microsoft announced itwas to acquire the longstanding Finnish mobile phone manufacturerin September 2013
Sony’s new Xperia Z2 Tablet is a thin, light and waterproof premium Android tablet aimed squarely at Apple’s iPad Air.Sony is bucking the trend of budget-focused 7in-Android tablets, like the Tesco Hudl and the Google Nexus 7, with a new full-size 10in tablet made with thin and light premium materials.“This is the world’s slimmest and lightest waterproof tablet and features the best of Sony’s technologies across screens, cameras, audio and PlayStation,” Calum MacDougall, head of mobile marketing at Sony, told the Guardian.Lighter than the (non-waterproof) competitionThe Xperia Z2 tablet feels almost as light as some smaller 7in tablets in the hand, yet has all the features and power expected of a premium tablet, with Qualcomm’s newest top-of-the-line processor, 4G LTE and a vibrant full HD screen.Sony's new Xperia Z2 Tablet shows Android tablets can be premium and compete directly with Apple's iPad Air in black and white.It is both thinner and lighter than the iPad Air, at just 6.4mm thick and weighing only 426g compared to the iPad’s 7.5mm and 469g frame, while being 0.5mm and 69g lighter than last year’s Sony Xperia Tablet Z. For comparison, Google’s 7in Nexus 7 weighs 340g and is 10.45mm thick.The Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 2.3GHz quad-core processor at its heart, new for this year, makes the Z2 tablet one of the most powerful available. Fitted with 3GB of RAM for multitasking, two storage options are available – 16 or 32GB – while the tablet has a microSD card slot for adding up to 64GB extra space.The tablet runs the latest version of Google’s Android software 4.4.2 KitKat too, which Sony has lightly customised bundling its own apps and services such as the Music and Movies Unlimited subscription services.Noise cancelling built right inSony has thought about how people hold and use their tablets, placing the speakers on the front edge either side of the screen where they are unlikely to be blocked by hands. They sound loud and clear, if a little tiny owing to their size, but placed either side of the screen produce audible stereo sound separation, something that is rare on portable devices.Sony’s Xperia Z2 Tablet is one of very few waterproof tablets, giving you peace of mind watching BBC iPlayer in the bath.A first for a tablet, Sony has also built digital noise-cancelling technology directly into the tablet. All the processing and powering of the active noise cancelling (ANC) system is integrated into the tablet using a special set of Sony earphones. In doing so, the weight of the separate battery and circuitry is removed making using the ANC earphones a lot less cumbersome.The earphones are an optional extra for the Z2 Tablet, costing €60, but sound rich, full-range and balanced.A proper iPad Air competitorThe Z2 Tablet, which feels great to hold, is made of premium materials with metal edges and a light but sturdy aluminum frame. The back of the tablet is clad in a ceramic-like plastic, available in black and white, which provides plenty of grip.Sony’s new tablet is thinner and lighter than any other full-size tablet, including Apple’s iPad Air.Sony has built on the solid start it made with the original Xperia Tablet Z with the new Z2 Tablet, and has shown that iPad-rivalling premium Android tablets do exist. Whether people will buy them, given the advantage Apple has with its comprehensive tablet-focused app range, remains to be seen.The Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet will be available by the end of March with 16 or 32GB storage and Wi-Fi or 16GB and 4G from around the £400 mark.• TheSony Xperia Z1 Compactis a great, premium small phone and is essentially an Xperia Z1 strunk into a slimmer, more manageable frame
Sony’s new Xperia Z2 Android waterproof smartphone challenges Samsung’s Galaxy S5 with a 5.2in screen and 4K video capture.Replacing the Xperia Z1, which was released just five months ago, the Xperia Z2 fits a larger screen, shaves 0.3mm from its frame and is formed out of a solid piece of aluminum with glass front and back.Sony has also followed HTC’s lead by placing the smartphone’s speakers on the front of the device, either side of the screen, making watching videos with stereo sound a more compelling proposition on that 5.2in screen.Shake-free Ultra HD 4K video“The Xperia Z2 is the world’s best camera and camcorder in an Android smartphone, capable of capturing smooth 4K video thanks to our SteadyShot technology,” said Calum MacDougall head of mobile marketing at Sony talking to the Guardian.Sony Xperia Z2Thinner and lighter, the Xperia Z2’s most prominent feature is its ability to capture video at 4K UHD resolution – four times the resolution of standard full HD. Sony has added image stabilisation to the 20.7-megapixel rear camera. It uses the software-powered SteadyShot technology from Sony’s long-standing Handycam camcorder range, which smoothes out shakes by using motion sensors and adjusting the video accordingly. A demonstration on vibrating plate showed the technology to be effective at reducing even extreme shaking.UHD 4K video recording is more of a gimmick than a useful feature at this stage. TVs capable of displaying 4K content are expensive and few and far between, while Z2‘s screen is not capable of displaying the video at its full size.Sony claims that recording in 4K is “future-proofing” your memories, which is arguably true, but it has integrated a video zoom function to make it more useful today with common full HD TVs.Dinosaurs roaming freeSony Xperia Z2Video recorded in 4K resolution can be zoomed in real time, picking out details and enlarging objects. The results are impressive, maintaining clarity and sharpness while magnifying parts of the video that would ordinarily have been missed. The video can also be output to a TV for larger viewing.Sony has also expanded upon its fun camera applications, like its AR effect app that overlays virtual reality scenes like dinosaurs or masquerade ball masks into your photos in real time. The Z2 is capable of integrating these augmented reality scenes into videos complete with sound in real time, allowing fun video creations.A TimeShift for video application also allows capture of video at up to 120 frames per second at 720p resolution, allowing users to create good-looking slow motion video effects with an intuitive timeline dial interface.The Sony Xperia Z2 is available in three colours, black, white and purple.The Xperia Z2 is powered by Qualcomm’s new, powerful Snapdragon 801 quad-core processor, and runs the latest version of Google’s Android 4.4.2 “KitKat” with some minor customisations, including some Sony applications and media subscription services. The smartphone was snappy and fluid, with apps loading instantly and no perceptible lag in testing.The Z2 packs 16GB of storage, plus a micro SD card slot for adding up to 64GB of space for storing movies, music and photos, and will be available by the end of March in three colours: black, white and purple.World’s first noise cancelling tech built into a smartphoneThe new flagship smartphone has digital noise cancelling technology built directly into the phone – a world first according to Sony – meaning that by using the special bundled noise-cancelling headphones, users can block out up to 98% of noise like the drone of a plane or train without having to have a battery attached to their headphones.The Sony Xperia Z2 has a glass front and back surrounded by a unibody aluminium frame.In testing the headset performed well, blocking out noise and sounded rich, full and balanced; a step up from most earphones bundled in the box with smartphones.Sony has packed the new Xperia Z2 with useful features and powerful hardware making it a worthy new flagship Android smartphone. It feels significantly lighter and thinner than Z1 while being sturdy with minimal flex in the body. However, with a 5.2in screen Sony is verging dangerously into the phablet space and it remains to be seen whether the smartphone is just too big for most users.Xperia M2 along for the rideSony's new mid-range Xperia M2 Android smartphone keeps Sony's omni-balance design.Sony also unveiled a new mid-range Android smartphone called the Xperia M2, which Sony claims is the “world’s best smartphone technology in its class”.The M2 features a similar omni-balance design as the flagship Z2, has LTE 4G and a microSD card slot, but lacks waterproofing and sports a smaller, lower resolution 4.8in screen.Sony’s camera applications have made it to the M2, but the camera itself is just 8-megapixels compared to the Z2’s 20.7-megapixel sensor.Both smartphones will be available on EE and other UK networks from around April.• TheSony Xperia Z1 Compactis essentially an Xperia Z1 strunk into a smaller, more manageable frame
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe smartphone app wars are over, and Apple won &gt;&gt; TIME.comHarry McCracken being uncontroversial, points to the order in which new apps tend to appear in the west: iPhone, Android phones, iPads. (Sometimes the last two are reversed.)The current situation seems to me to be a largely happy one for both iOS and Android users. They're two great platforms, each with some unique strengths and access to vast quantities of apps. But it's not the scenario long predicted by the market share ūber alles crowd. And there aren't even any isolated incidents that should set off little alarms in Apple's head — a hot app or a big company announcing that it's decided to go Android-first.So it isn't rash to declare that we've reached the point where the reasonable conclusion is that market share alone is not the overriding factor.Asustek to suspend dual-OS notebook project, says paper &gt;&gt; DigitimesAsustek Computer is likely to be forced to give up plans to launch its dual-OS notebook, the Transformer Book Duet TD300, due to resistance from Google, according to a Chinese-language Economic Daily News (EDN) report.Asustek originally planned to start marketing the TD300 in Asia and Europe in the first quarter of 2014, and in the US in the second quarter, the paper said.It was going to be a Windows/Android dual boot. It wasshown off at CES. Now it's nixed.Five-month usage study: Chrome OS drives 0.2% of north American desktop web traffic &gt;&gt; Chitika Online Advertising NetworkTo quantify Chrome OS' North American usage growth over time, Chitika Insights analyzed billions of U.S. and Canadian desktop-based online ad impressions within the Chitika ad network. The data set analyzed consisted of impressions catalogued from 1 September 2013 to 31 January 2014. For some comparison, continental Web usage shares of both Chrome OS and Linux are graphed over the five-month timespan.The Chrome OS share doubled (from 0.1% to 0.2%). The Linux share ramped from 1.1% to 1.9%.Five ways China's WeChat is more innovative than you think &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaJosh Horwitz:As others have correctly pointed out, it's not appropriate to lump China's WeChat alongside these other chat apps. This is in large part because it's simply far ahead of its like-minded competitors with respect to the "platform" side of things.When a user opens up WeChat in any language other than Chinese, they'll likely see a messaging app that, for the most part, looks and works just like Line or Viber. But for Chinese speaking users, WeChat is a rabbit hole – full of all sorts of features that apps like Line haven't even come close to adding. Indeed, Tencent internally continues to refer to "WeChat in China" only as Weixin (its Mandarin name), while its international counterpart is referred to as WeChat.Microsoft said to cut Windows price 70% to counter rivals &gt;&gt; BloombergMicrosoft is cutting the price of Windows 8.1 by 70% for makers of low-cost computers and tablets as they try to fend off cheaper rivals like Google's Chromebooks, people familiar with the program said.Manufacturers will be charged $15 to license Windows 8.1 and preinstall it on devices that retail for less than $250, instead of the usual fee of $50, said the people, who asked not to be named because the details aren't public. The discount will apply to any products that meet the price limit, with no restrictions on the size or type of device, the people said.Stronger competition from Apple and Google cut revenue last quarter at Microsoft's devices and consumer licensing division, which includes Windows software, as the computer industry posted its biggest annual decline on record.Is it really Chromebooks that are driving this (given their tiny sales), or just a lack of low-end sales?What's the origin of Apple's SSL/TLS bug? &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsDiscussion on Hacker News of Apple's SSL/TLS bug (if you have an iOS device, update it) and how it might have occured. It's either a very spooky piece of sabotage, or a bad commit. See the diff on line 631 ofhttps://gist.github.com/alexyakoubian/9151610/revisions. Surprisingly, neither the GCC or Clang compiler will throw a warning.Bigger is not always better &gt;&gt; NPD BlogNPD's Mobile Phone Track reported 121m units sold [in the US] in 2013, in comparison to the 47m tablets and 31m notebooks we counted in our Consumer Tracking Service. In 2013 just 3.3m of all smartphones sold were phablets (a smartphone above 5.3" in size). In the fourth quarter phablets represented 4% of all smartphone sales. A far cry from what has been reported in other geographies and at current volumes (and growth rates) a segment that is clearly not threatening smaller size tablets or any other mobile device segment.Why? 1) Apple doesn't (yet?) sell a phablet, and has about 40% of US smartphone sales; 2) you can get a cheap 7in tablet. Also: 121m smartphones sold, but the installed base rose by just 30m according to ComScore. So about 91m were replacements.Fitbit says it will stop selling and recall its Force wristband &gt;&gt; WSJ.comFitbit reiterated an offer to refund consumers who purchased the $129 Force.In [a] blog post, [Fitbit chief executive James] Park wrote that 1.7% of Force users had reported any irritation. In the company statement, Fitbit said "affected users are likely experiencing an allergic reaction" to materials in the bracelet.Mr. Park wrote that "some users may be reacting to the nickel," a component of the stainless steel used in the device. Others, he wrote, "are likely experiencing an allergic reaction to the materials used in the strap or the adhesives used to assemble the product."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
RealPlayer is launching itself as a new Cloud service that will allow users to post and share video for free, and make it accessible on any device.Sharing video publicly using YouTube is easy, but sharing video with just friends and family is much more complicated, especially when dealing with the less tech-savvy, is much more complicated. RealPlayer Cloud wants to fill that niche with painless video sharing even your grandparents can appreciate.“Hit the button and it just works – we do all the transcoding, transmuxing, balancing of bitrate and bandwidth for you in the background, so whatever device you&apos;re viewing the content on the video just magically works,” Rob Glaser told the Guardian. The founder and interim chief executive of RealNetworks returned to the company a year and half ago to reinvent the business.‘Frustration-free viewing no matter what device’RealPlayer Cloud was launched in North America five months ago, gaining 500,000 users already, but is now launching globally at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Localised versions in English, French, German and Spanish, with Italian, Japanese, Korean and Portuguese will follow soon.The service is accessible through apps for the iPhone, iPad, Android, Kindle Fire and Windows, plus via Google’s Chromecast or the Roku media streaming box connected to a TV. Glaser said that his aim is to have RealPlayer Cloud available on every device out there, including smart TVs, for “frustration free viewing no matter what device you have.”Videos can also be played or uploaded through the RealPlayer Cloud site, removing the need for a dedicated app and making it easier to send video to non-RealPlayer users. Links to the videos can be sent directly from the smartphone apps via text message or any other communication service the smartphone, tablet or computer has access to including Twitter and Facebook.RealPlayer Cloud allows easy sharing of unlimited length video both privately between friends and family or publicly via Twitter or Facebook.‘A page out of Dropbox’s playbook’“We’ve taken a page out of Dropbox’s playbook, starting with 2GB of free storage for everyone. If you recommend a friend and they sign up, both you and your friend get another free gigabyte of storage,” explained Glaser.Users can also plug into RealPlayer’s legacy features, including the ability to download YouTube videos and upload them to the Cloud for later private or offline viewing.The service looks like an excellent alternative to uploading videos to Dropbox or Facebook for sharing with friends and family, as a private version of YouTube without the hassle of having to configure sharing and privacy features.Whether people really want another video sharing service remains to be seen, especially from a company whose overbearing software efforts in the early 2000s put people off in their droves.• BitTorrent wants to beyour secure person-to-person Dropbox
An infinite number of monkeys with an infinite number of typewriters would rapidly type the works of Shakespeare. How would they do at videogames?Currently, 56,312 people are attempting to play Pokémon Red at the same time. At times, that has been as high as 150,000. That is: there is one game of Pokémon Red, and all 150,000 people are controlling it at once.It is going strangely well.“Twitch Plays Pokémon” is half art project and half reality show for the 21st century. The idea is relatively simple. Pokémon Red, the 1996 Game Boy hit that kickstarted the Pokémon franchise, is running on an emulator hooked up to Twitch, a website which lets gamers broadcast video games live.Viewers can enter button commands in the chat window, and they get passed onto the emulator, which enters them in order.In theory, it harnesses the wisdom of the crowds to find the best way through the game, with playing 24 hours a day, seven days a week. (The game has currently been running for just over eight and a half days)In practice, however, it looks like this:Twitch Plays PokémonWith tens of thousands of players all entering commands at once, coordinated action is nearly impossible. Worse still, the footage is delayed by around 20 seconds, leaving players voting on actions they haven’t actually seen. And even when the decision is obvious, just enough viewers set out to deliberately disrupt events that nothing quite goes to plan.Take the Ledge (an event which earned its capital L). In Pokémon, ledges are one-way barriers, which the player can jump off but not climb up. One particular ledge, encountered three days after the stream began, was just below a wall. To get past, all the players had to do was press right for a few seconds to walk twelve paces east, then up. Pressing down at any point would send them back to the start.It took them seven hours to walk those twelve paces.HistoryTwitch Plays Pokémon’s creator has mostly taken a back seat in the whole thing. Speaking to the Guardian under conditions of strict anonymity, they expressed surprise at the stream’s popularity.“I wasn’t expecting it to get very popular at all. When I put it up I was thinking it would peak around 300 concurrent viewers at most, I wasn’t expecting over 100,000!“I’m sitting at a computer all day and frequently dealing with servers anyway. The biggest change [since the stream began] has been the amount and nature of messages I receive. I have TPP opened on a secondary monitor all day so I can keep an eye on it.”But while the game mostly plays itself, there have been times a hand from above has been required. The biggest change since the stream began was the introduction of “democracy mode” on Wednesday, which replaced the original “anarchy mode” with a system of votes on which button should be pushed next.“It was made to make otherwise impossible sections possible,” explains the creator. “I knew when this thing got very popular and the inputs became chaotic that I’d eventually have to make a change that wouldn’t go over well with everyone…“The problem was that some sections of the game are impossible without some amount of precision with the inputs, precision that just wasn’t going to be possible with the existing input mode.”Initially, democracy mode was mandatory. But after the backlash, a system was introduced to let players vote on whether or not to vote.“I made a change to the way inputs are determined but it didn’t go over well so I put in a toggle to switch between the original mode and the new mode. The viewers had already named these modes anarchy and democracy and I thought they were cool and descriptive names and used them.“I think the community has responded much better than I was fearing: I was expecting viewer [numbers] to drop by a lot more, and to receive a lot more abusive messages.”CommunityTPP has generated a fanatical community, which has taken its devotion to almost-religious levels.Typically, that would be hyperbole, but in this case it’s accurate. On the second day of the game, players received the Helix Fossil, an item with no practical use. But because it was at the top of the item list, it ended up being selected – often repeatedly – in the heat of battle. The community interpreted this as “turning to the Helix Fossil for guidance”, and so the meme of the blessed Helix Fossil was born.Other legends were born along the way. Eevee is a low-level doglike Pokémon that can evolve into three different forms depending on which elemental rock is used. The water form, Vaporeon, is tremendously useful because it can use Surf to travel on water, which is crucial for finishing the game. Unfortunately, the players bought and used the Fire Stone instead, turning Eevee into Flareon. The fire dog became known as the “False Prophet”, before being released into the wild a few days later.It goes on: a high-level Pidgeot is known as “Bird Jesus” for winning so many battles; a Rattata with dig, a move that can escape dungeons, is damned for digging the player out of Team Rocket’s HQ after hours spent navigating a maze; a Drowzee is the “Keeper” of Flareon after the two were placed in storage next to each other.The whole thing has a tongue-in-cheek element, a self-aware attempt to find method in the madness. Even without the community, TPP is frequently gripping. Watching the community attempt to name a pokémon (party members have included “x(araggbaj”, “AAJST(????” and “aaabaaajss”), or feeling dread as the cursor hovers over a command which will destroy hours of work, is strangely compelling, even if it’s bookended with hours of dull repetition.It’s provokedessays on the nature of anarchy and democracy,fan art detailing the history of the faith,a mention in XKCDanda lot of faintly terrible memes. There are even spin-offs, such as Twitch Plays Pokémon Plays Tetris, which takes the same commands and puts them into a hacked version of Tetris.As I was writing this, the players had reached the most risky section yet, an area called the Safari Zone. It’s one of the few places it’s possible to render the game unfinishable, by running out of money entirely, and it relies on near-perfect commands to be entered 270 times in a row. But then they did it anyway, coming together and producingdetailed mapsto help with co-ordination.The players are well over half way through the game, now, with three gym badges to go before they can fight the elite four, and finish the game.It can’t be long, and the creator is already planning what comes next. “I’ve received a lot of requests to continue with the Pokémon franchise after the Elite Four and the Pokémon Champion get defeated, so I’m going to do that. I’m still deciding which of the generation 2 Pokémon games to go with.”It’s tempting to draw wider conclusions about the success of Twitch Plays Pokémon. Astech blogger Andy Baio writes,it is “to me, the most wonderful thing online right now, a microcosm of the internet at large.”•Half-Life 3 – the game that doesn’t exist
Hey, it's Monday!
What do you think is the most commonly used swearword on Twitter? Well of course it is. Very detailed work by researchers at Wright State University in Ohio has found that 34.7% of all the swearwords in their sample of 51m tweets were "fuck" or one of its long list of cognates.In comparison, the second and third most popular swearwords – "shit" and "ass" – accounted for 15.0% and 14.5% respectively, while other highlights included "bitch" (10.3%), "hell" (4.5%), "whore" (1.8%), "dick" (1.7%), "piss" (1.5%) and "pussy" (1.2%). Between them, the top seven make up 90.6% of all the swearing on Twitter, and Twitter is a sweary place. In daily life it is thought that between 0.5% and 0.7% of the words we use are swearwords, but the proportion on the site is roughly twice this, at 1.15%. According to this study, about one in every 13 tweets contains a swearword of some kind.Intriguingly, swearing also seems to be an early-week thing. Tweets become more and more likely to contain a swearword as the day progresses, perhaps reflecting the accumulation of things we have to swear about, and peak profanity is reached between midnight and 1.30am, suggesting that people who are awake at that time are, let's say, the least inhibited. Yet Friday, Saturday and Sunday are consistently the least sweary days of the week.Perhaps at the weekend the less inhibited people are so intent on getting really uninhibited that they don't tweet very much at all.As seen in past studies of  offline behaviour, women were more likely to swear when talking to women, while men (who swear more overall) were much more likely to swear when talking to other men. Interestingly, men and women were also more likely than the other to use their own gender's insults. Women, for instance, were the main advocates of "bitch" and "slut" – and were still more likely to use the terms in all-female conversations. It is difficult to be sure how playfully the words were being used, of course. Although the researchers do find that "cursing is associated with negative emotions". No shit?
Samsung has released two updated versions of its Gear smartwatch featuring slimmer designs and heart rate sensors beating Apple to the release of a health-tracking smartwatch.The Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo improve on the original Galaxy Gear, which received poor reviews and was described by Samsung asan unripened fruit, by being at least 5.8g lighter and 1.1mm thinner.The new smartwatches have ditched Google’s Android software in favour of Samsung’s own new Tizen software and have enhanced functionality with fitness and health tracking, and the ability to play music via Bluetooth headphones without needing to connect to a smartphone or tablet.“Offering extended connectivity features, stylish customisation options and a robust application network, we have enhanced everything that people love about the original Galaxy Gear to create a second generation of wearable devices that offer unparalleled smart freedom,” said Simon Stanford, vice president of IT &amp; mobile for Samsung Electronics UK &amp; Ireland.More than just a companionSamsung's new Gear 2 smartwatch has an integrated camera above the screen.The Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo remain companion devices relying on Samsung’s smartphones and tablets for internet access. They both connect via Bluetooth to display notifications, provide call handling and access to Samsung’s S Voice vocal assistant.Samsung has added the ability to perform functions independent of a smartphone or tablet, improving on the original Galaxy Gear, including playing music with an integrated player and 4GB of storage space.The new smartwatches will be able to run both Samsung and third-party applications built for Samsung’s new Tizen software, including apps from CNN, Expedia, eBay, Evernote, Feedly, Garmin, Line, Paypal, Runtastic, and the Weather Channel.The Gear 2 packs a 2-megapixel camera at the top of a 1.63in Super AMOLED screen for capturing photos. The Gear 2 Neo lacks the camera. Both smartwatches will include an infrared emitter for controlling other devices like a TV or video recorder using Samsung’s WatchON Remote application.Beating Apple to healthThe Samsung Gear 2 smartwatch has an integrated heart rate sensor that monitors your pulse under the skin on your wrist.Samsung has fitted an accelerometer and gyroscope – capable of acting as a pedometer as well as an optical heart rate monitor – to the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo. It means the device can integrate with Samsung’s health and fitness tracking applications, replacing the need for additional fitness tracking gadgets like the Fitbit or Misfit Shine.Apple is expected to release a smartwatch in the near futurewith a strong focus on fitness and health tracking, as well as a “Healthbook” application for its next iteration of its iOS iPhone and iPad software. The announcement of the Gear 2 by Samsung today at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona gives the Korean company a head start of at least a couple of months over its US rival.The Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo will be compatible with a range of Samsung devices and be available in April. Gear 2 will be available in black, gold and brown, and orange and will weigh 68g, while the Gear 2 Neo will be available in black, grey, and orange and will weigh 55g.The Samsung Gear 2 Neo smartwatch lacks a camera and is 13g lighter than the Gear 2.Both smartwatches have a 1GHz dual-core processor with 512MB of RAM and are estimated to have a 2-3 day battery life by Samsung. Pricing was unavailable, but the Gear 2 is expected to be priced similarly to the original £300 Galaxy Gear.• Sony’sSmartwatch 2 Android smartwatchworks with a plethora of Android devices, not just Sony’s smartphones and tablets
Price £23,995MPG 44.8Top speed 129mphWe know a car is a substitute for all manner of personality defects. They're the six-cylinder seawall we erect to shore up our mounting insecurities. And nothing does that better than a big-engined convertible. The mighty rumble from its exhausts tells the world we are solvent, virile and, yes, awesome. We park next to miserable mid-size saloons in company carparks and watch the oppo limp away… pulverised.Booyakasha! So how come I always feel like a knob when I&nbsp;drop the top?The reason, I think, is that people who purchase convertibles are overly concerned with their image. They buy ludicrous red sports cars made by Italians; they wear sunglasses in the shade; they put too much gel on their thinning hair. But one thing they don't do is buyVauxhalls. So this Cascada, a&nbsp;new convertible from the Luton-based company (which last year celebrated its 110th anniversary), comes prejudice-free. No one will think you're a&nbsp;right tool in the grip of an existential crisis. Leaving you free to savour the enduring joy of driving an unpretentious car with the roof down. I am convinced this pleasure goes right back to the days when our hairy-faced ancestors roared about in open chariots. Even then, though, there must have been jumped-up poseurs with chrome wagon wheels, flashing a thigh in a short leather tunic. Maybe in white, with tassels…So, for those of you looking for an unassuming&nbsp;convertible, you'll find the Cascada is more than up to the job. It's a well-made and thoughtfully designed car. With the roof folded neatly away, it has all the clean functionality of an elegant yacht's tender. The roof is fabric – those folding hard-tops are so last year – and this softens and feminises the car. You can also have it in a stylishly contrasting colour. My test vehicle had a chocolate hood on a pale sapphire body – gorgeous.Open Sesame!: the fabric folding top in action.Inside, the dash is wrapped in stitched leather, the seats are deep and the controls are nibbed in quality rubbers. The only oversight is the crappy red dot-matrix display between the dials, which looks like it was nicked from a 70s microwave.You could be forgiven for guessing the Cascada is nothing more than a roofless Insignia, but it has been designed from the chassis up and doesn't share a single panel with any other Vauxhall. The car comes in two trim levels, SE and Elite, and there's a range of engines to choose from. The two bestsellers will be the 1.4-litre petrol, which is slowish yet refined and pleasant, and the gutsier 168bhp 2-litre diesel. Vauxhall claims 44.8mpg for the former, which would be miraculous for a petrol engine, while the latter will do a more plausible 50-plus miles to the gallon.As with almost all convertibles the boot is fairly cramped, but the car does have four decent full-size seats – you don't have to be a yoga guru to tuck yourself into the back. But visibility out the rear is shockingly poor. At one point I&nbsp;had to open the roof in order to reverse properly.This isn't a car you'll want to drive hard. It's a smooth, understated cruiser which lets you get on with the work of soaking up the rays without the glare of bad publicity.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
If confirmation was needed that we live in the age of the mobile phone, then the presence of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg at the Mobile World Congress gathering next week should underline the ascendancy of the handset. Zuckerberg will deliver the keynote address on Monday, fresh from announcing a $19bn (£11.4bn) deal to buy WhatsApp, the hottest mobile texting app in town.The presence of this social media superstar at one of the less glamorous trade shows is proof that mobile is now the priority for technology giants such as Facebook and Google. Facebook has shifted its focus from laptops and PCs as it strives to catch up with consumers' changing technological tastes. As a result its mobile site, also accessible via tablets, is now used by 945 million of its 1.23 billion monthly active users.Facebook will attend the MWC event with every big name in technology, including every global mobile operator and handset maker. In all, 75,000 delegates descend on Barcelona to showcase the next wave of smartphones and gadgets.Facebook has obviously seen mobile as the key to its future for a while. Its purchase of WhatsApp last week, which added another 450 million monthly active users, is the biggest in a long line of acquisitions that includes Instagram, the mobile-based photosharing site.Facebook has its own home-grown mobile applications too. The standard Facebook app has become one of the primary ways of accessing the social network for millions, while its Facebook Messenger application has joined WhatsApp in the ranks of text message replacement services.The strategic shift to mobile has been driven partly by Facebook users' embrace of mobile technology, but also by the subsequent impact on Facebook's primary revenue source, advertising. As more people migrate to using Facebook on tablets or phones, the number of eyeballs using the desktop version of Facebook shrinks. Facebook, and its advertisers, have to go where the users are.Beyond existing users in developed countries such as the UK and the US, Facebook also sees mobile as a way of engaging with people in the developing world. Already, around 81% of Facebook's 757 million daily active users are based outside the US and Canada. In the markets where Facebook is not already reaching saturation point, it is the mobile phone that is often the primary computing device – especially in developing nations, where mobile phone coverage far outstrips traditional landline and broadband infrastructure.The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) estimates that there are at least 6.8 billion mobile subscribers globally, while data from Portio Research suggests that that figure will rise to 8.5 billion by the end of 2016. Of those mobile subscribers, 5.2 billion are based in the developing world, with mobile data available to 1.2 billion of those users, according to data from ITU. By contrast only 357m fixed broadband connections exist in the developing world.The path to increasing Facebook's user base in these developing nations is therefore through mobile, something that is obviously on Zuckerberg's mind as he prepares to take the stage in Barcelona. But MWC is not just about Facebook, of course. Several major mobile manufacturers are expected to unveil their new smartphones, tablets and a plethora of accessories. New Smart watches will appear, but glitzy phone launches will still dominate. Samsung's highly anticipated Galaxy S5 is a follow-up to last year's top-of-the-range Galaxy S4, which has dominated sales of smartphones that use Google's Android operating system in the UK.The S5 is expected to feature a bigger screen and more processing power, but the biggest improvement is anticipated to be in the software department, where Samsung stands accused of falling behind competitors.Sony, too, is expected to launch at least one new high-end device in Barcelona, with the follow up to the waterproof Xperia Z1 expected to be unveiled. A replacement for the thinnest and lightest full-sized Android tablet, the Xperia Tablet Z, is also expected, which could see an Android device worthy of rivalling Apple's iPad Air.A new device from Nokia is also expected: the Nokia X. It is anticipated to be an Android smartphone, but one that is very different from Google's Android, looking more like Microsoft's Windows Phone and running Microsoft and Nokia's applications instead of Google's Maps, Gmail and search. One of Zuckerberg's reasons for buying WhatsApp at such vaulting expense was to prevent it from falling into the hands of Google. But thanks to the popularity of Android, the search giant's presence will be felt strongly in Barcelona.
As a fan of maritime shooterNavy Field, making the switch to dry land with this free Xbox conversion of the already hugely popular PC title made for a pleasing change of scenery. Although the premise of both is similar, here, rather than warships, one drives second world war-era tanks in a shoot-out that bears more than a passing resemblance to the PS One classicPanzer Front.Currently, only German, American and British tanks are playable and the lack of any Russian machines is a little disappointing, although they are set to be included in a forthcoming expansion. Still, there is plenty of variety to keep players interested, with everything from light scout vehicles to heavy self-propelled artillery included. Graphically solid, without being spectacular, the conversion shows no obvious glitches – with the possible exception that may irk purists of the slightly disconcerting sight of open-topped tank destroyers having no visible crew, but it's a minor complaint.The fighting, all live online, is generally fast, furious and terrific fun and while some of the early vehicles available represent clunky first world war relics, after levelling-up better models become available for purchase having acquired the necessary experience points and in-game currency. And therein lies how this free game works commercially, with holders of the premium (paid-for) account receiving greater rewards for their performance at the end of a round and the ability to unlock improved equipment more quickly.The good stuff is not cheap – the high-velocity premium game is £70 for 12 months, on top of the expense of Xbox Live –  but those who are prepared to be patient can reap the benefits, without the added expense.
Lightning Returnsconcludes the opus begun in 2009'sFinal Fantasy XIII– the titular heroine now cast as emissary of the god Bhunivelze, charged with saving the souls of humanity. The trilogy has redefined the RPG franchise as more action-oriented, with this title the ultimate result. Lightning fights solo, with attacks and spells hammered out in real time. An aberration to traditionalists, no doubt, but it's a battle system that's engaging and surprisingly complex thanks to customisable quick-switch outfits, each providing different abilities.Set 13 days before the end of the world, there's also a rare impetus to proceedings. Travelling between locations or escaping fights eats up in-game time, lending Lightning's quest a quiet desperation. There isn't time to save everything and decisions about which missions to complete, or when, have an impact on the world around you, often to heartbreaking effect. A poignant end, then, but the best entry in the controversial XIII saga.
After 32-years in the spotlight, Donkey Kong is, relatively, an old hand amid the brash, attention-seeking new bods in gaming but it seems, entirely appropriately, he has no intention of fading away politely. The quite brilliantDonkey Kong Country: Tropical Freezeproves that the ageing simian still shines in his natural habitat: the 2D platformer.Tropical Freeze, sequel to the Wii titleDonkey Kong Country Returns, is, like its forebear, a challenging platformer in the classic form. It brims with sharp level design and boasts enough secrets to keep even the most capable of players busy for hours.The extraordinarily prettyTropical Freezetrumps its predecessor with the spectacle contained amid its landscape – developer Retro Studios has done an eye-catching job of making a 2D playing field where levels unfold and reshape themselves with dramatic results. Admittedly it has not dared to adjust the template fromReturnstoo much, andTropical Freeze'smultiplayer lacks the single-player game's grace and pace, but it remains a superlative contribution to the genre.
More than a decade has passed since an awkward young Harvard student calledMark Zuckerbergblundered his way through dates with the young women of Cambridge, Massachusetts, distracted by his own ambition for professional success. He has since built one of the world's most valuable firms and accumulated a fortune of more than$19bn(£11.4bn). Yet this Valentine's Day, the 29-year-old Facebook supremo still only made it through the main course of a romantic dinner with his wife, Priscilla Chan, at their home in California, before work interrupted once again.The object of his affection this time wasWhatsApp, a scrappy instant messaging application for smartphones that had become one of the most keenly courted upstarts in Silicon Valley. Its owners had already resisted the advances of Google, Zuckerberg's formidable rival suitor.And over chocolate-covered strawberries that were intended for Chan, Zuckerberg agreed withJan Koum, WhatsApp's chief executive, the terms of a $19bn takeover that when announced last week astonished even seasoned watchers of an industry where cheques packed with zeros fly like paper planes.The extraordinary price tag, bigger than any previous deal for a venture-capital-backed startup, made billionaires of Koum, a Ukrainian immigrant who once lived on benefits and who turns 38  on 24 February and his co-founder, Brian Acton, 42, who met as engineers at Yahoo! in the late 1990s.Yet it also amplified warnings that in fighting an acquisitions arms race, the technology giants may be inflating another dotcom bubble without pausing to work out how firms such as WhatsApp – whose 450m users pay little or nothing for the privilege – might turn a profit. It is a gamble that has unnerved some of Zuckerberg's backers. The bullish insist he got a bargain.This little app might not even exist if Zuckerberg had only hired Koum and Acton when they applied to work for him more than four years ago. "Facebook turned me down," Acton lamented on Twitter – which had itself already told him "no" – in August 2009. "Looking forward to life's next adventure."He did not have to wait very long. Within three months, Acton had joined forces with Koum to help kick-start his former colleague's idea for an entry in the marketplace for mobile phone apps. It had enjoyed a slow-burn success since its launch earlier that year.WhatsApp was already established as the name. However, instant messaging, which was at the time still almost completely dominated by the humble SMS, was not, in fact, its big idea. The point was simply for users to update their friends on what they were doing: "Working in the library"'; "At the dentist's." But unlike on Facebook and Twitter, where such updates would quickly be overtaken by newer ones, these would sit still.Indeed, the messaging part happened quite by accident. When Apple updated its iPhones to allow notifications to be "pushed" on to screens, WhatsApp statuses began popping up like text messages. Only when the app's small crowd of users started firing volleys of statuses back and forth did Koum realise quite what he had created. A second version of the app, fully adjusted to its adopted use as a messaging system, was soon released. Then still free to download, it was swiftly gobbled up by a quarter-of-a-million users eager to exchange dozens of messages between multiple friends every day, but restricted to a limited number of texts by their monthly mobile phone contract. WhatsApp, by contrast, uses surrounding wifi or the user's mobile data allowance.Acton, still out of work, got on board. Over kitchen-table briefings, the pair persuaded five friends to invest $250,000 in the project. They kept tweaking to offer extra value over SMS, allowing users to send pictures and short audio recordings, and implementing the app's distinctive "double tick" feature that alerts jittery senders when their message has been read.By 2011, it had become one of the world's 20 most-downloaded apps and the big time beckoned. The pair raised$8m in financing from Sequoia Capitalfor a stake believed to amount to between 10% and 20%, which translated to an estimated $3bn payday for the financiers last week.Koum, who signed his paperwork for the deal against the door of the building in Mountain View where his family once collected government food stamps, is believed to have made more than $6.5bn. Acton, who took a smaller share of the firm when he joined, is now said to be worth around half that. The firm's 55 employees will also collect millions.Facebook has predictably styled the deal, which comprises $4bn in cash, $12bn worth of Facebook shares and another $3bn in restricted stock, as a play of strength. "WhatsApp is on a path to connect a billion people," said Zuckerberg, whose own site passed that mark long ago. "The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable."WhatsApp users share trillions of messages and 600m photographs every day. Facebook is paying the equivalent of about $42 per WhatsApp user, while based on the rival companies' share prices, each LinkedIn user is worth about $153 and each Twitter user about $140. "Looking past the sticker shock of $19bn, we view it as an offensive move to gain additional share of the consumer's time spent," Credit Suisse said in an analysis.Yet some analysts see the young internet visionary operating from a defensive crouch forced by a stagnation in new sign-ups, particularly among younger users. He paid about the same for a firm – whose only source of revenue is a 99 cent annual fee (which millions of early adopters escape) – as the present value of companies such as Sony or Gap.In areas where Zuckerberg is having particular trouble, such as Latin America, India and Asia, WhatsApp is the leading messaging service. The acquisition will give him the access to millions of users in these regions – and to their mobile phones – which he has struggled to secure. "This is the price Facebook has paid to take out its potential replacement," said Alan Patrick, an analyst at the media consultants Broadsight. "But it will be very expensive to keep buying out the guys who could eat their lunch."The purchase must also be viewed in the context of the high-stakes battle being waged between Zuckerberg and Larry Page, his opposite number at Google, for the prize of users and their eyeballs, across which lucrative streams of advertising can be delivered."The focus must be on the cost of Facebook not buying WhatsApp rather than the price Facebook paid for WhatsApp," said Jack Kent, an analyst at IHS Technology, who said Zuckerberg "could not risk WhatsApp's 450m monthly and 315m daily active users falling into the hands of a competitor, such as Google."Facebook picked up Instagram, the photo-sharing app, in 2012 for $1bn, a price that dropped jaws at the time yet now seems like a steal, and attempted to buy Snapchat, the tiny self-destructing photo-messaging app popular among younger users, for $3bn.Google, which saw way back in 2006 that it was worth bringingYouTube,the video-sharing site, into its empire for $1.65bn, paid$3.2bnlast year for Nest Labs, a maker of smart thermostats and smoke alarms and a leader in the "internet of things" predicted to increasingly dominate our everyday lives.But with a 14-year high of $42.4bn-worth of mergers and acquisitions agreed in the first two months of 2014, concerns are mounting that an overcooked technology industry could see a repeat of the 2000 crash, when shareholders fearful that their investments would fail to see returns pulled their money out.And despite all the smiles last week, significant sticking points remain between the new partners. While Facebook depends on sophisticated targeted onscreen advertising and a cut from the sale of games played by users within the site, Koum has worked for some time under a handwritten note taped to his desk declaring: "No Ads! No Games! No Gimmicks!"And as Facebook has faced repeated criticism for tweaking its security protocols to allow it to harvest more lucrative information about its users, WhatsApp has pledged never to do the same. "It's a decidedly contrarian approach shaped by Jan's experience growing up in a communist country with a secret police," said Jim Goetz, a partner at Sequoia Capital. "Jan's childhood made him appreciate communication that was not bugged or taped."Zuckerberg has promised to leave his new subsidiary be – for now. "He made it very clear that they are committed to not make changes to the user experience by introducing ads," Koum told theWall Street Journal. "He positioned it more as WhatsApp will stay completely independent and autonomous." Still, he has 19 billion reasons to change his mind.
Fast, frantic gameplay delivered in bitesize chunks and lovingly rendered in a retro 8-bit style makeOnly One(Rebel Binary, free, iOS/Google Play) a perfect slice of mobile gaming. Playing as a knight, stranded on a mystical column with just a giant magical sword for protection, a bombardment by a host of foes, including archers, knights and sizable bosses provides the competition. Viewed from above, this is nicely executed hack'n'slash action, with boss victories allowing for much-needed saves, so when the health meter is inevitably emptied there is no need to restart from the beginning.Power can be collected (or purchased for 69p-£2.99) and then used to bolster abilities, which helps when the bad guys begin to flood in and try to stop you surviving 70 levels and being the last man standing. A mammoth task, but one well worth undertaking.
Computers will be cleverer than humans by 2029, according to Ray Kurzweil, Google's director of engineering.The entrepreneur and futurologist has predicted that in 15 years' time computers will be more intelligent than we are and will be able to understand what we say, learn from experience, make jokes, tell stories and even flirt.Kurzweil, 66, who is considered by some to be the world's leading artificial intelligence (AI) visionary, is recognised by technologists for popularising the idea of "the singularity" – the moment in the future when men and machines will supposedly converge. Google hired him at the end of 2012 to work on the company's next breakthrough: an artificially intelligent search engine that knows us better than we know ourselves.In aninterview in today'sObserverNew Review, Kurzweil says that the company hasn't given him a particular set of instructions, apart from helping to bring natural language understanding to Google."My project is ultimately to base search on really understanding what the language means," he said. "When you write an article, you're not creating an interesting collection of words. You have something to say and Google is devoted to intelligently organising and processing the world's information."The message in your article is information, and the computers are not picking up on that. So we would want them to read everything on the web and every page of every book, then be able to engage in intelligent dialogue with the user to be able to answer their questions."Kurzweil's prediction comes hot on the tail of revelations that Google is in the throes of assembling the greatest artificial intelligence laboratory on Earth. The company has bought several machine-learning and robotics companies, including Boston Dynamics, the firm that produces lifelike military robots, for an undisclosed sum; and the smart thermostat maker, Nest Labs, for $3.2bn (£1.9bn).This month it bought the cutting-edge British artificial intelligence startup DeepMind for £242m and hired Geoffrey Hinton, a British computer scientist and the world's leading expert on neural networks.Kurzweil is known for inventing devices that have changed the world – the first flatbed scanner, the first computer program that could recognise a typeface, and the first text-to-speech synthesiser. In 1990 he predicted that a computer would defeat a world chess champion by 1998 (in 1997, IBM's Deep Blue defeated Garry Kasparov), and he predicted the future prominence of the world wide web at a time when it was only an obscure system that was used by a few academics.For years he has been saying that the Turing test – the moment at which a computer will exhibit intelligent behaviour equivalent to that of a human – will be passed in 2029. "Today, I'm pretty much at the median of what AI experts think and the public is kind of with them," he adds. "The public has seen things like Siri [the iPhone's voice-recognition technology], where you talk to a computer. They've seen the Google self-driving cars. My views are not radical any more."Kurzweil had been working with Google's co-founder, Larry Page, on special projects over several years until Page offered him a job. "I'd been having ongoing conversations with him about artificial intelligence and what Google is doing and what I was trying to do," he notes."And basically he said, 'Do it here. We'll give you the independence you've had with your own company, but you'll have these Google-scale resources.'"In 2009 Kurzweil co-founded the Singularity University, partly funded by Google, an unaccredited graduate school devoted to his ideas and the aim of exploring exponential technologies.
It's hard to know where to start with Ray Kurzweil. With the fact that he takes 150 pills a day and is intravenously injected on a weekly basis with a dizzying list of vitamins, dietary supplements, and substances that sound about as scientifically effective as face cream: coenzyme Q10, phosphatidycholine, glutathione?With the fact that he believes that he has a good chance of living for ever? He just has to stay alive "long enough" to be around for when the great life-extending technologies kick in (he's 66 and he believes that "some of the baby-boomers will make it through"). Or with the fact that he's predicted that in 15 years' time, computers are going to trump people. That they will be smarter than we are. Not just better at doing sums than us and knowing what the best route is to Basildon. They already do that. But that they will be able to understand what we say, learn from experience, crack jokes, tell stories, flirt. Ray Kurzweil believes that, by 2029, computers will be able to do all the things that humans do. Only better.But then everyone's allowed their theories. It's just that Kurzweil's theories have a habit of coming true. And, while he's been a successful technologist and entrepreneur and invented devices that have changed our world – the first flatbed scanner, the first computer program that could recognise a typeface, the first text-to-speech synthesizer and dozens more – and has been an important and influential advocate of artificial intelligence and what it will mean, he has also always been a lone voice in, if not quite a wilderness, then in something other than the mainstream.And now? Now, he works at Google. Ray Kurzweil who believes that we can live for ever and that computers will gain what looks like a lot like consciousness in a little over a decade is now Google's director of engineering. The announcement of this, last year, was extraordinary enough. To people who work with tech or who are interested in tech and who are familiar with the idea that Kurzweil has popularised of "the singularity" – the moment in the future when men and machines will supposedly converge – and know him as either a brilliant maverick and visionary futurist, or a narcissistic crackpot obsessed with longevity, this was headline news in itself.But it's what came next that puts this into context. It's since been revealed that Google has gone on an unprecedented shopping spree and is in the throes of assembling what looks like the greatest artificial intelligence laboratory on Earth; a laboratory designed to feast upon a resource of a kind that the world has never seen before: truly massive data. Our data. From the minutiae of our lives.Google has bought almost every machine-learning and robotics company it can find, or at least, rates. It made headlines two months ago, when it boughtBoston Dynamics, the firm that produces spectacular, terrifyingly life-like military robots, for an "undisclosed" but undoubtedly massive sum. It spent $3.2bn (£1.9bn) on smart thermostat makerNest Labs. And this month, it bought the secretive and cutting-edge British artificial intelligence startup DeepMind for £242m.And those are just the big deals. It also boughtBot &amp; Dolly,Meka Robotics, Holomni,Redwood Roboticsand Schaft, and another AI startup, DNNresearch. It hired Geoff Hinton, a British computer scientist who's probably the world's leading expert on neural networks. And it has embarked upon what one DeepMind investor told the technology publicationRe/codetwo weeks ago was "a Manhattan project of AI". If artificial intelligence was really possible, and if anybody could do it, he said, "this will be the team". The future, in ways we can't even begin to imagine, will be Google's.There are no "ifs" in Ray Kurzweil's vocabulary, however, when I meet him in his new home – a high-rise luxury apartment block in downtown San Francisco that's become an emblem for the city in this, its latest incarnation, the Age of Google. Kurzweil does not do ifs, or doubt, and he most especially doesn't do self-doubt. Though he's bemused about the fact that "for the first time in my life I have a job" and has moved from the east coast where his wife, Sonya, still lives, to take it.Ray Kurzweil photographed in San Francisco last year.   Photograph: Zackary Canepari/Panos PicturesBill Gates calls him "the best person I know at predicting the future of artificial intelligence". He's received 19 honorary doctorates, and he's been widely recognised as a genius. But he's the sort of genius, it turns out, who's not very good at boiling a kettle. He offers me a cup of coffee and when I accept he heads into the kitchen to make it, filling a kettle with water, putting a teaspoon of instant coffee into a cup, and then moments later, pouring the unboiled water on top of it. He stirs the undissolving lumps and I wonder whether to say anything but instead let him add almond milk – not eating dairy is just one of his multiple dietary rules – and politely say thank you as he hands it to me. It is, by quite some way, the worst cup of coffee I have ever tasted.But then, he has other things on his mind. The future, for starters. And what it will look like. He's been making predictions about the future for years, ever since he realised that one of the key things about inventing successful new products was inventing them at the right moment, and "so, as an engineer, I collected a lot of data". In 1990, he predicted that a computer would defeat a world chess champion by 1998. In1997, IBM's Deep Blue defeated Garry Kasparov. He predicted the explosion of the world wide web at a time it was only being used by a few academics and he predicted dozens and dozens of other things that have largely come true, or that will soon, such as that by the year 2000, robotic leg prostheses would allow paraplegics to walk (the US military is currently trialling an "Iron Man" suit) and "cybernetic chauffeurs" would be able to drive cars (which Google has more or less cracked).His critics point out that not all his predictions have exactly panned out (no US company has reached a market capitalisation of more than $1&nbsp;trillion; "bioengineered treatments" have yet to cure cancer). But in any case, the predictions aren't the meat of his work, just a byproduct. They're based on his belief that technology progresses exponentially (as is also the case in Moore's law, which sees computers' performance doubling every two years). But then you just have to dig out an old mobile phone to understand that. The problem, he says, is that humans don't think about the future that way. "Our intuition is linear."When Kurzweil first started talking about the "singularity", a conceit he borrowed from the science-fiction writer Vernor Vinge, he was dismissed as a fantasist. He has been saying for years that he believes that the Turing test – the moment at which a computer will exhibit intelligent behaviour equivalent to, or indistinguishable from, that of a human – will be passed in 2029. The difference is that when he began saying it, the fax machine hadn't been invented. But now, well… it's another story."My bookThe Age of Spiritual Machinescame out in 1999 and that we had a conference of AI experts at Stanford and we took a poll by hand about when you think the Turing test would be passed. The consensus was hundreds of years. And a pretty good contingent thought that it would never be done."And today, I'm pretty much at the median of what AI experts think and the public is kind of with them. Because the public has seen things like&nbsp;Siri [the iPhone's voice-recognition technology] where you talk to a computer, they've seen the Google self-driving cars. My views are not radical any more. I've actually stayed consistent. It's the rest of the world that's changing its view."And yet, we still haven't quite managed to get to grips with what that means. The Spike Jonze film,Her, which is set in the near future and has Joaquin Phoenix falling in love with a computer operating system, is not so much fantasy, according to Kurzweil, as a slightly underambitious rendering of the brave new world we are about to enter. "A lot of the dramatic tension is provided by the fact that Theodore's love interest does not have a body," Kurzweil writes ina recent review of it. "But this is an unrealistic notion. It would be technically trivial in the future to provide her with a virtual visual presence to match her virtual auditory presence."But then he predicts that by 2045 computers will be a billion times more powerful than all of the human brains on Earth. And the characters' creation of an avatar of a dead person based on their writings, in Jonze's film, is an idea that  he's been banging on about for years. He's gathered all of his father's writings and ephemera in an archive and believes it will be possible to retro-engineer him at some point in the future.So far, so sci-fi. Except that Kurzweil's new home isn't some futuristic MegaCorp intent on world domination. It's notSkynet. Or, maybe it is, but we largely still think of it as that helpful search engine with the cool design. Kurzweil has worked with Google's co-founderLarry Pageon special projects over several years. "And I'd been having ongoing conversations with him about artificial intelligence and what Google is doing and what I was trying to do. And basically he said, 'Do it here. We'll give you the independence you've had with your own company, but you'll have these Google-scale resources.'"And it's the Google-scale resources that are beyond anything the world has seen before. Such as the huge data sets that result from 1 billion people using Google ever single day. And the Google knowledge graph, which consists of 800m concepts and the billions of relationships between them. This is already a neural network, a massive, distributed global "brain". Can it learn? Can it think? It's what some of the smartest people on the planet are working on next.Peter Norvig, Google's research director, said recently that the company employs "less than 50% but certainly more than 5%" of the world's leading experts on machine learning. And that was before it bought DeepMind which, it should be noted, agreed to the deal with the proviso that Google set up an ethics board to look at the question of what machine learning will actually mean when it's in the hands of what has become the most powerful company on the planet. Of what machine learning might look like when the machines have learned to make their own decisions. Or gained, what we humans call, "consciousness".Garry Kasparov ponders a move against IBM's Deep Blue. Ray Kurzweil predicted the computer's triumph. Photograph: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty ImagesI first saw Boston Dynamics' robots in action at a presentation at theSingularity University, the university that Ray Kurzweil co-founded and that Google helped fund and which is devoted to exploring exponential technologies. And it was the Singularity University's own robotics faculty member Dan Barry who sounded a note of alarm about what the technology might mean: "I don't see any end point here," he said when talking about the use of military robots. "At some point humans aren't going to be fast enough. So what you do is that you make them autonomous. And where does that end?Terminator?"And the woman who headed the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), the secretive US military agency that funded the development of BigDog? Regina Dugan. Guess where she works now?Kurzweil's job description consists of a one-line brief. "I don't have a 20-page packet of instructions," he says. "I have a one-sentence spec. Which is to help bring natural language understanding to Google. And how they do that is up to me."Language, he believes, is the key to everything. "And my project is ultimately to base search on really understanding what the language means. When you write an article you're not creating an interesting collection of words. You have something to say and Google is devoted to intelligently organising and processing the world's information. The message in your article is information, and the computers are not picking up on that. So we would like to actually have the computers read. We want them to read everything on the web and every page of every book, then be able to engage an intelligent dialogue with the user to be able to answer their questions."Google will know the answer to your question before you have asked it, he says. It will have read every email you've ever written, every document, every idle thought you've ever tapped into a search-engine box. It will know you better than your intimate partner does. Better, perhaps, than even yourself.The most successful example of natural-language processing so far is IBM's computer Watson,which in 2011 went on the US quiz showJeopardyand won. "AndJeopardyis a pretty broad task. It involves similes and jokes and riddles. For example, it was given "a long tiresome speech delivered by a frothy pie topping" in the rhyme category and quickly responded: "A meringue harangue." Which is pretty clever: the humans didn't get it. And what's not generally appreciated is that Watson's knowledge was not hand-coded by engineers. Watson got it by reading. Wikipedia – all of it.Kurzweil says: "Computers are on the threshold of reading and understanding the semantic content of a language, but not quite at human levels. But since they can read a million times more material than humans they can make up for that with quantity. So IBM's Watson is a pretty weak reader on each page, but it read the 200m pages of Wikipedia. And basically what I'm doing at Google is to try to go beyond what Watson could do. To do it at Google scale. Which is to say to have the computer read tens of billions of pages. Watson doesn't understand the implications of what it's reading. It's doing a sort of pattern matching. It doesn't understand that if John sold his red Volvo to Mary that involves a transaction or possession and ownership being transferred. It doesn't understand that kind of information and so we are going to actually encode that, really try to teach it to understand the meaning of what these documents are&nbsp;saying."And once the computers can read their own instructions, well… gaining domination over the rest of the universe will surely be easy pickings. Though Kurzweil, being a techno-optimist, doesn't worry about the prospect of being enslaved by a master race of newly liberated iPhones with ideas above their station. He believes technology will augment us. Make us better, smarter, fitter. That just as we've already outsourced our ability to remember telephone numbers to their electronic embrace, so we will welcome nanotechnologies that thin our blood and boost our brain cells. His mind-reading search engine will be a "cybernetic friend". He is unimpressed byGoogle Glassbecause he doesn't want any technological filter between us and reality. He just wants reality to be that much&nbsp;better."I thought about if I had all the money in the world, what would I want to do?" he says. "And I would want to do this. This project. This is not a new interest for me. This idea goes back 50 years. I've been thinking about artificial intelligence and how the brain works for 50 years."The evidence of those 50 years is dotted all around the apartment. He shows me a cartoon he came up with in the 60s which shows a brain in a vat. And there's a still froma TV quiz showthat he entered aged 17 with his first invention: he'd programmed a computer to compose original music. On his walls are paintings that were produced by a computer programmed to create its own original artworks. And scrapbooks that detail the histories of various relatives, the aunts and uncles who escaped from Nazi Germany on the Kindertransport, his great grandmother who set up what he says was Europe's first school to provide higher education for girls.Kurzweil suggests that language is the key to teaching machines to think. He says his job is to ‘base search on really understanding what the language means’.The most successful example of natural-language processing to date is IBM’s computer Watson, which in 2011 went on the US quiz show Jeopardy and won (shown above). Photograph: APHis home is nothing if not eclectic. It's a shiny apartment in a shiny apartment block with big glass windows and modern furnishings but it's imbued with the sort of meaning and memories and resonances that, as yet, no machine can understand. His relatives escaped the Holocaust "because they used their minds. That's actually the philosophy of my family. The power of human ideas. I remember my grandfather coming back from his first return visit to Europe. I was seven and he told me he'd been given the opportunity to handle – with his own hands – original documents by Leonardo da Vinci. He talked about it in very reverential terms, like these were sacred documents. But they weren't handed down to us by God. They were created by a guy, a person. A single human had been very influential and had changed the world. The message was that human ideas changed the world. And that is the only thing that could change the world."On his fingers are two rings, one from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he studied, and another that was created by a 3D printer, and on his wrist is a 30-year-old Mickey Mouse watch. "It's very important to hold on to our whimsy," he says when I ask him about it. Why? "I think it's the highest level of our neocortex. Whimsy, humour…"Even more engagingly, tapping away on a computer in the study next door I find Amy, his daughter. She's a writer and a teacher and warm and open, and while Kurzweil goes off to have his photo taken, she tells me that her childhood was like "growing up in the future".Is that what it felt like? "I do feel little bit like the ideas I grew up hearing about are now ubiquitous… Everything is changing so quickly and it's not something that people realise. When we were kids people used to talk about what  they going to do when they were older, and they didn't necessarily consider how many changes would happen, and how the world would  be different, but that was at the back of  my head."And what about her father's idea of living for ever? What did she make of that? "What I think is interesting is that all kids think they are going to live for ever so actually it wasn't that much of a disconnect for me. I think it made perfect sense. Now it makes less sense."Well, yes. But there's not a scintilla of doubt in Kurzweil's mind about this. My arguments slide off what looks like his carefully moisturised skin. "My health regime is a wake-up call to my baby-boomer peers," he says. "Most of whom are accepting the normal cycle of life and accepting they are getting to the end of their productive years. That's not my view. Now that health and medicine is in information technology it is going to expand exponentially. We will see very dramatic changes ahead. According to my model it's only 10-15 years away from where we'll be adding more than a year every year to life expectancy because of progress. It's kind of a tipping point in longevity."He does, at moments like these, have something of a mad glint in his eye. Or at least the profound certitude of a fundamentalist cleric.Newsweek, a few years back,quoted an anonymous colleagueclaiming that, "Ray is going through the single most public midlife crisis that any male has ever gone through." His evangelism (and commercial endorsement) of a whole lot of dietary supplements has more than a touch of the "Dr Gillian McKeith (PhD)" to it. And it's hard not to ascribe a psychological aspect to this. He lost his adored father, a brilliant man, he says, a composer who had been largely unsuccessful and unrecognised in his lifetime, at the age of 22 to a massive heart attack. And a diagnosis of diabetes at the age of 35 led him to overhaul his diet.But isn't he simply refusing to accept, on an emotional level, that everyone gets older, everybody dies?"I think that's a great rationalisation because our immediate reaction to hearing someone has died is that it's not a good thing. We're sad. We consider it a tragedy. So for thousands of years, we did the next best thing which is to rationalise. 'Oh that tragic thing? That's really a good thing.' One of the major goals of religion is to come up with some story that says death is really a good thing. It's not. It's a tragedy. And people think we're talking about a 95-year-old living for hundreds of years. But that's not what we're talking about. We're talking radical life extension, radical life enhancement."We are talking about making ourselves millions of times more intelligent and being able to have virtually reality environments which are as fantastic as our imagination."Although possibly this is what Kurzweil's critics, such as the biologistPZ Myers, mean when they say that the problem with Kurzweil's theories is that "it's a very bizarre mixture of ideas that are solid and good with ideas that are crazy. It's as if you took a lot of very good food and some dog excrement and blended it all up so that you can't possibly figure out what's good or bad." OrJaron Lanier, who calls him "a genius" but "a product of a narcissistic age".But then, it's Kurzweil's single-mindedness that's been the foundation of his success, that made him his first fortune when he was still a teenager, and that shows no sign of letting up. Do you think he'll live for ever, I ask Amy. "I hope so," she says, which seems like a reasonable thing for an affectionate daughter to wish for. Still, I hope he does too. Because the future is almost here. And it looks like it's going to be quite a ride.
The queues seemed to stretch forever along the crowded streets of Akihabara, Tokyo’s famed Electronic Town. Outside the biggest stores, scuffles broke out as gamers fought for favourable positions – the police were called in. It was chaos. This was March 2000, the launch of the PlayStation 2 console – the most successful games machine ever produced. The rest of the world would have to wait months for this, but back then the domestic market was the most important to Sony, as it had been to all major console manufacturers for twenty years. Japan was the epicentre of gaming; it had the console makers, the best developers and the biggest games. But over the course of the following decade things changed.February 22, 2014. The PlayStation 4 is being launched in Japan three months after the machine’s high profile arrival in North America. There have been queues, of course, but no riot police this time, and no one is watching the sales figures for a hint of how this console may perform – it has already sold five million units elsewhere in the world. There are a couple of Japanese launch titles – gangster adventure Yakuza: Ishin and fantasy strategy sim Dynasty Warriors 8: Xtreme Legends the key examples – but, apart from a new beta demo for Final Fantasy 14: A Realm Reborn there is nothing huge. Talking about the delay, Shuhei Yoshida, president of Sony Worldwide Studios, has said that the Japanese development industrywasn’t quite ready to support the machine, but this isn’t the whole story. It papers over something more profound. The country hasn’t been ready for years.In 2002, Japan accounted for 50% of the global video game market. By 2010, it was at 10%. If you go back to the era of PlayStation 1 and 2, you will see it was dominated by Japanese giants like Nintendo, Sony, Capcom, Konami and Namco. The biggest games were arcade conversions – the likes of Tekken, Ridge Racer and Street Fighter – but the biggest console originals came from Japanese studios too: Super Mario, Resident Evil, Final Fantasy, Metal Gear Solid... These were the games everyone was excited by.The top ten best selling games of the ninetieswere all developed in Japan.But in the early 2000s Western tastes began to change. The arrival of Rockstar’s seminal open-world shooter, Grand Theft III, kickstarted a whole new genre of expansive sandbox games, while the increasing popularity of first-person shooters like Quake and Unreal led to big American franchises like Medal of Honor and Call of Duty set in grittily authentic landscapes. As a whole, Japanese gamers tended to prefer fantasy adventures and hyper-stylised arcade-style shooters – they didn’t go for open-worlds, they didn’t go for cinematic naturalism. A rift was developing.Risk factorsAt the same time economic factors were working against the Japanese industry. An economic recession shrank the domestic market for console games, and hit publisher’s ability to compete in terms of development costs. The Dreamcast title Shenmue, an incredibly prescient, ambitiously sprawling adventure required a reported $70m to develop, almost ruining its publisher Sega – but in the West, among companies like Electronic Arts, Activision and Ubisoft, this would soon be a pretty standard budget. And on the other side of the financial spectrum, a very strong indie scene has developed in the US and Europe, often with the financial backing of larger publishers (there isa thriving indie scene developingin Japan, but it has largely been contained in hobbyist groups). It also seems easier for younger talent to rise into positions of prominence within larger developers whereas in Japan, a rigidly hierarchical management structure can keep fresh talent from blossoming.By the time of the PS3 and Xbox 360, Japanese publishers were bit part players. While Nintendo was still in a dominant position thanks to the massive success of the Wii console, Capcom, Namco, Konami, Square Enix and co struggled to maintain interest in their big franchises. Some tried to Westernise the brands, often diluting the appeal in the process. The later Resident Evil and Final Fantasy titles have, in the eyes of many gamers, lost their intrinsic qualities in the bid to appeal more broadly. In 2009, Keiji Inafune, the producer behind such mammoth games as Mega Man, Onimusha and Resident Evil 4, famously stated that theJapanese development scene was finished. It was stuck in a past of traditional role-playing games and sci-fi mech battlers. It couldn’t compete.There have been notable exceptions, of course. Plenty of them. Formed by a cabal of legendary designers and producers, Platinum Games has produced two of the finest games of the decade: Bayonetta and Vanquish; Grasshopper Manufacture retains the Japanese sense of surreal mischief with titles like No More Heroes and Lollipop Chainsaw; Capcom has produced the enormously popular Monster Hunter series of creature capture games; and of course Nintendo is still turning its big names Mario and Zelda into beautiful gaming experiences. Perhaps most tellingly, From Software’s Demon’s Souls and Dark Souls titles – intricate obtuse, demanding fantasy action adventures – have garnered an obsessive following in the West despite eschewing the industry flow toward more intuitive, less challenging, gaming experiences.Signs of lifeBut the industry is very different now than it was in 2000. The smartphone sector has exploded, some believe at the expense of the handheld console gaming sector (although Pokemon and Animal Crossing are still wonderful and popular). The PC scene in the West is strengthening through the dominance of the Steam platform, and the traditional console market has Activision, EA, Take Two and Ubisoft at its head. Look at the big gaming sites and the most anticipated titles of 2014 are Destiny, Titanfall, Watch Dogs, Tom Clancy’s The Division... All produced in North America. And of course there is the rise of the online massively multiplayer RPG, a genre dominated in Asia by Chinese and South Korean giants.Japan is still there, however. Inafune’s apocalyptic comment isn’t quite accurate. Dark Souls 2, Mario Kart 8, Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes and new Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts titles are all looking enticing. The global fanbase is watching. Certainly, there has been a huge fall between 2000 and 2014, between dominating the industry and getting the freshest console three months after other territories (and the Xbox One hasn’t even got a Japanese release date yet). But this business has always been about trends, it is cyclical, and the next big thing could easily come out of Tokyo or Osaka. Dark Souls shows there is an appetite for the sort of challenging and cryptic titles that Japanese publishers excel at. And there are new routes to market that cut out the repressive strata of traditional publishers. Last year, Infanune, the developer who criticised the staid Japanese industry, turned to Kickstarter to fund his new project Mighty No 9, and achieved his target in a matter of hours. Sony is supporting indie-minded development in Japan, funding offbeat titles like Tokyo Jungle and Rain with young teams and fresh ideas. Companies likePlayismandNyu Mediaare helping to get brilliant Japanese indie titles like La Mulana and Gigantic army to the west; boutique western publishers like Rising Star and Rice Digital are cherry picking the best local fighting games, JRPGs and shoot-’em-ups. There is masses of activity bubbling under the surface.So the late launch of the PS4 tells us one story about the Japanese games industry, but it doesn’t provide a full-stop or a signal of unstoppable decline. The British industry has suffered a huge fall from grace in recent years, as major publishers have pulled out, shutting studios in their wake. But it has clambered back, not just with high profile releases like GTA V, Batman and Forza Horizon, but with cool interesting indie projects. Japan is doing the same, perhaps. Veteran gamers know that from Metroid to Herzog Zwei to Resident Evil to Metal Gear to Killer7 to Dance Dance Revolution to Demon’s Souls, Japan has led industry thinking on design and mechanics; it has innovated, it has invented new genres with style and flourish and purity of vision. It is now playing catch up again, but it is a skilful player. Maybe PlayStation 4, with its more open publishing platform, its easy welcome to smaller studios, its global digital distribution, will be a major part of that process.•Tekken over – Japan’s gaming future
Well, this is embarrassing. A nice man has come from Ford to pick up the electric Focus. But it's as dead as a&nbsp;dodo. Press the button, and nothing – no lights, no futuristic beeps, nada. But yesterday, when I&nbsp;last drove it, it said there were 26 miles left. Which I thought would be just enough for the man to get to where he had to go, though he may have suffered from that modern motoring malaise known as "range anxiety". Anyway, he's not driving anywhere today and leaves by public transport.Now I'm not saying this isn't all my fault. It's more than possible that I&nbsp;left something on – the lights, maybe, or the radio (actually, wasn't Simon the photographer the last person in it? Let's blame him). But this whole sorry episode does, albeit inadvertently, illustrate an issue with electric cars.The car is parked right outside my house but the charging cable doesn't nearly reach. The manual clearly says I shouldn't use an extension lead. OK, so I ignore the manual, give it a&nbsp;go anyway, but it doesn't work, no flashing green I-am-charging lights come on. (My house, thankfully, remains unburnt-down.) Even if it did work, I'd worry about tripping up pedestrians, the elderly, the blind. In short, if you live on an urban terrace, without off-street parking, then you can't charge at home. You can charge at a fast-charge place if that coincides with somewhere you want to spend three to four hours.If you do have off-street parking, or drive to work and can charge there, an electric Focus – an electric anything – begins to makes more sense. Inside, it's like any other Focus, which is a&nbsp;good thing. And it's nice to drive. This is something not everyone knows about electric cars – they pick up briskly, plus there's something very satisfying about gliding silently about town (again, be careful of blind people) – and this one is no exception. The battery eats into a&nbsp;big chunk of boot space though, and that's because this is basically a&nbsp;regular Focus with a battery, rather than a purpose-built electric car such as aRenault Zoeor aBMW i3.There's another big problem with an electric Focus: it costs £28,580. Whoa! And that's after the £5,000 government grant. Or nearly double what you would pay for a&nbsp;Zoe – a smaller car, admittedly, but with a lot more luggage space, though you then have to lease the battery for around £70 a month. Even a BMW i3, which is a much more interesting and desirable car, costs less. I can't see why you would get an electric Focus, to be honest, even if you could plug it in.The next day another man – a&nbsp;different one, thankfully – brings a&nbsp;spare battery and takes it away.Ford Focus Electric 5 DoorPrice£28,580Top speed84 mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11 secondsRange100 miles (claimed)CO2emissions0g/kmEcorating9/10Cool rating5/10
When corporate types gather to schmooze at expensive watering holes they talk about competition as an unalloyed public good. It's seen in Darwinian terms – companies engaged in a ceaseless battle for survival, with only the fittest emerging triumphant. But generally the discussion is couched in agreeably vague, general terms. The sordid realities of Darwinian competition – nature red in tooth and claw – are generally eschewed on the golf course and at the poolside.Except at amazon.com. Like the other titans of the online world – Google, Facebook, Yahoo and to a lesser extent, Microsoft – Amazon is driven by data and algorithms. But not entirely. What many of its customers may not realise is that the results generated by Amazon's search engine are partly determined by promotional fees extracted from publishers. In his bookThe Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon, Brad Stone describes one campaign to exert pressure for better terms on the more vulnerable publishers. It was known internally as the gazelle project, after Bezos suggested "that Amazon should approach these small publishers the way a cheetah would pursue a sickly gazelle". (With a nice Orwellian touch, company lawyers later changed the name to the "small publisher negotiation programme".)That's a revealing metaphor: capitalism red in tooth and claw. And it's a useful antidote to the soothing PR of the corporations that now dominate our networked world.   Up to now, they have succeeded in branding themselves as different in important ways from the bad old industrial behemoths of the past. Google has its much-vaunted "don't be evil" slogan, for example. Facebook just wants to help everyone to hook up to "share" and "like" stuff. (Strangely, there is no "dislike" button on Planet Facebook.) Amazon is fanatically committed to the philosophy that you – the customer – are always right. And so on.As a public relations posture this branding strategy has been a brilliant success. We loathe, fear or suspect many of the companies that dominate the offline world – energy utilities, oil companies and banks, to name just three sectors. Yet the giants of cyberspace seem to escape such opprobrium. Instead, it seems that we cannot get enough of the "free" services that they offer.Yet in Darwinian terms these new corporate giants are just the latest stage in the evolution of the public corporation. They exist to create wealth – vast quantities of it – for their founders and shareholders. Their imperative is to grow and achieve dominance in their chosen markets – as well as in others which they now deem to be within their reach. They are as hostile to trade unions, taxation and regulation as John D Rockefeller, JP Morgan and Andrew Carnegie ever were in their day. The only differences are that the new titans employ far fewer people, enjoy higher margins and are less harassed by governments than their predecessors.These reflections are triggered by afascinating study of Amazonby George Packer in theNew Yorkermagazine. Amazon, you will recall, started out as an online bookstore, and most people probably think that it just branched out into selling other stuff as opportunities arose. The company is pathologically secretive about its sales figures, but Packer quotes one estimate that less than 7% of Amazon's annual revenue now comes from books. Indeed, it's now hard to think of anything that one can't buy from it, or from its affiliates. In that sense, it has indeed become "the everything store".Packer claims that this was Jeff Bezos's plan from the very beginning. Books were simply a good place to start because people don't need to handle the product before they buy and they are easy to ship. In the early days, some astute observers thought that Bezos's ambition was to become the Walmart of the web. But actually compared with Amazon as it is now, Walmart looks like a niche retailer.Although books are no longer its core business, Amazon still thinks that book publishing is an industry ripe for further creative destruction. In his bookAmazonia, James Marcus, a former Amazon editorial employee, describes how Amazon's techie executives viewed book publishers as "antediluvian losers with rotary phones and inventory systems designed in 1968 and warehouses full of crap". Which explains why most publishers privately regard Amazon as a predatory monster, squeezing their margins the way Tesco squeezes farmers. They won't say this in public, though, for fear that the "buy" button will disappear from their books' pages on Amazon sites.The big question, of course, is what happens if traditional book publishing becomes unviable because of Amazon's power? One answer – the one that keeps some people awake at night – is that Amazon's dominance in the eBook market will lead to it becoming the biggest publisher in the world. The fittest will then have survived. The  rest of us will just have to pay its monopoly rents.
The Last Of Us: Left Behind DLC, PS3The Last Of Us was a dark, frightening and believable end-of-humanity simulator, brought to life by characters you actually cared about. Left Behind fills in extra events near the end of the game, mixed with flashbacks to some of heroine Ellie's formative moments in an abandoned shopping mall with her BFF. Playing as Ellie, as opposed to the burlier and more heavily armed Joel, always makes you feel more vulnerable; and in this DLC, using the groaning, shrieking infected as weapons against the survivor gangs trying to pick you off is an essential tactic. There's only two or three hours of extra story, but it's a rich and memorable experience.Sony, £11.99Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, Wii UAlthough Mario and his ape nemesis both debuted in the original Donkey Kong arcade machine, their paths diverged; Mario becoming a kite mark for quality, while Donkey Kong's CV is a lot more mixed. Tropical Freeze is a pretty 2D platform game, its occasionally snow-covered swaying jungle foliage, azure seas and jolly, partially clothed gorillas a pleasant antidote to the blue-grey visions of the apocalypse continually foisted on PlayStation and Xbox owners. Visuals aside, this has none of Mario's invention, settling for the genre's familiar collecting, head-hopping conventions.Nintendo, £32.99Eliss Infinity, iOSLike a dynamic 21st-century game of Twister played only with fingers and thumbs, Eliss starts with deceptive simplicity. It works by dragging coloured pills onto matching wavy holes before their time limits expire. If you manage it, they both disappear and you score a point, but if you touch pills of a different colour, an energy bar at the top of the screen gets eroded. Soon things get more complex with black holes appearing. It's an increasing test of dexterity that demands more fingers as you go along.Steph Thirion, £1.99
Games newsIt's the first half-term of the year, which normally does the job of shaking the tree of game releases and unearthing some genuinely exciting titles. Out this week areStrider(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, PC), the reboot of an 80s arcade game that has you running from left to right, cracking the heads of all comers;Rayman Legends, the surprisingly excellent Gallic platform game, arrives for PS4 and Xbox One; there's distinctly Japanese-flavoured dungeon explorerSorcery Saga: The Curse Of The Great Curry God(PS Vita); giant robotic extraterrestrial insect shooting gameEarth Defence Force 2025(Xbox 360, PS3);Freedom Cry, the first piece of extra story for Assassin's Creed 4, is released for PS3, PS4 and PC, having been released on other formats last year; andFar Cry: The Wild Expedition(Xbox 360, PS3, PC, pictured) comes with an HD remake of the original and Far Cries 2, 3 and Blood Dragon.
Facebook’s $19bn acquisition of WhatsAppthis week does much more than measure the breadth of Mark Zuckerberg’s spending power and his company’s ambition. It should highlight how important one of the most basic forms of digital communication – messaging – is to the internet’s future.Here’s the first thing about all of this you should know: while US companies obviously have significant purchasing power, American startups are in some ways behind the global curve; much of the innovation is happening thousands of miles away from Menlo Park. And here’s the second thing: WhatsApp’s competitors make its current revenue model look really, really sluggish.Messaging is enticing for a few reasons. For one, it’s a medium used by people all over the world. For another, it’s quieter; messages deliver a stream of photos, video or simple text direct from loved ones, without the added noise of everyone else on the internet. Messages provide for the fastest way for people to connect or find each other in a crowd. And messages allow people to buy stuff – lots and lots of stuff – in an almost criminally seamless manner.Consider the following a 101 guide to some of the messaging apps you may not have heard about, including a brief refresher on WhatsApp. These apps provide services that WhatsApp/Facebook may hope to emulate in the race to make money and literally monopolize the world’s attention. (And if that sounds creepy, that’s because it sort of is. The Guardian’sDan Gilmor takes a look at a world where Zuckerberg, not phone service providers, dominate communication.)App: WhatsAppShort attention span version:Born and bred in Silicon Valley by two ex-Yahoo employees, this app registers one million new users per day, and 450m users per month use the service to send text, photo and video. And nowit’s worth a lot of money.WhatsApp, the messaging service bought by Facebook for $19bn. Photograph: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty ImagesWhere it’s popular:Europe – up to 80% market penetration in countries including Brazil, Germany, Portugal and Spain – and Latin America, IndiaNumbers:$19bm is the only number anyone’s paying attention to at the momentWhy it’s worth watching:See above. Also, WhatsApp’s revenue strategy ($1 after a year of free use) looks especially sluggish compared to other apps offering similar services.More reading:Dominic Rushe’s breaking storyon the acquisition also has great background on founders’ visions for the tool – and more numbers, if you need them.App: LineShort attention span version:Line was developed in Japan after phone communication failed due to the 2011 tsunami. Users can use text, photo, video and sticker emoticons to chat. Users can also buy things, and brands can buy stickers that users can send to each other for free.Line app. Photograph: /LineWhere it’s popular:Japan, Thailand, SpainNumbers:Approximately 300m users, only 50m of them in JapanWhy it’s worth watching:Line has made money selling sticker emoticons and games – not far from the types of diversions you’d find on Facebook. This month,experiments with “flash sales” in Thailandresulted in 5.5m out of the country’s 22m total Line users signing up to buy discounted food and cosmetics.These were technically ads, but clearly not invasive enough that make people bristle. This could be a hugely instructive move for WhatsApp. And, oh yeah, Line is said to be considering an overseas IPO this year, which analysts say could put the value of the company around $10bn.More reading:Ben Thompson hasan excellent deep dive into Line’s flash sales and stickers strategy at Stratechery.App: WeChatShort attention span version:Developed in China (the world’s largest telecommunications market), WeChat is owned by Tencent, an internet service provider that has monopolized the market and set sights on the west.WeChat app. Photograph: /WeChatWhere it’s popular:South-east Asia, South Africa, Russia, IndiaNumbers:Approximately 300m users; expected to earn $1.1bn next yearWhy it’s worth watching:Much like Line, WeChat has already figured out how to entice users into linking the service to their bank accounts for purchases, which include buying new smartphones, through special promotions. It’ll also be interesting to see if WeChat can crack western markets by, inthe words of the Economist,persuading “consumers living in free societies to use a social network actively monitored by an authoritarian regime”.More reading:Quartz hasa nice explaineron WeChat’s ability to retain users and keep them within the app.App: ViberShort attention span version:Operating out of Cyprus, this one’s pretty much like the others, but with more of an emphasis on the kind of messaging you do with your actual voice. In the olden days we used to call this “phone calls” or “Skyping”. Viber was purchased for relative peanuts ($900m) last week by Japanese comms giant Rakuten.Viber. Photograph: /ViberWhere it’s popular:It’s used in 193 countries –everywhere?Numbers:Reportedly losing moneyto the tune of $29.5m last year, but has approximately 300m users.Why it’s worth watching:Much like Facebook, Rakuten is seeking to expand its empire by broadening its profile of services. But Rakuten an online retail company (think Amazon status), so it’ll be interesting to see what it does with Viber’s wide user reach and a sticker-based communication model similar to Line’sMore reading:Variety has drawn some nice comparisonsto the WhatsApp deal hereApp: Kik messengerShort attention span version:Created at the University of Waterloo, this messenger just launched an in-app web browser. And teens love the tool, one of several signals that the next generation will be more into direct messaging than millennials. It has yielded many a “parents beware” blog post.Kik Messenger. Photograph: /Kik MessengerWhere it’s popular:The US and CanadaNumbers:Approximately 100m users; raised $19.5m worth of fundingin 2013Why it’s worth watching:Kik is making a big push to retain users inside the app for much of their web browsing and social sharing experience.More reading:Props toTechCrunchfor asking Kik CEO Ted Livingston if Facebook’s WhatsApp acquisition had resulted in any similar offers for Kik – reporter Darrell Etherington got a non-response.Suffice it to say, the race to conquer messaging is on, in every time zone, all over the world. Adjust your thinking accordingly – theSnapchat/Instagram/Twitter DM shuffleof last year was relatively quiet compared to this. If you’re still searching for apps, Samuel Gibbs has a good rundown ofeverything that’s left, including Snapchat and Facebook’s actual messenger app. (It’s called Messenger.)
A new Google project aims to give mobile devices the ability to understand their location in a room, offering the prospect of mapping interiors or measuring living spaces with just a phone.“Project Tango” was announced by the search firm on Thursday, and Johnny Lee, the project’s leader, described it as aiming “to give mobile devices a human-scale understanding of space and motion”.The project is based on a mixture of software and hardware innovations. Key to the prototypes is a 5in phone with a variety of positioning sensors, including what appear to be stereo cameras, that Google says gives it the ability “to make over a quarter million 3D measurements every second”.Combined with special software, the phone is able “to track the full 3D motion of the device, while simultaneously creating a map of the environment”.Having created the hardware and basic software, the company is now looking for third parties to build on top of the platform. Google provides prompts for potential game ideas (“Imagine playing hide-and-seek in your house with your favorite game character, or transforming the hallways into a tree-lined path”) and for potential applications (“What if visually impaired people could navigate unassisted in unfamiliar indoor places? What if you could search for a product and see where the exact shelf is located in a super-store?”).“Professional developers with dreams of creating more than a touch-screen app” can apply for one of 200 prototype development kits. Everyone else will have to wait for the technology to make it into production devices – and Google isn’t yet saying when that will happen.•Apple buys 3D sensor company PrimeSense for $350m
When Palmer Luckey launched his virtual reality headset, the Oculus Rift, on to crowd-funding site Kickstarter in August 2012, he probably had little idea of the impact the device would make. Reaching its modest $250,000 goal in a matter of hours, the head-mounted display (HMD) went on to raise almost $2.5m and since then, two rounds of VC funding have added an extra $90m. Now thousands of developers all over the world are working on applications for the unit. There’s just one problem: Luckey’s company Oculus VR is running out of parts.In a short post on Reddit earlier this week, a company insider announced that shipping of the development kits, which include an early version of the Oculus Rift headset, would probably need to be suspended. Although the unit is still unavailable to consumers, the special developer version, aimed at companies wanting to design VR games and applications, has sold over 50,000 units worldwide. “Certain components [...] are no longer being manufactured,” the anonymous source admitted, “meaning they are no longer available to us for production. As a result, we don’t have the necessary materials to produce additional kits.” Apparently, Oculus is now looking into sourcing alternative components but has no timeframe on that. The plan is to keep selling the kits for as long as possible in the key territories, but then to suspend sales. The post ends, “we never expected to sell so many development kits.”Tablet techIt’s likely the problem stems from changes in the mobile computing and smartphone sectors. Oculus has been able to keep costs low by sourcing components that are primarily manufactured for tablets and phones – but as these devices evolve, key parts are abandoned in favour of newer tech. “The most likely component to run out would be the display,” says James Parker of Bristol developer Opposable Games, which is working with the Oculus technology. “Display tech moves on so quickly these days that it’s quite possible that they can no longer get a display of that specific size and that resolution if the big mobile manufacturers no longer need it.” Indeed, the current Oculus Rift dev kit uses a seven-inch LCD screen at a time in which many larger smartphones and phablets are moving to eight-inch and beyond.Parker, though, thinks the problems could be more to do with future plans rather than current sourcing problems. “I think any custom hardware manufacturer worth its salt would anticipate the issues, and Oculus seems to have done a fairly good job of handling supply up until now, considering how new the tech and the company is. Speculation is that they’re only running out because they’re ramping up for a consumer release in the very near future, but that’s probably just the the internet talking.”Dev Kit 2The company has, however, announced that a second developer kit is due out soon. John Carmack, the legendary games programmer who developed the likes of Doom and Quake, became Oculus VR’s chief technical officer last year and hepromised that better dev kits would arrive before the consumer launch. The specifications haven’t been released, but the industry is speculating with keen interest. Si Stratton at Swansea-based studio Mr Dog, currently working on several Oculus Rift projects states: “We don’t know for sure, but there are rumours of a better resolution display – perhaps 1080p AMOLED – as well as a low-persistence display mode to eliminate ghosting, G-Sync-like dynamic refresh rates and true positional tracking with a camera – effectively as close as possible in spec tothe Crystal Cove headset Oculus displayed at CES. Audio - especially positional audio - incorporated into the rift would be useful for us, but I don’t know if they have any plans to go down this route. We have no idea on the DK2 release date, but there’s rumours of Summer 2014.”Oculus Rift is the first in a new era of virtual reality headsets, promising to revolutionalise gaming and screened entertainment in the coming years. Viewers put on the headset and then view the virtual environment through two screens showing offset versions, thereby providing an immersive three-dimensional effect. Motion technology in the HMD also tracks the player’s head movements and relates these to the onscreen action so users can look around the world. Dozens of PC games are set to support the consumer version of the Oculus Rift when it releases, but medical and academic researchers are also working with the technology, which has never been this cheap or easy to employ before.Oculus VR certainly won’t want component shortages to delay its consumer launch, which is still hasn’t been announced but could be later this year. Interesting competitors, including the Avegant Glyph, are also being produced, while the big console manufacturers are exploring similar concepts; Sony hasteased a virtual reality HMD for the PlayStation 4. The Rift has caught the imagination of developers, but with appetite for the technology growing, momentum will be vital. A virtual battlefield awaits.•Oculus Rift: Valve promises to take virtual reality to the masses
I have the digital photos of my trips to Australia stored on an external hard drive – no problem there. However, I’m going to a dinner party, and I have been asked to bring some of them. I won’t have access to a computer, so what can I buy that will show my photos?ChristineDoes your camera have an HDMI or, more likely, a micro HDMI port? If so, you can connect it to an HDTV set using a micro HDMI cable. There are dozens available on shopping sites such as Amazon, and you should be able to find one on the high street. I’m assuming all the guests will be able to gather round a TV set, but you can ask your hosts about that. It’s more likely than getting them all to sit around a laptop or tablet.You can select a series of photos, copy them to a separate folder on your PC, edit and renumber the copies, then move them to an empty SD card (or whatever type of memory card your camera uses). With luck, they will show in the right order.You must try these things at home first. Trying to debug technical problems in unknown equipment while under time pressure is a recipe for disaster.A camera isn’t the best device for controlling a slide show. However, if you have a laptop or tablet with an HDMI port, you can do much the same thing. If not, you could buy a cheapish Android tablet with a micro HDMI port and use the cable that you would have used with the camera. If your hosts don’t have an HDTV set, you can still show your photos on the tablet, though they won’t have as much impact on the smaller screen.Make a movieIf you are willing to do more work on your presentation beforehand, you can make it simpler to show pictures. For example, most video-editing programs will turn a series of still images into a short movie, with fades and other transitions (or not) between slides, plus background music if you want it. Once you’re happy with your production, you can save it to a USB thumb drive or burn it to a CD or DVD, depending on what your hosts have available. You could even email it to them, and let them figure out how to show it.You could make your movie using the freeWindows Live Movie Maker(WLMM) or Apple’s iMovie, and there are lots of YouTube videos that will take you through the process. The main thing to watch out for is the file format. You must “publish” the movie to convert it from a project (wimp) into a single file, but that file must be one that your playback device can handle. Microsoft has tried to simplify things by givingoptionssuch as Feature phone (small), Apple iPhone, Android tablet (1080p) etc, but you can create custom settings. Most non-Apple devices can handle avi and wmv movies, but if you save it to your Windows PC, it should save it in standard H.264/MP4 format.Windows Live Movie Maker also lets you publish your movie straight to YouTube, in which case your hosts could stream it on a smart TV set, if they have one.Digital picture framesIf TV sets, CD/DVD players and laptops are all out of the question, then you could resort to a digital picture frame. There are dozens of models available, with screen sizes typically between 7in and 15in, though some are larger. They’re cheap, with models that have remote controls starting at about £30. Unfortunately, manufacturers still think 800 x 600 pixels is “high resolution”. Also, watch out: some models will only show photos in random order, and the specifications don’t make that clear. However, most will also play movies. For example, the high-endBraun 1350 DigiFrame– a 13.3in model that weighs 1.01kg – will play the MPEG1/2/4, AV1, M-JPEG, and H.264 movie formats. All you’d need to make it go is a mains plug.Pico projectorsPeople who hanker after the days of my youth – when I had a proper 35mm slide projector and screen – might be tempted by the idea of a “pico projector“. These are reasonably cheap and work quite well in the dark. However, most of them simply take a feed from a laptop or similar source, and you’d be dependent on your hosts having a clear white wall to project on. General Imaging’sIpicois one of the smallest, and is designed to work with an Apple iPhone or iPod. It might be worth buying if you have other uses for it, but not for a one-off event.Going wirelessYou should definitely take an HDMI cable to the dinner party, but there may be an alternative inDLNA(Digital Living Network Alliance). This is an industry standard based on UPnP (Universal Plug and Play), and dates back to 2003. DNLA transfers data between devices, so if the house has a Wi-Fi network, then you can send pictures to a DLNA-compatible TV set. Most are, nowadays. Not all have built-in Wi-Fi, but you can sometimes get round this by using an intermediate device that’s already plugged into the TV set, such as a games console.An even newer option is to buy a Miracast HDMI dongle, which uses both DLNA and Wi-Fi Direct. You plug the dongle into the TV set – making both USB and HDMI connections – and it connects directly to your Miracast device without going via the router. It works just like an HDMI cable, with the TV screen mirroring what’s on the smartphone, tablet or laptop screen. Miracast devices should be tested and certified by the Wi-Fi Alliance, which also turned the IEEE 802.11 standards into usable Wi-Fi. But I’d leave this one for a while until things settle down. (By the way, Apple doesn’t support either the DLNA or Miracast standards: it uses its own proprietary Airplay system.)Choosing a tabletThe final choice is, of course, up to you. If you’re looking to buy something, then I’d lean towards the Android tablet solution. If you can’t use an HDMI cable or Wi-Fi/DLNA network to display your photos on a TV screen, tablets are easy to hold up and pass around. This could also be a reasonably cheap solution, since a 7inTesco Hudlwill do the job: it has both a microSD card slot and a microHDMI port for £119. Obviously, a high-resolution 10in tablet like theGoogle Nexus 10would provide a better viewing experience, but it’s more than twice the price. (It’s £339 or £389 from Google, but the current version is overdue for replacement.)You could also consider a Windows 8.1 tablet or hybrid, now there are models that are competitive with the higher-end Android and Apple tablets. For example, the 8inDell Venue 8 Protablet costs £249, and you can now get a 10.1inAsus VivoTab ME400cfor £249.99 at Amazon.co.uk – the same price as a discountedGoogle Nexus 10. You’d have to pay extra for a keyboard for any of these tablets, so the Asus Transformer Book T100 Convertible looks good value at £349.95. Like Asus’s earlier Android-based Transformers, this looks and works like a lightweight laptop, but you can detach the screen and use it as a tablet. That means you can do PC-style photo processing in Adobe Elements or Lightroom, run Windows Live Movie Maker etc, use it as a touch-screen tablet for showing photos, and plug it into an HDTV via a micro HDMI cable, all from a single device.
“My cat is aggressive. I wake up in the morning and the first thing he does is gress me (that's the verb form of 'aggression', which my wife coined solely because of the cat). I'm not even the one who feeds him. On weekends we get up later so he escalates to biting. He hates being picked up. When we have visitors we won't let them stroke him and attacks their hands if they try. His nickname is Sodpot and he has earned it many times over. He stares angrily at anything bigger than him. He beats up next door's cat, which is twice his size. When I'm programming he jumps up on the back of my chair and smacks me in the head."Dominic Camus, developer of King Machine, on his cat, Reeve."Puddy is a smashing looking lilac British shorthair. He's a typical Garfield in the house, but he likes to act tough outside with the neighbourhood cats. I believe game developers and cats go back a long way – cats tend to curl around your feet when you're sat at the desk and save a fortune on slippers, especially if working from home in just a pair of pants, like we do."Ric LumbakaPutty CAD, a freelance games artist and designer, currently working on Zombie Piranha."Her name’s Tali, short for Tali’Zorah, because I’m just that big of a Mass effect fan boy. She’s half Maine Coone and half… who knows? Personality-wise, she basically has two modes: Crazy or asleep. Basically, if I don’t let her out when she wants to, she’s everywhere, speeding around the flat and pretty much running up the walls. But for most of the day, she just lies around on my bed behind me and twists and turns herself into hilarious positions."Hannes Florof Hypnotic Owl, currently working on strategy fantasy game The Wizard.“I have two cats — one called Chaos who’s a long haired tabby cat with a super bushy tail. When we first got him my wife and I entered a big debate on what we should name him — she insisted that it can’t be computer-game related, and after many attempts I snuck in a suggestion of Chaos. Due to my wife’s lack of knowledge of the Chaos Emeralds from Sonic she agreed. When we chose our second cat (a ginger tabby) she admitted defeat and allowed me to name him Tails! They love to sit behind my computer screen where it’s nice and warm.”James Woodwardof MilkCap Studios, currently working on mobile game, Tiki Monkeys.“We own three cats. A black and white mix named Molly, her sister Mia and an orange female tabby named Momo. Molly is named after Peter Molyneux. My cats have territories. When I'm in their territory, I need to pay a fine by petting them.  Once the fine is paid, they go off and do their own thing.  They have zero interest in my life otherwise, except for Molly who comes running like a dog whenever she see you. When multiple years worth of projects die like bloated flies and the future looks grim, my cats are a reason to get up each morning and start again the day.  If I didn't, they'd eat me."Daniel Cookof SpryFox.“I have one cat, Frank, who is a big ginger tom. He's the king of the neighbourhood, and quite often comes in covered in wounds from battle, defending his kingdom. But he's a big softy at heart, sneaking in to my daughter's room to sleep on her pillow and crying when he misses us. If he does walk across my keyboard, he always finds the one key combination that crashes things. Seems like cats and toddlers both have that skill.”Mike Heald, currently working on his own game, Keep Going, about depression, and a long-term project, Spheretic.“We have two domestic shorthair named Neko and Gato. They're from the same litter, but they mostly hate each other. Neko's sort of a bully – she'll launch unprovoked attacks on Gato, but whenever there's a scary new visitor, she'll hide in terror.  Also, if she pushes Gato too far, there's usually trouble.  Gato's a lunatic. She'll transport anything fluffy – socks, plush animals – all over the house.”James Silvaof Ska Studios, creator of The Dishwasher: Dead Samurai."Snowy is from a rescue centre although she is generally just referred to as ‘the Cat’. She has no tail or teeth and a wonky ear – she was like that when I got her. She tends to sit on my keyboard so when I go and make a brew, I often come back to find 'awaaaaawwwwwssssss  ggggggggghhhhh' in the middle of my code, which is kind of unhelpful. She's also renamed my source code folder to 'milk hj'. I'm yet to determine what the 'hj' is for.”Dave Gill, currently working for Foundry42 on Star Citizen.“Our cats are named Starbuck and Apollo and they are Maine coon cats. Yes, we named them after the Battlestar Galactica characters. I always like to call cats the screensavers of your home, it is kind of relaxing to have them hanging around in the corner of your eye, sometimes doing something completely ridiculous. They are always present at Firedroid’s brainstorm sessions. We use giant sheets of paper to write and sketch our ideas and they tend to be annoying and lay on the places you want to write or draw. But it’s adorable so we let them.”Rachel Kremerof Firedroid in the Netherlands, currently working on Ice Cream Nomsters.“My cats are called Teun-Lek (ตึ๋นเล็ก) and Tuen-Yai (ตึ๋นใหญ่).  Sometimes they lie down in front of my keyboard and on my design paper or notebook so I can't continue working.  Sometimes they steal my cup of water. While I'm testing the game either on a screen monitor or other devices, they will pay attention and try to follow what is being shown in a curious way. It's safe to say that they help me debugging; it's like we're programming together. Except they can't code.”Wasin Thonkaew, an indie game developer based in Thailand, working on the iOS game, Zombie Hero: Revenge of Kiki.“My cat is called Mushroom, and she's a small little tabby moggy thing with a white bib and paws. Cats are independent and their low-maintenance nature is a big draw. It's like having an uncomplicated flatmate around to keep you company and occasionally stick their nose in your breakfast.”Adam Hay, sound designer at The Chinese Room, currently working on Everybody's Gone to the Rapture.“Jonesy is what they'd call a 'domestic short hair' I suppose, basically the most generic short hair cat you can think of. He is a light tan color, like coffee with milk, and is just a big lump of mellow love. Knowing the cat is happily sleeping near me just makes me happy somehow. It's very nice to look over and watch him being comfortable. It's kind of a stress reliever.”Jane Ng, a 3D artist at San Francisco studio, Campo Santo. Photograph: /public domain“We have three cats. We seem to change their names quite often, but at the moment they are called Chancho, Minkins and Dr MuffinPaws alias Muncho. Cats are great company, they tend to be quiet, but they are also a mix of hilarious, mysterious, naive, dumb and super smart. And, of course, they have that amazing ability to jump nine times their height. I want to see that as often as possible.”Andrea Magnorsky, co-founder of BatCat Games.“I have so many cats! They make long programming sessions less stressful, and also I put references to my cats in some of my games. On one occasion a cat vomited on my keyboard. When I came to my office I almost screamed. The keyboard was unusable. Another time, my cat Othello marked his territory on one of my brand new monitors. I cleaned it immediately and didn't had any permanent damage. Luckily I don't receive many guests in the office – the smell wasn't that great."Riva Celso, an indie developer based in Italy."Ralph is a rescue cat, named after the first game Kirsty ever worked on, Rotten Ralph. His make, model and age is unknown. He is probably quite old but he still chases lasers across the floor. He gets in the way. As soon as a laptop screen is lifted, he trots over and claims it by constantly rubbing his face on it, which makes seeing what you’re typing very difficult."James Marsdenof Futurlab, currently working on Velocity 2X.
Sometimes Moo Yu has to surround his workstation with boxes. It’s the only way he gets any peace. From 11am to 3pm, on a pretty much daily basis, his cat, Yorda (named after the character in Ico, of course), becomes a particularly insistent interloper. It demands attention, even when its owner is mired in a tricky coding task. Yu used to work at Media Molecule on LittleBigPLanet, and then joined the Moshi Monsters team at Mind Candy. Now he has his own mini-studio,Mugathur, and he’s working from home on a new project. The cat doesn’t really care about any of this, she just wants some company. Hence the boxes.Steve Gaynor, the co-creator of Gone Home, has two cats, Delicious and Adventurous. Together they share their house in Portland, Oregon, with other members of the Fullbright development team. The cats have become such an intrinsic part of the set up here that they were written into the game, hidden away for determined players to find. “Delicious likes to wander around screaming for no reason until she settles down and sits on a chair next to me for a while,” says Gaynor. “Adventurous tends to curl up on Karla’s desk on a bag she keeps there specifically for Adventurous to lie on. They do not care about video games.”It's Delicious - one of the two cats in the Fullbright household.James Silva shares a studio with his wife Michelle and their two cats, Neko and Gato. The couple named their weekly blog updates, Good Morning Gato – they are convinced Neko is jealous of this. James describes Gato as a lunatic because it spends many hours every day transporting socks from one part of the house to another. James watches as he writes games. “It’s fun to imagine how a cat must view the world,” he says. “Perching on a desk overlooking the backyard? More like Monitoring the Realm of Rain and Terror for birds – or rather, Socks-That-Fly. Don’t abandon your post, the Neighbour Demon Cat is sure to invade any moment now! He’ll desecrate your Font of Unending Nourishment and steal away your Tall Creatures! That sounds quite game-like, but to cats, that’s life every day. Because they are insane.”Feline allureWhat is it about indie developers and cats? Every day my twitter stream contains posts from lone coders and designers, sharing the exploits of their feline cohabitants. Every day more photos and videos, more loving chastisement. Yeah sure, everyone on the internet is obsessed with cats. From ‘I Can Has Cheezburger’, to Chris Torres’ Nyan Cat illustration, to the millions of ‘cat does dumb stuff’ YouTube videos, cats are inescapable online. They creep into your Facebook feed, they skulk on Twitter, they miaow at you from Vine. They’re everywhere. And, of course, there are plenty of compelling theories as to why this is. For some psychologists it’s about evolution and survival: with their big eyes and small faces cats resemble babies, and we are genetically programmed to love our infants. Jungians also see in their independence a kind of symbolic freedom – this reflects the role of the cat in folklore where they are supernatural beings, wiser than us and separate. Because of this separation, they are both dangerous and alluring.But what is it specifically that game designers are drawn too?Because not only do they have cats, right now there are several indie titles in development specifically about cats. There isMew-Genicsfrom Team Meat, a highly eccentric cat breeding simulation, inspired by the many cats owned by co-founders Edmund McMillen and Tommy Refenes. “Tommy and I have both always had cats growing up and the game started as an experiment on how interesting and different each of our cats are,” he says. “But why are they so different? Did they experience some trauma growing up? Did they learn from watching others? We wanted to simulate all the weird shit cats do in game form and owning so many was definitely a huge factor in starting it.”Rhodri Broadbent of Cardiff-based studioDakko Dakkohas based his beautifully colourful Wii U title, Scram Kitty and His Buddy on Rails, around his two cats, Hogarth and Percival. They scamper about his office as he works, or sit next to him and watch. “It’s weird how they tie me to a routine, as well,” he says. “If I’m not flinging a toy bird around for the room for them every night at 23:45, Percy will start walking across the keyboard and yelling at me, and eventually start throwing toys off the desk”Then there isCatlateral Damage from Chris Chung, in which you play as a cat, who is also a jerk to his owner. The latter says something really telling about the relationship between coders and cats. It is not always one of mutual affection – there is often antagonism. “Suki either sits on the keyboard or rubs against the screen and won’t go away,” says Jake Birkett of Grey Alien Games. “She has also interrupted my train of thought by coming into my office to mewl for food. As you are probably aware, programmers hate interruptions as they lose their train of thought – like smashing down a Jenga puzzle – and have to spend ages ‘reloading’ their brains before they can carry on. But all this is outweighed by the benefit I get from solving problems while taking a break to stroke her. If I’m super-stressed by something, she helps me chill out.”Catlateral Damage – in which you play a cat slowly demolishing its owner’s home.AtFuturelab, the Brighton studio behind the brilliant shooter series Velocity, the office cat Ralph takes delight in obstructing work. When a laptop screen is lifted, he shoots over to claim it by rubbing his face on the display. “Board games at our place don’t end when the game ends, they end when Ralph decides it’s time to stop,” explains co-founder James Marsden. “He makes this clear by walking across the board – very carefully as to not disturb any pieces - and then he lies down on it, ending the game.”When veteran indie coder Dominic Camus emailed me, his message had the subject header “My cat is an asshole”. The cat’s name is Reeve (after Reeve Tuesti in Final Fantasy VII), but Camus tends to refer to him as Sodpot. Their relationship is … adversarial. “The Sodpot likes to pretend he doesn’t care about anyone else,” explains Camus. “But he secretly likes the company, so he’ll edge closer and closer to what I’m doing. Then he’ll knock my graphics tablet over and the noise will startle him and he’ll run for it. If I ignore him for long enough he’ll stick his face in my water. He has his own water, of course, but where’s the fun in that? Some days I look at my cat and think, ‘My project may have overrun its one year deadline by two years, but at least I’m not an asshole.’”Code of catsLike game code, cats are never yours, never quite in your control. Cats are computer programs with fur. They are systems to be observed. “I think there’s something to be learned about what is ‘interesting’ from watching animals in general, and the cat just happens to be a captive study case,” says Ed Key, developer of procedurally generated exploration game, Proteus. “If you’re playing by waving around a toy or a bit of paper or whatever, you have to put some real effort into making it “lifelike” and interesting or the cat gets bored because it’s predictable. I also enjoy watching him sometimes assume that a toy is going to appear around a certain corner and ignoring it until it does what he was expecting. I’ve never seen him watching things in Proteus, but I feel like the principles apply to its design.”James Woodward, co-founder ofMilkcap Studiosconcurs. “Cats are simply fascinating animals,” he says. “You can waste hours of your day watching them play – they do the most ridiculous things. I think people who like cats have a big respect for their independent nature; if it does not like you, then it’ll not get near – you have to earn their trust.”Like indie developers, cats can get by with minimal contact. They don’t need you; they don’t need you to go out, or cling to social scenes. “The indie developer’s life is one well suited to the introvert,” says Daniel Cook of Seattle studio SpryFox. “You’ve got long hours spent essentially alone with most of your thoughts buzzing about inside your own noggin. Cats are generally amendable to this sort of life. They sleep a lot and don’t require you constantly taking them out to poop. Yet at the same time, they do act as a social companion. I also feel that both games and cats are surrealist entities. There’s something nonsensical about game design, like those odd connections between mushrooms and jumping that provoke gasps of bewildered delight. Cats regularly provoke similar moments of delighted mystery.”Loners togetherCats and game developers, then, have similar standpoints on life and society. They can co-exist selfishly. A lot of the developers I spoke to have rescue cats, or have just taken in wandering moggies that followed them home – there is something telling in that. Indie devs are the outsiders of game development, the waifs and strays of a multigazillion-dollar industry. The romantic loners. Lost cats are sort of kindred spirits. Edmund McMillen from Team Meat rescued his cat Guppy while working as an animal control officer, and it later appeared in The Binding of Isaac.Futurlab’s cat Ralph is a rescue cat, as is Redirection developer Daniel Ratcliffe’s cat Alan, who has, “a cut in his ear and a shortened tale from his time spent on the streets.” Alex May, co-creator of Eufloria now working on Starboretum, told me about his cat, Paws: “She followed me and my ex-girlfriend half way back to our flat in the rain, so we took her in. She had no collar or chip, and nobody came forward to claim her when we put up signs and went to the vets. So this became her home.”Futurlab's cat Ralph, getting rather too close to the camera. Photograph: /public domainJames Silva, creator of indie hits I MAED A GAM3 W1TH Z0MB1ES 1N IT and Dishwasher: Dead Samurai, extends the cat/games creation metaphor: “I think that to some extent cats’ personalities overlap with a personality seen often indie development: they’re quiet, non-confrontational, clever, curious, moody, obsessive. A dog owner’s approach to getting a game made would be to rally team members and deliver pitches; a cat owner’s approach is to hole up at his desk and write code for 14 hours in his pajamas.”From talking to developers, companionship is a key element too, but again, it’s about limits, it’s about cats providing the right sort of company, the sort that isn’t too intrusive if you’re hunched over a C++ listing at three in the morning. “When I’m working through the night spending eight hours tracking down a tricky bug, the company is nice,” says Mike Heald, currently working onSpheretic, a steampunk take on Sonic the Hedgehog. “There’s also something about a cat’s purr that can take the stress out of any situation, and that’s a useful skill to have around when you’re a solo developer with literally every aspect of your product depending on you.” John Ribbins, the creative director atRoll7, agrees. “It’s hard to get too stressed out when there’s a fluffy little murderer wandering around making odd noises and slowly torturing spiders to death,” he says. “I once watched my cat take five minutes to eat a daddy longlegs. It was more harrowing than anything I’ve seen on Liveleak.“I guess ultimately, cats are pretty cheerful on their own. My cat only really wants to hang out on her terms, and most of the time she’s happy to just be sleeping or staring at something. Which, as a game developer suits me fine, because like her, I’m pretty happy sitting in a chair, on my own, making games. But when that code won’t compile or things aren’t working right I can always go and give her some fuss, or watch her kill things or have a one-sided conversation and she’s usually pretty appreciative. Also, they have teeny tiny little teeth, so even when they’re biting you, it’s still totally adorable - the same cannot be said if you get a staffie.”Cats make gamesThere are important crossovers between cat ownership and creativity that go beyond simply making games about cats. Daniel Cook atSpryFoxdraws more subtle inspiration – but it is there. “I’m constantly designing games that model my cats and their behaviors,” he says. “I’ve got one that is like Parking Wars with line-of-sight. Humans and their giant hands are resources to be mined as you adapt to the daily schedule.”Alex May is similarly resourceful. “In Cottage of Doom the sound of your entrails being torn apart and eaten by zombies is Ed Key’s cat Jack eating,” he explains. Damien Sturdy, meanwhile, used his fascination with the minds of his two Bengal crosses, Tilly and Paddy, to create an artificial intelligence model, but this project then traveled full circle – into a game about cats. Or rather, a sort of stealth escape game based around a mouse having to evade hungry feline hunters. “[My cats] inspired me to build a neural network, which resulted in a rather scary simulation of a fish tank with strong and weak fish,” he says. “This extended into a basic cat AI. With the design of Cat v Mouse I’m calculating sound waves and sight for each cat. They should be as believable as possible. If you make a sound you might get away with it, but you probably won’t. Likewise if you are as silent as you can be but you stroll in range of a kitty who has her eyes open, you’re probably doomed.”Where cat ends and owner beginsAll cat owners think their cats are eccentric, mad even. That’s part of the appeal. Indie game designers give madness back sometimes. There is a good symbiosis. Mare and Raigan ofMetanet Software, the creators of cult platformers N and N+, called their grey tabby cats Dr Doom and Megatron. “All the great creatives and thinkers throughout history had cats,” they tell me. “Einstein, Da Vinci, Hawking … It’s well-documented that most of humanity’s great ideas actually came from cats. Cats invented the bicycle, french cuisine, and most notably, string theory. They’re also excellent at bookkeeping, which is fantastic since neither of us really enjoy that task.”Metanet Software's cat Dr Doom, looking very unlike a super villain.Creative thinking is playful, all creators draw inspiration and structure from the things around them, from the joy they observe. Cats reward observation. It was the Cheshire cat that cajoled and intrigued Alice. It was Jones that got Ripley through Alien, often disappearing, often watching from the shadows, testing her resolve. Here is an important part of the appeal – the thing between game makers and cats. Game developers like systems that have the capacity to beat them; they are simultaneously appalled and challenged by bugs in their code. Cats are coding challenges incarnate, they are bugs in the household; they are a contradictory mass of strange behaviours. They are games. But they are not easy games – they don’t explain the rules, and the rules always change anyway. The best games provide chaos within structural limits. Cats are chaotic but generally they are containable. And you don’t know if they need you or not – but you don’t have to worry about that. Because they are mostly okay, and you can get on with coding.“I like cats because they are interesting and independent companions,” says Jane Ng, a 3D artist who once worked at Double Fine, but is now at San Francisco studio,Campo Santo. When I asked her about the appeal of cats to developers, she gives me the most perfect and complete answer about feline behaviour and game designers and life.“Cats are loving but don’t give unconditional love, which I actually quite respect. It’s kind of like I don’t want to be around people who will gush about my work even if it’s shitty, so I suppose similarly I enjoy being with a cat who also chooses to be with me – a cat will run away if it doesn’t like you. They are also clean and easy to take care of and don’t take up much room. Indie game makers often can’t afford a large living space.“Also, cats don’t complain if you just sit in front of a computer all day working or playing games. In fact they kind of like it. I also don’t have to skip a beer with pals after dinner. I can get home however late I want because I don’t need to let my cat outside to pee.”Cats don’t complain much. They don’t care. You can stay out, or you can stay in, and they are there, and they’ll sit by you if they want to. Sometimes you’ll be stuck on something at five am and they’re lying around nearby toying with a sock or an insect or staring madly at a spot in the corner of the room, and that one moment may be all you need to crack a physics problem or solve something to do with enemy AI. And neither of you had to explain it or feel frustrated at each other for not understanding, and absolutely no one had to be taken outside for a pee.It’s no wonder so many game developers love cats.
The US Postal Service is developing a stamp featuring Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, to be printed in 2015.Jobs, who died in 2011,appears on a list of future stamp subjects obtained by the Washington Postalongside Elvis Presley, the Anniversary of the US coast guard, and the great spangled fritillary, a butterfly.The subjects of future stamps are normally a closely guarded secret, with information releases carefully timed to maximise excitement among philatelists.But some of the proposed stamps are proving controversial.The Washington Post reportsthat John Lennon’s appearance on the list “would violate a rule that only Americans be depicted on stamps”.•Steve Jobs’ lost time capsule found after 30 years
Despite becoming an almost generic term for smart-glasses, Google Glass isn’t the only game in town.The Silicon Valley company is ploughing resources into wearable computing, and through its Glass Explorer scheme it’s offering lucky customers the ability to spend $1,500 on a beta version of the device, helping them iron out the bugs in exchange for early access to the technology. (Some of those bugs lie with the users, rather than the hardware: Google recentlyhad to release a list of behaviour guidelinesto help owners avoid becoming a “glasshole”.)But that delay is giving smaller groups the chance to beat Google at its own game, and arrive with a product for the mass-market long in advance of the Glass.Laforge Optics is one. The company has just launched anIndiegogo fundraising pagefor its Icis smartglasses, which it bills as “fashion friendly”.LaForge is trying to undercut Google, selling pre-orders on Indiegogo for just $320 (rising to $620 for a version with a high-res screen and a camera). But that’s not their USP. “Our sales pitch is simple,” Corey Mack, the company’s founder, told the Guardian. “If you want the want to be the most informed person in a room, and not look like a geek, go with Laforge.”Mack argues that Google’s lack of focus on wearables – “corporations like Google are slow-moving beasts, like whales. Google has dozens of different businesses and we only have one” – leaves it unable to offer a mainstream product rather than “some sci-fi fantasy”.As well as a stronger focus on design, the Icis glasses build the screen right into the user’s lens, letting them avoid the awkward up-and-to-the-left gaze common with owners of Google’s Glass. The company has developed a 640x480 pixel screen which is displayed from the side of the lens, but thanks to “a proprietary combination of lenses and coatings” appears in front of the wearer.Laforge insists that sharing a name with the blind Star Trek character who wears a “vision visor” is entirely coincidental. But it isn’t the only company betting the bank on breaking the “geek” image that wearables are stuck with. Avegant technology makes a very different type of wearable, but their ambition is similar: create a product aimed at normal people.Avegant’s Glyph is a head-mounted display, a category currently consisting largely of Sony’s niche HMZ line – which starts at £1,000, and makes the wearer look like a peculiar sort of robot fetishist.In Avegant’s eyes, head-mounted displays should, and will, gain the same popularity that headphones have for listening to audio on the move. But before that can happen, people need to be comfortable wearing them in public.“We focus on mobile because televisions are in the home, and they’re great,” says Avegant’s Grant Martin. “But what headphones did is let people take their speaker system with you, and nobody has ever done a good job of that for video. Watching movies on your phone is a sub-par experience.”In use, the device resembles a pair of chunky over-ear headphones, like those made by Beats or skullcandy. But flip the “headband” down, and two eyeholes hiding in the middle offer a 3D screen. It’s the equivalent of sitting in the centre of a smallish cinema, but with far better 3D than that in the average multiplex.“We tried to say ‘we need to make something that’s better than headphones and a tablet, and then we need to make it headphones so you don’t need to carry a pair of headphones as well.’ So now, instead of have headphones and a tablet, you lose one device.”Just like LaForge, Avegant has other sales pitches beyond style. The display on the Glyph works completely differently to other headsets, projecting an image directly onto the wearer’s retina using an array of tiny mirrors. It avoids the ugly low-res effect that virtual reality displays like the Oculus Rift are forced into when they put a traditional LCD screen, but at the trade-off of displays which need to be fairly accurately aligned with your eyes to work.The final production model will also include noise-cancelling audio. It can bepre-ordered on Kickstarter for one more day, at a cost of $499. Crowdfunding has become a popular entry route for hardware manufacturers, Martin explains.But entering a whole new product category is difficult, and Laforge’s Mack injects a note of caution. “AR technology is getting there. But most of the current form factors and use cases are too futuristic. Concepts like 3D interfaces, and hand gestures are cool, but the former is a drain on battery life and the latter presents huge ergonomic and social issues.”“We are not here to challenge any social or cognitive norms. This is why Icis doesn’t accept voice commands or any motion based gestures. I think we as human beings talktoeach other butatmachines.”•30 things being 3D printed right now - and none of them are guns
Evolve is a boss fight, pure and simple. Four gun-toting players with different abilities find themselves on a savage alien planet, pitted against a fifth participant controlling a massive creature composed mainly of teeth, claws and a bad attitude. When they meet, they battle to the death. Even though the action is split unevenly in terms of numbers, the game is constructed in such a way as to give either side a chance of winning. Evolve is the progeny of an illicit love affair between Shadow Of The Colossus and Left 4 Dead.Indeed, Valve’s zombie shooter is a good starting point here, because the same studio – Turtle Rock Studios – is responsible for both titles. While the developer may have traded the undead apocalypse for sci-fi hunting grounds, the key consideration in co-op play remains the same: act as a team or you won’t survive.Well, that at least applies to the players controlling the hunters. The player who is controlling their feral prey is all alone. The alien’s job is to avoid the other players until it has evolved sufficiently to give itself a fighting chance – hence the title of the game. In a way, Evolve satisfies just about every sort of taste in an online fragfest; if you’re a team player, you opt for a hunter and if you’re more the lone wolf type, you can plump for the prey.EvolveThe four players working together each pick a specific character boasting a unique set of powers and weaponry. There’s a Trapper, whose job is to track and contain the group’s quarry. To that end they’re armed with a set of Sound Spikes – beacons that ping a signal whenever the beast passes them – and a portable arena – a forcefield that contains the monster, but that the hunters can move in and out of.There’s a Support class soldier, who can shield other members of the party and call down an aerial strike on the monster. There’s an Assault class solider, who can deploy mines and a personal shield. Finally, there’s a Medic, who can heal other members of the group and fire tranquilisers at the monster, make it sluggish in its movements.Turtle Rock says it has a vast menagerie of beasts planned for Evolve, but in the game’s first outing, only one was available to play with: a bi-pedal monstrosity called Goliath. At the beginning of the round, players can select a perk for the creature – in Goliath’s case they can choose between an armour boost and the ability to feed quickly – and then they’re set loose while the hunter players drop into the map behind them.The one environment showcased at the preview I attended looked like it had been pulled out of James Cameron’s Avatar. For the most part, it was lush jungle filled with towering trees and rock outcroppings, but there was also a massive military base in the centre of it. The jungle also contained alien wildlife, some of which Goliath could consume in order to earn ‘Evolve’ points and a couple of vicious quadra-peds and one giant, bad-tempered amphibian, which attacked anything that came near. Useful, if the player controlling Goliath needed the AI to run interference.Evolution in actionOnce the player controlling the monster earns enough Evolve points they have the option of sealing themselves in a cocoon and adding another ability to their arsenal once they emerge. While there’s a pay-off in doing this – Goliath exits with the ability to charge down his pursuers and breathe fire on them – the monster is at its most vulnerable while in its transformative home. To that end, it’s worth putting some distance between the monster and the players hunting it before evolving, or doing so in close proximity to some beasts that will attack the other four players.When the monster is fully evolved, the fight becomes a lot more even-handed, which is why it’s important for the four hunters to dish out as much damage as possible before this happens. Once their quarry is powered up, they have to become a lot more tactical in their approach, since, if their opponent has any sense, they’ll target the Medic player first and then rip their way through the rest of the group.EvolveIn order to avoid this happening, the four hunters have to be able to work as a cohesive unit. The Support class player needs to safeguard the Medic, who in turn, needs to keep the Assault player healthy as they attempt to bring a world of hurt down on the group’s quarry. The Trapper, for their part, needs to time the deployment of their portable arena to trap the monster. They can also use a harpoon gun to limit the monster’s scope of movement within the arena.For the hunters, success lies in teamwork. For the monster, it hinges on being able to pick out the most valuable targets quickly and then eliminating them. This, at least, was the rubric that emerged during my hands-on time with Evolve, during which I was only allowed to play one match type on one map.However, according to Turtle Rock, this brief run through only represents the tip of Evolve’s proverbial iceberg. More maps, monsters, match types, weapons and hunter accouterments are planned for the final release and who knows what affect these variable will have on the final build? If Evolve is to remain as meticulously balanced as Left 4 Dead, Turtle Rock has its work cut out. Let’s just hope the studio doesn’t decide to make the monsters in its game as sympathetic as those of Shadow Of The Colossus. That’d be a real downer.• Evolve is released on PC, PS4 and Xbox One in the autumn
It's Friday.
A quick burst of 16 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Google blew its chance to buy WhatsApp &gt;&gt; Business InsiderGoogle CEO Larry Page blew his chance to buy WhatsApp.Page was willing to pay more than the $19bn Facebook paid for WhatsApp, according to anew report from Amir Efrati and Jessica Lessin at The Information.But WhatsApp’s founders turned down Google because they believed the only reason Page was bidding on WhatsApp was to keep it out of Facebook’s hands.Android 4.4.2 problems persist as Nexus users call for Android 4.4.3 &gt;&gt; GottabemobileOne of the biggest problems that we’re seeing right now, amongst Nexus 5 users, is one that affects calls. According to several Nexus 5 owners, the device won’t ring when users call the phone. Users are reporting that while connecting to LTE or Wi-Fi, the Nexus 5 often times does not show an incoming call. Users state that switching to 3G fixes the issue but clearly, that fix is less than ideal.Nexus 7 2013 owners are dealing with slow charging issues, issues that seem to have followed them to Android 4.4.2 KitKat. Some users are saying that while using the official charger, the Nexus 7 can take up to eight hours to charge which clearly isn’t efficient or normal. This is a problem that affected owners of the original Nexus 7 after Android 4.2 Jelly Bean arrived last year.Facebook WhatsApp buy triggers unexpected BlackBerry boost &gt;&gt; SlashGearThe Canadian firm’s share price is up more than 5-percent today - and was up more than 9-percent in after-hours trading yesterday - as investors question whether BBM might be the undervalued star of BlackBerry’s portfolio of services.Is BBM the jewel in sliding BlackBerry’s Crown?Xbox One Media Remote coming in early March for $24.99 &gt;&gt; PolygonThe Media Remote provides Xbox One users with a way to control playback of video content, such as Blu-rays and streaming video, without using the console’s controller.Wasn’t that what Kinect was meant to do?Pressure grows on Almunia over Google deal &gt;&gt; WSJVanessa Mock:The European Union’s antitrust chief Joaquín Almunia is facing mounting pressure to reconsider aspects of this month’s settlement with Google.In recent weeks, other members of the European Commissionincluding Viviane Reding, Michel Barnier and Günther Oettingercomplained in closed-door meetings that Mr. Almunia announced the Google settlement without fully consulting them beforehand, EU officials said. Now, the competition chief has been asked to appear before a European Parliament committee to explain the commission’s deal with the search giant.Mr. Almunia earlier this month announced a landmark deal with Google to address concerns over its abuse of dominance in Europe, where it enjoys a market share of over 90%.In a letter to Mr. Almunia, two lawmakers dealing with antitrust issues at the parliament said they were ‘unsettled’ by reports of disagreement among the bloc’s 28 commissioners over the settlement and by the “serious criticism from several industry stakeholders and consumers on both sides of the Atlantic.”Fleksy Opens Its iOS SDK For All Developers, Requires Zero Lines Of Code To Implement &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFor users, all that’s required is that they have the app installed on their phone one time, and then a Fleksy button pops up next to the “Cut, Copy, Paste” buttons that come up when you tap in any text field, so long as the app you’re using has integrated Fleksy using the SDK. Settings, dictionaries and other options including color choices are shared across apps, meaning it feels like the Fleksy keyboard is an OS-level feature, despite the fact that it still has to be built into each app individually because of Apple’s restrictions on third-party keyboards.It’ll be interesting to see how long Apple lets something like this fly, it it ever becomes popular.Microsoft SkyDrive relaunches as OneDrive from today &gt;&gt; RecombuFor the most part it would appear pretty much unchanged from its previous life under the SkyDrive name, but the team behind it are promising a bigger, better experience than ever before.So short of a BSkyB forced name change, the all new OneDrive is business as usual.HTC looking to dominate wearables with three devices &gt;&gt; TechRadarThe second smartwatch is based around Google Now and will have an AMOLED screen, while a third wearable - a smart wristband - will have a thin touchscreen display, activity tracking features and a music player, so by the sounds of things it will be gunning for the Fitbit Force and the Nike FuelBand SE.Google Now might finally bring a much needed injection of intelligence to the smartwatch.European Space Agency: PLATO will seek out ‘ADVANCED LIFE forms’... ‘SLIME’ &gt;&gt; The RegisterThere’s a lot of hype in this subject, a lot of irrational exuberance. Popular media have characterised our understanding as better than it actually is. They’ve been able to generate excitement that creates a positive connection between the astrophysics community and the public at large, but it’s important not to hype conclusions too much at this point.Quite, but it’s still exciting to imagine the possibility of Earth-like planets ready for colonisation.Google offered to buy WhatsApp for $10 billion &gt;&gt; Fortune TechJessi Hempel:$10 billion.Two separate sources have told me that’s how much Google offered to purchase WhatsApp. The bid did not come with promise of a board seat, unlike the Facebook agreement.Google declined to comment, during a conversation with a Fortune colleague.Leaving Google &gt;&gt; Tim BrayAs of March 17th I’ll be an ex-em­ployee. It’s an am­i­ca­ble sep­a­ra­tion in the face of ir­rec­on­cil­able dif­fer­ences: I wouldn’t move to Cal­i­for­nia and Google wouldn’t open a Van­cou­ver of­fice. I haven’t de­cided what to do next.Bray did a lot of work on Android and then identity.Exclusive: the rags-to-riches tale of how Jan Koum built WhatsApp into Facebook’s new $19bn baby &gt;&gt; ForbesParmy Olson:[Koum’s childhood] house had no hot water, and his parents rarely talked on the phone in case it was tapped by the state. It sounds bad, but Koum still pines for the rural life he once lived, and it’s one of the main reasons he’s so vehemently against the hurly-burly of advertising...[Co-founder Brian] Acton invested in the dotcom boom, and lost millions in the 2000 bust. For all of his distaste for advertising now he was also deep in it back then, getting pulled in to help launch Yahoo’s important and much-delayed advertising platform Project Panama in 2006. “Dealing with ads is depressing,” he says now. “You don’t make anyone’s life better by making advertisements work better.” He was emotionally drained. “I could see it on him in the hallways,” says Koum, who wasn’t enjoying things either...Fortunately WhatsApp was gradually bringing in revenue, roughly $5,000 a month by early 2010 and enough to cover the costs then. The founders occasionally switched the app from “free” to “paid” so they wouldn’t grow too fast. In Dec. 2009 they updated WhatsApp for the iPhone to send photos, and were shocked to see user growth increasing even when it had the $1 price tag. “You know, I think we can actually stay paid,” Acton told Koum.A fantastic profile of the people behind this phenomenon. A must-read.Cost of replacing credit cards after Target breach estimated at $200m &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe Consumer Bankers Association, a retail-banking trade group, estimates the cost of card replacements for its members to have reached $172m, up from an initial finding of $153m. The association says its member banks have replaced about 17.2m cards at a cost per card of $10. That includes the cost of the card, the mailing and distribution costs as well as the cost of hiring extra customer-service employees.Separately, the Credit Union National Association has raised its estimate of the breach’s impact on credit unions to $30.6m from an original estimate of $25m.EMV (aka chip &amp; PIN) isn’t due to arrive in the US before 2015.This phone is great, till it’s time to add apps &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFarhad Manjoo tries out the Nokia Icon, and finds its apps lacking:Other Google services, including YouTube, are available through so-called unofficial apps created by programmers who aren’t associated with Google. The Windows Phone Store is clogged with these unofficial apps, and many aren’t quite up to snuff. The YouTube app created by Microsoft is barely worthy of the name. It simply opens up the video site in your Windows web browser; I found it mostly worked, though slower and without much of the design polish of the official YouTube apps found on iOS and Android. Other unsanctioned apps are disastrous. The unofficial app for the house-sharing service Airbnb the only Airbnb app I could find is in French.But wait, there’s less. Windows Phone doesn’t have access to almost all the latest games that crowd the most-popular list on the iOS App Store and it lacks some of the most creative and useful apps by start-ups (like the credit-card reader Square).He too thinks Microsoft should create an AOSP-based “Windroid” phone.Four numbers that explain why Facebook acquired WhatsApp &gt;&gt; Sequoia CapitalThose less familiar with WhatsApp and its wonderful product will marvel at how a young company could be so valuable. Many of those people will be in the U.S. because there’s no other home grown technology company that’s so widely loved overseas and so under appreciated at home. WhatsApp reminds us of other companies that we partnered with like PayPal, and YouTubewhose founders chose a similar path to Jan and Brian. Today PayPal and YouTube are both household names around the world. Tomorrow the same will hold true for WhatsApp.Sequioa Capital was the only company that got the chance to make an investment in WhatsApp.How the iPad may help soften the decline of the download &gt;&gt; Music Industry BlogMark Mulligan points to a survey of 1,000 people in the UK which found that 32% of iPad owners are Android phone owners (48% in the case of the iPad mini):Because an iPad customer is also inherently an iTunes user significant opportunity exists for content providers. For all Google Play’s valiant efforts - and extensive marketing spend - no one else manages to get people to buy music downloads the way Apple does. More Android customers becoming iTunes users via the iPad presents the opportunity to grow the installed base of music download buyers. And there are encouraging indicators: only 26% of iPad customers do not buy music, compared to 49% of all consumers and 47% of overall Android smartphone users.• You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard.• To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
NBN Co has announced a $715m operating loss for the six months to December 2013 as it continues to roll out the broadband network.Although the losses were expected, its chief financial officer, Robin Payne, said close to 131,000 premises had been connected by the end of 2013, generating $47.8m in revenue, a 63% increase on the previous year.Capital expenditure on the project increased by 50% to $1.19bn. Operating costs also increased 50%, to $500.4m.NBN Co also confirmed on Friday that it was negotiating with Telstra to rent its copper lines for trials of fibre-to-the-node technology, to be run in Umina on the NSW central coast and in the northern Melbourne suburb of Epping.Leasing the lines would fall outside an existing $11.2bn deal that NBN Co struck with Telstra for access to the telco’s infrastructure.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, has sought to overhaul the troubled project since he took the reins last September.Hel asked NBN Co’s entire board to resign shortly after the Coalition was elected and appointed the former Telstra chief executive Ziggy Switkowski as the new chairman.He also scrapped Labor’s plan to connect customers to the network via fibre-optic cables relayed directly to their premises. The revised rollout will instead use a mix of technologies, including fibre, copper and coaxial cable, depending on what is “most economically efficient” in each area, Turnbull said.The mix of technologies would connect customers to the network sooner and bring forward revenues, Switkowski said on Friday. This would “help fund the already-reduced construction costs and thereby reduce the debt requirements to build the NBN”.More details of the transition to the new model will be provided in NBN Co’s corporate plan, to be released later this year.
Amazon is hitting back at Netflix in the UK by rebranding its LoveFilm video-on-demand service.LoveFilm,bought out by Amazon three years ago in a deal worth nearly £200m, will be folded into the online retailer's British website next week, creating a one-stop service for digital streaming, DVD rental and books."Consumers will be able to shop for what they want, read what they want and watch they want anywhere at any time," said Tim Leslie, vice-president of Amazon Instant Video for the UK and Germany.LoveFilm, which offers streaming of television series such as The Walking Dead and hit films such as The Place Beyond the Pines and Wall-E, will be merged with the Amazon Prime subscription service, which gives members perks including unlimited free delivery and borrowing up to 500,000 Kindle ebooks.Existing subscribers will get access to the new LoveFilm service, to be called Prime Instant Video, which will have the effect of enabling Amazon to leapfrog Netflix as the UK's biggest digital TV and film streaming business.Amazon aims to offer a broader service than Netflix, which supplies mostly older programming, by including the option of digitally renting or purchasing 50,000 new releases such as Captain Phillips and Game of Thrones."Even if you have another service you are going to want our service," said Leslie. "It is the only place you are going to be able to find certain great TV shows, movies and original content all in one place. It is the most complete digital video service in the UK."Amazon is hoping to challenge Netflix by bundling Amazon Prime with LoveFilm at a knockdown price. Netflix charges its estimated 2 million UK customers £5.99 a month, about £72 a year, the same price as the existing LoveFilm service.Amazon Prime costs £49 annually. The new combined package will be charged at £79, about £6.58 a month, making it 35% cheaper than subscribing to each service separately."All of these things in one package for less than £7 a month, we think this is best value out there," said Leslie.Users who only want access to Prime Instant Video can continue to pay £5.99. The LoveFilm brand will continue to be used for the DVD by post rental business Amazon is continuing to run.Amazon bought into the decade-old LoveFilm in 2008, taking full control in 2011, to drive its move into TV and film rentals and digital streaming in the UK."Our customers already know they are part of Amazon, it is the best thing to happen to LoveFilm since the launch in the first quarter of 2004," said Simon Morris, LoveFilm's chief marketing officer.
Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the Zuckerberg-bothering twins who hold around $25m in bitcoin, have launched their own price tracker for the digital currency.SinceMtGox, once the most prominent bitcoin exchange, prevented withdrawals in early February, popular sources of data on the currency such asRTBTChave become unreliable. The twins’ project, “Winkdex”, aims to solve the issue.“We believe that we are establishing an accurate spot price that reflects the true value of a bitcoin and resolves the price confusion that exists due to the various exchanges,” said Cameron Winklevoss, who is the CEO of the company behind Winkdex. His brother, Tyler, is the president of the firm.“The creation of an index that better reflects accurate pricing is the next step in wider acceptance of bitcoin as an asset class,” Cameron added.The index takes an amalgamation of bitcoin prices over six exchanges, including Japan’s MtGox, Britain’s Bitstamp and Bulgaria’s BTC-E. The prices averaged together using a “proprietary, patent pending Winkdex formula” which takes into account volume and timing of transactions, giving more weight to those which have had more trades in the last two hours.Winkdex will be used internally by the Winklevoss brothers to price their bitcoin holdings, which have never been publicly disclosed. In April 2013, the pair said their holdings amounted to around 1% of all bitcoins in existence; if so, that would equate to an investment of $11m in April’s prices. With the Winkdex showing a price of bitcoin at $592, that means they have more than doubled their money in the interim.In 2004, the twins sued Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg for $140m, accusing him of stealing their idea for the social network. The case was settled in 2008 for $65m.
A man chooses, begins one of Bioshock’s most famous lines, a slave obeys. Perhaps this sentence crossed the mind of Ken Levine when he posted his announcement on Mondaydeclaring the end of Irrational Games, the studio he co-founded in 1997.“While I’m deeply proud of what we’ve accomplished together, my passion has turned to making a different kind of game than we’ve done before,” he wrote. “To meet the challenge ahead, I need to refocus my energy on a smaller team with a flatter structure and a more direct relationship with gamers. In many ways, it will be a return to how we started: a small team making games for the core gaming audience.” Following the completion of the final piece of downloadable content for Bioshock Infinite, almost all of the studio’s staff will be out of a job, while Levine and around 15 others are set to move forwards as a distinct outfit.Over the course of Irrational’s lifespan the studio developed six games, including the exceptional System Shock 2 and the underrated Freedom Force series, and cancelled at least five others. But it came to global prominence with 2007’s Bioshock, one of the last hardware generation’s most defining experiences. Set in a doomed undersea city, Bioshock is about a world where extreme capitalism rules, where the struggles of powerful men enslave those who thought they were signing up to utopia, and things do not turn out well.As Levine pointed out in his closing statement, the Bioshock series (which includes 2K Marin’s Bioshock 2) has made over half a billion dollars in revenue. A year before its release, the original title looked so good, publisher 2K bought the company, and sure enough Bioshock was a commercial and critical hit. Irrational set to work on Bioshock Infinite, finally releasing the game in March 2013 to similarly glowing reviews and – as of July 2013 – 4m sales and counting. That sounds like a lot, and of course it is, but the reality of AAA development at the highest end means that even thiswasn’t enough to help 2K make a net profitin the last financial year.Cash cows and money pitsThe problem with Bioshock is, it isn’t a standard game franchise, easily updated on an annual basis. “Bioshock Infinite was released at the same time as Tomb Raider,” says Chris Dring, editor of industry-watchers MCV. “And Tomb Raider is a franchise that they can easily build a sequel on. They have the engine built now, they can add some new features, a new adventure – it’s a lot more straightforward than Irrational and Bioshock. Ken Levine, obviously a genius in many ways, isn’t particularly good at churning out AAA games – he takes ages, it costs a fortune… I mean, 2K Marin, love them or hate them, turned out Bioshock 2 in 18 months. It didn’t hit the sales target but I suspect it made more money than Infinite.”Nevertheless, it’s surprising that Irrational wasn’t kept alive in some form. It’s how this usually works. The creative head of a respected developer gets itchy feet and leaves, so the publisher moves someone else in as studio head and things go on. It’s how EA dealt with Peter Molyneux’s departure from Bullfrog in 1997. Id Software has survived the departure of all four of its founders. “If you look at [Call of Duty developer] Infinity Ward for example, half that studio left but it was rebuilt by the publisher and still exists,” Dring says. “Take Two hasn’t done that. Perhaps they just don’t need as many big studios. From what I understand, Bioshock was a profitable project because Take Two are very good at managing their budgets – although it was a lot longer in development than planned so I don’t imagine it madea lotof money.”Money, money, money.Irrational Games was working on Bioshock Infinite for over five years – 2K’s next financial results will doubtless provide more context to the closure. Originally slated for release in autumn 2012, the title was delayed at least twice as the ambition of the project pushed the team to its limits. In august 2012,two key members of the development team left the studioamid rumours of widely felt disquiet and unhappiness, rumours that Leigh Alexander has referred to inher thoughtful article on the studio closure. Near the end of development 2K hired industry veteran Rod Fergusson as a producer. A tough type who specialises in getting product out on time, it was clear what his role on Infinite would be. Get the thing out.Levine on the lineAs it is, Ken Levine has come forward to take the slings and arrows of outraged gamers. But his statement acts as something of a distraction from the fact that 2K is firing up to 200 people (based on figures from 2012) who made one of last year’s most successful games. No matter how you cut it, it is a damning indictment of a blockbuster culture where budgets are spiralling into the hundreds of millions. The games industry has alreadygathered round to try and help those affected find new jobs, and Levine stressed that staff would be assisted in the process of relocation, but it’s impossible to miss the connection between the studio’s increasing scale and this unexpected end.The statement has made Levine, somewhat unjustly, a focal point for the anger many in the industry feel about such an outwardly-successful studio being closed. It has also led to the offensive suggestion (in the absence of evidence) that the studio was closed to satisfy the man’s ego and keep him at 2K. This perhaps comes from the fact that Levine is one of the industry’s few exponents of the auteur theory, in perception at least. He’s not only one of the three co-founders of Irrational, but also the studio head and creator/director behind the Bioshock games. He is the face of Irrational, the face of Bioshock.He won’t be making any more of them. His statement says he’s moving to “a new endeavour with a new goal: to make narrative-driven games for the core gamer that are highly replayable.” He is down to deliver a talk at the Game Developer’s Conference in March entitled ‘Narrative Legos’ and, though specifics are thin on the ground, it is clear he’s moving on to concentrate on procedural or reactive narrative experiences – games in which the story emerges organically as the player takes part. He is also penning the script for the upcoming remake of Logan’s Run, retracing his time in LA as a wannabe screenwriter.The emerging storyLast March I went to Boston to visit Irrational Games and, among other things, got talking to Levine about the tensions inherent in games with a linear narrative like Bioshock Infinite. Through dumb luck I ended up suggesting that the future ‘solution’ to these issues may lie in procedural narrative and stories that are systems rather than scripts – something no designer has successfully cracked.“Yeah you know it’s weird,” Levine said, “Because actually I wrote the first draft of the design document for System Shock 2 and I haven’t done that since – I’ve been more focused on the writing and business side. But I like systems, that was a very systemic game, and quite often I’m heavily involved with a lot of the more systemic stuff in Bioshock like Elizabeth’s behaviour in combat and that came out of a desire to... it’s a systemic expression of a narrative concept.“I love systems, I love board games and that’s all they are is systems. I think the challenge is that I probably have something more to say in the narrative space than I do in the system space, but who knows how that could combine? I mean maybe, we did this game called Freedom Force about superheroes, and one thing that I thought we did better than other superhero games was the narrative component. Superhero stories are soap operas, right? They take the characters and emotions and amplify them through the fantastical stuff, and without that character stuff – like without Uncle Ben dying in Amazing Fantasy #15 – Spider-Man isn’t interesting! Videogames often leave that on the table and make their games way more goofy than comic books actually are.”And from here, very possibly, a hint of what is to come. “So maybe there’s a systemic superhero game with a narrative that is systemically, somehow procedurally generated – I mean, that would be cool right? Something that involves relationships and drama in some systemic way that can click together. It’s harder to do in a first-person shooter, though there’s a lot of systems in Elizabeth. I like the merge of systems and narrative a lot – and there’s nowhere to go but up, you know? That’s a space that has been barely touched.”If Levine is sticking with a small team, and if he wants to keep making narrative-focused games, then procedurally generated stories and environments make sense. He won’t need a large team to generate masses of art assets and scripted sequences – he just needs very smart coders and designers who can generate systems. Look at Hello Games in Guildford – a tiny studio that’s creating a whole systemic universe in its forthcoming title No Man’s Sky. Perhaps Levine saw inthat game’s triumphant VGX Awards trailer, a hint at where his style of game was heading.Last exit from BostonBack in the business world, elements of the industry see Levine being used as a smokescreen to hide the human tragedy of 2K’s decision, and perhaps there is some truth to that. But the man himself, when asked about this perception of his being an auteur, had no hesitation in putting credit where it was due. “I have the easy job. There are ideas I come up with, but I say this is what I want now go make it happen – how do you draw a close relationship, like the Big Daddy and Little Sisters, or something like the skylines from that? I have the easy job.”You can’t hold it against Levine that he still has one. But the fate of Irrational is a cautionary tale and, subsequent to the news of closure, the studio has been locked down tight, with employees left under no illusions about the consequences of speaking to press.At the moment this is too raw, but in the future perhaps Irrational’s former employees will look back with pride on the magnificent games they made together, and particularly the worlds of the Bioshock games. One aspect of these fantasies is how they skewer the idea of collectivism, presenting rank-and-file workers as little more than indentured slaves kept in line through the propaganda of tyrannical overlords. Not now, but maybe in a few years that will be worth an ironic laugh.Whatever angles of this story remain uncovered, Irrational Games was one of the great developers. It is a studio that has left a permanent mark and, as 2K may find out to its cost, the quality of their games was never down to one man’s choices. The original Bioshock has three endings. “They offered you everything,” says the game’s brilliant geneticist, Brigid Tenenbaum. “Yes? And in return you gave them what I have come to expect from you: Brutality.”•BioShock Infinite – review•Bioshock: Infinite – 10 features you should read and why they exist
Ooooops.
It turned out to be an expensive mistake forMark Zuckerberg. A$19bn (£14bn)one to be precise.In the summer of 2009 Facebook turned down WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton for a job.Like any other dejected interviewee, he used Twitter to express his glass half full disappointment:"Facebook turned me down&nbsp;… looking forward to life's next adventure."That adventure involved Acton and partner Jan Koum, a Ukrainian immigrant whose childhood experience of Soviet era surveillance inspired the WhatsApp messaging service. Nowa blockbuster deal has turned them into multibillionaires.In poignant nod to Koum's rags to riches success, the deal was signed in a now empty office block where his family once collected their food stamps.The men are an unlikely double act. While Koum survived a tough schooling in a village outside Kiev and dropped out of San Jose State University, Acton, a Stanford computer science graduate, whiled away his time playing golf in suburban Florida. Their paths crossed at Yahoo in the noughties and in 2009, two years after they had left, WhatsApp was launched.The thinking behind WhatsApp is rooted in Koum's memories of a country where phones were tapped and school friends were censured for their views. He told one interviewer: "I grew up in a society where everything you did was eavesdropped on, recorded, snitched on. Nobody should have the right to eavesdrop, or you become a totalitarian state – the kind of state I escaped as a kid to come to this country where you have democracy and freedom of speech. Our goal is to protect it."Though Koum is only in his late 30s and Acton in his early 40s, the men are older than many of their Silicon Valley brethren: Zuckerberg is only 29. But Acton says age brings perspective as investors salivate over fast-growing services such asSnapchat: "Great, teenagers [on Snapchat] can use it to get laid all day long," he told one interviewer. "I don't care. I'm 42, essentially married with a kid. I don't give a shit about this. I'm not sexting with random strangers."At 6ft 2in, Koum, who moved to California with his mother and grandmother in 1992, favours the tech start-up uniform of T-shirt and hoody and holds an apparently healthy attitude to swearing. He started to study maths and computer science but confesses to having been "equally bad at both". He favours a low profile, providing aTwitter biographylimited to the Kanye West quote "We on a galaxy the haters cannot visit" to sum up his views. His LinkedIn account is also testament to a droll sense of humour with a minimal CV. He says he "barely graduated" from high school and "dropped out" from university. At Yahoo, he "did some stuff". His entry actually says "see Brian's profile for more details".Acton's exhaustive CV on the networking site is evidence that he is happy to play the straight guy. He speaks nine languages, but they don't help on holidays as they are the "C++, Perl, PHP, Erlang, Java, Python, JavaScript, ActionScript" codes. He tempers details of his impressive credentials with a well rounded list of hobbies that includes ultimate frisbee, snowboarding and watching movies.Acton describes the relationship as "yin and yang". "I'm the naive optimist, he's more paranoid. I pay attention to bills and taxes, he pays attention to our product."On Wednesday, Koum, whose father stayed behind when they left Ukraine,used the WhatsApp blog to reassure usersthey hadn't sold out. He wrote: "Our team has always believed that neither cost and distance should ever prevent people from connecting with their friends and loved ones, and won't rest until everyone, everywhere is empowered with that opportunity."
WhatsApp is one of the few apps that isn’t in a folder on my phone’s home screen and it’s probably the only app that has existed on every smartphone that I’ve owned. In fact, back when I first downloaded it – when I was rocking an iPhone 3G – it was free. Now both iPhone and Android users have to pay a $1 (69p) annual subscription charge to renew the service.Facebook recently announced it would acquire WhatsApp, a mobile messaging app, for a staggering $19bn(in cash and stocks). The app, available across all platforms, syncs with your phone number and address book and automatically adds those who have WhatsApp installed to a separate contacts list.From my experience, there are two key features that are important to every WhatsApp user: the first is that the app uses your data package (or WiFi) instead of taking away from any messaging packages, which means that you can send text, images or video to friends for free. Even better, you can send messages to friends and family abroad at no cost.These days, I don’t get texts, I get WhatsApp messages. And the younger members in my family, still on pay-as-you-go contracts, send thousands of messages on the app each year, which as texts may have cost more than they could afford.The second is the ability to host group conversations. Although this is available on newer versions of iOS, this has been a core WhatsApp feature for some years. This is incredibly useful if you want to, say, create a group conversation for those you’ve living with or people with whom you’re organising an event.I suppose Facebook might have bought it because users keep going back to the app and send dozens of messages a day. Not only is it a pseudo in-built app on all my phones, it’s something I use multiple times a day.That’s important for a company that has been looking to build their mobile presence for years, starting withFacebook Zero(which allows those in emerging markets to access Facebook without being charged for data) beforeacquiring the photography-based social network Instagramand thenintroducing Facebook Home, an Android app meant to replace home screens.Facebook has bought smartphone-messaging app company WhatsApp for $19bn in cash and stock. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesStaying connected with friendsThe other factor is that, arguably in a similar way to Facebook, WhatsApp has helped me to keep in touch with friends and family. It has probably been better than Facebook, actually, because my family in Tanzania have either never been that interested in the social network, or their difficulties in finding adequate network have made it frustrating to access the site.And for someone with family abroad, WhatsApp has been crucial in keeping us together. Previously, my father invited me to an email chain with his four brothers and sisters and their children (or my 14 first cousins). There were times when I came home to 120 emails.Now I have multiple groups for my family and I get notes throughout the day. But these feel much more manageable as they accompany me throughout my day – and the pictures of adorable nephews and nieces don’t go amiss either.But that’s not all. When I travel, access to WhatsApp means that I can speak to my friends and family on a device that I am carrying around with me at all times. Whether I want to send my dad a quick “hey, everything’s good and I’m alive” message without being charged 50p, or make my friends jealous by sending thema picture of a cronut, I can send a picture in seconds.More experienced WhatsApp users will also know that you can “game” the app to use your old number even when you have a different sim card inside, which makes it easier for friends to contact you.And despite it’s rather plain and bland aesthetics, the app does the job it promises. It lets you message your friends without getting in the way. But best of all, no-one ever sent annoying broadcast messages like they did on Blackberry. That was quite possibly the worst.• WhatsApp deal - Facebook snaps up messaging service
Facebook hasbought messaging app WhatsApp, which means those who have been avoiding feeding their data into the world’s biggest social network might think about switching to another instant messaging service.As WhatsApp is based on phone numbers rather than usernames, Facebook has in effect just bought a list of hundreds of millions of phone numbers.“Currently, WhatsApp can change terms and conditions at any time, without notifying users, which many people who use this service aren’t aware of. Meanwhile, Facebook already has a very broad copyright license on people’s content and already shares your data with many other services,” explains StJohn Deakins, chief executive of online identity service Citizenme.“Now with Facebook buying WhatsApp, this could see more and more private information becoming part of Facebook’s database. From a personal data standpoint, this is extremely worrying.”While WhatsApp is certainly the most high-profile text messaging replacement app in the UK, it is by no means the only horse in the race.LineWhatsApp’sbiggest competitor is Line, a messaging app that lets users send text messages, images, video and audio, was well as make phone calls over the internet or video conference.The Line messaging app is available for almost every computer and mobile platform, including Windows, OS X, the iPhone, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone, Nokia’s Asha and even Firefox OS.Line has 350 million users globally, expanding rapidly from 10 million in December 2011 according to data from Statista. Line Corporation is headquartered in Japan, a subsidiary of South Korea’s online content and search company Naver Corporation.Kik MessengerAnother messaging app alternative,Kik Messengersends texts, images and voice messages over a smartphone’s data connection avoiding mobile operator messaging charges. It also integrates a web browser into the application allowing users to browse content and share it directly with their friends.Kik is available on the iPhone, Android, Windows Phone, Nokia’s Ovi store and BlackBerry. Now with 100m users globally, Kik was released in 2010 and quickly hit 1 million users in just 14 days.BBMBlackBerry’s Messenger is the grandfather of the phone instant messaging apps. Originally only available as an integral part of BlackBerry’s smartphones, allowing secure instant messages to be sent between BlackBerry users, BBM was released for both Android and the iPhone in September 2013 making it cross platform for the first time.BBM for iPhone and Android was downloaded 10m times in the first day,with over 80 million users globallyacross all platforms by October 2013. BlackBerry announced that by December 2013 BBM had 40 million users of its iPhone and Android apps.BlackBerry currently has no plans to bring BBM to Windows Phone or other platforms.ViberA messaging app that stated out life as a direct Skype competitor for free voice calling, Viber has expanded into a cross-platform messaging client and was recently bought by the Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten for $900m.Viber is availablefor iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and Windows Phone, as well as Samsung’s Bada and Nokia’s Symbian and Series 40, plus the desktop, making it one of the most widely available messaging apps.All users can send text, pictures and video messages using Viber, but voice calling and some other features are limited to the iPhone, Android and Windows Phone.Google HangoutsGoogle’s messaging strategy has historically been a bit of a mess with different messaging protocols across different services that could not communicate with each other. In 2013Google launched Hangoutsto unify its messaging platforms.Available on the desktop, Android and iPhone, Hangouts allows users to send text and images, as well as hold video calls and group messaging with read states and typing indicators. Hangouts is also integrated into Gmail.SkypeSkype maybe known for voice and video calling, but it also integrates a solid instant messaging function.Available for Android, the iPhone, Windows Phone and BlackBerry, as well as desktops, home phones TVs and games consoles, Skype allows you to send text messages, images, videos, voice messages and send group messages.The othersThere are a plethora of other messaging apps out there, includingWeChat– huge in China but yet to break big in the UK –TangoandTextFree, as well as Apple’s iMessage, which is baked into the iPhone and iPad, but is also available on Apple’s computers.Facebook also has two other messaging apps. ItsFacebook Messenger appis available through the Facebook desktop site as well as mobile apps for iPhone and Android, whileInstagramallows users to send photos publicly or privately.Snapchat, the ephemeral image sharing app, also allows users to send quick photo and text messages, and the likelihood of it being bought by Facebook now looks to have dwindled.Beyond traditional messaging there is also Twitter’sdirect messaging feature, which can also be used as an instant messaging system, sending private messages to followers.
Facebook is automatically linking users in areas affected by the UK floods to volunteers who can help.The feature arose out ofthe UK #floodhackheld by the cabinet office and Tech City UK on Sunday. At the event, developers from Facebook, as well as Google, Twitter and Microsoft, were provided with data from the Environment Agency on a short-term license, and spent eight hours hacking together software that would help the public.Facebook’s feature, developed over the course of the day, is the first to be given a fully fledged release. The site uses information provided by users as to where their hometown is, and then offers those in affected areas a link tofloodvolunteers.co.uk.“At Floodhack, it was clear that the biggest challenge was getting people who need help connecting to people who can help,” said Alec Muffett, one of the Facebook engineers behind the feature. “Since Facebook reaches so many people in the affected areas, my colleague Pieter and I thought a newsfeed message to direct people to the Flood Volunteer website would be a simple way to help get help to people in need.”The service will be implemented gradually over the next few days, to ensure that Flood Volunteers can manage the likely surge in traffic and demand, Facebook says. But the company is not keeping it as a permanent feature.“We are seeing this as a really good opportunity to let people know, at a moment of maximum national crisis, about a new resource,” said Facebook’s UK &amp; Ireland Policy Director Simon Milner. Access to the Environment Agency data will be closed off in May, when the open government license runs out, preventing Facebook from running the feature indefinitely.But Milner says the company will pay close attention to the results of the trial. “The experience of doing this will be very helpful in learning about we can respond to natural disasters”, he added.Facebook has been praised for the speed with which it has turned around the feature. “It’s wonderful news that Tech City UK’s FloodHack inspired the developer community to come together – and that engineers at Facebook have gone on to develop such a practical, effective solution,” said Tech City UK’s chief executive, Gerard Grech.As well as Facebook, energy comparison site Uswitch has released its project from the Floodhack day. The “Who do I call when there’s a power cut?” site lets users enter their postcode and find contact details for the company responsible for delivering their energy and gas – frequently not the same as the company they pay their bills to.•How British developers came together to help flood victims
A key member of Google’s cloud application team has been poached by ephemeral messaging start-up Snapchat.While he worked as an engineering director at the search firm, Peter Magnusson ran the Google App Engine project, which provides a suite of tools that lets developers build and run apps in the cloud.Snapchat, where Magnusson will be a vice president of engineering, is one of Google App Engine’s largest customers. According to Snapchat’s co-founder Bobby Murphy, the company doesn’t plan to drop Google, but will be investing in its own technology on to of the outsourced services.“We’ll continue to build out infrastructure to support our unique needs, and we’ll do that in part by leveraging as much of what Google and other service providers offer,” Murphytold the Wall Street Journal. But the paper initially mis-reported that Murphy had told them that part of Magnusson’s new job would “be building technology infrastructure in-house so that the company can begin to lessen its reliance on partners like Google.”That led Magnusson to leavean angry comment on the story, saying that it was “(a) not what Bobby said, (b) not really a focus of my job either. Thx WSJ for pissing off all my old Google friends.“A more correct statement is that we’ll continuously evaluate alternatives, and likely over time develop more infrastructure ourselves, in particular in specialized areas of our apps,” he added. “Google is a great partner,” Magnusson added in , “and the success of Snapchat would simply not have been possible without Google Cloud, and we expect to work closely together. Period.”Alongside Magnusson, Snapchat is bulking up its development team, with Murphy confirming plans to add up to 50 engineers to the company’s current lot of 15 developers.In September, the company poached Timothy Sehn, an Amazon engineering director, and in December it nabbed Emily White, the executive responsible for bringing ads to Instagram, from Facebook to become Snapchat’s chief operating officer.•Snapchat flaw lets attackers crash iPhones
What is WhatsApp?A mobile messaging app. It uses the internet to send messages to friends and family.Like text messaging?To start with. When it launched, the big sell of WhatsApp was that users could send texts without having to pay for SMS messages. As well as appealing to young people, many of whom have few text messages included in their call plans, the app gained popularity for letting users chat for free across national borders, and with no cap at all on the number of messages sent.But it’s changed since launch?WhatsApp now lets users send photos, videos, and audio messages, as well as share their location using their phone’s built-in GPS. It also supports group chats, something SMS messages were never able to do, and lets users broadcast important messages to huge lists of contacts – though it’s up to them to define what qualifies as important.And it does all this for free?Nearly. The app offers a one year free trial, and after that it charges users just $0.99 a year. Even the company itself describes the charge as “a nominal fee”. When the company introduced the annual charge, it even made sure that pre-existing iPhone users, who had signed up when it was a one-off fee, got free service for life.So it’s ad-supported?No. WhatsApp has always been outspoken about its opposition to the ad-supported model, hitting at companies like Google who “know literally everything about you, your friends, your interests, and… use it all to sell ads.”It sounds like it could be pretty popular.The service currently has more that 450 million active users, and is adding a million more every day. It’s by far the most popular app of its type. And with all those users, Facebook says that the number of messages sent every day with WhatsApp – last reported as 18 billion – will soon be more than ever SMS sent in the world. So yeah, it’s pretty popular.But is it $19bn popular?That’s the much-more-than-a-million-dollar-question. Facebook’s hedged its bets somewhat – most of the money it’s paying for the company is in the form of Facebook stock, so if we turn out to be in a terrible technology bubble and Facebook’s value plummets, it won’t have wasted too much on the acquisition. However, it still spent $4bn in cash.The value of WhatsApp to Facebook is its users. Hundreds of millions of people who fall squarely in demographics that the company is starting to struggle with: Europeans, young people, and those who eschew social media. And, more importantly, the company’s removed a potential future competitor from the table. WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook – it’s all the same to them.
I'm excited to announce that we've agreed to acquire WhatsApp and that their entire team will be joining us at Facebook.Our mission is to make the world more open and connected. We do this by building services that help people share any type of content with any group of people they want. WhatsApp will help us do this by continuing to develop a service that people around the world love to use every day.WhatsApp is a simple, fast and reliable mobile messaging service that is used by over 450 million people on every major mobile platform. More than 1 million people sign up for WhatsApp every day and it is on its way to connecting one billion people. More and more people rely on WhatsApp to communicate with all of their contacts every day.WhatsApp will continue to operate independently within Facebook. The product roadmap will remain unchanged and the team is going to stay in Mountain View. Over the next few years, we're going to work hard to help WhatsApp grow and connect the whole world. We also expect that WhatsApp will add to our efforts for Internet.org, our partnership to make basic internet services affordable for everyone.WhatsApp will complement our existing chat and messaging services to provide new tools for our community. Facebook Messenger is widely used for chatting with your Facebook friends, and WhatsApp for communicating with all of your contacts and small groups of people. Since WhatsApp and Messenger serve such different and important uses, we will continue investing in both and making them each great products for everyone.WhatsApp had every option in the world, so I'm thrilled that they chose to work with us. I'm looking forward to what Facebook and WhatsApp can do together, and to developing great new mobile services that give people even more options for connecting.I've also known Jan [Jan Koum, WhatsApp founder and CEO] for a long time, and I know that we both share the vision of making the world more open and connected. I'm particularly happy that Jan has agreed to join the Facebook board and partner with me to shape Facebook's future as well as WhatsApp's.Jan and the WhatsApp team have done some amazing work to connect almost half a billion people. I can't wait for them to join Facebook and help us connect the rest of the world.
