It's Friday.
DuckDuckGobills itself as "the search engine that doesn't track you". After the revelations in the USNational Security Agencyfiles, that sounds tempting.Named after the playground game duck duck goose, the site is not just banking on the support of people paranoid about GCHQ and the NSA. Its founder, Gabriel Weinberg, argues that privacy makes the web search better, not worse. Since it doesn't store your previous searches, it does not and cannot present personalised search results. That frees users from the filter bubble – the fear that, as search results are increasingly personalised, they are less likely to be presented with information that challenges their existing ideas.It also means that DuckDuckGo is forced to keep its focus purely on search. With no stores or data to tap, it cannot become an advertising behemoth, it has no motivation to start&nbsp;trying to build a social network and it doesn't get anything out of scanning your emails to create a personal profile.Having answered one billion queries in 2013 alone, DuckDuckGo is on the rise. We asked Weinberg about his website's journey.Why did you set up DuckDuckGo in 2008?DuckDuckGo didn't come out of any real direct motivation to start a search engine. I had come off my last company in 2006, [The Names Database, a social network that Weinberg sold for $10m], and I was focused on a bunch of personal projects.One was fighting spam in search results. There were a lot of sites that were just obviously spam in Google at the time, but they seemed pretty easy to identify. Another was crowdsourced data. I found myself going to Wikipedia and IMDB a lot, sites that used crowdsourced data, where you just get answers. The third leg was that I went to this stained-glass class, where they handed out a list of links that were the best places to go for more information on stained-glass production. They didn't match the Google search results. So I started a third project about getting the links out of people's heads, to find out where the best stuff was.DuckDuckGo is based in the small town of Paoli, Pennsylvania. How much do you think that the location puts you outside the general Silicon Valley milieu?Yeah, we don't feel connected to that scene. I'm not actually from here, interestingly enough. My wife and I picked here together to move to because we thought it would be a good place to raise a family and for other, deeper reasons that don't make sense to people outside the US. I think anyone in a similar position in Silicon Valley would have raised a ton more money a ton earlier. But that hasn't been our focus. And also, just look at how we've got 75% remote workers. That's a very non-Silicon Valley thing to do. Normally you hire the best engineers that you can out of Ivy League schools and bring them all in one place so you can get them in the company.After all these years, it seems as if people are finally talking about privacy …Yes, I do think that's fair. I don't think it's a fad. One of the big things people have noticed in the last year is the ads that follow them around the internet and that's perhaps the most visible notion of this new tracking mindset that most companies are adopting. Those trends are not disappearing. More tracking on the internet, more surveillance, so I think as people find out about it they're going to be wanting to opt out in some percentage.A billboard advertising the new duckduckgo search engine.When you started, your sole aim was to build a better search engine. When did you decide that privacy was crucial to that?Instant answers and spam filtering were really the initial focus there and still are in terms of product differentiation. But very quickly after that – I would have done it from the beginning had I actually thought about it, but I hadn't – was privacy.The data that you share with your search engine is the most personal data. Because you don't hold back with your search engine. You don't think about it in that context. You think "oh, I've got a financial problem … just type it in!" And so, that search history is really personal.It has [also] increasingly been used for marketing, it is available to subpoena and, as we know from the last year, it's also available through other hidden means for surveillance. Most money a search engine makes comes from showing an ad for something commercial like a car or shoes when users search for them, and it doesn't impact that business model to not track.Why not just anonymise the data  you collect, rather than offer totally incognito searches?The reality shows that every time someone had tried to anonymise data, it's been a failure. As long as you can tie searches together and you keep any shred of the information, any personal information that can tie things back to you, then I think it's not truly private.Are you against tracking on a personal level, or is this just business?No, I do have a philosophical opposition. I think of it as more privacy policy than general. I think they should be set up to be the minimal collection as needed, as opposed to the maximal collection possible.The other way to look at that is I think they should have a quid pro quo, which is "you're giving up this particular piece of personal information and you're getting this benefit in return", as opposed to the current status quo, which is "we will collect anything we can and not tell you what the benefits are", just say, in general, "sure, you'll benefit from this".I think that is the key difference. And you've seen some companies start to move to this direction, but very slowly.Is it possible to make a good search engine without collecting Google  levels of data?I believe you can switch to us today, and you'll be fine. And people are. And you can have a better experience! But also, if you look at your Google searches and what's coming up, really the amount that they're using your search history to change the search results is minimal. They are not really using that data currently to improve your search results in any significant way – as far as we can tell. They're using it for other things. They're using it to track you across the ad network.Does that mean you've backed off a bit in your fight against personalised searches?We've not backed off! I guess to restate my case I don't think that personal data, that personalisation, has been very useful.The case that everyone mentions is when, say, you type in the weather or you type in pizza and you want local weather or a local pizza place.Do people eat pizza in the UK?Yeah.I figured so. So, we can do that in our instant answer box – using your location on the fly, and not store it – and not change the actual link results. So I think most of what people want that they call personalisation is really localisation and we can do that without tracking people.You've said before that tracking might be used to charge people more if their profiles reveal they have a lot of money. Is that something you can really see happening, or is it a worst-case scenario?It's real, and it already is happening, and will be increased. My general view is that if information is out there that can lead companies to improve their profits, then they will do so unless it's regulated against.So I definitely think it's out there, I think people just don't know that it exists yet.
&quot;Cloud first, mobile first.&quot; That&apos;s the rallying cry of Satya Nadella, Microsoft&apos;s new chief executive. Having swept away the idea that Office, one of the company&apos;s two monopolies, should only run on its other monopoly, Windows, by introducing Office for iPad, Nadella has now swept away what was another tenet of Microsoft&apos;s operation: software should be paid for.By removing the licence cost of Windows Phone and Windows for devices with screens less than 9in diagonally, Nadella is being both pragmatic and aggressive.Pragmatism first. Windows Phone licensing never brought in much money for Microsoft; the biggest licensee was Nokia, which had more than 80% of the market, and Microsoft was paying it colossal amounts in &quot;marketing&quot; to help it cross the chasm from dumping its own Symbian to becoming a Windows Phone powerhouse. The former happened, the latter didn&apos;t. In fact, at an estimated $15 per Windows Phone licence, Microsoft was spending far more supporting Nokia than it ever got back. That it had to offer a €500m loan to help the company through its financial problems when it bid for its handset business (a deal that should conclude this month) shows how badly Nokia was doing.By cutting the Windows Phone licence price to zero, Microsoft achieves a number of strategic aims. For a number of Android handset makers including Samsung, HTC and dozens of others which have signed patent licensing deals over Android with Microsoft, it is now actually cheaper - in licensing terms - to make a Windows Phone handset than an Android one. That&apos;s because the Android handset attracts a patent fee payable to Microsoft, while the Windows Phone one won&apos;t.Will that be enough to drive the production of more Windows Phone handsets? That&apos;s unclear. Developing a handset involves more than loading some software into a ROM; there&apos;s all sorts of chip-specific and device-specific coding involved; firmware has to interact with software, and bugs have to be ironed out.But if you&apos;re producing a handset in substantial quantities, the cost of doing that might well outweigh the &quot;Android patent fee&quot;. It will be a fine balancing act for many manufacturers. But it does give Microsoft the chance to capture the interest of Chinese AOSP (open source Android, without Google services) handset makers looking to expand into the developed world.Price tag: goodbyeThe decision to wipe away the price tag is a victory for Google. But in some senses it was inevitable given Windows Phone&apos;s failure so far in the market. By pushing the price of a mobile phone OS to zero in 2008, Google gave handset manufacturers a huge incentive to use its software - even previous Windows Mobile stalwarts such as HTC. Given the choice between Symbian (dominated by Nokia), Windows Mobile (pricey) and Android (zero-priced, and with the popular Google brand) manufacturers plumped for the latter. The result: Android dominates handset sales.Killing the Windows Phone licensing cost won&apos;t hurt Microsoft in any meaningful way. And it does give it the chance to sell more handsets; and if it does that, then it could have the chance to get more people using its cloud services.Say hello to CortanaMicrosoft has also introduced a number of improvements to Windows Phone 8.1, including the addition of a voice-driven assistant called &quot;Cortana&quot;, voiced by Jennifer Taylor, who voices the &quot;intelligent assistant&quot; of the same name in the video game Halo.So we can now say that the table stakes for offering a mobile operating system are: apps, maps, voice recognition and assistance. Arguably, you could add search in there - in which case Apple is falling behind, because it relies on both Google and Microsoft for its search (Google in the browser, Bing inside its voice-driven &quot;assistant&quot; Siri).Does Cortana change the game by bringing what looks like an impressive voice-driven assistant to Windows Phone? Not of itself. Voice assistance is an element that could be transformative, but its obstacles are less technological than psychological: people seem to get very self-conscious about talking to computers in public. The unpredictable accuracy of voice recognition - as Siri users will confirm, and as Windows Phone boss Joe Belfiore experienced to his discomfort during his presentation - doesn&apos;t help.What about themany other features that are forthcoming in Windows Phone? It already has quite a few which match or better Apple&apos;s iOS or Android, such as Kids&apos; Corner (a &quot;safe&quot; set of apps that can be used even while the phone itself is locked). The &quot;live tiles&quot; element is like an Android widget, something iOS doesn&apos;t have.Now it has added &quot;Action Center&quot; which will &quot;enable you to see notifications from ANY app – pinned or not – and to give you a customizable way to quickly access the settings you care about most, like Wi-Fi, Flight Mode, Bluetooth and Rotation Lock.&quot; If you&apos;re thinking that it sounds very like Android&apos;s pull-down notifications, and like iOS 7&apos;s pull-up Control Center, you&apos;re right - it is.It has also introducedWord Flow Keyboard, which &quot;is smart enough to learn your writing style and even knows the names of people in your contacts for faster typing&quot;. It sounds very like Swype or Swiftkey for Android - though Microsoft claims it&apos;s so quick that breaks Swype&apos;s world record for onscreen keyboard input. A similar system didn&apos;t transform the fortunes of BlackBerry&apos;s BB10, but it may offer some people faster typing.Calendarhas a new week view &quot;which lots of people have been asking for&quot;. It does seem odd that it has taken four years to include a setting that most calendar apps take as read.&quot;Data Sense&quot; (limiting how much mobile data you use) and Wi-Fi control is improved - something that was already introduced in Windows Phone 8. This is very similar to what Android does; on iOS you need an app to control total mobile data use (you can decide whether apps, iTunes music and ebooks are downloaded over mobile data, but not what or how much mobile data apps can use).And Windows Phone is also dealing with what I saw, in first using it way back in 2010, as itsinformation density problem. The main screen will let you have three columns, rather than two, of its live tiles. (Windows Phone advocates insist that what Microsoft actually means here is &quot;six columns rather than four&quot;. Here&apos;s the screenshot showing what Microsoft means by &quot;two columns&quot; and &quot;three columns&quot; (left and right):Windows Phone with 'two columns' (L) and 'three columns' (R). Photograph: /PR/MicrosoftIt seems that the big tiles of 2010 are gradually fragmenting and turning into smaller ones, each a quarter of the size of the originals. Is it familiar?Android (L) and iPhone (R) app icon arrangement to fill a screen. Photograph: /Public domainIn Windows Phone 7, you could get a maximum of eight tiles on the front screen; now you&apos;ll be able to get between 12 and66on the front area alone before scrolling. (The iPhone and Android show 24.) That&apos;s nearly as many apps as many people have on their phone. (It also looks like arranging the mixture of full-size, half-size and quarter-size ones could turn into a Tetris-like game quite quickly.)Of course, tiles don&apos;t have to be apps, or link to apps; they can be shortcuts, or widgets that update with information. (At their smallest size, though, you may find the concept of &quot;glance and go&quot; challenging.) It&apos;s fascinating how the gravitational pull of the grid of icons that has ruled mobile phones pretty much since they had usable screens is exerting its influence again.But again, the key question is: will adding these features make any difference to Windows Phone sales? In the short term, probably not. That&apos;s because the factors that determine phone sales aren&apos;t generally about features. In the first place they are the marketing push behind a handset and how eager the carriers are to sell them; for the user, they are dependent on factors such as what peers think of them, what apps are available, and price.The price is rightWindows Phone - specifically, Nokia - has had some success at the low end of the smartphone market in the developed world: its Lumia 520 has sold well. AdDuplex had it with26.5% of the Windows Phone installed basein November 2013, and 35.3% of all Windows Phone 8 devices in use; by contrast the top-end Lumia 1020 doesn&apos;t figure as a separate entry, ie more than a couple of percent, anywhere except Australia, where it&apos;s 4.6% - and the Lumia 520 is 23.9%. Notably, theLumia 920does feature in second place in many countries (top in Germany) - but it&apos;s the cheap version which does best.Any sale is a sale - but if you&apos;re going to build value around your ecosystem, you need the users who will spend money on your phones and the apps on them.App gapAnd apps really matter. For someone under 24, for instance, Snapchat has become pretty much essential. But youwon&apos;t findan official version on Windows Phone. (There are &quot;might work&quot; unofficial ones.) Thedating app Tinder?Not there. This &quot;app gap&quot; is Windows Phone&apos;s biggest pain point, and adding the inarguably useful features to 8.1 doesn&apos;t change that. Microsoft still hasn&apos;t mobilised app developers to write for it, for reasons which lie in its woefully low installed base in every country in the world compared to either the iPhone or Android, and especially the combination of both.You can talk all you like about &quot;market share&quot; (better phrase as &quot;sales share&quot;), but the installed base data continues to show the combination of iOS and Android growing more quickly, and that&apos;s what developers focus on.It&apos;s a chicken-and-egg situation. If Nadella can solve that one, he will have cut the Gordian knot that has been holding Microsoft back in mobile for years.Windows 8.1Having begun unravelling Windows Phone&apos;s commitment to giant icons, Microsoft is doing much the same to the insistence that Windows 8 should be all about big icons too. It&apos;s already rolling back &quot;Charms&quot;, for which you had to know the secret incantation (pull from the right hand side of the screen) to invoke; instead it will have search, power and settings buttons on the main Start screen.But the new 8.1 will look even more familiar to people who were spooked by the &quot;Metro world&quot; of the original version 8. In desktop mode, a taskbar will let you pin an app as a Favourite, not just those in desktop mode. And there will be a bar at the top of app windows to make them easier to close and minimize.In short, Windows 8 is becoming more and more like Windows 7. The more things change, the more they become what they used to be. Microsoft still needs Windows to flourish - it generates a huge amount of its revenues and profits. But PCs aren&apos;t Nadella&apos;s priority, and nor is Windows, as he had made clear through his repeated instruction. Cloud first, mobile first.•Satya Nadella signals change of course with Office for iPad launch
The new chief executive of Mozilla, the firm behind the Firefox web browser, has resigned following a furore over a donation he made in support of a ban on gay marriage in California.Brendan Eich has “chosen to step down” after less than two weeks in the job, Mitchell Baker, executive chairwoman of theMozilla Foundation, which owns the company,announced in a blogpost on Thursday.“We know why people are hurt and angry, and they are right: it’s because we haven’t stayed true to ourselves,” said Baker. “We didn’t act like you’d expect Mozilla to act. We didn’t move fast enough to engage with people once the controversy started. We’re sorry. We must do better.”Eich was announced as Mozilla’s new chief executive on 24 March. The firm quickly came under sharp criticism because of a $1,000 donation he made in support of California’s successful Proposition 8 ballot measure in 2011. It also emerged that he hadmade campaign contributionsin past years to fringe Republican candidates such as Pat Buchanan.Buchanan once said in relation to the Aids crisis that “our promiscuous homosexuals appear literally hell-bent on Satanism and suicide”. He also once claimed that “homosexuals have declared war on nature, and now nature is exacting an awful retribution”.Eichtold the Guardian earlier this weekthat he would not resign. “I agree with people who say it wasn&apos;t private, but it was personal,” he said of the donation. “But the principle that I have operated by, that is formalised in our code of conduct at Mozilla, is it&apos;s really about keeping anything that&apos;s not central to our mission out of our office.“If I stop doing that now I think I would be doing wrong that code of conduct and doing a disservice to Mozilla. And I really do think it&apos;s an important principle of inclusiveness for Mozilla to succeed.”However Bakertold recode.netin an interview earlier on Thursday that this was no longer the case. “It’s clear that Brendan cannot lead Mozilla in this setting,” she said, adding: “The ability to lead – particularly for the CEO – is fundamental to the role and that is not possible here.”
Imgur, the picture sharing site which underpins much of the social web&apos;s image hosting, has raised $40m from venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz in Series A fundraising.Until now, the site (pronounced &quot;imager&quot;) has fought off investors. Founded by Alan Schaaf in his Ohio University dorm in 2009, the site became profitable early enough to not need the large cash injections common amongst Silicon Valley startups. But Schaaf says that it&apos;s not just that the firm didn&apos;t need the money, but also that it had never found &quot;a good fit&quot;.&quot;As a company that bootstrapped our way to profitability and had a blast doing it, we really weren&apos;t out looking for money at all,&quot; Schaaf said. &quot;That said, as soon as we started talking with Marc [Andreessen] and Lars [Dalgaard, both of Andreessen Horowitz], we knew this was a great fit. Lars completely gets what we&apos;re trying to accomplish, and has pledged to help us conquer the Internet. The only sad part is that we won&apos;t be eligible for any more Best Bootstrapped Startup Crunchies.&quot;In its five years of existence, the service has grown to draw 130 million unique users a month, who view almost 5bn images between them. Its appeal lies in its simplicity: anyone can upload an image, without even logging on, and they get a shareable link directly to the picture.But just as important for Imgur&apos;s growth is the fact that it can handle massive amounts of bandwidth without going under. This had made it the image hosting service of choice for social news site Reddit, which can frequently send millions of views to an image in a matter of hours (and if that image isan animated gif, it can frequently be a very large file indeed). In fact, the site was originally created specifically for Reddit, filling a need the site had created for stable, reliable image hosting.As well as Andreessen Horowitz, Reddit invested a small amount in the firm. The investment represents the first formal relationship between the two companies.But in many ways, Imgur is outgrowing its former inspiration. The site already has more raw pageviews than Reddit, and a growing community of its own. Andreessen Horowitz&apos;s investment will be put toward hiring more engineers boosting the size of its salesforce, as well as moving into a larger office and building new mobile apps. Currently, Imgur is just 13 people.The investment reflects well on both Andreessen Horowitz and Imgur. The venture capital firm is rapidly gaining a reputation for being the one that startup founders want to work with. Partners including Benedict Evans and Chris Dixon, as well as co-founders Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, are known for having a strong understanding of the tech industry.&quot;We&apos;ve been watching Imgur for years, and the way Alan and his team have committed to building for the community is truly impressive,&quot; said Lars Dalgaard, general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. &quot;It&apos;s rare to see a company so committed to preserving an excellent user experience, and it&apos;s no accident that this community has flourished. We hope to provide resources and guidance to help Imgur continue down this path, with the freedom to do even more to accelerate product innovation and community growth.&quot;In true social web fashion, Imgur&apos;s announcement ended with a &quot;tl;dr&quot;, or &quot;too long; didn&apos;t read&quot;: Imgur secures $40MM in Series A financing led by Andreessen Horowitz, with contribution from Reddit.•Reddit: How to win the internet
A man who ran a &quot;Microsoft support scam&quot; which fooled people into paying for unneeded antivirus software that was free has been given a suspended jail sentence, and ordered to pay thousands of pounds in compensation and fines.Mohammed Khalid Jamil, 34, from Luton, hired people in an Indian call centre who then phoned up people in the UK, pretended to be from Microsoft, and claimed that there was a problem with the victim&apos;s computer - which they would &quot;confirm&quot; by getting them to look at a perfectly harmless Windows program which records machine events.The cold-callers would then sell the victims antivirus software that was available for free from Microsoft&apos;s website, and install it using remote access to the victim&apos;s computer. People were typically charged between £35 and £150, and many of the victims were elderly.Jamil was sentenced to four months in prison, suspended for 12 months, and fined £5,000. He was also ordered to pay £5,665 in compensation to his victims, and £13,929 in prosecution costs. The National Trading Standards eCrime Team, which coordinated with local trading standards bodies, said that Jamil&apos;s company Smart Support Guys &quot;duped a large number&quot; of Britons into handing over money, with their computers left in a worse state than before the intrusion.Lord Harris, chairman of the National Trading Standards Board, said: &quot;This is a landmark case, as we believe it may be the first ever successful prosecution of someone involved in the &apos;Microsoft scam&apos; in the UK.&quot;He called it an &quot;important turning point for UK consumers who have been plagued by this scam, or variants of it, for several years.&quot; He said the verdict was &quot;a stark warning to anyone else doing it that they can be caught and will be prosecuted.&quot;The Guardianrevealed in July 2010that teams in India were running the scam out of call centres, and that it was also being used against English-speaking people in other countries including the US and Australia. Though the Metropolitan Police took action against a number of &quot;support&quot; websites used for the scams, they tended to be recreated in days.In October 2012 the US Federal Trade Commissionfroze the accountsof a number of people related to six tech support scams, which appeared to slow down the number of scam calls there. None of them included Jamil or his companies.Jamil pleaded guilty at York Crown Court to unfair trading by allowing his staff to make false claims regarding computer support services. He was previously a director of a similar company called Onlinepcmasters.com, founded in August 2009; Luton trading standards warned him about its conduct in 2010. That company was dissolved in September 2013. Smart Support Guys was only formally incorporated in February 2014.Passing sentence, Recorder Baird said that the matter &quot;passes the threshold for a custodial sentence&quot; and that there were aggravating features including the 2010 warnings and the sending of false satisfaction emails.•&apos;Grand Theft Auto V for PC&apos; torrent scam hits thousands of gamers
The Angry Birds game is four years old!To celebrate, Rovio has launched the 'Short Fuse' episode which gives fans 15 brand spanking new levels of fun and frustration to work through. Look out for the new "Bomb Bird" character.Angry Birds have teamed up with the Guardian to host the first ever Angry Birds Vine competition with a chance to win a one-of-a-kind hand crafted Bomb bird Sphero.How to enter1Create your own Angry Birds inspired vine2Submit your vine by tweeting@guardiantechwith the hashtag #GdnAngryBirdsComp before midnight onThursday 10 April.What happens next3An esteemed panel of judges will select their favourite vines and we'll publish these online.4You can then vote for the winnerFor more details, please see the terms and conditions below. Good luck!Terms and conditions1.	The Angry Birds vine competition (the "Competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over and who hold a Twitter and Vine account.2.	The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM"), Rovio Entertainment Ltd, their group companies or family members or anyone else connected to the Competition.3.	Entrants into the Competition are deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions.4.	To enter the Competition you must tweet a link to your Angry Birds themed vine via Twitter to @guardiantech including the hashtag #GdnAngryBirdsComp.  Your entry must be captured in a single tweet of up to 140 characters. To create your vine you must download or open the vine app for IOS, Android or Windows from https://vine.co/ and follow the instructions within the app. Please see the requirements and conditions regarding the content and submission of vines here: https://vine.co/rules, here: https://vine.co/terms and as set out in paragraphs 9 and 10, below.  If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the Competition, please e-mail us at Eleanor.Duffy@guardian.co.uk with "Angry Birds Vine Competition" in the subject line.5.	Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us.  The winner shall be the owner of both the Vine and Twitter accounts from which the selected winning entry is sent.6.	GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason.  Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM.7.	The Competition closes at 23.59 on 10 April 2014. Entries received after that time will not be considered.8.	You own the copyright in your Competition entry as its author.  By submitting an entry to the Competition, you give GNM and Rovio:a.	permission for your entry to be published on GNM and Rovio websites including but not limited to theguardian.com ("GNM Websites") and on any social media account controlled by GNM and Rovio respectively, including but not limited to Facebook and Twitter accounts ("GNM Social Media Accounts"), and you grant GNM a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide licence to use and publish your Competition entry in electronic format (including on GNM Websites and GNM Social Media Accounts) and hard copy (including in GNM publications) for purposes connected with the Competition, and to adapt the entry to enable such publication (including to crop or otherwise edit it for such purposes), and you hereby irrevocably waive, for the benefit of GNM and Rovio, all moral rights in the entry to which you are entitled; andb.	the right to use your name, photograph and town/city/county of residence for the sole purpose of identifying you as the author of your entry and/or as a winner in the Competition.9.	Your entry must have been created by you, must not be copied, must not contain any third-party materials and/or content that you do not have permission to use (e.g. music), must not promote your own or third party goods or services or include any trade marks, must not refer to individuals by their real names, and must not show any inappropriate or dangerous behaviour, or otherwise be obscene, defamatory, distasteful, offensive, or in breach of any applicable legislation or regulations; must not be in breach of the terms of service or rules of Twitter and/or Vine; must not be in breach of any confidentiality obligations owed by you to third parties.  Your entry must not have been published previously in any other publication or website. If we have reason to believe your entry is not your own work or otherwise breaches this paragraph 9, then we may not consider it and may disqualify it.10.	Entrants confirm that each individual whose image is featured in the Competition entry has given consent for the use of his/her image in connection with this Competition and in accordance with these Terms and Conditions. Where an individual whose image is featured in a Competition entry is aged less than 18 years the entrant confirms that the parent or guardian of that individual has given the relevant consent.  GNM may ask for proof of age and/or consents required pursuant to paragraph 10 at any time.11.	We may disqualify your Competition entry for the following reasons: your entry does not comply with these Terms and Conditions; you are not eligible to enter the Competition; or you cannot be contacted.  In the event of disqualification, we may select a new entry for the shortlist and/or winner in accordance with the selection process outlined below.Picking the shortlisted entries and winner12.	A panel of judges, including at least one judge who is independent of GNM, will on or before 17th April 2014 choose a shortlist of ten (10) entries from all valid Competition entries received, using the criteria described in paragraph 13.  The judges reserve the right in their absolute discretion to include fewer than ten (10) entries in the shortlist where the valid entries received in accordance with these Terms and Conditions are of insufficient number or, in the reasonable opinion of the Judges, of insufficient quality.  Shortlisted entrants will be notified as follows on or before 24th April 2014: we will tweet a link to the shortlist from @GuardianTech with information about how to contact us if your vine has been shortlisted. Shortlisted entrants that are following @GuardianTech when the shortlist is announced will also receive a direct message from us on Twitter. Please note that we can only send a direct message to you if you are following us @GuardianTech when the shortlist is announced.  GNM will seek verification from each entrant whose entry has been shortlisted that (1) they are eligible to enter the Competition; and (2) their entries have been submitted in accordance with these Terms and Conditions.13.	When choosing the shortlisted entries, the judges will be looking for the most creative, inspiring and humorous entries.14.	Subject to paragraphs 9 to 12 all shortlisted entries will be posted on an article page on the Guardian Technology section of theguardian.com on or before 24th April 2014 (the "Shortlist Date").  The URL of the page will also be tweeted on the @GuardianTech Twitter feed.  Members of the public may vote for their favourite shortlisted entry from the Shortlist Date until 23:59 on 1st May 2014.  Once members of the public have viewed the shortlist they will be prompted to vote for their favourite entry in an online poll.  Members of the public will only be allowed to vote once.  The winning entry will be the entry which receives the most votes from members of the public.  In the event of a tie for the winning entry at the end of the public voting process, all entries that are tied for the winning entry will progress to a final assessment by the judging panel, with the same composition as the panel that selected the shortlisted entries.  The judging panel will then assess the finalists using the criteria described in paragraph 13 to select one (1) winner.15.	Full details of the judging process and the names of the judges are available on request to eleanor.duffy@theguardian.com.Prizes16.	Prizes will be allocated as follows:a.	entrants whose vines are shortlisted in accordance with paragraphs 12-15, above, will each receive the following prizes (subject to availability): one (1) Shock Wave t-shirt and one (1) 20cm Bomb bird plush ; andb.	the overall Competition winner will receive the following prizes (subject to availability): one (1) Custom painted Sphero 2.0, five (5) Shock Wave t-shirts, one (1) Bomb bird hoodie, one (1) 20cm Bomb bird plush.  GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize.17.	The winners and shortlisted entrants will be notified as follows: we will post the Twitter usernames of the winner and each shortlisted entrant to the @GuardianTech Twitter feed on or before the 8th May 2014 with information on how to claim prizes.  Entrants that are following us @GuardianTech when the Competition shortlist and winner are announced will also receive a direct message from us on Twitter.  Please note that we can only send a direct message to you if you are following us @GuardianTech at the time when the shortlist and winner are announced.  If a shortlisted entrant/winner fails to respond to GNM within fourteen (14) days of being notified of their being shortlisted/voted as winner, their prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another entrant/winner in accordance with the process described above (and that entrant/winner will have to respond to notification of their win within fourteen (14) days or else they will also forfeit their prize).  If a shortlisted entrant and/or winner rejects their prize or their entry is invalid or in breach of these Terms and Conditions, then their prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another entrant/winner in accordance with the selection process outlined above.18.	Each prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.19.	GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.Some other rules20.	Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed.21.	GNM is not responsible for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason.  Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM.22.	The name and county of the winner can be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to Eleanor Duffy at the following address: Angry Birds Vine Competition, Guardian Tech, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.23.	No purchase is necessary.24.	The winner and each short-listed entrant may be required to take part in promotional activity related to the Competition and shall participate in such activity on the Promoters' reasonable request.  The winner and each short-listed entrant consents to the use by GNM and their related companies, both before and after the closing date of the Competition for an unlimited time, of their voice, image, photograph and name for publicity purposes (in any medium, including still photographs and films, and on the internet, including any websites hosted by the Promoter and its related companies) and in advertising, marketing or promotional material without additional compensation or prior notice and, in entering the Competition, all entrants consent to the same.25.	GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation.  By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your Competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 21 above.26.	Nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury resulting from their negligence.27.	GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading or uploading any materials in connection with the Competition.  Nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury resulting from its negligence.28.	GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud).  The decision of GNM in all matters relating to this Competition is final and no correspondence shall be entered into.  GNM reserves the right to discount public votes cast within the selection process for the winner if they have reason to believe fraudulent bulk voting or multiple voting has taken place to inappropriately influence or manipulate the selection of the winner.29.	GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.30.	The Competition and these Terms and Conditions will be governed by English law and entrants to the Competition submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.31.	Promoter: Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
A bitcoin-themed take on Andy Warhols 200 One Dollar Bills has been sold to an anonymous Seattle businessman for an all-bitcoin fee.The work, 200 Bitcoins, is by German artist Kuno Goda. It echoes Warhol&apos;s famous work, a screenprinted replica of 200 $1 bills, which recently sold for $43.8m at auction.But while the face value of 200 bitcoins is quite a bit more than $200 (it currently stands at around $86,000), Goda&apos;s artwork didn&apos;t sell for quite as much as the Warhol. Goda has an agreement with the buyer not to reveal the sale price, but it was less than the $125,000 that 200 bitcoins were worth at the time of the sale.&quot;As a lifelong fan of Andy Warhol I knew that he connected money and art in his 1962 Dollar Bill series, which featured 200 one dollar bills,&quot; Goda told the Guardian. &quot;I thought Bitcoin deserves the same and so I created &apos;200 Bitcoins&apos;. I think Warhol once said that one should rather frame and hang the money itself on the wall than buying art with it. I always liked that way of thinking.&quot;The full picture of 200 Bitcoins. Photograph: /Kuno Goda&quot;A banknote is a piece of paper we assign a certain value to,&quot; Goda said in an artist&apos;s statement. &quot;So are artworks. So are bitcoins. Minus the paper.&quot;Goda had attempted to sell 200 Bitcoins usingBitPremier, a site which bills itself as &quot;the bitcoin luxury marketplace&quot; and sells items like a 1.77 carat diamond for 57.6 bitcoins. Eventually, the work was sold through a private sale, but the buyer still made the payment in bitcoin, which Goda said &quot;was a flawless experience. International payments can be a real hassle. Not so with Bitcoin. It was just a matter of a few clicks.&quot;With a degree in engineering, most of Goda&apos;s works relate to technology in some way. &quot;My follow-up piece will be about value and money as well. But it won&apos;t be as much pro-Bitcoin as more critical of the USD.&quot;•Chinese bitcoin exchange closes after central bank clampdown
One of the biggest Chinese bitcoin exchanges has closed its doors to new deposits following a renewed clampdown on the currency by the People&apos;s Bank of China.BTC38 announced to its users on Wednesday that the company was having to suspend the use of 3rd party payment processors due to central bank policy.The PBOC&apos;s warning to payment processors to steer clear of the cryptocurrency dates back to December 2013, and has already taken down one major exchange, BTC China,which closed two weeks later.Without 3rd party payment processors, bitcoin exchanges have little ability to take Chinese yuan in payment for bitcoin. Few have the means to build the capability themselves, and so far none have seen fit to spend the money in what is likely to remain a tumultuous market.BTC38&apos;s closure appears to be the result of a new aggressiveness on the part of the PBOC, which has stayed largely silent on the subject of bitcoin since its edict. In late March, reports broke that the Chinese government will begin penalising any bank transacting with bitcoin exchanges after 15th April. BTC38 directly cites these reports in the explanation for its closure.The Chinese market remains important for bitcoin for reasons beyond its scale. With capital controls and heavily regulated markets, despite a transition to capitalism over the past three decades, it represents a dream test bed for demonstrating the decentralising aspects of the currency.Most notably, bitcoin offers an easy way of evading bans on the export of money. By buying bitcoin with yuan and selling it into other currencies, Chinese people can almost untraceably evade capital controls.Despite the crackdowns bitcoin remains big money in China. According toFiatLeak, a site which tracks bitcoin sales in various currencies, the country is still buying almost 10,000 bitcoin an hour, far in excess of any other nation.Bitcoin prices fell 10% over Wednesday following the news, finishing the day at $436 a coin.•Bitcoin can now be taxed, says US tax service
Josh Long has big ambitions. He is making a game to prove to the world that his way of making games is better than the way the industry has made games for years. He wants players to demand complexity, and he thinks he can give it to them. He wants everyone to make better games, especially AAA studios, and he wants his gameOscarto be a catalyst for change: the game that proves that games can grow up.“Games when we were kids were something we could identify with,” he says. “When I was young 90 percent of my time was games and play and imagination, and video games could capture all of that. As we’ve got older, our lives are more about struggling with relationships, or paying bills – we have so many more complex experiences. I don’t think games have grown to reflect that.”Oscar is his attempt to redress that balance, to make a game that reflects truly adult themes and offers a human experience that anyone can identify with. But it does so by stealth, at least initially. At first glance, Oscar doesn’t look like it’s going to shatter the games industry in one fell swoop: it’s a 2D indie platformer, taking place in a stylised fantasy world, with a young girl and her stuffed elephant as the main protagonists.“Oscar’s trying to stay outside of standard experiences and stay outside of genres,” he says. “It’s important to me that Oscar starts out looking like a very standard 2D indie platformer. Players sign in to Steam or wherever and see a character jumping around in an artsy fantasy world, and they understand that. I have a huge respect for games like Dear Esther and Gone Home, but most gamers aren’t attracted to them because they see them as too experimental. They’re still too separate. It’s my mission to change players minds about what the medium can achieve.”Big budget zombiesDespite his apparent naivete, Long is no stranger to the industry, having worked for almost 10 years on a variety of big-budget AAA projects. He got his start as a pro-gamer, and was hired by Relic “to play the game and tell them what to change,” before ending up as lead multiplayer designer. Before Oscar, he says, his smallest budget title was $5m, and that was for a game he describes as “boring”. To develop Oscar, though, he set up a Kickstarter appeal and sought $40,000 for a game that he’s palpably excited to be bringing to life.“I don’t think games have been around long enough that we know what we’re doing,” he says. “But there’s a pretty big demographic of people who have been doing it for more than ten years. And I think they’re like me. They’re tired of how bad things are and how tired and stale the industry is, and how bad working conditions are for devs.“I used to think AAA was full of zombies who wanted to make Call of Duty clones. Then I got to work with these people. Most people in the industry want to do something unique and enjoyable but they weren’t enabled to.“I realised I couldn’t change process at an AAA studio. It’s like playing Guitar Hero, and when you start out playing you can only strum downwards. Then as the game goes on you get to the harder songs, the faster notes, and you have to learn how to strum in both directions – that’s the only way to progress. But in the time it takes you to relearn how to strum that way you’re playing worse than you were – for those three songs or however long, you don’t do as well.&quot;You see that playing out in games like Mirror’s Edge, which was trying to be something different; you see these interesting games that just don’t quite catch on with the players, and the risks are so huge. The cost of bringing all these different professionals together is so high that almost no devs can afford it. It’s a great way for studios to implode.&quot;The status quo of the industry then, is one in which developers feel trapped into continually producing safe products – products that are more likely to earn back money for the investors and management board. “Without good design process, there’s no way to keep a safe job and sane work hours unless you make the games you already know how to make,&quot; says Long. &quot;You have to make games that are guaranteed to keep your employees in jobs. Indie studios can explore much more broadly what’s possible with games but also with process.“I could go on Gamasutra spouting about the right way to build games but there’s no reason for anyone to listen to me. So with Oscar, there’s lots of documentation on our decisions and our design process. After this I want other studios to be able to look at what we’ve done and apply it to their own games.”Dark mattersOscar was in pre-production for a year and a half, primarily while Long worked out how to create something interesting and new, beforetaking it to Kickstarter. The game began as a side project alongside his AAA work, he says; he worked on the music in his spare time, before realising he needed a story to write for. The story he came up with was an autobiographical tale which – without wanting to spoil too much of the game itself – explores the experience of being a young girl, being the child of a single parent, and being bullied.“These were things she had been through and you can see why she had never told anyone,” says Long. “You can explore things in a game by putting the player in someone’s shoes, and the game very clearly articulates why a child might be in that situation where you’d feel that you couldn’t speak out.“As adults, you think that bullying is not that big a deal. We have put a system in place where you tell an adult, and the bully gets disciplined, but they know who told on them and they don’t really care about the punishment, and then things go back to how they were.“Oscar presents you with this choice. She can try to get help but that help is a teacher sending the bully to detention, and he doesn’t care. The choice is to be bullied or to be a tell tale.”At times, Long acknowledges, the game can get dark, but the aim is never to tell the player what they should be feeling, or even what is in Oscar’s mind. There are no diary entries scattered around levels for players to find, no audio logs to “beat you over the head with what’s going on”, as he puts it.“Players get much more investment if they can figure things out for themselves,” he says. “We feel it’s very important we never tell you about it. We let you feel her emotions by making her choices, but we never tell you it’s sad.”As you progress through Oscar’s world, the game starts to give you cues that all is not well. The art begins to change from the cheerful, familiar fantasy style that initially greets you, to a photorealistic style more akin to horror games. Oscar introduces stealth elements at times, and switches to 2.5D perspective - Long says they would like to switch to first-person view, but doing so would more than double the budget.By making Oscar enjoyable and accessible as a game in its own right, says Long, he can tell a much deeper story than other media might allow. “It’s about the role of art,&quot; he says. &quot;If a man sat down and said ‘I want to talk about my son who jumped off a cliff’, no one would want to go to that seminar. But Eric Clapton can write a song about it and everyone will listen.“People can play Oscar. At heart it’s a game. It’s enjoyable to play; it’s fun. That’s part of what works about genres like movies or music – you get a positive part of the experience to counteract the sadness. Music does that with tone and beat, whereas a game has fun.”These things take timeDespite his ambitions for the game and its impact on the industry, Long is aware of how difficult the concept is to sell, and the likely problems with marketing to a sceptical player base. The Kickstarter was slow going, and reached its goal with just a few hours to spare; now Long hasput up a pre-order pagewhere people who missed the crowdfunding stage can buy a package or simply donate to the cause.“Oscar is promising something that’s very ambitious,&quot; says Long. &quot;Lots of games today and in the past have promised things that haven’t panned out. It’s difficult to try and advertise something abstract that players trust and believe will actually happen. It’s a bit difficult from a marketing perspective, but on an individual level I haven’t had a single negative response.”Long recognises, too, that Oscar is just the start for his ambitions; he speaks of thatgamecompany’s progression from fl0w, through Flower, to Journey, as an inspiration for his path.“As an attempt to make games into a voyage about specific human experiences I think it would be unrealistic to expect it to be mindblowing and amazing, as a first attempt, but I think it will be something different,” he says. “These things take time.”In the end, he says, he’d prefer not to be making games at all: he’d rather be back where he was as a child, on the couch with a pile of new games, playing rather than creating.“When I left the industry, I looked at the question of what a job is,&quot; he says. &quot;I decided it’s about the world that’s here and the world I wanted to see, and my job is to do what I can to change this world into that world. When I was a kid I’d sit down on the couch and play through five different games, knowing that everything I knew about what games could do would be completely changed by the time I was finished.&quot;What I want is to sit on my couch and just play games that change my view on how games work, but I can’t do that right now. I thought about education, but writing a textbook doesn’t really change anyone’s mind.&quot;I think the game will have to speak for itself.”
Dating app Tinder is hugely popular around the world, with an estimated4.2m daily users. Now those users are being warned that the service has been &quot;invaded by bots&quot; posing as humans.Security firm BitDefender has identified the bots, which pose as women to engage Tinder users in text-chat, before seeming to promote a mobile game called Castle Clash, posting a link to a website called Tinderverified.com which is not owned by or associated with Tinder.&quot;The name of the URL gives the impression of an official page of the dating app and for extra legitimacy scammers also registered it on a reputable .com domain,&quot; said Bitdefender&apos;s chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi.People clicking on the link from the UK – where Bitdefender claims Tinder has 9m registered users – are taken to &quot;fraudulent&quot; surveys and competitions for brands including Asda and Tesco, while US users are taken to a download page for the Castle Clash game.Its developer, IGG, has denied being responsible for the Tinder bots, which have been spotted operating under names including Alicia, Haley and Cherry.&quot;We are already aware of this issue and we are currently investigating into it. We are also being victimised in this issue therefore we are grateful for being informed,&quot; said the company in a statement provided via BitDefender.Tinder initially described the problem –first shared publicly on Reddit in late March– as an &quot;isolated incident&quot;, beforeproviding TechCrunch with an updated statementas it realised that more users were encountering the bots.&quot;We are aware of the accounts in question and are taking the necessary steps to remove them. Ensuring an authentic ecosystem has always been and will continue to be our top priority,&quot; said a spokesperson.It&apos;s the latest security concern for Tinder, which in February was accused of havingleft a security flaw enabling hackers to pinpoint users&apos; locations unpatchedfor several months after being notified about it in 2013.Tinder recently claimed thatits app averages 750m &quot;swipes&quot; a day– users swipe left and right on their screen to accept or reject potential matches – and is making 10m matches, with the average user spending 60 minutes a day using the app.•Tinder: the &apos;painfully honest&apos; dating app with wider social ambitions
Players of the video game Halo will be familiar with Cortana, an artificial intelligence character. Now it&apos;s arriving on Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone smartphone as a virtual assistant to take on Apple&apos;s Siri and Google Now.The move is one of a number unveiled by Microsoft at its annual Build conference in San Francisco on Wednesday as it seeks to gain traction in a highly competitive and lucrative market for smartphones. The most dramatic for handset makers - though not initially users - is that Microsoft will make both Windows Phone and Windows licences free for use on devices with screens smaller than 9in diagonally.That has been seen as an acknowledgement that the huge success of Google&apos;s free Android mobile OS, which dominates worldwide smartphone sales, has made it impossible for Microsoft to charge for software on those devices.Chatty assistantCortana tries to be chatty like Apple&apos;s Siri, while anticipating information you might want, like Google Now.Cortana is among the new features coming to a Windows Phone update called 8.1. The updated operating system will come with new phones in about a month, including three that Nokia announced Wednesday. It will also be available as a free download for existing phones a few months later.Microsoft is also updating its Windows 8.1 system for tablets, laptops and desktops. Although Microsoft has been pushing touchscreen controls, the new update is designed to make it easier for those with traditional keyboard and mouse controls. The update, simply called Windows 8.1 Update, is available starting next Tuesday.The announcements come as Microsoft Corp. opened its annual Build conference in San Francisco. The conference is aimed at developers who write software for Microsoft systems, though it&apos;s also a chance for the company to showcase its products more broadly and to build interest among the digitally connected.Small scale, big ambitionMost of the new features relate to Windows Phone, a system that hadn&apos;t received as much attention as the main Windows system in recent years. But it&apos;s an area where Microsoft sees growth opportunities and underscores its commitment to mobile devices and services under new chief executive Satya Nadella.Windows Phone had less than 5% of the smartphone market last year, according to Gartner. But unlike traditional PCs, people tend to upgrade phones more frequently - on average, every two years, or even more frequently in China. Many people in emerging markets are also getting smartphones for the first time, with India forecast to have the world&apos;s second-largest user base of smartphone users by the end of 2014, ahead of the US.Though Windows Phone already had some voice-controlled elements - including the ability to dictate text - with the Cortana assistant, Microsoft catches up to Siri and Google Now in many ways. You can use voice commands to search for information, set alarms and make calendar entries, for instance. Although Android devices have had Google Now since 2012, and iPhones and iPads come with Siri and can get a free Google Now app, Windows phones haven&apos;t had as robust a voice assistant until now.Cortana tries to go further than both by warning you of conflicts when you add items to your calendar. It will also remind you to ask about the new dog your sister just got the next time you communicate with her, whether that&apos;s by phone, chat or email.Cortana also promises to give you more ways to customise it. While Google Now will alert you to upcoming travel by scanning your email, Cortana will ask whether it should offer you such alerts. That might reduce unwanted alerts, though it will require more work to set up.&quot;Cortana is truly a differentiator. Voice recognition isn&apos;t only about activating commands but about becoming a truly personal assistant,&quot; commented Francisco Jeronimo of the researchers IDC.Microsoft said the feature is in a &quot;beta&quot; test mode as the company tries to improve its voice recognition capabilities. In fact, during Wednesday&apos;s presentation, Cortana made numerous mistakes, including offering weather in Celsius when the request was for the Kelvin temperature scale.Microsoft plans to remove the beta designation in the second half of the year, when it will formally launch in the US, Britain and China.The company also announced a new Action Center for the Windows Phone system as a hub for app notifications and information such as remaining battery life. Other new phone features include automatic connecting to free Wi-Fi hotspots to save on cellular data.Microsoft provided more details about how the company is making the Windows Phone system more useful in business settings. Companies will be able to restrict apps that can run on phones issued to employees or prevent sensitive documents from being saved locally.To bridge the divide between the phone system and Windows 8.1 for larger devices, Microsoft unveiled tools to let software developers adapt apps for the various devices more easily. App developers will also be able to sell apps once across the board; currently, customers must get apps for phones and for other devices separately.•Satya Nadella shows off Office for iPad as Microsoft changes course
Three major labels are suing Russian social network vKontakte, claiming that the company has deliberately fostered &quot;large-scale&quot; music piracy on its service.Sony Music Russia, Universal Music Russia and Warner Music UK havefiled separate lawsuitsin the Saint Petersburg &amp; Leningradsky Region Arbitration Court, working with locla industry body NFMI and global organisation the IFPI on the cases.The labels claim that vKontakte, which has 143m registered users globally, including 88m within Russia, is storing a large catalogue of music uploaded by its users, and has refused to strike licensing deals with the rightsholders.&quot;VK&apos;s music service, unlike others in Russia, is an unlicensed file-sharing service that is designed for copyright infringement on a large scale,&quot; said IFPI chief executive Frances Moore in a statement.&quot;We have repeatedly highlighted this problem over a long period of time. We have encouraged VK to cease its infringements and negotiate with record companies to become a licensed service. To date the company has taken no meaningful steps to tackle the problem, so today legal proceedings are being commenced.&quot;The IFPI believes that the widespread availability of downloadable music on vKontakte is harming licensed digital music services in Russia, including local players Yandex and Trava, and global services iTunes and Deezer.The IFPI&apos;s most recent figures show Russian recorded music revenues of just 2.2bn roubles (£37.3m) in 2013, putting it outside the top 20 countries in the body&apos;s global rankings.vKontakte declined to comment on the lawsuits when contacted by The Guardian, on the grounds that it has not yet received the claims filed by the labels.vKontakte has been a thorn in the side of the music industry for some time. In November 2011, US industry body the RIAA waslabelling the site as a &quot;notorious market&quot; for piracythat was &quot;specifically designed to enable members to upload music and video files, hundreds of thousands of which contain unlicensed copyright works&quot;.This week&apos;s lawsuits are not the first time vKontakte has been taken to court for facilitating copyright infringement, however.In February 2012, the companylost a case brought by Russian music firms SBA Publishing and SBA Production, with the verdictupheld by the Russian appeals courtin May that year. A few months later, vKontakte wasfined in another copyright infringement case, before beingrefused leave to appealin November 2012.vKontakte is Russia's equivalent of Facebook.The IFPI claims vKontakte has refused to tackle the issue of copyrighted music stored and shared through its social network, but the company has said otherwise in the last year. In June 2013, local news sites reported that a number ofsongs by global artists including Justin Bieber, the Rolling Stones and Adelewere being removed by vKontakte.In December 2013, founder Pavel Durov claimed that vKontakte was willing to take down music in response to requests from labels. &quot;If some music companies wish their content to be deleted from VK, we, as always, are willing to comply with their wish,&quot; hetold TechCrunch.&quot;On the other hand, we are also ready to seek mutually beneficial ways to monetise their content. This year we managed to find such a solution for video content and we are optimistic about the audio section of VK as well.&quot;In March this year, reports suggested thatvKontakte was preparing to introduce &quot;content identification, which will be used to monitor and promptly delete published content protected by copyright&quot;, although these plans have not dissuaded the major labels from launching their legal action.The lawsuits come at a sensitive time for vKontakte.Its founder Pavel Durov resigned earlier this week, citing pressure from the site&apos;s Kremlin-linked owners since its ownership structure changed in 2013. The previous year, Durov had refused to close down groups on vKontakte that were organising protest marches against Russian leader Vladimir Putin.In April 2013,vKontakte&apos;s offices were searched by investigators, as a fund belonging to oil mogul Ilya Shcherbovich acquired 48% of the company. Then, in January 2014,Durov sold his shares in the company to telecoms executive Ivan Tavrin, whose company MegaFon is controlled by Russian businessman Alisher Usmanov – who already owned 40% of vKontakte, and has close ties to the Kremlin.&quot;The freedom of action of the chief executive in managing the company has considerably decreased. It has been harder and harder to remain with those principles on which our social network is based,&quot; wrote Durov in a statement posted on his own vKontakte page earlier this week, as he resigned.More recently, vKontakte has been in the news foroffering a job to NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdenafter he was granted temporary asylum in Russia, as well as being criticised forhosting homophobic groups like Occupy Paedophiliawhich used its social network to lure gay men to venues where they would be attacked.Durov may now focus on Telegram, the encrypted messaging app startup that he launched with brother Nikolai, which is based in Berlin. The app recentlyadded 5m new users in a single dayfollowing the announcement that Facebook was buying rival WhatsApp.
Amazon has entered the battle for remote control of the living room with a $99 television set top box that will give instant access to more than 200,000 films and television series, from Reservoir Dogs to Game of Thrones.With Amazon's staple DVD business facing slow decline as more people download their films rather than waiting for them to arrive by post, the company unveiled a Fire TV device on Wednesday that will take on Google and Apple as they vie to become the television distributors of the future.In a New York venue dressed as a front room, with sofas, bookcases and a flatscreen television, Kindle executive Peter Larsen unveiled a drinks coaster-sized black box whose processors he claimed were three times as fast as rivals. Amazon is also promising the latest games can be played on the device, including the hugely popular Minecraft, and developers Sega, Ubisoft and Disney are all involved.The device, which is on sale immediately, will link to Amazon Instant Video's large library of films and TV series, which has new and classic titles to download or stream, rent or buy, as well as hosting media players from Netflix, YouTube, Vimeo and Hulu. Built on Android software, which should make it easier for developers's designs, Fire TV can also display photos, play music and host games.Fire TV has dual Wi-Fi for faster connections, serves high-definition images, has a remote which acts as a microphone for voice activated search, and predicts which shows viewers will want to watch, preloading them so that they can start instantly.Larsen said the device would "make complexity disappear". Attacking rival boxes for laborious programme searches, buffering and platforms that are often closed to rival media players – such as Amazon's – he said: "We're selling millions of streaming media devices on Amazon.com ... we hear what's working, we hear what's not working."Buoyed by the success of its e-readers and Kindle HD tablets, Amazon is making the leap to the living room in the hope that selling more downloads could prove highly profitable. Kindle ownersspend, on average, $443 more buying items of all kinds from Amazon than shoppers who do not own one of its tablets.Founder Jeff Bezos also knows that his reign as the world's largest video retailer may come to an early end if Amazon is usurped by the online libraries offered by Netflix, Google's Play store and Apple's iTunes.Amazon's Fire TV will go head to head with the Apple TV box, which offers films to rent or own from the iTunes library, plus YouTube and Netflix. However Apple TV, to the frustration of many of its British users, cannot connect television sets to media players from the BBC or ITV.Fire TV will also be pitched against Google's Chromecast, a £30 thumb-sized dongle designed to be plugged into the back of a smart television set. Chromecast offers content from Netflix, YouTube and the Google Play store."Amazon's move is essentially the final piece in a three-way battle between America's internet heavyweights for tomorrow's TV screen," said David Watkins of Strategy Analytics. "It's like Dr Pepper challenging Coke and Pepsi's empire. Apple's there already, Google joined last year, now all will be up against the incumbent pay-TV providers. To thrive, however, they'll probably have to do partnership deals as Apple has been trying."In the United States, Apple dominates what is still a tiny market, with a 43% share of streaming devices, according to Bezos-backed publisher Business Intelligence. Roku, which is also on sale in the UK, has 24% and Google's Chromecast, which launched in America a year ago, has risen fast with 14%.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMusic piracy goes mobile &gt;&gt; Re/codeSome 27 million people in the US have used mobile applications to get at least one song in the past year, much of it believed to be unauthorized, NPD found in research that seeks for the first time to quantify the phenomenon. That's more than the 21 million people NPD estimates use peer-to-peer sites such as isoHunt to download music.…The Google Play store offers some 250 apps for downloading MP3 files to smartphones and tablets powered by its Android software. Several tout the benefit of connecting users to the sources of free music that they could find through a typical Internet search.But, the most popular of these Android apps, Music Maniac, has been downloaded more than 10 million times — and affords free access to all 10 of the top songs listed on the current Billboard's Hot 100 list. The Recording Industry Association of America said it has sent notices to Google requesting the app's removal, claiming it enables song piracy. Google has thus far refused.The apps tend to have the get-out that they can legally be used to find free or uncopyrighted music.LinkedIn warns company over "Hack In" tool that shows email addresses &gt;&gt; GigaomLinkedIn is urging people to stay away from Sell Hack, a sinister-sounding service that reveals the personal email address of anyone with a profile on the professional network. LinkedIn is warning that the service's "Hack In" tool uploads confidential information, and says it has sent Sell Hack a cease-and-desist letter.Sell Hack is marketing the "Hack In" button to salespeople looking to reach new prospects. The company's website claims that people who install its plug-in will be able to use the button to view the email contact of LinkedIn members with whom they're not connected, such as LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner:Raising the question of why your email would be visible through viewing the profile. LinkedIn is a social network equivalent of herpes - once you have it, you'd like to get rid of it.The God particle revisited: augmented audio reality in the age of wearables &gt;&gt; PraxtimeNathan Taylor reckons voice will be key to wearables, and that it's just waiting for a processing breakthrough to become second nature:And once software gets into wide use, it often has an exponential improvement trajectory, driven by algorithmic breakthroughs coupled with Moore's law. Especially during its initial growth phase. I explored this in detail in last week's post, using computer chess as an example. But note that during the early portion of exponential growth, doubling doesn't seem to do anything at all. Twice almost nothing is still almost nothing. Then as the technology approaches our reference vantage point (in this case human spoken language), doubling becomes magical.In other words, what if the ideal wearables are headphones, not glasses?Google distances itself from the Pentagon, stays in bed with mercenaries and intelligence contractors &gt;&gt; PandoDailyYasha Levine:With all the hubbub about NSA spying, Google's PR people really want you to know how separate the company is from America's military-industrial complex.Earlier this week, Google made a big show of refusing DARPA funding for two robotics manufacturers it purchased, even though the companies themselves were financed with plenty of DoD cash. It's a nice gesture, and one that was welcomed by those who want Silicon Valley to be free of government interference.Unfortunately, while a crowd-pleasing announcement is good for Google's public image, it does nothing to change the company'slong and ongoing historyof working closely with US military and surveillance agencies.Fascinating piece. As a side note, Pandodaily has improved enormously since its merger with Paul Carr's NSFW Inc.Dumb CryptoDefense hackers leave keys on victims' PCs &gt;&gt; PC ProThe aggressive CryptoLocker ransomware appeared last year, locking files on victims' computers and only offering a decryption key in return for payment of a ransom.The success of the scam – it had infected an estimated 250,000 PCs between September and December last year – has encouraged copycats, with CryptoDefense appearing in February and demanding $500 for a key to unlock files.According to security firm Symantec, the latest iteration is earning its creators $34,000 a month, but while previous versions have been uncrackable without payment, CryptoDefense includes flaws that could allow victims to escape with payment.Oops, but in a good way.What Michael Lewis gets wrong about high-frequency trading &gt;&gt; BusinessweekLewis's book, Flash Boys, is driving a huge amount of attention toward the topic of high frequency trading, and it has rekindled some of basic arguments over its impact on markets and investors. The new book is typical Lewis. It's a page-turner that reads like a novel and succeeds in making complex topics accessible to non-experts. By taking seemingly disparate developments—the secretive race to build underground, super-fast fiber optic cables, the 2009 arrest of a Goldman Sachs computer programmer—Lewis stitches together a compelling, character-driven narrative to walk readers through the immense changes the financial markets have undergone over the past decade.Only two things wrong with it, apparently. Whether they're big or small may be a matter for discussion.Is wireless safe enough? &gt;&gt; Telecom TrendsIn 1998, Health Canada first commissioned the Royal Society to examine Safety Code 6 to assess consistency with the scientific literature in setting limits to protect the public from adverse health risks. This led to a Expert Panel report in March 1999. While there have been changes made to Safety Code 6 over the past 15 years, public concerns continue to be raised in respect of RF exposure that fall within the limits of the code. So, in 2013, Health Canada once again commissioned the Royal Society to strike an independent expert panel.At nearly 120 pages plus appendices, it is a hefty read.The bottom line? A single statement in the Public Summary says it best: "the Panel has concluded that the balance of evidence at this time does not indicate negative health effects from exposure to RF energy below the limits recommended in the Safety Code."Deploy tinfoil hats elsewhere.Chart: the good old radio trumps online services for music discovery &gt;&gt; StatistaWhen it comes to discovering new music nothing beats the good old radio. That's according to the results of an Edison Research survey which finds that 35% of Americans who try to keep up with the latest music consider FM/AM radio their number one source.Personal recommendations are also popular when it comes to music, with 21% of the respondents mostly relying on their social circle to stay up-to-date. Among the plethora of online music services, surprisingly, YouTube is the most important one for music discovery, 10% find new tunes on Google's video portal.Given how woeful most US FM radio is, this suggests the streaming services are doing a terrible job. Is YouTube's recommendation system better? Or is it simply bigger? Pandora is only just behind YouTube, at 9%.Apps vs the web &gt;&gt; Matt GemmellAfter Flurryfoundthat native apps are used about 83% of the time by smartphone users, and the mobile web 17%, here's a piece from 2011 in which Gemmell points out whythe inescapable fact is that when deploying on the web, from the user's perspective, you're probably starting with a disadvantage.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
If you have a penchant for the curiouser and curiouser,Tech Monthlyhas the ideal prize for you. Dreamt up by3Beards– the brains behind the popular Silicon Drinkabout evenings –Digital Sizzle: Beards in Wonderlandis a huge tech party hosting about 1,000 people from the digital, creative, communication as well as startup worlds.Taking place in Brick Lane, London on 17 May, the event will have a selection of themed rooms based on Alice in Wonderland, offering you the opportunity to meet the silicon world's movers and shakers. The Caterpillar's Shisha Lounge is just the place to mellow out, or, if that's not your cup of tea, the Mad Startuppers Tea Party will have you knocking back potions labelled "drink me" and chomping cakes reading "eat me". A croquet lawn will also be in place but, fret not, we've been assured hedgehogs and flamingos won't be used.Simply answer this question for a chance to win one of three pairs of tickets: Who wrote 1865'sAlice's Adventures in Wonderland? Email your answer to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 1 May including your postal address and phone number.One lucky reader will be picked at random from the correct entries.Terms and conditions1. The 'Win a pair of tickets to the '3 Beards Digital Sizzle: Beards in Wonderland event' (the "Competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "Promoter" or "We"), their group companies or family members, 3 Beards Ltd, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the Competition.3. Entry into the Competition is deemed as acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must email the correct answer to the question above to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, together with your name, telephone number and postal address. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the Competition, please e-mail us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with "Digital Sizzle" in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The Competition closes at 23:59 on Wednesday 30 April 2014.  Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. Three winners will be chosen from a random draw of correct entries.9. Each winner will receive a pair of tickets for the 3 Beards Digital Sizzle: Beards in Wonderland event taking place on Saturday 17 May, 8pm until 1am, at Second Home, 68 - 80 Hanbury Street, E1 5JL London  (the "Event").  More details of the Event can be foundhere.GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the Event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winners will be notified by email by GNM on or before 5 May 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time limited nature of the prize, if a winner does not respond within 7 days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner (and that winner will have to respond to the email from GNM within 7 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If the winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winners by GNM by 15 May 2014.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 17 May 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winner may be required for promotional activity related to the Competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter's reasonable request.15. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 14 above.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; entered into.&nbsp; GNM reserves the right to discount entries if it suspects fraudulent bulk Entries or multiple Entries have been submitted to inappropriately influence or manipulate the selection of the winners.20. GNM &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The Competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.22. Promoter: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Yahoo has announced major steps to encrypt its users&apos; data in the wake of whistleblower Edward Snowden’s revelations about the extent of government surveillance of private citizens.Alex Stamos, Yahoo’s recently appointed chief information security officer, said on Wednesday his ultimate aim was to make sure “all traffic through Yahoo will be encrypted by default”.The company set out details of its moves in ablog post. They include:Traffic moving between Yahoo data centres is now fully encrypted.Yahoo has enabled encryption of mail between its servers and other mail providers.The Yahoo homepage and all search queries that run on it have https encryption enabled by default.Yahoo News, Yahoo Sports, Yahoo Finance, and Good Morning America on Yahoo can be encrypted by typing “https” before the site URL in their web browser.A new, encrypted, version of Yahoo Messenger will be deployed within months to stopmass government spying on webcam chats.Stamos, a well-known security researcher, was an outspoken critic of the National Security Agency’s (NSA) mass surveillance programme before he joined Yahoo.He said the moves would make it much more difficult for governments, or other parties, to collect information wholesale from the public.“The goal is all traffic to and from Yahoo users is going to be encrypted all the time by default, and invisibly. This is not going to be something you have to think about all the time,” he said. “Preventing surveillance of millions of people at a time is totally within our abilities,” Stamos said.Yahoo was working with thousands of partners to make sure encryption was as widespread as possible, and pushing media partners and advertisers to encrypt by default.“What we are hoping to do by this is to get a big chunk of the internet and advertising infrastructure gets separated and then it gets easier for people to fall behind and follow,” he said.“Anything we can do to protect users against widespread, no-targeted surveillance is our duty,” he said.Stamos said he had not spoken to government representatives about the changes. Yahoo, with rivals including Google, Facebook and Microsoft, has been pressing for more oversight of the government’s surveillance of users after a fierce backlash over the extent of their involvement with the NSA.Stamos said Yahoo’s chief executive, Marissa Mayer, was intimately involved in the project.“The reason I took this job is because she is very into the trust and safety of users,” he said.
Mozilla&apos;s controversial new CEO Brendan Eich made a string of donations to politicians on the fringe of the Republican party a decade before he donated $1,000 to the campaign against equal marriage in California.Public records showthat between 1991 and 1992, Eich donated a total of $1,000 to Pat Buchanan, then a rightwing Republican presidential candidate. In 1996 and 1998, Eich donated a total of $2,500 to Ron Paul, a maverick Republican congressman for Texas&apos;s 14th district.The discovery could increase the pressure on Eich, appointed only in March, whose apparent opposition to equal marriage has been unpopular among some within the company but insists that his &quot;personal beliefs&quot; are not relevant to his ability to carry out the job. He insisted this week that he would not resign.Buchanan has a decades-long track record for controversial statements on homosexuality, gender relations, immigration and race.In 1990, a year before Eich’s first donation to his campaign, Buchanan said in relation to the Aids outbreak that “our promiscuous homosexuals appear literally hell-bent on Satanism and suicide”. A a few years earlie he said “homosexuals have declared war on nature, and now nature is exacting an awful retribution”.Buchanan’s position on same-sex marriage appears to have changed little in the intervening decades since Eich’s donation.In a 2010 article on the issue, Buchanan remarked that &quot;all the great religions have condemned homosexuality and all the great nations have proscribed or punished it&quot; and concluded: &quot;Historically, from the late Roman Empire to Weimar, flagrant homosexuality has been associated with sick societies, decadent cultures and dying civilizations&quot;The Guardian asked Mozilla if Brendan Eich wished to make any remark on his donation to Buchanan, or if he had any comment on the candidate’s views on homosexuality and same-sex marriage.Eich declined to comment, while Mozilla reiterated its earlier statement in support of marriage equality.Eich has repeatedly refused to discuss his donation to the Proposition 8 campaign, saying that to do so would violate Mozilla’s principle of inclusiveness, which asks participants in their project to leave personal views at the door.“I agree with people who say it wasn&apos;t private, but it was personal,” he said of the donation in an interview on Wednesday. “But the principle that I have operated by, that is formalised in our code of conduct at Mozilla, is it&apos;s really about keeping anything that&apos;s not central to our mission out of our office.“If I stop doing that now I think I would be doing wrong that code of conduct and doing a disservice to Mozilla. And I really do think it&apos;s an important principle of inclusiveness for Mozilla to succeed.Buchanan&apos;s presidential campaign attempted to outflank the incumbent Republican president, George HW Bush, from the right, with an anti-immigrant, social conservative platform. Characterising Bill and Hillary Clinton&apos;s agenda as &quot;abortion on demand, a litmus test for the supreme court, homosexual rights, discrimination against religious schools, women in combat units,&quot; Buchanan described the election as a &quot;religious war going on… for the soul of America.&quot;Ron Paul&apos;s campaign four years later was aided by Buchanan, who was again running for president. But it was overshadowed by the release of more than two decades of newsletters that Paul had published. They contained a number of homophobic and racist remarks, such as Paul&apos;s claim that &quot;homosexuals, not to speak of the rest of society, were far better off when social pressure forced them to hide their activities&quot;.While Buchanan eventually supported George HW Bush in his failed presidential campaign, Paul won in Texas, and remained a congressman for the Republican party until 2013, following his failed bid for the presidency.Eich&apos;s political donations also include money given to more mainstream candidates, such as California&apos;s Tom McClintock, to whom Eich donated $750 over the course of 2008, and Linda Smith, who ran for senate in Washington state. McClintock opposes same-sex marriage;as does Smith,who has said that &quot;homosexuality is a morally unfit inclination&quot;.At the time of his donations to Buchanan, Eich was employed by Silicon Graphics, later to become SGI; by the time of his donations to Ron Paul, he had moved to Netscape Communications, where he would stay until his move to Mozilla in 2003.•Mozilla CEO insists he won&apos;t resign over &apos;private&apos; opposition to Prop 8
Redditis curiosity's new playground. Whether you want to know what it's liketo live on the space stationor how it feels like to wazif you've got two penises, your question can be answered in minutes by someone with firsthand&nbsp;experience.This week, a mystery that has baffled parents and advertisers for decades was finally answered:what do teenagers think is cool?Teenagers, and a fair few disgruntled grownups, posted their answers, and the best were upvoted by the community as a whole, rising to the top of the page. (I suppose it could have been 80-year-olds doing the upvoting, but it felt pretty legit.)The headline news was that every teen, whether from the deep south or South Africa, is onSnapchat. While grownups quickly tired of another gimmicky app, teens say that this is their main social network, not least because it's the one place where parents can't snoop on their photos. The other big tech credibility-scorer is apparently to say "Facebook sucks". Clearly everyone's aunty sharing Upworthy posts about heartwarming penguins is taking a toll on the site's street cred.After that, things were neatly split into two groups. First, things that teenagers still think are cool because they haven't grown out of them yet. These include: Abercrombie,Macklemore,EDMand various kinds of bracelets that represent your personality. As ever, then, a lot of teenagers aren't as cool as they think they&nbsp;are.Then there's the weirder stuff that grownups really don't know about. Fashion bindis, briefly a trend here in 2011, are apparently massive, as is wearing your telephone around your neck. Ironic following of religions is big in Australia, whereasPosh Pua, a brand of bikinis, is massive among teen girls in beach towns. More generally, though, today's teens seemed more open-minded. "Nerds" and "being clever" both came in for praise, as did a surprisingly wide-ranging menu of drugs and alcohol.Presumably, desperate brands will scour this for what the wicked-sick fresh new ting is. Some people suspiciously tried to raise the question of what makes something cool or popular. But teenagers just replied with what they always have – don't try and aim your stuff at us, we're just going to like what we're going to like. It was actually quite refreshing to learn that the basics of being a teen – getting wasted, crop tops and rap – haven't changed much in three decades.The best bit was the slightly begrudging lessons from older teens, aimed at those just entering adolescence. One 15-year-old commented that "getting pissed drunk to the point of getting sick" was a big trend at her school, with the first to vomit congratulated after the party. Butanother poster responded with:"I feel like drinking till you puke isn't really seen as cool anymore" and got more upvotes. Fickle, fickle trends.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe discuss planned changes to the UK's copyright laws that would protect people who engage in online parodies using film clips and acknowledge that copying a CD on to an mp3 device for personal use should not be illegal.Jim Killockfrom Open Rights Group, a leading campaign group in this area, tells Aleks why changes planned by the government for 1 June will make our digital culture all the stronger.Aleks is also joined by the Guardian tech team,Jemima Kiss,Charles Arthur,Keith StuartandAlex Hernto discuss tax breaks for the UK games sector, the demise of Last.fm and the rise of Spotify, and why Amazon is planning to roll out "anticipatory shopping" software.
The new CEO of Mozilla, the not-for-profit organisation behind the Firefox web browser, declined on Tuesday to offer a rationale for his 2008 donation in support of California&apos;s gay marriage ban, insisting he would remain in post despite a backlash over his appointment.Giving interviews for the first time since he was announced as the new boss of Mozilla on 24 March, Brendan Eich repeatedly refused to be drawn on his stance on gay rights amid a widespread row over his $1,000 donation in support of the successful Proposition 8 ballot measure.“So I don&apos;t want to talk about my personal beliefs because I kept them out of Mozilla all these 15 years we&apos;ve been going,” he told the Guardian. “I don&apos;t believe they&apos;re relevant.”The first week of Eich&apos;s tenure had been marked by a series of public statements by Mozilla staff protesting his appointment, the resignation of three of Mozilla&apos;s directors, and a denunciation from dating site OkCupid, which urged all Firefox users to change browsers.Eich said OkCupid&apos;s move was “rash”, and was keen to downplay other moves since his appointment.Though his stance on equal marriage had been made public through his donation, Eich said he did not believe it was relevant to his role at Mozilla, and said the organisation&apos;s own code of conduct precluded him discussing his views.“I agree with people who say it wasn&apos;t private, but it was personal,” he said of the donation. “But the principle that I have operated by, that is formalised in our code of conduct at Mozilla, is it&apos;s really about keeping anything that&apos;s not central to our mission out of our office.“If I stop doing that now I think I would be doing wrong that code of conduct and doing a disservice to Mozilla. And I really do think it&apos;s an important principle of inclusiveness for Mozilla to succeed.”Mozilla is one of the champions of the open internet, including the principle of net neutrality – that all traffic should be treated equally, and as such the organisation is often held to progressive standards more than other online corporations. As an employer, Mozillasupports LGBT marriage and provides benefits to same-sex spouses.Eich defined inclusiveness at Mozilla as leaving political issues upon which coders or community members might disagree out of the office.“With the board of directors departures, two of them were already planning to depart … those are before any of the current news about me came out,” he said. “I would also say that OkCupid is a good example. I think there&apos;s a chance that we could actually turn that around. I think they acted a little rashly.“I don&apos;t think they were aware of the statement [Mozilla foundation chair] Mitchell Baker made at the weekend [that] Mozilla as an organisation believes in LGBT equality, and I&apos;ve heard from a lot of people that OkCupid had actually not been aware of that. So I think we can actually turn that around.”Baker, chairwoman of the Mozilla Foundation, of which the Mozilla Corporation is a wholly-owned subsidiary, wrotein the 29 March blog post: &quot;I want to speak clearly on behalf of both the Mozilla Corporation and the Mozilla Foundation: Mozilla supports equality for all, explicitly including LGBT equality and marriage equality.&quot;Eich stressed that Baker&apos;s statement applied only to Mozilla as a corporation and foundation, rather than to its broader mission.“There&apos;s a difference here between the company, the foundation, as an employer and an entity, versus the project and community at large, which is not under any constraints to agree on LGBT equality or any other thing that is not central to the mission or the Mozilla manifesto.”Eich said the reason Mozilla as a community did not take a wider stance on issues such as LGBT marriage was the same as his reason for not explaining his donation: to avoid fragmenting its community. Without a large group of people who disagreed on lots of issues, Firefox would never have happened, he said.“So far we&apos;ve been able to bring people together of diverse beliefs including on things like marriage equality,” he said. “We couldn&apos;t have done this, we couldn&apos;t have done Firefox One. I would&apos;ve been excluded, someone else would&apos;ve been excluded because of me – I wouldn&apos;t have done that personally, they&apos;d have just left. So imagine a world without Firefox: not good.”Eich also stressed that Firefox worked globally, including in countries like Indonesia with “different opinions”, and LGBT marriage was “not considered universal human rights yet, and maybe they will be, but that&apos;s in the future, right now we&apos;re in a world where we have to be global to have effect”.Proposition 8, a ballot measure that banned gay marriage in California, passed in November 2008. It was ruled unconstitutional by a federal court in 2010, but remained in force until the US supreme court upheld that decision in June last year.Eich refused to be drawn on whether he would donate to a Proposition 8 style campaign again in the future. “I don&apos;t want to do hypotheticals,” he said. “I haven&apos;t thought about that issue and I really don&apos;t want to speculate because it&apos;s not relevant.”He said he was keen to get on with the Mozilla CEO job in order to “unionise the users”, a mission he said would be difficult and require someone of his expertise – Eich wrote the JavaScript language which powers much of the internet – to fulfil.“If you think about how networks evolve you get superpowers, Yahoo then Google, Facebook on social, and that can be a good thing,” he said. “But because they have network power, users have to go in there and put their data inside walled gardens. Mozilla as a browser has the potential to unionise our users, and if we do that we get collective bargaining rights over our data. That&apos;s one of the corners I think I can help us turn.“I think I&apos;m the best person for the job and I&apos;m doing the job.”
Struggling handset-maker BlackBerry is hanging up its US licensing deal with T-Mobile, the fourth-largest US carrier, saying the companies no longer have complementary strategies.The move ends a long-standing relationship between the two - including exclusive launches for some models such as itsfirst flip phone in 2008.BlackBerry&apos;s deal with the T-Mobile network in the UK and Europe is not affected, as they have different owners.The disconnection follows a T-Mobile US promotion in February, when it emailed existing BlackBerry usersoffering them a discountto switch to an iPhone 5S. Loyal BlackBerry users were irked by the move, and complained to the company – and John Chen, BlackBerry&apos;s new combative chief executive, took exception to the promotion in a blog post, saying he had not been told of the plans in advance, and thanking his customers for expressing their displeasure.In response, John Legere, T-Mobile&apos;s combative chief executive,hit back with a tweet: &quot;Was going to engage with John Chen on Twitter, but turns out he&apos;s not here. I&apos;ll check MySpace. Don&apos;t worry @BlackBerry. Something in the works!&quot; The implication that Chen would be on MySpace – the once-significant but now miniscule social network eclipsed by Facebook – was not taken well. Legere said then that T-Mobile was still running its &quot;switch&quot; promotion.BlackBerry&apos;s existing licensing agreement with T-Mobile US expires on 25 April. It will not end servicing or support to T-Mobile customers who remain with the network after that date, and will work with existing customers if they need help to buy a new BlackBerry phone from the carrier&apos;s inventory.BlackBerry said it&apos;s also working with its other carrier partners to give its customers options should they want to switch to another carrier.Neither side is likely to lose substantially from the move. According to the research company ComScore, there were fewer than 5 million US non-business users at the end of January 2014 across all four carriers, of which T-Mobile is the smallest. BlackBerry sales have fallen rapidly too; in its fiscal quarter to the end of February it shipped just 1.2m handsets worldwide, although a total of 3.4m were sold as carriers cut inventory.Instead, Chen has been focussing on maintaining existing government and corporate users, effectively ceding the consumer space to Apple&apos;s iPhone and Android handset makers.Chen said in a statement that the company hopes to work with T-Mobile again when their business strategies align.Chen, who is credited with turning around Sybase, a data company that was sold to SAP in 2010, is putting more emphasis on BlackBerry&apos;s mobile device management business, a collection of software that allows IT departments to manage different devices connected to their corporate networks. He is also emphasizing BlackBerry&apos;s popular BlackBerry Messenger application that is now also available on Apple and Android devices. And he is trying to highlight Blackberry&apos;s embedded QNX software systems, which are used in-vehicle infotainment systems and industrial machines.BlackBerry&apos;s stock dipped 2 cents to $8.08 in premarket trading Wednesday about three hours ahead of the market open, but rose to $8.20 afterwards.
Two prominent YouTube multi-channel networks (MCNs) are becoming one, afterAwesomenessTVannounced plans to buy rivalBig Framefor $15m (£9m) in cash.Big Frame will join AwesomenessTV under the umbrella of Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation, whichbought the latter company in May 2013in a deal worth up to $117m depending on performance targets.Big Frame runs more than 300 channels on YouTube, claiming 39m total subscribers on Google&apos;s video service, although its website puts its monthly unique viewership at 8.4m people.AwesomenessTV said that the merged MCN will have 80m total subscribers and nearly 1bn monthly views. That compares to the 5bn monthly views generated by rival Maker Studios, the MCN thatDisney is buying in a deal worth an initial $500m, with a further $450m depending on future performance.AwesomenessTV has historically focused on channels and shows aimed at teenagers, while Big Frame reaches an equally youthful audience. The latter&apos;s founders, Sarah Penna and Steve Raymond, will join AwesomenessTV as part of the deal.&quot;Sarah and Steve have a great track record for identifying and developing talent and we believe that working together we can build talent brands that will transcend YouTube,&quot; said CEO Brian Robbins of the acquisition, which is expected to close later this month.•AwesomenessTV boss talks YouTube networks for kids
Taking individual filesharers to court is now a discredited anti-piracy strategy for even the most hawkish music, film and software industry rightsholders. Their preferred approach in 2014 is to follow the money instead.That means focusing their efforts on piracy sites, through three main tactics: pressuring search engines to remove links to infringing files and demote piracy sites in their rankings; forcing ISPs to block their customers from accessing those sites; and trying to squeeze their flow of advertising revenues.The latest example of the latter came this week, with an announcement by the City of London Police that it is launching an Infringing Website List (IWL for short) to gather the URLs of piracy sites and persuade brands, media agencies and ad networks to ensure they&apos;re not advertising on them.The IWL is the result of a three-month pilot in 2013 backed by a host of creative industry bodies – the BPI and IFPI from the music industry, FACT from films and TV, The Publishers Association from books – as well as advertising industry bodies the IAB, ISBA and IPA.Here&apos;s how the IWL is designed to work: the creative industry bodies provide the initial list of infringing sites, which is then &quot;evidenced and verified&quot; by the City of London Police&apos;s Police Intellectual Property Crime Unit (PIPCU), providing a list of undesirables for advertisers to avoid.PIPCU claims that the pilot resulted in 12% less advertising from &quot;major household brands&quot; on the identified sites. &quot;If an advert from an established brand appears on an infringing website not only does it lend the site a look of legitimacy, but inadvertently the brand and advertiser are funding online crime,&quot; said the unit&apos;s boss Detective Chief Inspector Andy Fyfe.PIPCU was set up in September 2013, and is currently being funded by the UK&apos;s Intellectual Property Office. Its new list thus has firm government backing.&quot;Disrupting the money unlawful websites make from advertising could make a real difference to the fight against copyright infringement,&quot; said creative industries minister Ed Vaizey this week. &quot;It is an excellent example of what can be achieved through industry, Government and law enforcement working together.&quot;Not everyone agrees that it&apos;s such an excellent thing, however.The Pirate Party UK has criticised the initiative, pointing out that the IWL will not be made public, and that even if website owners find they are on it, it is unclear how they can apply to be removed.&quot;If the process is anything like the current censorship of pirate sites it will involve uncontested court rulings where the supposedly offending site isn&apos;t present to defend their legitimacy,&quot; said spokesperson Andrew Norton, who went on to describe the measure as &quot;yet another example of the government loaning itself out to favoured groups to act as free private leg-breakers&quot;.Update:PIPCU has confirmed to The Guardian that at the first instance of a website being added to the list, its owner will be contacted by officers from the unit, and given a chance to provide feedback and if necessary change their ways. That initial contact will also warn sites that if they fail to comply, they may face actions including domain suspension, disruption of ad revenues and &quot;advert replacement&quot;.It might seem obvious that the Pirate Party would disagree with an initiative designed to crack down on piracy, but questions about how a list of infringing websites is compiled and &quot;evidenced&quot; are important.Past cautionary examples include theshutdown of several hip-hop blogsat the behest of lawyers acting for the same labels whose promotional teams had distributed tracks to those blogs in the first place. Meanwhile, a blacklist compiled by advertising company GroupM in 2011included non-profit digital library Archive.organd several cloud storage services.More transparency about which sites are on PIPCU&apos;s list and how its appeals process will work would be a good idea, because dealing quickly and fairly with mistaken inclusions will provide a stronger defence for the list&apos;s main intentions: to funnel advertising dollars away from piracy sites and towards legal digital services.Google's online Transparency Report provides clues to the sites likely to be targeted by the Infringing Website List.To some extent, too, the creative industries&apos; workings are public, since the IWL is likely to reflect the websites that figure prominently in the takedown requests sent to search engines – for whichGoogle publishes data in its online Transparency Report, and which are currently hitting around 6m URLs a week.Browsing Google&apos;s list of the top &quot;specified domains&quot; from the last month provides a good indication of the sites likely to be high up in PIPCU&apos;s list: 4shared.com, dilandau.eu, gosong.net, rapidgator.net, uploaded.net, final4ever.com, zippyshare.com, myfreemp3.eu and so on.Note: Google&apos;s own services, including YouTube and Blogger, are deliberately left out of its Transparency Report. It&apos;s unknown how many takedown requests for infringing videos YouTube fields through its Content ID system, for example, although it&apos;s fairly certain that YouTube won&apos;t be one of the sites that PIPCU is asking brands to avoid advertising on.Often, Google and the creative industries end up clashing over piracy – witness umpteen arguments over whether the internet giant is delivering on its promise to demote regularly-infringing websites in its rankings. On the subject of advertising on piracy sites, though, the two sides appear to be in accord.In July 2012, Google worked with music collecting society PRS for Music on a report:The six business models for copyright infringement. Its main thrust: &quot;the most effective weapon to tackle piracy is to follow the money - to squeeze the pirates’ financing&quot;.&quot;Instead of imposing blocks or filters that might damage fundamental freedoms, governments should construct coalitions with reputable advertising networks, payment processors and rightsholders. Together, these coalitions can crack down and squeeze the financing behind online infringement.&quot;The following year, Google was part of a wider initiativeannounced by the US intellectual property enforcement coordinator Victoria Espinel– she&apos;d probably be described as the piracy tsar in the UK – with Microsoft, Yahoo, AOL and other companies all promising to help reduce the flow of ad revenue to piracy sites.&quot;I know we’re sometimes tough on Google for the things we don’t think they’re doing, but this is one area where they are doing something positive,&quot;said BPI boss Geoff Taylor at a London conference on &quot;ad-sponsored piracy&quot;in May 2013, talking about the pilot that would later spawn the Infringing Website List.That&apos;s the strongest sign that the list may have an impact: it&apos;s a rare anti-piracy initiative that has Google and creative industry bosses like Taylor singing from the same hymn sheet, rather than lobbing pew cushions at one another.
Renesas Electronics Corp is talking with Apple and other potential buyers of a stake in a smartphone display chip unit, as the struggling Japanese chipmaker restructures its business around the automotive industry, a source said.Renesas is considering selling its 55% stake in Renesas SP Driver, which makes semiconductors that control displays, and which sources said is one of several Japanese suppliers of components for Apple&apos;s iPhone.Apple has been tightening control over its supply chain to keep up with main rival Samsung Electronics and stay ahead of fast-growing Chinese manufacturers such as Huawei Technologies.The US manufacturer was one of a number of companies Renesas met to discuss selling the stake, the source said on Wednesday.Renesas, which has racked up nearly 650bn yen ($6.28bn) in net losses during eight years in the red, said on Wednesday it was considering selling the unit but declined to comment further.The Japanese company could sell Apple its stake for 50bn yen by the summer, said the Nikkei business daily, which first reported on the talks with Apple.Japan&apos;s Sharp Corporatoin could also sell its 25% stake in the unit if requested to do so by Apple, the Nikkei said. Taiwan&apos;s Powerchip owns the remaining stake.Apple did not respond to an email request for comment.Shares of Renesas surged after the report by as much as 19% to 934 yen, their highest in more than three years. They had pulled back by early afternoon to 828 yen, up 5.6%, compared with a 1.2% rise in the benchmark index.Renesas, formed from the struggling chip divisions of three Japanese electronics conglomerates, received a 150bn yen bailout in September from major customers and a government-led fund, countering a bid by US private equity firm KKR &amp; Co LP .Electronics manufacturers Japan Display Inc and Sharp, along with South Korea&apos;s LG Display, are set to make larger screens for Apple&apos;s next iPhone - dubbed by analysts the iPhone 6 - which is widely expected to be released this autumn, supply chain sources said.
Robert Knowles' footage from the 'runaway' drone, showing the moment it nearly hits the Jubilee Bridge on the Walney channelA TV-repair shop owner who has become the first person convicted in the UK for &quot;dangerously&quot; flying a drone says the fine and legal costs will bankrupt him.Robert Knowles, 46, of Barrow-in-Furness, was fined £800 and ordered to pay costs of £3,500 at the Furness and District Magistrate court on Tuesday after being prosecuted by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA). He pleaded guilty to flying a small unmanned surveillance aircraft within 50 metres of a structure – the Jubilee Bridge on the Walney channel – and flying over a nuclear installation, the BAE System submarine-testing facility.The CAA said that the case raised important safety issues concerning recreational flying of unmanned aircraft, which is legal as long as it is done away from built-up areas and structures.&quot;The Jubilee Bridge is used by vehicles – this could have hit a car and caused an accident,&quot; said a CAA spokesperson. &quot;People have to understand that they are subject to air safety rules and that there are potentially serious safety concerns.&quot;But Knowles told the Guardian that the conviction was &quot;ridiculous&quot;. He said that he had been flying his £1,000 drone in a field a mile and a half away from the base on the morning of Sunday 25 August 2013 when the 4 ft, kit-built drone – with a camera on board – suddenly lost radio contact during its seventh flight.&quot;The radio failed and it flew away down the Walney channel,&quot; Knowles told the Guardian. &quot;I couldn&apos;t have controlled it. I don&apos;t know why the radio failed. It landed in the sea channel, and the salt water ruined it.&quot;He said that he had been flying the drone recreationally, as he had done &quot;for years&quot;. HisYouTube channelshows around 309 videos shot using a drone – includingfootage of the &quot;runaway&quot; flightdown the Walney channel – including a near-miss as it passes just over the railings of the Jubilee Bridge.Film from Robert Knowles's drone from 25 August 2013 as it flies down Walney channel, Barrow-in-Furness. It passes over Jubilee bridge near the end, leading to a conviction for dangerous flying of a drone.The video shows that the drone flew on for more than three minutes after Knowles apparently lost control.Knowles insisted that he had not been trying to hide the drone&apos;s presence or identity. &quot;It had my name and address on it, and was in bright colours.&quot; Workers from the nuclear facility fished the drone out of the channel and passed it on to police.&quot;I flicked the return-to-home button but it didn&apos;t do anything,&quot; Knowles said. &quot;It didn&apos;t fly anywhere near the BAE Systems facility.&quot; But he said that he had effectively been told by the magistrate at the first hearing on 1 March that he was guilty, and that his choices at the hearing on 2 April had been &quot;plead guilty and get a big fine, or plead not guilty and be convicted and get a big fine, or go home and get a big fine.&quot; He said that his TV repair business was already running at a loss and that the fine would bankrupt him.He said that his conviction relating to the nuclear facility made little sense. &quot;A lot of people use cameras on cars and have helmet cameras and they all go past BAE,&quot; he said. &quot;My plane didn&apos;t go anywhere near it. Apparently there&apos;s a no-fly zone which covers it, but there was nothing I could do about it.&quot;He added: &quot;Where I live in Cumbria, you&apos;re always going to be near a nuclear dump - Sellafield or the BAE Systems site.&quot;Knowles&apos;s case is the first conviction involving recreational use of a drone, though a caution was recently issued against a photographer from Lancashire, for &quot;using a unmanned aerial vehicle for commercial gain without permission&quot;. The photographer sold footage of a fire at a school to media organisations despite not having clearance from the CAA to operate the device commercially.•Why is Facebook buying a drone company?
Airbnb, the San Franciscan home-sharing startup, will begin collecting hotel taxes in its home city, ending a two-year long fight against the practice.The move makes San Francisco the second city where Airbnb will collect local taxes, following its agreement to do the same in Portland, Oregon last week. It has offered to do the same in New York.Airbnb lets homeowners rent out their houses to guests for short-term stays. The firm boasts customers in 192 countries, and booked 6 million guests in 2013. But as an exemplar of the &quot;sharing economy&quot;, the site takes a backseat to relations between hosts and guests, arguing that its responsibility extends no further than linking the two.As a result, the decision to start collecting taxes is an about-face, as it had previously argued that it was the hosts&apos; responsibility to comply with any local regulations and taxes.&apos;Shared city&apos;Airbnb is calling this new government-friendly approach the &quot;shared city&quot; initiative.Writing on Medium, CEO Brian Chesky said: &quot;Shared city is our initiative to help civic leaders and our community create more shareable, more livable cities through relevant, concrete actions and partnerships.&quot;Chesky said: &quot;We will make it easy for Portland hosts to donate the money they earn from Airbnb to a local cause, and we will match those donations as a percentage of our fees… We’re offering to cut red tape and to collect and remit taxes to the city of Portland on behalf of our hosts. This is new for us, and if it works well for our community and cities, we may replicate this project in other US cities.&quot;AirBnB&apos;s previous anti-tax stance has earned it the enmity of local government worldwide. In New York, for example, officials ruled that an Airbnb host was running an &quot;illegal hotel&quot;, andfined him $2,400, while Berlin has begun to levysteep fineson anyone who rents their home out for short periods.In most cities, Airbnb&apos;s stance remains that it cannot vet individual hosts for compliance with taxation regulations, but Portland and San Francisco represent a new frontier for the company. Even in New York, the site of the most pitched battles with government, it isnow offeringto collect and distribute taxes worth $21m directly from its hosts.The battle over taxing Airbnb hosts is just one front of a wider war between startups which set out to &quot;disrupt&quot; existing industries, and governments which struggle to regulate the new firms according to rules set up for an earlier age. Tesla Motors, for example, has recently fallen foul of a regulation in New Jersey which requires all cars to be sold through registered dealers, threatening the electric car company&apos;s direct sales model.But some worry that the rules being flouted remain valuable even in a connected world. Another startup firm, Uber, provides a minicab-like service to users of its smartphone apps (although, as with Airbnb, Uber maintains it only links riders with drivers). It has faced criticism from the American Taxicab, Limousine &amp; Paratransit Association for providing insufficient insurance. &quot;They don&apos;t carry commercial insurance, which protects the passenger and the driver at any point,&quot;said the group&apos;s representative David Sutton on Wednesday.AirBnB&apos;s new friendliness to regulators could be useful if it were to seek a stock market flotation, which would follow reported attempts to raise funding at a valuation of $10bn. &quot;Whether that valuation… is reasonable can be debated,&quot;argues Carmel Deamicis, a reporter for industry magazine PandoDaily, &quot;but there’s one thing that’s crystal clear: Airbnb can’t grow into that massive valuation by being a hospitality alternative. It has to become as mainstream as The Hilton.&quot;•Airbnb close to securing private cash that would value firm at $10bn
PC; cert n/a; Coffee Stain Studios; £6.99If there is one thing the internet is good at, outside of ruining April Fools&apos; Day, it is creating phenomena. Through our plethora of sharing tools and instant transmission, unlikely ideas can catch the collective imagination in the morning and be around the world by teatime. And the key currency amid this meme madness is animals – well, usually cats, but not exclusively. And so we come toGoat Simulator.Goat Simulator is and was a joke, the product of developer Coffee Stain studios entering a game jam and creating a knockaround sandbox that promises to fulfill all of your goat-based fantasies (not that one). The title of the game – which has been the subject ofsome frankly adorable confusion over at the Daily Mail– references the recent explosion in popularity of more straight-laced sims like Euro Truck Simulator and Farming Simulator. It is a parody both of gaming and of itself.Games are a fertile area for this kind of self-reflexive success. Most recently we&apos;ve seen Flappy Bird and Twitch Plays Pokemon. In fact there&apos;s a version of Flappy Bird called Flappy Goat. The phenomenon is about being part of the joke: look at Goat Simulator&apos;s user tags (a Steam feature that lets players assign words to games) and the top four are &quot;Masterpiece&quot;, &quot;Beautiful&quot;, &quot;Art&quot; and &quot;Simulator&quot;.While this is pretty funny, it also leads to the unedifying spectacle of everyone wanting to be in on the joke and outlets, without a trace of irony, awarding Goat Simulator the kind of decent scores and writeups that may tempt people towards a purchase. This is where I have to say baa humbug. The joke with Goat Simulator is that it&apos;s crap. And while this is a funny joke for 10 minutes, it becomes a different thing when the game&apos;s on the front page of Steam for £7.Being billyYou control a goat in thirdperson, and walk it through a small open-world area butting things from people to gas canisters. Butt a petrol station and,as in Goat Simulator&apos;s trailer, you can cause an explosion that sends our little friend careening across the map. Happen upon a barbeque party and you can cause chaos by butting the participants, perhaps kidnapping one with your tongue and dragging them up a nearby scaffold. Jump over a fence towards the Zero-G testing facility and, as well as the legend &quot;Fuck the police&quot; being blazoned across the screen, your goat can float around therein.Through various means you can transform the goat into an alien, a robot, a giraffe, a whale, or – by dragging five humans onto a pentagram in a corner of the map – &quot;Devil Goat&quot;. It is important to emphasise that all of this stuff sounds better than, in practice, it feels. Goat Simulator is a knowing piece of shonk, where the fact that the controls don&apos;t feel great and the physics are ludicrous is part of the appeal. This is a game where the screenshots are better than the experience, and comparisons being made to score-attack games like the Tony Hawk&apos;s series are ludicrous.The selfish memeWhile it wouldn&apos;t be strictly accurate to call Goat Simulator a meme, its sudden prominence does owe everything to that kind of virality. Last year Richard Dawkinsgave a talk on how his original concept behind memes no longer applied to modern usage of the term; his point being that memes, in his original definition, are ideas that survive because they transmit culturally useful information. Now the term &quot;meme&quot; is more often used to refer to instant but transient success, something that is permanent only so far as countless news stories on the internet are permanent.The sad thing about Goat Simulator is that it demonstrates how social media and the internet amplify our supine tendencies; this is a silly thing, and that&apos;s fine, but now it is somehow also a cultural moment. People are encouraging each other to spend money on it in their droves. In the desperate scramble to tease a meaning from such popularity – because surely there must be some reason for this behaviour – we produce only paeans to banality.No one likes to be the curmudgeon pointing out that, actually, a joke isn&apos;t all that funny. But with Goat Simulator now a real product selling for real money on Steam I&apos;ll take the hit. This is a 10-minute laugh, if that – the kind of thing that&apos;s here today, gone tomorrow, but for a brief moment in history is the talk of Shoreditch and Twitter. It&apos;s the gaming equivalent of a novelty single and even the developers, to give credit where it&apos;s due, recommend you don&apos;t buy it. Listen to them.•Tokyo cafe employs goats to add &apos;wow factor&apos; - video• Should we eat more goat meat?
Don&apos;t call it a comeback. No, seriously: don&apos;t. A game calledFlappy Bird: New Seasonmay have flown to the top of Apple&apos;s App Store charts, but it doesn&apos;t appear to be the work of the original Flappy Bird developer Dong Nguyen.The release of a new Flappy Bird clone isn&apos;t news in itself: on one day alone in February,The Guardian tracked 95 such releases. Apple&apos;s App Store and Android&apos;s Google Play have been equally awash with flappy clones, afterNguyen removed his game last month.Something strange is afoot with Flappy Bird: New Season, which is currently the most popular free iPhone download on Apple&apos;s UK store, and the fourth most popular free iPad download behind Microsoft&apos;s Word, PowerPoint and Excel.According to its App Store listing, the game was released on 29 March by developer Animated Emoji, although the listing carries a &quot;© dotGears&quot; credit – referring to the trading name of Nguyen. At the time of writing, Flappy Bird: New Season has an average rating of four stars from 255 reviewers on the store – an impressive total so soon after its launch.Is it the real return of Flappy Bird? Almost certainly not. The game was not released throughNguyen&apos;s existing App Store developer account, for example, where he still has his Shuriken Block and Super Ball Juggling games available. Meanwhile, on Twitter there&apos;s anexcitable quotethat purports to be from Nguyen:I BROUGHT FLAPPY BIRD BACK GO ON THE APP STORE FLAPPY BIRD NEW SEASON#flappybirdpic.twitter.com/PgFQaQ7pDc&mdash; Dong Nguyen (@dongatory_)April 2, 2014Again, this isn&apos;t Dong Nguyen&apos;s official Twitter account – his handle is@dongatorywithout an _ on the end, and his last tweet was on 23 March.The@dongatory_account claims to be a &quot;backup&quot; for Nguyen&apos;s official account, but past tweets like &quot;RT if you want a free itunes gift card :)&quot; and &quot;Let&apos;s trend a hashtag to be easier! Hashtag #dongatory_ as much as you can lets trend it!! #dongatory_ :-)&quot; don&apos;t seem a good fit for the famously-shy Flappy Bird developer.Meanwhile, the support link on the App Store page for Flappy Bird: New Season leads tothis blank page on the Weebly website, while a search for the game&apos;s title on Android&apos;s Google Play store brings upthis gamefrom a developer called Gameslogic Mobile, whoseother titles include Clumsy Ninja Go! 2 and Farm Hero Saga 2 3D, masquerading as new versions of two popular mobile games from big publishers.In short, Flappy Bird: New Season almost certainly isn&apos;t the return of the original Flappy Bird to iOS and Android. So why write a story about it? Because its success raises big questions about how the game managed to rise to the top of the App Store chart so quickly, at a time when Flappy Bird clone-fever has been dying down.This isn&apos;t just a quirk in the UK App Store. Flappy Bird: New Seasons is the third top free iPhone app in the US too, where it also has a four-star rating, this time from 659 reviews, most of which are glowing.The sudden success of the original Flappy Bird provoked speculation that Nguyen had in some way gamed the charts – he denied this – but the rapid rise of Flappy Bird: New Season may be a spur for more debate about the value of those charts to Apple, developers and players alike.Update:As independent developer Matthew Wiggins points out on Twitter, search placement is likely to be a big factor in the game&apos;s rise:@stuartdredge@guardianI suspect it&#39;s rapid ascent of the app store is down to search placementpic.twitter.com/3oPKK2MIDj&mdash; Matthew Wiggins (@wiggo)April 2, 2014
There&apos;s an old joke about the sciences: biology is just applied chemistry, chemistry is just applied physics, and physics is just applied maths. It&apos;s really a neat little quip about essentialism and reductionism. While it&apos;s true that biology can be accurately described as &quot;applied chemistry,&quot; treating living things as alive – and not as a set of chemical reactions no different in principle from making a cup of cocoa or extracting a pigment to use in housepaint – has undeniable utility.But we draw boundaries. While there are disciplines that straddle biology and chemistry and treat organisms as though the most important thing about them is neither their chemical reactions nor the fact that they are living, we acknowledge that there are two great poles between which these gradations shade. There are a lot of things that we can point to and say, &quot;that&apos;s chemistry&quot; and there&apos;s a lot of things we can point to and say, &quot;that&apos;s biology&quot;.I&apos;ve been thinking about robots this week, and whether they are a pole – like biology, chemistry, physics and maths – or whether they are an in-between thing, like biochemistry or theoretical physics.Many classics of science fiction have little trouble with these distinctions. Robert A Heinlein quite happily depicts &quot;brains&quot; – vast computers occupying large complexes, capable of having agency and personality and will – and &quot;robots,&quot; which are mostly humanoid machines that drive themselves according to their own set of rules, of varying degrees of subtlety and complexity. The brains can take over the robots and manipulate them – use them as wireless peripherals, the way that your computer might instruct your printer to run off a page – but it&apos;s pretty clear that the brain&apos;s essential embodiment is whatever&apos;s under that bunker, and not the bits of world-manipulating gadgetry that the brain can command.Three laws of roboticsIsaac Asimov famously gave us robots with &quot;positronic brains&quot; that obeyed the &quot;three laws of robotics&quot;, which revolved around the subservient and protective nature of robots. And Asimov has especially long-lived robots whose brains are moved from one body to another over time, but my reading of Asimov made it clear to me that a &quot;positronic brain&quot; had some inseparable connection to a body, preferably an anthropomorphic one. There weren&apos;t a lot of positronic refrigerators or clock-radios or fart-machines in Asimov&apos;s future.For all that Asimov continues to have enormous cachet and resonance in modern discussions of robots, I think that Heinlein&apos;s idea of a brain/body distinction holds up better than Asimov&apos;s. An Asimovian robot always feels like it is something more than a computer in a fancy, mobile case. Heinlein, by contrast, at least locates the most salient fact of the robot in the systems that parse and execute instructions, not the peripherals that receive commands from these systems.But even Heinlein&apos;s robots quickly break down as a category. A Heinleinian &quot;brain&quot; that drives a humanoid robot around is a brain and not a robot. Even if the humanoid robot were to pick up the brain and carry it around, it would still be a dumb peripheral that is being driven by a &quot;brain.&quot; But once that robot opens up its chest cavity and securely affixes the brain to its internal structure and closes up the door and bolts it shut, it is now a &quot;robot&quot; and considered to have the agency and will that we&apos;ve been imbuing our ambulatory machines with since the golem.One thing that is glaringly absent from both the Heinleinian and Asimovian brain is the idea of software as an immaterial, infinitely reproducible nugget at the core of the system. Here, in the second decade of the 21st century, it seems to me that the most important fact about a robot – whether it is self-aware or merely autonomous – is the operating system, configuration, and code running on it.If you accept that robots are just machines – no different in principle from sewing machines, cars, or shotguns – and that the thing that makes them &quot;robot&quot; is the software that runs on a general-purpose computer that controls them, then all the legislative and regulatory and normative problems of robots start to become a subset of the problems of networks and computers.Unstoppable computersIf you&apos;re a regular reader, you&apos;ll know that I believe two things about computers: first, that they are the most significant functional element of most modern artifacts, from cars to houses to hearing aids; and second, that we have dramatically failed to come to grips with this fact. We keep talking about whether 3D printers should be &quot;allowed&quot; to print guns, or whether computers should be &quot;allowed&quot; to make infringing copies, or whether your iPhone should be &quot;allowed&quot; to run software that Apple hasn&apos;t approved and put in its App Store.Practically speaking, though, these all amount to the same question: how do we keep computers from executing certain instructions, even if the people who own those computers want to execute them? And the practical answer is, we can&apos;t.Oh, you can make a device that goes a long way to preventing its owner from doing something bad. I have a blender with a great interlock that has thus far prevented me from absentmindedly slicing off my fingers or spraying the kitchen with a one-molecule-thick layer of milkshake. This interlock is the kind of thing that I&apos;m very unlikely to accidentally disable, but if I decided to deliberately sabotage my blender so that it could run with the lid off, it would take me about ten minutes&apos; work and the kind of tools we have in the kitchen junk-drawer.This blender is a robot. It has an internal heating element that lets you use it as a slow-cooker, and there&apos;s a programmable timer for it. It&apos;s a computer in a fancy case that includes a whirling, razor-sharp blade. It&apos;s not much of a stretch to imagine the computer that controls it receiving instructions by network. Once you design a device to be controlled by a computer, you get the networked part virtually for free, in that the cheapest and most flexible commodity computers we have are designed to interface with networks and the cheapest, most powerful operating systems we have come with networking built in. For the most part, computer-controlled devices are born networked, and disabling their network capability requires a deliberate act.My kitchen robot has the potential to do lots of harm, from hacking off my fingers to starting fires to running up massive power-bills while I&apos;m away to creating a godawful mess. I am confident that we can do a lot to prevent this stuff: to prevent my robot from harming me through my own sloppiness, to prevent my robot from making mistakes that end up hurting me, and to prevent other people from taking over my robot and using it to hurt me.The distinction here is between a robot that is designed to do what its owner wants – including asking &quot;are you sure?&quot; when its owner asks it to do something potentially stupid – and a robot that is designed to thwart its owner&apos;s wishes. The former is hard, important work and the latter is a fool&apos;s errand and dangerous to boot.A fool&apos;s errandIt&apos;s a fool&apos;s errand for the same reason that using technology mandates to stop people from saving a Netflix stream or playing unapproved Xbox games is a fool&apos;s errand. We really only know how to make one kind of computer: the &quot;general purpose computer&quot; that can execute every instruction that can be expressed in symbolic logic. Put more simply: we only know how to make a computer that can run every programme. We don&apos;t know how to make a computer that can run all the programs except for a subset that, for whatever reason, good or bad, we don&apos;t want people to run.This is not a contentious statement among computer scientists – it&apos;s about as controversial as saying &quot;we can&apos;t make a wheel that only turns for socially beneficial purposes&quot; or &quot;there&apos;s no way to make a lever than can only be used to shift masses in accord with the law of the land.&quot;And yet, we have iPhones that won&apos;t run software that Apple hasn&apos;t blessed, and Netflix apps that won&apos;t save the streams you watch for sharing or later viewing. How is this possible? It&apos;s down toa mesh of global lawsthat prohibit changing the software to add the prohibited functionality. These laws are not very effective, and create a lot of problems that are a lot worse than watching TV the wrong way or running an app that hasn&apos;t been approved. Most importantly, these laws make it illegal to tell people about the defects in their computers, because knowledge of those defects is key to subverting the controls on iPhones and video streams and games and such (if you know about a bug in these programs, you can exploit it to trick them into relaxing their strictures). This means that people who rely on their computers to behave securely and not leak the view from their camera, the contents of their email, or the passwords to their bank-accounts are kept in the dark.It&apos;s possible to armour computers, the software that runs on them, and the devices that we connect to so that they generally do what they&apos;re told and don&apos;t betray us. These computers will still have defects, and there&apos;s a debate to be had about the best way of repairing those defects as they&apos;re discovered. For example, it&apos;s pretty clear that having auto-updating switched on for our computers when we turn them on will, in most instances, make them more secure, versus having computers that are only updated when we take some step to update them. But if it is impossible to switch off auto-updating, then there&apos;s also the possibility that someone who wants something that&apos;s not in your best interests – criminals, bad governments, spies, employers, voyeurs – will figure out how to take over the auto-update mechanism in order to deliberately break your technology. We&apos;ve already seen this: one of the &quot;lawful interception&quot; tools sold to police around the world (including the world&apos;s most brutal dictatorships) infiltrates its targets&apos; computersby pretending to be an Itunes update.A computer that causes changeIs there such a thing as a robot? Anexcellent paper by Ryan Caloproposes that there is such a thing as a robot, and that, moreover, many of the thorniest, most interesting legal problems on our horizon will involve them.As interesting as the paper was, I am unconvinced. A robot is basically a computer that causes some physical change in the world. We can and do regulate machines, from cars to drills to implanted defibrillators. But the thing that distinguishes a power-drill from a robot-drill is that the robot-drill has a driver: a computer that operates it. Regulating that computer in the way that we regulate other machines – by mandating the characteristics of their manufacture – will be no more effective at preventing undesirable robotic outcomes than the copyright mandates of the past 20 years have been effective at preventing copyright infringement (that is, not at all).But that isn&apos;t to say that robots are unregulatable – merely that the locus of the regulation needs to be somewhere other than in controlling the instructions you are allowed to give a computer. For example, we might mandate that manufacturers subject code to a certain suite of rigorous public reviews, or that the code be able to respond correctly in a set of circumstances (in the case of a self-driving car, this would basically be a driving test for robots). Insurers might require certain practices in product design as a condition of cover. Courts might find liability for certain programming practices and not for others. Consumer groups like Which? and Consumer Union might publish advice about things that purchasers should look for when buying devices. Professional certification bodies, such as national colleges of engineering, might enshrine principles of ethical software practice into their codes of conduct, and strike off members found to be unethical according to these principles.Can &apos;robot law&apos; be separated from software law?These are powerful regulatory tools, and they are in widespread use today. Surgical scalpels are horribly dangerous, and there are lots of rules about who is allowed to wield them and when, and what happens if you are negligent with one, or if you make one that isn&apos;t up to snuff. But we don&apos;t regulate anything that might be used as a scalpel. We don&apos;t try to keep anything that might be a scalpel out of non-medical hands. And we don&apos;t burden doctors or scalpel-makers with a mandate to ensure that they only part flesh in accord with the Hippocratic Oath.I am skeptical that &quot;robot law&quot; can be effectively separated from software law in general. Self-driving cars are robots that motor down the road, and their code can kill. But traffic signals are the networking peripherals of computers send routing flags to robots (self-driving cars) and the humans who pilot less-sophisticated robots (that is, normal cars). Bad traffic signal code can kill, too. For the life of me, I can&apos;t figure out a legal principle that would apply to the robot that wouldn&apos;t be useful for the computer (and vice versa).Which is not to say that robot law is pointless. Quite the contrary – thinking through the implications of computer law when the computers in question are directly controlling physical apparatus is likely to clarify a lot of fascinating and deep questions about computers and all the ways we regulate them: through code, through law, through markets and through norms.
Streaming music service Spotify is rolling out a redesign across its web, desktop and mobile apps, with a darker theme and new feature for users to build collections of their favourite music.The revamp comes ahead of the anticipated debut of rival services from Apple and YouTube, possibly as soon as this summer. Meanwhile, one of the most prominent critics of Spotify, musician David Byrne, has returned to the theme in an article questioning streaming&apos;s sustainability for artists.Spotify says it spent six months working on the redesign, which isrolling out to its users from today. The new theme is heavy on black backgrounds, in an attempt to place more focus on album and artist artwork.&quot;It&apos;s like when you go to the cinema, and they dim the lights, and the movie steps forward and takes over the room,&quot; Spotify&apos;s director of product Michelle Kadir told The Guardian. &quot;When you log on to Spotify now, everything else is secondary except the music, which is popping.&quot;The new collections feature is called Your Music, and enables people to save songs and albums to a personal collection, providing an alternative to playlists – the traditional way that Spotify users have saved music for quick access.The Your Music section on Spotify can be browsed by songs, albums, artists or local files – the latter relating to music stored on the device being used. Individual songs in Spotify now have &apos;+&apos; symbols next to them for adding them to the collection, while albums have a prominent &apos;Save&apos; button.&quot;The modern user wants to personalise all the different products that they are using. We want to help them quickly find what they want,&quot; said Kadir. &quot;Even in an access model, they want to keep track of everything they like.&quot;Your Music has been a long time coming: it was first trailed by Spotify in a press event in December 2012. It can be seen as an attempt to make the company&apos;s catalogue of more than 20m tracks less intimidating for mainstream music fans by mirroring the idea of a personal music collection, which they&apos;ll be familiar with from CDs and MP3s.Spotify&apos;s redesign also includes a tweak to its Browse feature, which suggests music for people to listen to in the form of playlists and popular albums. It will now spotlight themed playlists according to the time of day and week – for example, at the time of writing (8am on a Wednesday) it recommends a series of &quot;Midweek Mornings&quot; playlists.Both features represent Spotify catching up to competitors, to some extent. The collection metaphor has been a standard feature for rival Rdio for some time, while US streaming music service Songza debuted the idea of contextual playlists in 2012 with its &quot;Music Concierge&quot; feature – and it has since been adopted by a number of services.•What&apos;s next for Spotify? Going beyond the &apos;Play&apos; button•Seven ways a streaming iTunes could compete with Spotify•Zoe Keating reveals iTunes, Spotify and YouTube payoutsSpotify&apos;s redesign comes early in an important year for the company, as it plans more global expansion – Russia, Brazil and Japan are all high on its priorities judging by the company&apos;s recruitment activities in recent months – and faces up to the prospect of two of the biggest companies in the digital music world moving into direct competition with their own subscription streaming services.The New York Post claimed this week thatYouTube will launch its long-awaited subscription music service this summer, charging people $5 a month for an ad-supported version, or $10 a month without the ads. It suggests that the service will initially launch through a &quot;Music Pass&quot; Android app.Meanwhile, Apple is thought to be accelerating its plans to launch a fully on-demand streaming music service under its iTunes brand, following the US debut last year of iTunes Radio, which streams personalised stations but doesn&apos;t allow users to pick and choose the songs and albums that they listen to.Music industry site Billboard claimed earlier this month thatApple had opened &quot;exploratory talks&quot; with music labelsabout launching such a service, in a response to sales of music downloads tipping into a decline after years of growth.This week&apos;s New York Post story returns to that rumour, quoting one source as claiming that Apple &quot;have technology in place and can flip the switch at any time&quot;. The company&apos;s WWDC conference in June would be the logical time to unveil a streaming iTunes, alongside the next version of Apple&apos;s iOS software.Spotify&apos;s official stats claim the company has 24m active users and 6m paying subscribers. Those figures were last updated in March 2013, but industry sources tell The Guardian the company is nearing 10m paying subscribers now. Its biggest rival is Deezer, which claims 5m paying subscribers and 12m active users.According to industry body the IFPI,28m people paid for streaming music subscriptions in 2013, generating $1.1bn of revenues for the music industry. Spotify says it paid out more than $500m to music rightsholders that year, taking it to more than $1bn since its launch in 2008.In 2014, Spotify isn&apos;t just facing competition from the big beasts of the technology world. It also continues to be the lightning rod for criticism from prominent musicians about whether the transition from music ownership to music access is a harmful one for artists.David Byrne, who made waves with his claim that&quot;the internet will suck all creative content out of the world&quot;in October 2013, has returned to the theme this week in an article posted on his website titledHow will the wolf survive: can musicians make a living in the streaming era?In the piece, Byrne explores what will happen to musicians &quot;when streaming becomes the new download&quot;, responding to several arguments in favour of streaming&apos;s impact on artists with questions and criticism, while setting out four suggestions for making services like Spotify more artist-friendly.They include labels giving artists a 50% share of income from streams of their music – something that is starting to happen – ensuring they have the right to approve whether or not their music is made available on streaming services; providing transparent accounting and sharing of data with artists from streaming services; and a suggestion that free on-demand streaming should be abolished: &quot;Everything would transition to be a subscription-only service&quot;.For its part, Spotify has been tackling some of these issues,creating a website for artists in December 2013that published more details of how its payouts were calculated, while also launching analytics for artists to better understand how their music was being streamed.•Spotify v Musicians: 10 things to read to understand the debate
It's Wednesday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow the internet has woven itself into American life &gt;&gt; Pew Research Center's Internet &amp; American Life ProjectHas (statistically robust) data on computer, mobile phone, smartphone and internet use in the US. Two fascinating stats on smartphones: Hispanics are more likely to own one than whites (61% v 53%); 83% of those aged 18-29 have one, v 19% of those over 65.Why the Microsoft Surface just died last week &gt;&gt; ForbesGene Marks:Nadella understands that. He is a break from that history. At 47, he's a hundred years younger than Ballmer and Gates in terms of technology. He remembers those days but has little nostalgia for them. He has no emotional ties to Windows. He looks at a world today where the great majority of devices sold now and in the future will not have Windows installed on them. And he's OK with that. This is opportunity for a company like Microsoft. And he's positioning his company to take advantage of that opportunity. A Windows First policy was the reason behind products like the Surface. Not anymore.I often get angry when writing code in this language &gt;&gt; Programming Languages | Hammer PrincipleBased on responses from 1764 people, we've built up the following picture of how well "I often get angry when writing code in this language" describes different programming languages.Brilliant list (also very funny, though it's completely serious, compiled from a survey). Also shows which ones you get for "developers who primarily use this [language] often burn out after a few years."Microsoft censors TorrentFreak for 'security reasons' &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakAllegedly, for "peer-to-peer file sharing" (which it doesn't do, but reports on):Unfortunately the issues above are not limited to Microsoft. Every other week we are notified by readers who can't access TorrentFreak since it's blocked at their work or school because the site is classified as a source of illegal file-sharing. More often than not we're collateral damage.Samsung shifts strategy in second Apple trial, now claims all patents are worth very little &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderDaniel Eran Dilger has a lengthy piece on the new trial, including this little tidbit:Samsung has represented in various cases that, just like Apple, it too has a heritage of invention and technical innovation encapsulated in a broad patent portfolio, but none of the patents Samsung is bringing to the second trial involve concepts that smartphone or tablet customers would recognize as being unique inventions of Samsung.In fact, Samsung's entire patent response to Apple's claims in this second case are made up of two patents the South Korean conglomerate acquired from third parties, simply to have something to present at trial.One of those patents, U.S. Patent No. 5,579,239 was acquired by Samsung in October 2011, six months after Apple filed its second lawsuit. Samsung bought the patent, which claims ownership of the overall concept of sending video over a network (depicted below), from a patent application group living in Oklahoma when the patent was originally filed back in 1996.The other one was acquired from Hitachi, and originally filed in 1997.Google's 200 Ranking Factors: the complete list an infographic &gt;&gt; Ber-artGoogle has never publicly announced its ranking signals, but it has mentioned that there at about 200 of them. Thanks to Single Grain and Backlinko for listing what they think could be the 200 ranking factors, based on the information they have about Google.This infographic is a great way to learn and integrate some of the concepts into your own game plan to hopefully see results.It's very, very long.Boeing blames pilots for Asiana 777 crash; airline faults software, too &gt;&gt; The Seattle TimesRecall the accident in July 2013 when three people died as a plane crashed on landing?The South Korean carrier wrote that "the probable cause of this accident was the flight crew's failure to monitor and maintain a minimum safe airspeed during a final approach."However, its report cites factors it says contributed to the crash, including the logic built into the plane's autothrottle software.Boeing and Asiana agree that as the pilots came in to land, they expected the autothrottle to automatically supply engine thrust to maintain a minimum airspeed. In fact, in the flight mode they had engaged, the onus was on them to maintain the speed.Asiana also faulted the cockpit alerting systems as providing "inadequate warning" that the speed had dropped dangerously low.The discrepancy between the airline and the jet-maker pivots around Boeing's flight-control design philosophy, cited in its submission as requiring "the pilot always has the final authority over any automation system."What VC's are missing in a rising world of smartphones &gt;&gt; Tech.coHere's a fun pop quiz for those of us who think we are worldly in our ways.What, in aggregate dollars, is the largest mobile payments country on earth?Did you guess the United States? Wrong! It's Kenya. 30% of its GDP passes through a dumb-phone texting ability called mPesa.Next question: What, in per capita terms, is the largest YouTube-consuming nation on earth?I bet you're thinking it's the US. Wrong again! It's Saudi Arabia. And the largest plurality of users are women watching education videos.If I named a country that has declared war on corruption and plans, in three years, to have their entire nation LTE (leap-frogging 3G and 4G) and have everyone under 21 own a tablet, where would you guess?You won't get that one either. An excellent focus-shifting primer.Can an audacious plan to create a new energy resource help save the planet? &gt;&gt; The New YorkerRaffi Khatchadourian looks at ITER, the experimental fusion reactor being built in Cadarache, France. Allow plenty of time to read - by the end of which you'll be much better informed than you expected.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The idea that people will shift from using native apps on their smartphones to using HTML5 websites offering the same functionality hasn&apos;t played out, according to the analytics company Flurry.Instead, US consumers&apos;&apos; use of mobile web sites has dropped by almost a quarter, from an average of 31 minutes daily in March 2013 to 22 minutes a year later.That has come even as people are spending longer on their phones - up on average to 2h42m per day compared to 2h38m in March 2013 - and that they spend even longer using apps rather than the mobile web.According to Flurry&apos;s data, app use grew from 80% of peoples&apos; phone use - 2h6m daily - to 86%, or 2h19m. Mobile web use dropped from 31m to 22m, as measured for the study by another research company, ComScore.The findings are also significant because the US has had high-speed 4G connectivity for at least two years from multiple mobile networks - which would indicate that connection speed would not be an obstacle to the use of mobile web apps.Flurry&apos;s data, collected from millions of users&apos; smartphones, shows that gaming is the biggest single category of use, with 32% of peoples&apos; time on average, followed by Facebook (17%). Other social messaging including Twitter comprises 11%, followed by YouTube (4%). News apps take up 3% of peoples&apos; time spent on the device.Time spent by US consumers in app types and on mobile browsers. Source: Flurry. Photograph: /PRFlurry commented: &quot;Both Google and Facebook have very well established franchises on mobile, but the market is still very fragmented. In fact, Google and Facebook combined probably command less than 25% of the total time spent by the average US mobile consumer. In addition the top ten franchises, according to ComScore, account for less than 40% of the time-spent. So despite massive efforts by Google and Facebook, the market still hasn’t consolidated and over the past couple of years we have seen new franchises emerge in almost every sector of mobile.&quot;The growing use of apps, rather than browsers, contrasts strongly with the desktop-based use of the internet, where web use is heavy and users are comparatively easily tracked. &quot;This data from Flurry on shrinking mobile web usage poses some challenges for Google,&quot;commentedBen Bajarin of the consultancy Creative Strategies. &quot;[The] Post-PC era is also post-web.&quot; Headded: &quot;With mobile web usage from smartphones declining, we also need a better way to measure mobile engagement than using web browsing metrics.&quot;For Google, the indifference of smartphone users to the mobile web in favour of apps presents a problem because in general it cannot follow users&apos; activity inside apps, unlike the situation where someone is logged into a Google account while they use a desktop browser. The search company has begun an initiative offeringlinks to in-app content for Android developerswhich it will be able to index.But Flurry found good news for Google: far more mobile advertising money is spent with it than time is spent on its products. It calculates that although people spend about 18% of smartphone time in Google properties such as YouTube or in browsers where it can show ads, it received 49% of mobile ad spending, according to eMarketer, a research company.Ad spending on mobile compared to time spent. Source: Flurry, eMarketer. Photograph: /PRBy contrast Facebook receives 18% of mobile ad spending - while people spend about 17% of their time on its mobile properties. &quot;Other&quot; apps are losing out, Flurry suggested: &quot;the rest of the apps, including gaming apps, are simply not getting their fair share of advertising spent. [They] command 65% of time spent, but only receive 32% of ad revenue.&quot;Flurry concludes that &quot;one thing is clear - apps have won and the mobile browser is taking a back seat. Now every company in the world including Google is adjusting to that reality.&quot;•Facebook founder Zuckerberg&apos;s base salary falls to $1
Of all the outfits humanity has worn, the spacesuit is perhaps the most stunning. Set against the dark abyss of space, the bulky white costume, with the helmet's visor mirroring the Earth, is a symbol of progress, bravery and adventure. But now it's being updated for the 21st century – and Nasa wants you to decide what the spacesuit of the future will look like.Nasa's Z-series is the next generation of spacesuits, designed to be more flexible, durable and easier to use than those we currently associate with space travel. The first prototype, the Z-1, was one ofTimemagazine's Inventions of the Year for 2012. Now, the Z-2 has arrived.Artists at the University of Philadelphia have created three designs for the suit, one of which will be chosen by a public vote. All three feature electroluminescent wire – probably owe more to raving than space travel. At the time of writing, the "Technology" design, which features a large electric blue figure on the chest, is the clear leader, with 64% of the vote.But this isn't simply a fashion project. Developed using 3D laser scans of the human body and 3D-printed components, the Z-2 suit features include a revolutionary entry/exit mechanism that allows astronauts to leave their ships without the need for an airlock. A port on the back of the suit allows it to be attached to the outside of a spaceship, so that astronauts don't have to get changed inside the ship.As well as freeing up room, which would otherwise be needed for an airlock, this method of donning a spacesuit prevents dust getting into the spaceship,&nbsp;a problem the Apollo astronauts discovered on the Moon.To vote, go tojscfeatures.jsc.nasa.gov/z2. It is probably the closest you'll come to being a fashion designer to the stars.
Twitter is trying to strengthen its association with real-time TV viewing after acquiring two European social TV firms, Parisian firm Mesagraph and the London-based SecondSync.Details of the terms were not confirmed, but both the companies, which provide analytics to broadcasters and advertisers about how people engage with television, will be working out of Twitter&apos;s London office.The two firms have valuable connections to the TV industries in their home nations, as well as links to other companies working in &quot;social TV&quot; – where people watch TV and comment on it on social networks at the same time. Purchasing SecondSync has an additional benefit for Twitter: in January, the company announced a partnership with Facebook to provide analytic data to the social network. Twitter has nipped that relationship in the bud.&quot;Twitter is the only place that hosts a real-time, public conversation about TV at scale,&quot; said SecondSync ina post confirming the acquisition. &quot;By joining Twitter, we will be able to help take that experience, in concert with the rest of the TV ecosystem, to the next level – particularly in markets outside the US. Our current UK product will continue to be available for an interim period.&quot;As well as the acquisitions, Twitter has extended a partnership with international market research firm Kantar. The two companies began working together to develop a suite of analytics tools for the British TV industry in August 2013, and expanded to cover Spain in October.The new five-year agreement will see the firms sharing data and tools to better understand social TV trends. &quot;Twitter plays host to a real-time, public conversation at scale on all manner of topics— including television,” said Twitter&apos;s chief operating officer, Ali Rowghani. &quot;We’re thrilled to expand our partnership with Kantar beyond media measurement, to other areas that impact their clients.&quot;Twitter&apos;s part of the deal sees the firm building theNielsen Twitter TV Ratingfor US channels, which provides an official metric for TV channels of how well a show is doing on social media.Both the acquisitions and the partnership with Kantar strengthen Twitter&apos;s dominance of the &quot;second screen&quot;: TV viewers who use social media while watching programmes. The new analytic tools also improve the firm&apos;s offering to advertisers, allowing them to, for instance, only promote a tweet onto the timelines of users who were watching a certain programme.•Twitter adds multi-photo tweets with user tagging
Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg has more than halved her stake in the social network since its initial public offering and has raised an estimated $113m (£68m) from share sales this year, according to offical company filings.The chief operating officer has sold the most shares of anyone on Facebook's top team, making the most of the surge in the share price since last summer. Her stake has fallen from 41m shares at the time of the flotation in May 2012 to 17.7m today – still worth more than $1bn.Sandberg cashed in the shares to help pay tax bills, although the disposals have reignited speculation that she is planning to run for public office – something she has denied. The 44-year-old was chief of staff to Lawrence Summers when he was treasury secretary under the Clinton administration and has made regular appearances at the global leadership gathering in Davos.According to documents lodged with the US Securities and Exchange Commission this week, Facebook's executive directors earned less in 2013 than in the year of the flotation, with multi-billionaire Zuckerberg earning just $1 after waiving both his salary and cash bonus.The 29-year-old entrepreneur is following in the footsteps of Apple's Steve Jobs, and Google's Larry Page and Sergey Brin, by claiming only a nominal salary.However, Zuckerberg and his guests did run up a $650,000 bill using private jets for non-work trips, which the company pays for to ensure his personal security.Sandberg's pay and shares package fell to $16m – down from $26m in 2012 when the company floated.Her base salary rose from $340,000 to $395,000, and her bonus rocketed from $277,000 to $604,000, but at $15m her stock option grant was worth significantly less than last year.Sandberg was granted more than 38m Facebook shares at the time of the initial public offering, bringing to 41m the number of shares she owned or was due to receive. Had she held on to all those shares, they would be worth $2.5bn – Facebook's stock was trading at just under $62 on Tuesday.Reduced stock awards also meant a pay cut for the finance director, David Ebersman, whose compensation fell to $10m compared with nearly $18m the year before. His basic pay was identical to Sandberg's, while his bonus jumped from $187,000 to $604,000, while he received more than $9m in stock options.While Zuckerberg's deputies received new shares last year, Facebook's compensation committee decided not to award more to the chief executive because "his existing equity ownership position sufficiently aligns his interests with those of our stockholders".Although Zuckerberg's salary has dropped from $500,000 to $1, he is now twice as rich as last year after the value of Facebook's shares doubled. The founder controls nearly 62% of his company's voting power, down from 67% the year before, and his holding is worth $27bn.Zuckerberg's main income in 2013 came from a secondary offering of Facebook shares in December. He sold 41m shares worth $2.2bn at the time – also to help settle a tax bill – and gave 18m shares to&nbsp;charity.As well as paying for his personal air travel – about half the $1.2bn bill he ran up in the previous year – the company also funds Zuckerberg's "overall security program", stumping up for bodyguards and security equipment. From this year, Facebook said it was also contributing to Sandberg's security costs.Each of Facebook's non-executive directors received shares worth $300,000, in what will be an annual grant. The money is in addition to their basic $50,000 fee for steering the board.The directors have also agreed changes to the list of companies Facebook compares its performance to when deciding executive rewards. Oracle, the business software company, and games developer Zynga have been dropped from the mix, while German software group SAP has become the first non-American company to feature.The peer group has been expanded from 13 to 16 companies, with Adobe, EMC, Qualcomm, SAP and the Walt Disney Company added to a line up that includes all the major names in tech, from Apple to Cisco, Google and Microsoft.
Microsoft has instigated a re-shuffle at the top of its Xbox business, just two months before the games industry&apos;s crucial E3 event in Los Angeles. After the departure of chief product officer Marc Whitten in March, Phil Spencer will now be the head of Xbox, overseeing the console itself as well as online infrastructure Xbox Live, Microsoft&apos;s game development studios and the on-demand services, Xbox Music and Xbox Video.Spencer, who was previously head of Microsoft Studios, announced his new role viaa blogpost on the Xbox Wire site. Under the headline, &quot;A new day at Xbox&quot;, he wrote, &quot;Combining these teams will strengthen the connection between some of the world’s most innovative creators and those building the Xbox itself [...] Games and gamers have always been at the core of Xbox and the core of my work – and gaming will be our core as we take Xbox forward.&quot;Suddenly last summerThe intent of the announcement is clearly timed to sweep away doubts about the positioning of Xbox One in the run-up to what will be a crucial E3 for the console manufacturers. When Microsoft announced its new machine last May, the company mis-stepped by concentrating on the live TV and video capabilities of its hardware – much to the chagrin of its gaming audience.The PR message was further muddied when Microsoft execs dithered over the exact details of the Xbox One&apos;s digital gaming strategy. At first it seemed as though the new machine would require constant connection to the internet and that players wouldn&apos;t be able to re-sell old game. However,a series of reversalsled to the abandonment of key digital strategies, culminating with the departure of Xbox chief Don Mattrick to Zynga in July.Since then Microsoft has sought to emphasise the centrality of gaming in its console vision, building its ID@Xbox programme to encourage independent development on the machine. The company also secured much-hyped sci-fi shooter Titanfall as a Microsoft exclusive, keeping it off the rival PlayStation 4 console.Connected and controlledSo what will this mean to gamers? Firstly, Microsoft is promising a more unified approach to the Xbox business. In part, the problems in May were the result of too many department heads having separate visions of what Xbox One was and little clarity on the ramifications of those visions. Aligning Xbox, Xbox Live and the development studios should lead to better communication and more cogent planning between them.At the same time, there is clearly a desire to unify Xbox with other Microsoft platforms. Inan email sent out to all of the company&apos;s employees, CEO Satya Nadella wrote, &quot;Combining all our software, gaming and content assets across the Xbox team under a single leader and aligning with the [Operating Systems Group] team will help ensure we continue to do great work across the Xbox business, and bring more of the magic of Xbox to all form factors, including tablets, PCs and phones.&quot;Xbox owners are already seeing this integrated approach via the SmartGlass app which allows cross-functionality between Xbox games, smartphones and tablets. Meanwhile, Windows 8 provides an array of functions to connect PC and Xbox content, while Windows phone owners can access a mobile version of the Xbox Live service which integrates with the console system. Nadella also praised the console&apos;s implementation of cloud computing features, so gamers can perhaps expect more online titles that are seamlessly accessible via console, computer and mobile.Beyond the aligned messaging, however, what players want to see are new games. PlayStation 4 is so far winning the sales battle against its competitor and to compete, Microsoft must step up on its first-party content. New Halo and Gears of War titles will almost certainly feature at E3, and UK-based studio Lionhead may well make an announcement abouta potential new series.Spencer haspromised on Twitterthat further new exclusives are in-bound. If he can deliver on this, the &quot;new day&quot; he has promised could be more than just the familiar marketing bluster used to accompany a corporate re-shuffle.•Xbox One: was Microsoft&apos;s reversal the right decision?• Xbox One – 25 indie games announced
As many as 24m routers across the world can be used by cybercriminals to launch massive attacks on internet infrastructure, while simultaneously disrupting home connections and costing communications companies dearly.Research shown exclusively to the Guardian showed 800,000 of those routers are based in the UK, opening up the potential for serious disruption of the country’s data networks.Over recent months, digital criminals have increasingly exploited these routers to generate massive attack traffic, as they look to disrupt web services. The process is called attack amplification and it starts with the attacker selecting a target website. They then pretend to be their target, using a technique known as internet protocol address spoofing.The attacker then sends a small request over the internet, from their computer to a vulnerable home router. That router passes on the request to a machine held at the internet service provider (ISP), such as BT or Virgin Media. That machine is known as a resolver, as it resolves the request sent by the attacker.The ISP machine will give a response that is far larger than the attacker’s initial request. That amplified response is then passed on to the eventual target, whom the attacker is impersonating.When the attacker fires out vast numbers of requests to the millions of exploitable routers, massive responses are routed back to the target website. The result is a massive distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack – distributed because the requests the attacker sends come from a variety of different computers under his or her control, known as a botnet.Internet pipes are clogged up, often wiping the original target offline and causing collateral damage, disrupting people’s home connections without them knowing and swamping ISP networks.“All that traffic coming back down to the user can saturate the access network. What the user sees is what appears to be an outage or an intermittent or slow service,” said Bruce van Nice, from Nominum, a software company serving the telecoms industry, which provided the Guardian with the data. “The user doesn&apos;t know anything about what is going on.”Attackers have started innovating to amplify their attacks more efficiently, creating websites with domain names that provide even bigger responses. Over a single day this year, Nominum said it recorded 5bn requests for such domains. This produced 12 terabytes of traffic, which is a significant amount of data flying around the internet solely for malicious means.Nominum said over a single day in February more than 5.3m of the routers running the feature were used to generate attack traffic in Asia. An attack in January used up 70% of an internet providers Domain Name System servers.“There&apos;s like this backdoor that&apos;s been opened to ISP networks, these home routers expose them,” van Nice added.Broadband providers should act to protect themselves and customers, said Roland Dobbins, Senior ASERT Analyst at Arbor Networks. “There are very definite operational costs on ISPs which really make it incumbent upon them to actively scan their own [systems] to find abusable devices. It really makes economic sense for ISPs to look at this.”The feature within home routers that allows this is known as an Open Domain Name System Proxy. It is part of the everyday process of translating web names such as theguardian.com to internet protocol addresses such as 77.91.251.10. The average internet user has little recourse other than to ask their provider to scan their systems to see if they have this feature switched on, Dobbins added.BT declined to comment when contacted by the Guardian. Virgin Media said it provides advice to users to deal with issues like this, pointing them tosites like this.
The advert was blunt: a second-hand Samsung Galaxy Gear smartwatch for sale, priced at &quot;£100 ONO&quot;. For a device which cost £299 in September, surely that&apos;s a bargain?Yet after a week advertised on the intranet of an non-technical organisation with more than 10,000 staff, it was still unsold. &quot;Nothing hangs around our noticeboard that long,&quot; one who saw the ad told me.Separately, the same organisation had another Galaxy Gear for sale - priced at &quot;any offer&quot;. That did sell (how can you argue with &quot;any price&quot;?) but together the adverts for a device that was barely six months old point to a problem some people are beginning to suspect about &quot;wearables&quot; - that if you don&apos;t get it just right, they&apos;re done.That observation is strengthened byresearch from Endeavour Partnersin the US, which found that one-third of American consumers who have owned a wearable product stopped using it within six months. What&apos;s more, while one in 10 American adults own some form of activity tracker, half of them no longer use it.So what&apos;s the problem with smartwatches and fitness trackers? Are they just too early? Or is it something more fundamental?The tale of the smartwatches is mixed. One was acquired when the owner bought a Galaxy Note 3 smartphones; the mobile network offered the Gear as a cheap add-on. But the buyer, having got it, decided it was ugly and sought to get rid of it.The other came from someone who definitely wanted it, and used it - but was disappointed when it was superseded within months by the newer version, released by Samsung at Mobile World Congress. &quot;Is that the old one?&quot; the owner was asked by informed friends.It&apos;s against stories like that that one must weigh figures like Samsung&apos;s claims of sales for the Galaxy Gear, and the figures from Kantar ComTech, whichsuggestthat there are 426,000 smartwatches owned in Britain, of which 136,000 are Galaxy Gears. (I own and use a Pebble bought through its Kickstarter page; I&apos;ve mostly been very pleased with it, withone exception.)But some of those smartwatches, as the above examples suggest, probably aren&apos;t being used. Aquick search on eBayfor &quot;Galaxy Gear&quot; (excluding the words &quot;protector&quot; and &quot;seal&quot; which are used to sell add-ons) turns up nearly 900 results, of whichthis one, chosen at random, is typical: &quot;I got it free with my Galaxy Note 3 and do not want this.&quot;The story is the same as that found by CCS Insight, which last autumn found in a survey of more than 1,500 smartphone owners in the US and UK that 65% had heard of smartwatches, and more than 50% knew about fitness trackers; but of those who owned either, 40% had stopped using them because they got bored with the idea, or simply forgot to put it on.Taken on their own, none of those is conclusive, or even concerning evidence for wearables boosters – except for the last one. But that is the one that really does hold the seeds of a very worrying trend for wearables companies, because the people who have bought fitness trackers and abandoned them should, in theory, be the most eager early adopters.Early abandonmentFor comparison, you wouldn&apos;t find people from the early days of the smartphone saying that they&apos;d abandoned their BlackBerry, Treo or Windows Mobile or Symbian phone. They were the early adopters, and they found utility in having email and (sometimes) web pages on the move. The idea of giving them up just wouldn&apos;t occur to them.But fitness trackers, which were meant to spearhead wearables use – because they provided something people would want. The &quot;total addressable market&quot; of gym users in the UK, for example, is substantial: 4.5 million adults have memberships, according to data from TGI; in the US, the figure is about 10 times higher. Those are substantial markets.Yet the data from Endeavour Partners indicates that fitness trackers are no more sticky than new year&apos;s resolutions.What does that presage for wearables? It may be that they are presently so primitive that it&apos;s no surprise that people give them up: they&apos;re too big, haven&apos;t discovered the killer app that we want out of them, and have battery life that is too limited.In the early days of MP3 players such as theDiamond Rio, you could tell that they were transformative because the ones using solid-state storage weren&apos;t prone to skipping, unlike the CD Walkmans they were trying to disrupt. The trouble was that getting music on to those early players was a pain – you had very limited storage, and comparatively slow connections (USB 1.1, at 12 megabits per second; USB 2 didn&apos;t come into widespread use until about 2003).So lots of those early MP3 players eventually ended up in drawers; but that didn&apos;t stop the sector becoming huge. We went from having to carry around CDs and a CD player (or a MiniDisc and player, or cassettes and player) to having the music integrated into the player. And then the player became integrated into other objects, such as our phones.Integrated lifeBut it was that integration - the way that the music became part of the music player, rather than being separate (and bulky) - which really showed off the promise of the early devices.So far, there aren&apos;t clear signs of quite what it is that smartwatches and fitness trackers are replacing, in the way that those music players did. Useful new technology has to replace or simplify some function, ideally; otherwise it has the challenge of persuading us that we need this entirely new thing. Smartphones are simpler ways to collect your email – and also make phone calls and surf the web (and so on).Fitness trackers... let you track your fitness. But given that41% of people run with their smartphones, you might get by with a movement tracking app instead. The trouble with devices that claim to track your steps is they&apos;re so easily hoaxed by waving your arms around.The Endeavour Partners study, and those for-sale adverts (both physical and on eBay) point to something still unsolved by this first tranche of wearable devices. They&apos;re just not that good at exciting us. The problems to be solved - usefulness, battery life, appearance - clearly haven&apos;t been. Nor has the real killer app appeared (although there seems to be increasing evidence that people find the notifications on smartwatches useful).Perhaps thearrival of Android Wearwill make a difference - and that the incorporation of Google Now, voice search, and the &quot;cards&quot; system that seems to be part of Android Wear will all add up to an experience that delights the second-generation wearables buyers. It remains to be seen, though. There&apos;s a gap between the obvious extra utility that digital music players - or early smartphones - offered, and the very thin reasoning being used to justify a computer on your wrist or waist.Overall, something seems to be missing from the usefulness that we&apos;d expected to feel. (And I say that as the owner of a smartwatch; I like the way that the Pebble lets me know when someone&apos;s calling even if I&apos;m away from my phone and, until the software update, also showed me texts - but only texts, not emails or tweets or Facebook updates; my choice now is to have all or nothing of those, so I choose the latter).It could be that wearables are poised for a tsunami of success. But those sales notices on the intranet, and those eBay listings, give reason to pause.•Gallery: the best of London&apos;s Wearable Tech Show 2014 - in pictures
Shortly before 5pm local time on 12 June at Arena Corinthians in São Paulo, a young paraplegic Brazilian will stand up from a wheelchair, walk over to midfield, and take a kick in the opening ceremony of the 2014 World Cup.For those hoping for miracles at football's greatest tournament, the scene may be the closest they get to witnessing one. ForMiguel Nicolelis, a neuroengineer based at Duke University in North Carolina, the moment demands faith of another kind. As hundreds of millions tune in for the opening match, they will see the first public demonstration of technology he claims will turn wheelchairs into museum pieces.The technology in question is a mind-controlled robotic exoskeleton. The complex and conspicuous robotic suit, built from lightweight alloys and powered by hydraulics, has a simple enough function. When a paraplegic person straps themselves in, the machine does the job that their leg muscles no longer can.The exoskeleton is the culmination of years of work by an international team of scientists and engineers on the Walk Again project. The robotics work was coordinated byGordon Cheng at the Technical Universityin Munich, and French researchers built the exoskeleton. Nicolelis's team focused on ways to read people's brain waves, and use those signals to control robotic limbs.On Tuesday, the team launches aFacebook pagethat will document the project in the days leading up to the World Cup. A dedicated website is due to go live later this week.Nicolelis is training nine paraplegic men and women, aged 20 to 40, to use the exoskeleton at a neurorobotics rehabilitation lab in São Paulo. Three will be chosen to attend the opening ceremony, before the opening game between Brazil and Croatia, with one heading on to the pitch to perform the demonstration.To operate the exoskeleton, the person is helped into the suit and given a cap to wear that is fitted with electrodes to pick up their brain waves. These signals are passed to a computer worn in a backpack, where they are decoded and used to move hydraulic drivers on the suit.The exoskeleton is powered by a battery – also carried in the backpack – that allows for two hours of continuous use."The movements are very smooth," Nicolelis told the Guardian. "They are human movements, not robotic movements."Nicolelis says that in trials so far, his patients seem have taken to the exoskeleton. "This thing was made for me," one patient told him after being strapped into the suit.The operator's feet rest on plates which have sensors to detect when contact is made with the ground. With each footfall, a signal shoots up to a vibrating device sewn into the forearm of the wearer's shirt. The device seems to fool the brain into thinking that the sensation came from their foot. In virtual reality simulations, patients felt that their legs were moving and touching something.One patient, whose spinal injury meant he could not feel or move his legs, told Nicolelis: "I feel like I'm walking on the beach, that I'm touching the sand."Nicolelis likens the effect to the rubber hand illusion, where the mind is tricked into thinking that an inanimate object is part of the person. "It confirms our prediction that we are going to elicit a sensation that the exoskeleton is an extension of their body," Nicolelis said.In other trials, patients have used the mind-control system to walk on a treadmill.Nicolelis said he believed the technology was ripe for turning into everyday devices to help paraplegics and could ultimately replace wheelchairs."All of the innovations we're putting together for this exoskeleton have in mind the goal of transforming it into something that can be used by patients who suffer from a variety of diseases and injuries that cause paralysis," he said.The system has been through numerous safety tests. The exoskeleton is fitted with multiple gyros to stop it falling over during the balancing act of bipedal walking. As an extra safety measure, it was fitted with multiple airbags.Last month, Nicolelis and his colleagues went to football matches in São Paulo to check whether mobile phone radiation from the crowds might interfere with the suit. Electromagnetic waves could make the exoskeleton misbehave, but the tests were encouraging. The chances of the exoskeleton malfunctioning, and stomping off into the distance, are apparently slim.Sethu Vijayakkumar, a roboticist at Edinburgh University, said exoskeletons were a natural progression for rehabilitation and made the most of robotic and human abilities."This is something that will happen, and needs to happen. Humans are very good at high-level decisions and making sense of ambiguous situations, but robots are very good at very precise, repetitive, accurate movements," he said. "Exoskeletons are the way to marry these two together."• This article was amended on 2 April 2014 to make it clear that the exoskeleton will debut at the opening ceremony of the World Cup rather than the first match.
Much of science fiction becomes science fact some day (faster-than-light travel notwithstanding), and this year seems to be the turn of Star Trek&apos;s replicator: a new Kickstarter is $50,000 into its goal to build a 3D-food printer, capable of turning fresh ingredients into a meal without cooks having to get their hands dirty.The Foodiniis described by its manufacturers as &quot;the first 3D-food printer to print all types of real, fresh, nutritious foods, from savory to sweet&quot;. They&apos;ve already made a prototype, and are trying to raise $100,000 to begin a full production run.The initial design of the Foodini (left) and a pre-production model. Photograph: KickstarterThe printer works by taking fresh ingredients, prepared for printing by cooking and blending, and extruding them through a nozzle on to a a glass plate. It might not sound particularly appetising, but with the right ingredients, the printer could save time and effort, or make intricate designs that would be impossible to replicate by hand. Examples include pumpkin gnocchi, christmas-tree-shaped cookies, and elaborate, edible vessels for holding dips or nibbles.And despite 3D-printer firm Makerwarning last yearthat &quot;you will not be able to, for example, scan a hamburger and then eat the digital design,&quot; Foodini does indeed promise to allow users to print hamburgers — although they still require cooking the old-fashioned way.Compared with other prototypical food printers, the Foodini focuses heavily on using fresh and natural ingredients. Rather than attempting to extrude something like chocolate into incredibly complex designs, the firm instead aims &quot;to streamline some of cooking&apos;s more repetitive activities - forming dough into fish-shaped crackers, or forming ravioli&quot;. It is perhaps best thought of as an extremely fancy pasta machine.Backers of the Kickstarter can pay $999 to reserve a Foodini from the company in advance, $301 less than the &quot;expected&quot; retail price.•3D printers get cheaper, faster - and more mainstream
Dax Ginn is very excited. As RockSteady’s brand marketing producer presides over a hands-off demo of Batman: Arkham Knight at the London HQ of Warner Bros, his play-by-play commentary contains as many whoops and cheers as it does informative tidbits. His enthusiasm is unbridled and a massive source of bemusement for the handful of media sitting in in attendance.But even if Ginn’s passion isn’t infectious, you’d be hard-pressed to argue it isn’t justified. RockSteady’s latest – and final – installment in its critically acclaimed Batman: Arkham franchise looks positively swoon-worthy. The culmination of about eight or nine years’ worth of development, Batman: Arkham Knight takes the London-based studio’s vision of DC’s Dark Knight IP widescreen.“We have built out the entirety of Gotham City,” says Ginn. “This is something that we’ve wanted to do for years and what we’ve executed for Arkham Knight. The map is about five times the size of Arkham City’s but it also has the intricate detail fans would expect from a game in this series.”Dark cityThe Gotham City Ginn speaks of certainly looks very impressive. Its skyline is a sprawling series of walkways, neon signs and Gothic spires as one would expect, but as evidenced in the demo, there’s quite a bit of variation at street level. Gotham’s China Town district glows red from countless paper lanterns and streetlights. Imposing industrial warehouses tower over the city’s rain-slicked boat docks. The clock tower that houses Oracle’s secret headquarters looks like it was plucked from Gormenghast. Each area of the city has its own distinct flavour, while feeling like part of a cohesive whole.As Ginn points out, this is a pretty important aspect of Arkham Knight, because it feeds into the player fantasy of feeling like they’re the Caped Crusader. “The sense of being Batman means you don’t get lost in your own city,” he says. “It’s wrapped up in that complete certainty about where you’re going and what you need to do.”As gargantuan as the game’s environment is, navigating it looks to be a doddle. The grapple-and-glide mechanic from Arkham City is back – players can use Batman’s cape to glide over the city, employing dives and the Bat-Claw to gain momentum, extending hang time. From the looks of the demo, the glide mechanics have also been tweaked to allow players to cover greater distances.The game’s hand-to-hand combat also has a couple of new additions. Cape-flick, jump, beat-down and counter are all present and correct, as is the fluid way players can flow between opponents. Now, however, players have a nasty flip move they can use to send enemies flying and they can also disarm opponents and use their weapons against them. On top of that, they’re able to use pieces of Batman’s immediate environment to finish off opponents; in a fistfight exuberantly narrated by Ginn, we watch as Batman takes a goon’s head and rams it into a soda vending machine in a skull-crushing act of brutality.Cruising and bruisingOf course, as has already been announced, one of the biggest features in Batman: Arkham Knight is Bats’s iconic car. RockSteady has finally fulfilled a demand that players have had since the opening cinematic of Batman: Arkham Asylum. They’ve kitted them out with the Batmobile.“The Batmobile was ‘the thing’ that we wanted to do,” says Ginn. “It was the heart and soul of the game’s design. It was the epicentre of everything.“Once we’d made that decision we knew the city would have to be a lot bigger to compliment the Batmobile’s speed and destruction and that made all of our technical decision for us. Next gen was critical. We couldn’t do this on a PS3 or Xbox 360.”RockSteady has infused Batman’s iconic set of wheels with its own unique look, but the closest relative it has is the Tumbler from the Nolan-Verse. The Batmobile in Arkham Knight is metal-plated beast; its moving panels make it seem as though it’s breathing and every burst of fire from the exhaust seems like a release of pent-up rage. Furthermore, there are hardly any pathways closed off to it.While it’s unable to plough straight through Gotham’s tenement blocks, the Batmobile can smash through street fixtures, trees on traffic islands, fences around carparks and even the odd concrete wall. The demo also showed off that, amongst other things, the Batmobile comes equipped with homing missiles, which players can use to disable enemy vehicles.The car’s been built to be as user-friendly as possible. Players summon it with the touch of a button and this triggers an animation in which Batman hurtles to the pavement, waits as the Batmobile comes flying towards him and then leaps into its cockpit in one fluid motion. Batman can also eject from the Batmobile and doing so at high-speed sends him up several stories into the air.Fear of freedomThe demo is slightly problematic in places. The frame-rate crawl is simply horrible and after 20 minutes of staring up at the juddering graphics on a giant cinema screen, it’s hard not to feel a little seasick.Also, since introducing a car into an Arkham title effectively turns it into an sandbox game, there’s an initial fear that players will be able to break the game’s narrative. After all, how do you keep Batman on the side of angels when most players wreak chaos if you hand them a car, weapons and a city filled with NPC targets. However, RockSteady seems able to step round this through one of the game’s main plot conceits.Batman: Arkham Knight is set 12 years after the events of Batman: Arkham City, and if you’ve not played that game and you don’t want its plot details revealed to you, stop reading now. In the years since the Joker died there’s been relative peace, with many of the city’s criminals keeping a low profile. This all changes at the start of Arkham Knight with the return of the Scarecrow, who announces that he’s placed fear toxin bombs throughout Gotham. The authorities respond by evacuating the civilian population. Criminals have overrun the streets.While this is a suitably high stakes set up for Batman’s latest adventure, it also prevents players from making the Dark Knight behave as badly as the criminals he’s trying to put down. To wit, the only traffic – both on-road and on-foot – they’ll encounter are would-be criminals, so if they decide to mow them down with the Batmobile or hammer the daylights out of them, they aren’t breaking the narrative.A Knight&apos;s Tale“I think gamers who just love the prospect of expressing themselves through the medium, will still like the tight story we’re telling here,” says Ginn. “We’ve set narrative structures up to help with this. Irrespective of where you’re navigating to in Gotham City, you’ll be bombarded with narrative through Batman’s surveillance system.“You get a highly contrasted sense of whether you’re on a right path or not. The operations of the criminals – such as Two-Face, the Penguin and Harley Quinn – keys into that as well and you can move between them fairly seamlessly.“RockSteady and Ginn are still speaking about the plot in fairly general terms, but at least they’re prepared to reveal a brand new character for the game – the titular Arkham Knight. Clad in a black mask and a dark almost utilitarian outfit, the Arkham Knight attacks Batman as the demo draws to a close. Ginn announces his name and then states he’s taking no further questions about him. Who is it? A totally new enemy or the alter ego of a returning nemesis? There has been plenty of speculation among fans and journalists ever since the name was mentioned.In a way, Ginn&apos;s reluctance to specify any further makes sense. The Batman: Arkham games all boast sublime mechanics, but they’ve lived and died on their stories. And RockSteady has form on this style of slow, steady marketing – interested viewers should expect a drip-feed reveal concerning characters and extra modes from here on in and precious little else. All we have to go on really is RockSteady’s track-record – and no one could say that isn&apos;t enough for now.• Batman: Arkham Knight is coming to PC, PS4 and Xbox One in 2014•Batman: Arkham Knight – trailer first glimpse
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.Note: compiled before 1 April.Google Flu Trends Still Appears Sick: An Evaluation of the 2013-2014 Flu Season by David Lazer, Ryan Kennedy, Gary King, Alessandro Vespignani &gt;&gt; SSRNDavid Lazer and colleagues wrote a Science paper on Google Flu Trends's inaccuracy. Google tweaked it. They looked again:In response to its poor performance during the 2012-2013 flu season, Google Flu Trends (GFT) engineers announced a redesign of the GFT algorithm. Two changes were made: (1) dampening anomalous media spikes and (2) using ElasticNet, rather than regression, for estimation. This paper identifies several problems that persist in the new algorithm.Is the problem with GFT the exception or the rule in this sort of big data processing? The impossibility of getting a response is very like other services.'I wanna get this white trash on tape': Google 'Glass' user releases video from bar attack &gt;&gt; The Raw StoryThe California woman who said she was the victim of a "hate crime" for wearing Google Glass eyewear in a bar released a profanity-filled video taken just before her dispute with patrons became physical."I wanna get this white trash, this trash on tape for as long as I can," tech writer Sarah Slocum said in the video, apparently shot before she was attacked last month at Molotov's, a bar in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury neighbourhood.In response, an unidentified man can be seen approaching her, saying, "Get out of here," then reaching for the eyewear.It's the video she took herself, if that isn't clear. Warning: contains asterisks.Purported iPhone 6 pictures show protruding camera, rounded edges &gt;&gt; 9to5MacImages posted on Weibo claim to show an iPhone 6 under testing at Foxconn, via GforGames. The validity of these images cannot be confirmed, but the shots do line up with previous rumours. The iPhone 6 depicted here has a protruding camera (similar to the current design of the iPod touch), rounded edges and a considerably thinner profile than the current iPhone 5S.The most enjoyable part is that the computers being used for the CNC are clearly running Windows XP.Researchers use game theory to identify potential problems for bitcoin &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewMiners earn newly minted bitcoins for adding new sections to the blockchain. But the amount awarded for adding a section is periodically halved so that the total number of bitcoins in circulation never exceeds 21m (the reward last halved in 2012 and is set to do so again in 2016). Transaction fees paid to miners for helping verify transfers are supposed to make up for that loss of income. But fees are currently negligible, and the Princeton analysis predicts that under the existing rules these fees won't become significant enough to make mining worth doing in the absence of freshly minted bitcoins.The only solution Kroll sees is to rewrite the rules of the currency. "It would need some kind of governance structure that agreed to have a kind of tax on transactions or not to limit the number of bitcoins created," he says. "We expect both mechanisms to come into play."Won't be popular.The price of music &gt;&gt; Re/codeSmart analysis by David Pakman:So, the data tells us that consumers are willing to spend somewhere around $45–$65 per year on music, and that the larger a service gets, the lower in that range the number becomes. And these numbers have remained consistent regardless of music format, from CD to download.Curiously, the on-demand subscription music services like Spotify, Deezer, Rdio and Beats Music are all priced the same at more than twice consumer spending on music. They largely land at $120 per year (although Beats has a family-member option for AT&amp;T users at $15 per month.)Which means, logically, that something's gotta give. And you're not going to get those huge numbers of people to suddenly spend more on music, when that hasn't happened over generations - we spend no more, on average, than our parents did on music. (Pakman has been at the sharp end: he used to work at eMusic.)▶ The Patent Process: An Overview for Jurors &gt;&gt; YouTubeThe official US courts presentation that is shown to jurors who are going to be trying patent trials. Pretty much guaranteed to suck all the excitement out of the event, if anyone had any delusions going in. But at least we have an authoritative pronunciation of "patent". (Via @Smurfuhrer.)Toyota prototypes laser radar for autonomous driving, etc &gt;&gt; Tech-On!Toyota Central R&amp;D Labs Inc developed a system that can be installed in a vehicle and three-dimensionally recognise pedestrians, other vehicles, structures, etc around the vehicle by using near-infrared laser radar.Toyota Central R&amp;D Labs announced the results of an experiment in which a prototype of the system was tested at the 61st JSAP Spring Meeting, which runs from March 17 to 20, 2014, in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan (lecture number: 17p-E9-5). The company confirmed that the prototype can detect a board looking like a human from a distance of 80m.Why it's time for Google to fix Google Now &gt;&gt; GigaomJanko Roettgers:The puzzling thing about Now is that it often fails spectacularly when it should know better, which makes you wonder whether Google just hasn't done a good job integrating the service with its other offerings.One example: The other day, I drove down to Mountain View for a meeting. Ahead of the trip, I looked up the traffic on Google Maps on my desktop, and then actually used the Google Maps app on my phone for navigation. So what did Google Now do when I checked it after my meeting was done? Suggest how to get back home via public transit, of course.Currently, Google Now still depends too much on default settings. Instead, it should learn from real-life behavior. I, for one, wouldn't actually mind to help train it if it occasionally asked me things like: How, exactly, did you get to work today? It's something that activity tracking apps like Moves already do really well.It's not so much "fix" as "hugely enhance to match my vision". But what if that's just too much to ask? Should we assume that Google Now (and other systems) will have no limits - in which case, how long should we accept their baby steps?Hullcoin: the world's first local government cryptocurrency? &gt;&gt; CoindeskThe idea to use cryptocurrency came about when Shepherdson was asked by the Hull City Council Welfare Rights Manager, Lisa Bovill, to investigate the possibility of using an alternative currency (in the sense of the Brixton Pound-type of local currencies) as a means to provide an anti-poverty framework in Hull.This was to be part of the 'Hull People Premium' scheme, aimed to help the people of Hull save money, and gain access to advice and aid for food, fuel and finance.The first, and one hopes the last. "Hull residents in financial distress can take part in voluntary activities and receive HullCoins in exchange," it explains. So people who are poor get stuff stored in digital wallets that need comparatively expensive computers and high levels of expertise to access?Meet Lucy H. Koh, a Silicon Valley Judge &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comEngaging profile:Judge Koh has a reputation for keeping strict control of her courtroom. In the first Apple-Samsung patent trial, when Apple bid to block testimony from a Samsung witness, she said: "I don't trust what any lawyer tells me in this courtroom. I want to see actual papers."Like it.BlackBerry wins court order against TV host Ryan Seacrest's Typo &gt;&gt; ReutersBlackBerry Ltd won a preliminary injunction on Friday to ban Ryan Seacrest's Typo Products LLC from selling a $99 iPhone case after a judge agreed that television host's company had likely infringed on BlackBerry's patents.US District Judge William Orrick in San Francisco said that the Canadian mobile phone maker had established a "likelihood" of proving that Typo infringed its patents, while mentioning that Typo had not sufficiently challenged the patents in question.The preliminary injunction prohibits Typo from the sale of its keyboard, which is a part of the relief sought by Blackberry.Easier to get an injunction on hardware than software, even without the case being proven.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Motorola&apos;s Moto G smartphone has had a dramatic impact on the company&apos;s share of sales in the three months to the end of February, taking the Google subsidiary from almost zero to 6% of sales in the UK, according to new research.Kantar Worldpanel ComTechsaysthat the Moto G was particularly popular with men aged 16-24 in &quot;lower income&quot; groups: 83% of buyers were male, and 40% have annual earnings of below £20,000.That suggests that Google&apos;s efforts to democratise the ownership of smartphones has been a significant success with the low-priced phone, which retailed sim-free for just £135 whilegarnering highly positive reviews. In the UK, smartphone ownership has now hit 70%, Kantar says, and smartphones make up 86% of phones sold - the latter statistic having stayed constant for about six months.Tech-savvyDominic Sunnebo, Kantar&apos;s global strategic insight director, said: “Consumers are far more tech savvy than they were just a few years ago and the rising commoditisation of smartphones means we increasingly rely on online views and handset cost to drive our decision making.&quot;Some 40% of British consumers are heavily influenced by internet reviews when deciding which mobile to buy and 48% of Moto G sales were made online. With virtually no existing [Motorola] customers to sell to in Britain, the Moto G has stolen significant numbers of low-mid end customers from Samsung and Nokia Lumia.”Google is selling the Motorola subsidiary to China&apos;s Lenovo in the coming months. Lenovo will have to decide how far to subsidise prices of phones like the Moto G; Google recorded large losses on its Motorola operation of up to a billion dollars a quarter, suggesting that the phone&apos;s pricing is not sustainable on its own.Jostling for positionUS smartphone sales share to Feb 2014. Source: Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. Photograph: /PR/KantarUK smartphone sales share to Feb 2014. Source: Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. Photograph: /PR/KantarEU5 (Germany, France, Italy, Spain, UK) combined smartphone sales share to February 2014. Source: Kantar Photograph: /PR/KantarFigures provided by Kantar suggest that sales share of the competing smartphone operating systems in the US, &quot;EU5&quot; countries (Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the UK) and UK has remained broadly unchanged over the past year.In the US, Android and iOS have 55% and 38.5% of sales share. In the EU, Android has just under 70% against iOS&apos;s 19% and in the UK, Android has about 54% and iOS 32%.However, there is little sign of Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone making fresh inroads into those key markets. Although its share of sales has risen in all the key territories over the past year, it still remains in third place behind Apple&apos;s iPhone in every country for which Kantar provided data except Italy, where it has led the iPhone for sales since summer 2013.Meanwhile BlackBerry&apos;s share of sales continues to fall, registering under 1% in the US, Germany, Spain and Japan (in both of which it was less than 0.1%), China and Australia. Its highest share was in the UK, where it recorded 3.4% of sales - well behind Windows Phone, which recorded 10.1%.In the US, LG&apos;s high-end G2 helped it increase its share of sales, to 8%, making it the third largest handset maker in sales behind Apple and Samsung. Sunnebo noted that the G2 has scored extremely high in customer satisfaction ratings, at 9.2 out of 10 compared to 9.1 for Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S and 9.0 for Samsung&apos;s Galaxy Note 3.•&quot;Market share&quot;? &quot;Installed base&quot;? How to make sense of all the numbers that get thrown around
2048,a simple puzzle gamefirst released as a browser game in early March, has become a cultural phenomenon, following Flappy Bird into the annals of flash-in-the-pan gaming hits.But 2048 is a clone – in fact, a clone of a clone of a clone – and the makers of Threes, the original game on which the original clone is based, have finally spoken out about being ripped off, saying that &quot;Threes is the reason 2048 exists.&quot;&quot;We do believe imitation is the greatest form of flattery, but ideally the imitation happens after we’ve had time to descend slowly from the peak – not the moment we plant the flag,&quot;say Asher Vollmer and Greg Wohlwend, the developers of the game. &quot;Even writing this feels like we’re whining about some sour grapes that we have no business feeling sour about. Like it’s not OK to feel the way we do some of the time. But we do.&quot;The trail from Threes, released onto the iOS App Store on 23 January, to 2048 is mostly public. First, on 27 February, was an iOS game called 1024, which copies Threes&apos; aesthetic and gameplay, but simplifies some of the more complex elements of the game, making it easier in the process. More importantly, it undercuts the original&apos;s £1.49 price tag by being free. Until late March, the game&apos;s description on the App Store even began with &quot;no need to pay for Threes!&quot; It was also the first Threes clone available on Android devices.2048 is mostly a clone of 1024 (a fact still acknowledged on the former&apos;sgithub page, where the code behind it is stored), but it is also &quot;based on&quot; another earlier game,also called 2048. When he shared it on hacker news, the second 2048&apos;s developer, Gabriele Cirulli, said he made it &quot;to add animations to the [first 2048], which was a bit hard to play without them.&quot;He also said that he had never heard of Threes,describing his gameas &quot;probably the last of a long chain of clones&quot;.Cirulli&apos;s 2048 is an open-source project, meaning that anyone can use the code behind it to build their own versions of 2048. Despite a warning, added after it achieved success, that &quot;this site is the official version of 2048… all other apps or sites are derivatives or fakes, and should be used with caution&quot;, those other versions have had their own success – perhaps even more than Cirulli&apos;s.An iPhone clone, which itself claims to be &quot;inspired by&quot; Cirulli&apos;s version, has been in the top 10 list since it was released in mid-March.Another clonereplaced all the numbers with images of Doge (a meme that involves pictures of a baffled yet placid shiba inu). That was then alsocloned into an iPhone version.Viral media siteUs vs Th3mmade a 2048-maker, allowing anyone to quickly clone the game themselves, whileseveralotherdevelopers merged the game with other archetypes to create &quot;Flappy 2048&quot;, which combines the aesthetics of the block puzzler with the gameplay of Flappy Bird.All of which is overshadowing the developers of Threes. While 2048 was created in just one weekend –as the LA Times declared in wonder– it could only happen because the game was building on work that had taken more than a year to put together.Along with their heartfelt letter, the developers released a mountain of material showing the development process the game went through. &quot;Been in a bunch of airports this past week. Seen people playing 2048 in all of them. This is frustrating,&quot;tweeted Vollmerthe day after he published the emails. &quot;I want to move forward. I want to move on… It&apos;s hard feeling like one misstep (not making the game free) led to us missing our chance to be part of global culture.&quot;Leigh Alexander, editor-at-large of gaming industry site Gamasutra,drily describeswhat&apos;s happening to Threes as &quot;a unique tragedy&quot;. But Alexander also cautions against making Cirulli a villain figure.&quot;I thought, why don&apos;t I find this guy,&quot; she wrote. &quot;Then I Googled and I realized Cirulli is just 19 years old, a web developer, one of countless digital tinkers who experiment with content often and in public… Young and thoughtless.&quot;This is going to happen, and this is going to keep happening.&quot;•Millions of Android app downloads infected with cryptocoin-mining code
