Ebay will lay off 2,400 positions – representing about 7% of its total number of jobs – as part of a corporate restructuring, the company announced on Wednesday.The company’s quarterly investment statement, where the cuts were announced, also says that the company will be exploring strategic options, “including a sale or IPO,” despite growing its revenues by 12% in 2014.Separately, eBay also announced that it had entered into a standstill agreement with Carl Icahn, currently eBay’s largest active shareholder. This agreement, which places Jonathan Christodoro of Icahn Enterprises on eBay’s board, is partly in preparation for the planned spin-off of PayPal from eBay.“I believe that, following the spin-off, eBay and PayPal will both be well-positioned to take advantage of multiple opportunities,” Icahn said, in a statement on his website.John Donahoe, president and CEO of eBay, says the splitting of the two companies is on track for the second half of this year.Amanda Miller, a spokesperson for eBay, said that the job cuts represented “simplification of the organisation and creating a competitive cost structure” in the run-up to the split.She said that the cuts included some positions which were not currently filled – so there might not be as many as 2,400 layoffs – but said that the company was not disclosing a more detailed breakdown of the cuts at this time.
Face! The final frontier. Microsoft became the latest tech firm to try to move the information age off our screens and on to our eyeballs on Wednesday with the surprise unveiling of holographic glasses.At an event to launch its Windows 10 operating system, Microsoft also announced the release of HoloLens, a headset that will allow people to interact with holographic images, make Skype calls, play videogames and build 3D models.Related:Microsoft to offer Windows 10 operating system for free“Our industry’s progress is punctuated by moments of category creation,” said Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive. “Windows and holographic computing is one such moment.”Microsoft is not alone in wanting to stake out territory on your mug. Rivals Google and Facebook and manufacturers including Sony and Samsung have all attempted to develop virtual reality headsets in recents years, with varying degrees of success.Last year Facebook bought virtual reality headset company Oculus Rift for $2bn. The company’s products have wonrave reviewsbut the headset closes the viewer off from the “real” world. Google has been developing its own internet-enabled headsets, Google Glass, which can be used while walking down the street. But Google Glass faced a huge backlash and triggered privacy concerns – who wants to be a Glasshole? – sales failed to take off and the company has decided this version of its smart glasses werenot so smart after all.Microsoft HoloLens: a boon for Minecraft enthusiasts everywhere.Photograph: MicrosoftMicrosoft’s HoloLens differs from both Facebook’s and Google’s offerings in its use of holograms to create 3D objects in the real world. There is no word on pricing yet and few other details have emerged but the accompanying video shows a wearer interacting with projected 3D images like something from a 21st-century Who Framed Roger Rabbit. The hardware may look like those bulky sunglasses worn by Florida retirees with particularly light-sensitive eyes, but the idea itself is not to be scoffed at, said Forrester analyst James McQuivey.“If successful, HoloLens will ultimately expand the way people interact with machines just as the mouse-based interface did in the 1990s, and touch interfaces did after the introduction of the iPhone in 2007,” said McQuivey.By 2020, Forrester predicts that mixed-reality computing will be mainstream and that millions of people will be likely to buy HoloLens-like products as they look to experience the next big thing. At least if they can get over looking like a superannuated Sarasotan.
No, Bill Gates isn’t giving away $5,000 if you share his Facebook photo. No, the Talking Angela appisn’t a front for online paedophiles. And no, an entire small town in Texas has not been put into Ebola quarantine.These are just three examples of hoaxes that have spread widely on Facebook in recent years, as gullible users shared them with friends and family. Sometimes it was pure, mischievous scaremongering, but some Facebook hoaxes were more malign: bait to get people to click through to malware-ridden websites.Now the social network is cracking down with changes to its news feed that will ensure its users see fewer hoax and spam posts, while providing a warning of their potential falsity when they are seen.“We’ve heard from people that they want to see fewer stories that are hoaxes, or misleading news,” explained Facebook software engineer Erich Owens and research scientist Udi Weinsberg in ablog post announcing the changes.“Today’s update to News Feed reduces the distribution of posts that people have reported as hoaxes and adds an annotation to posts that have received many of these types of reports to warn others on Facebook.”The new feature is based on another recent addition to Facebook: the ability to report any post as being a “false news story”. Those reports will now be taken into account by Facebook’s news feed algorithm as it determines which posts are displayed on users’ news feeds.Posts that have received lots of reports will also have a message – “Many people on Facebook have reported that this story contains false information” – added as an annotation when they do appear in people’s feeds.There may be potential for abuse of this new feature, even though Owens and Weinsberg say that satirical websites – The Onion for example – should not be affected by the changes, as “we’ve found from testing that people tend not to report satirical content intended to be humorous, or content that is clearly labeled as satire”.However, it remains to be seen how the system will cope with, for example, large numbers of ‘false news story’ reports based on political or religious disagreements.One thing Facebook is being very clear on is its determination to still be seen as a platform, not a publisher – an important legal point in terms of its responsibility for the material published on the social network.Doesn’t annotating stories as potentially false while ensuring they are seen by fewer people fall into the realms of publishing? Not according to Facebook. “We are not removing stories people report as false and we are not reviewing content and making a determination on its accuracy,” claimed the blog post.•How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?
Microsoft announced the end of nearly 30 years of history on Wednesday, launching the first free version of its Windows operating system.The tech company unveiled Windows 10 at an event in Redmond, Washington – its first update in two years – and announced the new version would be a free upgrade (for the first year) for users of Windows 7, Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone. The company is expected to release the software later this year but has not yet given a specific date.“Today’s a big day. A big day for Windows. What it means to our customers, our partners and Microsoft,” said Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive officer. “We want to move from people needing Windows to people loving Windows.”“Windows has always been grounded in the idea that technology should help individuals and organizations do great things,” said Microsoft executive vice president of operating systems Terry Myerson. He said the system would “support the broadest device family ever”.In a surprise move,the company also unveiled a new headset, Hololens, that will work with Windows 10 and allow people to interact with 3D holograms, including holographic Skype calls. “Holograms can become part of our everyday life,” said Microsoft’s Alex Kipman. The move comes shortly after Google scrapped the development phase of Google Glass, its internet-enabled headset project.The decision to offer Windows 10 for free is a major shift for Microsoft, which used to make the majority of its money from selling its operating system. The first version, Windows 1, was launched by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates in November 1985.Microsoft has stopped giving specific figures for Windows’ revenues, but they were eclipsed by its Office suite of services in 2013.Nadella set out a vision of the company offering services rather than boxes of software. “We are going to have services everywhere. We are not bolting on apps, we are seamlessly harmonizing experiences,” said Nadella. ”We are going to have our services and their endpoints everywhere. But we believe Windows is home for the very best of Microsoft experiences.”“We want to make Windows 10 the most loved release of Windows.”Microsoft still dominates the PC market but isplaying catchup to Google’s Android and Apple in mobile computing. Analysts had previously called for Microsoft to make the move to offer Windows for free in order to compete with its rivals, which do not charge for their operating systems.Windows 10 will work across PCs, mobile, tablets and the company’s Xbox gaming console. The new system will also feature Windows Start menu, which was controversially dropped in Windows 8.Windows 8 failed to convince many Microsoft users to upgrade from Windows 7. According to Forrester research Windows 8, launched in 2012, is on about 10% of PCs and 19% of tablets.The company previewed the new operating system to business customers last year and announced it would skip Windows 9 for Windows 10 in order to signal a break with the past. Myerson said that 1.7 million people had already downloaded the developer preview and provided the company with over 800,000 pieces of feedback. “We’re listening,” said Myerson, describing the new Windows as “a service”.The company also revealed a new web browser for Windows 10, codenamed Spartan, which looks set to replace Internet Explorer. Google’s Chrome has eclipsed Explorer as the world’s most popular browser. Spartan, which will work across all Windows 10-enabled devices, will incorporate Cortana, Microsoft’s voice-activated digital assistant, and allow people to take notes on top of web pages on suitable devices.
Your article (Anonymous sources are vital – Guardian editor, 20 January) exposes the risk to journalists from the new powers being given to the police, intelligence services and other state bodies by the data retention powers in thecounter terrorism and security billcurrently before parliament. The simplest mechanism to provide some basic protection to journalists and their sources is to ensure that where any state agency seeks to exercise these powers in the case of journalists or other professions that have a duty of confidentiality, then the authority of a court must be sought and it is not left to the internal decision-making processes of that agency. On several occasions now I have tried to amend the bill before parliament to this effect. There has been no adequate explanation from government ministers why they still resist this simple measure. Time is running out to secure this concession and we urgently need the maximum pressure on the government to achieve this minor but critical change.John McDonnell MPSecretary of the NUJ parliamentary group
Amazon has been forced to stop selling its own-brand nappies, less than two months after it started the product line, citing the need for “design improvements”.The nappies were the flagship component of the company’s new offering for parents, Amazon Elements, which offered baby and household goods in bulk for subscribers of the site’s $99 a year Amazon Prime service.The company announced the withdrawal in an email to customers, saying that it was “making some design improvements to the diaper … based on early customer feedback.”Customers can also opt to join the “Amazon Mom” programme instead, which is also $99 a year but offers 20% off the nappies. There is no Amazon Dad program, although Amazon Mom “is open to anyone, whether you’re a mom, dad, grandparent, or caretaker”.In contrast with many own-brand labels, Amazon intended the line to focus on the premium end of the market, offering environmentally friendly goods. It launched with nappies and nappy wipes for sale.But the nappies received mixed reviews from users.Geekwire’s Tricia Duryee saidthat they “were effective, well-designed and priced right,” but that “I will not likely order them again, and I have a hard time recommending them for other reasons”, chiefly the requirement to subscribe for the best prices.On Amazon.com, the average review was just 3 stars, with some users swearing by them (“my search for a quality, non-leaking, non-rash causing, keep my baby and bank account happy diaper is over”) and others swearing at them (“I have had more leaks with these diapers than I had experienced with several different brands in the last 20 months”).
In 2015, there is no shortage of technology startups encouraging children to tinker with hardware and/or learn programming skills. The list of firms doing that using drinking straws, however, is considerably shorter.Quirkbot is certainly on that list: the Swedish startup haslaunched a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaignto raise at least $55k to launch what it’s describing as “a hackable toy for all ages”.Its product, which the company plans to start selling in August, is a microcontroller that can be connected to construction toy Strawbees as well as LEDs and motors – and, yes, drinking straws – and programmed via a USB connection to trigger motion, lights and sounds.“With Quirkbot you can build quirky robots, blinking outfits and weird sounding creatures using regular drinking straws and a little bit of imagination,” explains the company’s Kickstarter campaign, which raised more than $16k in its first day after launching.Quirkbot hopes children will build their own robots using the device, but also sees it being used as a controller for games and applications running on computers and tablets.The product was born out of a series ofKids Hack Dayevents, initially in Sweden and later elsewhere in the world. An initial device combining an Arduino microcontroller board with an “old Christmas toy” was later turned into a full prototype with the help of Strawbees and Swedish agency Ideofon.Quirkbot hopes the final product will encourage children to explore coding, with the company having developed its own visual programming interface that runs on its website, where children can also share the projects that they create.The company is charging $55 for the basic Quirkbot product through Kickstarter, although people can spend more to get Strawbees kits included. Developers can pay $109 or $149 for the developer and “hacker heaven” kits with more parts, while schools, science centres and other organisations can pledge $999 for workshop kits.Quirkbot is not the first startup to use crowdfunding to raise money for a hardware project aiming to get children programming.British startupKano raised $1.5m on Kickstarterin 2013 for its build-it-yourself computer, which recently went on sale. US firm Play-i took more than $1.4m of preorders for itsBo and Yana programmable robotsin 2013 too.•‘Great big poo balls!’ What it’s like making a Kano with your kids•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps
Something interesting has happened at Microsoft over the last year: it’s realised that it owns a hugely popular, well-known and flexible piece of intellectual property. Not Windows or Office (I said ‘popular’), but Halo.What began as a trilogy of first-person shooters first metastasised into a multi-media franchise, incorporating books, comics and a forthcoming TV series, and has now progressed further, providing branding and design inspiration for the company’s less entertaining products.First came Cortana, Microsoft’s personal digital assistant, in April 2014. Named after the long-running AI companion in the Halo universe, Cortana, there’s an obvious link to be drawn: it’s not hard to see how the simple phone-based system for adding calendar events could grow, over time, into the sentient, purple, and strangely naked entity portrayed in the games.Then came Spartan, Microsoft’s all new web browser (and possible replacement for Internet Explorer). Named after the class of augmented super-human space marines such as Master Chief, the playable character in the first three Halo games, the link to a web browser is less clear. Spartan-the-browser will be like Spartan-the-alien-killing-machine because… it will crash less? It will be faster? It may support Chrome extensions?But the Halo Universe is full of cool-sounding code names, and Microsoft’s only scratched the surface of what it could bring over. Here’s our guesses for the next big things to get a sci-fi-themed rename.343 Guilty SparkOffice 365 is Microsoft’s “software as a service” version of its venerable productivity suite, offering users online access to cloud-based software for an annual fee – a marked change on what came before.But what’s Office without Clippy, Microsoft’s helpful assistant who notices you’re writing a letter and offers help with that? OK, so the real answer is “useable”, but let’s expand our mind here: what would Clippy look like in the 21st century? The answer is clearly “a polite if slightly mechanic robot which wants to destroy the world on which it stands as well as every sentient life form in that quadrant of the galaxy”.Just look into Clippy’s eyes: you can see it wants to kill you all.Even better, there’s brand synergy between something called 343 and something called 365. It’s a no-brainer.Pillar of AutumnThe crash of the starship Pillar of Autumn on the ringworld later known as Installation 04 is the inciting incident of the original Halo trilogy. Eventually (spoilers for a decade-old game) the player sparks an overload of the ship’s fusion reactors, destroying it and the world on which it sits.For the uninitiated, Autumn is also a season in the year. That means that Pillar of Autumn would be a cool name for a calendar service. It could even have a dynamic name, changing to Pillar of Winter in December, and then Pillar of Spring come March.GravemindIntroduced halfway through Halo 2, the Gravemind is the hive intelligence that controls the parasitical Flood. Despite its unclear motivations, the player forms a temporary alliance with the organism over their common goal of preventing the extinction of all sentient life.But that’s all irrelevant because Gravemind is also an awesome name for the recycle bin. Just imagine how much better IT support would be if the help desk got to tell users to “check the gravemind” for their lost files. Workplace satisfaction just increased 18%. Done.The Timeless OneA deep cut, this one, as The Timeless One only appears in text form in Halo 3, with the majority of its appearances saved for the trilogy of Halo novels by Greg Bar called the Forerunner Saga. Also known as the Prisoner of Charum Hakkor, it was a Precursor, and a form of Gravemind in its own right. Over the course of its imprisonment, it convinced an artificial intelligence called Mendicant Bias to essentially destroy its sanity through logic alone.Mind-numbing, timeless, and incomprehensible to human minds: we’ve found the new name for the progress bar, the only place in the world where time runs backwards.Of course, Halo isn’t the only long-running video-game based intellectual property which Microsoft owns. Thanks to its purchase of Rare Ltd in 2002, the company now owns most of my childhood. So I’d be remiss if I didn’t suggest one more:Banjo-KazooieSure, naming things after little-remembered platformers for the Nintendo 64 starring a bear with a bird in his backpack isn’t a winning strategy. But what better name could Microsoft pick if it wanted to launch a Garageband competitor in 2015?If your answer is “literally anything else”, I don’t want to be friends with you.Halo: The Master Chief collection review
It is a sad day for strings of consecutive numbers hoping to be used as passwords by foolish internet users.The password 123456 has been named as the worst password of 2014 by online security firm SplashData, and it’s joined in the top 10 by 12345, 12345678, 123456789 and 1234.The company publishes the chart annually, and yes, SplashData makes password management software. But it claims its “worst passwords” rankings are based on hard data: a list of 3.3m leaked passwords last year.The numerical passwords are joined in the latest top 10 by “password”, “qwerty”, “baseball”, “dragon” and “football”, with the analysis based on leaked passwords in North America and western Europe – hence no inclusion of Russian terms, which SplashData claims are also common in mass-leaks.“Passwords based on simple patterns on your keyboard remain popular despite how weak they are,” said chief executive Morgan Slain.“Any password using numbers alone should be avoided, especially sequences. As more websites require stronger passwords or combinations of letters and numbers, longer keyboard patterns are becoming common passwords, and they are still not secure.”SplashData claims that lower entries in its list show that people continue to use favourite sports teams, years of birth and the names of their children as passwords – all information that could be found out relatively easily by cybercriminals, if they were targeting an individual.Weak passwords are a particularly troublesome security mishap, especially when they are used for multiple websites, or when they are used for online email services that could provide a criminal with access to other logins and personal data.While superheroes like “superman” (21st in SplashData’s 2014 rankings) and “batman” (24th) may be popular choices for passwords, the results if they are cracked could be anything other than super – and users will only have themselves to blame.•How you could become a cybercrime victim in 2015
The sunken Pirate Bay is undergoing salvage operations and could return to the waters of the internet late next week, if a new countdown timer on the original site is to be believed.The timer, which is counting down to zero, stands at just over 10 days and 11 hours - but does not state what will happen at the end of the period.At the bottom of the page a familiar Pirate Bay battleship logo sails towards a cartoon of an island harbour named “welcome home”. That could indicate a return to the internet for the self-proclaimed “galaxy’s most resilient BitTorrent site”.The rest of the temporary website resembles the original Pirate Bay, with an inoperable search bar.‘Hints and teasers’Links to the Pirate Bay’s PirateBrowser and PromoBay, which shows music videos from YouTube, are live. An animated image showing a billowing pirate flag has replaced the original Pirate Bay logo.Andy Maxwell,from piracy tracking site TorrentFreak, said: “Via a web server in Moldova, those behind the Pirate Bay have been posting various hints and teasers suggesting that the current downtime will come to an end in roughly 10 days time.”The Swedish investigation, which instigated the police raid in Decemberthat took the site offline, is still ongoing.Despite attempts by rivals, includingcompeting piracy site IsoHunt, to revive the site, Pirate Bay’s operators claimed they “couldn’t care less” about the raid and site’s shutdown.The new timer and site imagery suggests that the “30 to 50 people from all over the world” who run the Pirate Bay have decided to attempt to resurrect the site, although in what form is unclear.•The Pirate Bay crew ‘couldn’t care less’ about being taken offline
Google’s new version of its US defence-developed 6ft 2in, 25st Atlas humanoid robot can now operate for up to an hour without wires.The Atlas robot was developed by Google-ownedBoston Dynamicswith the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency for its robotics challenge, designed to negotiate rough, outdoor terrain in a bipedal manner, while being able to climb using hands and feet as a human would.The first version, released in July 2013, required an electrical and control tether to power and operate the robot. The new generation of the robot, dubbed “Atlas unplugged” as it can operate on battery power and be controlled wirelessly, has been developed for the Darpa Robotics Challenge finals, which are set to take place in June.The new ‘Atlas unplugged’ robot explained.Each of the seven Atlas teams in the DRCwere given a new robot, 75% of which has been upgraded from previous units making it stronger, more powerful and more dextrous.The original pump that drove the pneumatic movements of the robot that required the operator to wear ear protection has also been replaced to make it much quieter.Related:Google's robot army in actionThe teams are set a number of challenges within a real-world disaster scenario to overcome, and have to balance power with longevity through software and programming.“The introduction of a battery and variable-pressure pump into Atlas poses a strategic challenge for teams,” said Pratt. “The operator will be able to run on a mid-pressure setting for most operations to save power, and then apply bursts of maximum pressure when additional force is needed. The teams are going to have to game out the right balance of force and battery life to complete the course.”The new Atlas unplugged robot stands 6ft 2in tall and weighs over 110kg (25st).Photograph: DarpaThe battery pack within the new Atlas robot should last for around one hour of “mixed mission operation”, which includes walking around, standing and using tools and performing tasks at the Fairplex site in Pomona, California.Each team is competing for a top prize of $2m (£1.3m) with a $1m and $500,000 prize for runners up.“During periodic reviews with the DRC teams we’re already seeing them perform at a much higher level than they were last year. We’re excited to see how much further they can push the technology,” said Pratt.The competition is designed to develop the Atlas robot as a platform for useful assistance in disaster scenarios, entering dangerous situations where humans should not or cannot operate. Robots have proved useful in the Fukushima nuclear disaster site, although most operating in real-world sites currently are limited by their relatively simple tank-track design.•What is Boston Dynamics and why does Google want robots?
Netflix plans to accelerate its global rollout and will be available in 200 countries within two years, following the news that subscriber numbers exceeded 57m in 2014.The streaming video service added 4.33m members in the fourth quarter of last year, 260,000 more than the same period the previous year.The global push comes as growth in the United States slows, with 1.9m new customers in the period, down from 2.3m in the last three months of 2013.Netflix said the fall was a “natural progression”, adding that progress in international markets had “been so strong that we now believe we can complete our global expansion over the next two years, while staying profitable”.Last year it raised prices by $1 to $8.99 a month in the US and by £1 to £6.99 a month in the UK.The service, which has won critical acclaim for original programming such as House of Cards and Orange Is The New Black, is available in about 50 countries.Millions in markets where Netflix is not yet officially available use backdoor methods to access its content. Users inAustraliaand New Zealand will no longer have to do so as the service will add the two countries to its growing list by the end of March.Barton Crockett, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets , said: “This company is going through a transition, one of a domestic growth story to one of domestic maturity, where the growth story is really international.”More original contentReed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix, said “it’s going to be a very exciting couple years”.Netflix wanted to make a “modest investment” in China, but he said it was not yet “100% clear” whether the company would be granted the necessary licence.Spending would continue to rise on original series, which it said cost less relative to its viewing metrics than most of its licensed content.Netflix will make 320 hours ofnew and returning original contentthis year, with premieres in the first quarter including Breaking Bad spinoff Better Call Saul, season three of House of Cards, the new Tina Fey comedy The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt and Bloodline, a thriller from the creators of Damages that stars Sissy Spacek and Sam Shepard.The action drama Marco Polo, which stars British actor Benedict Wong, has been well received by audiences across all its markets, Netflix said, with a 93% audience rating from Rotten Tomatoes, compared with 96% for House of Cards and 96% for Game of Thrones for their first seasons.Despite lukewarm critical reception, a second series of Marco Polo will appear in 2016.Benedict Wong stars in Netflix’s Marco Polo.Photograph: Phil Bray/NetflixThe company is ramping up spending on its own shows in the face ofescalating competitionfrom the likes of Amazon, US streaming service Hulu and HBO.YouTube has been amassing more professionally produced content, while Amazon plans to finance about a dozen feature-length films for its $99/£79-a-year Prime video service that also gives customers free one-day delivery on purchases.For the three months to December 31, Netflix said that net profit rose by $35m to $83.4m compared to the same period in 2013, as revenue increased by $300m to $1.48bn.Investors welcomed the numbers, sending shares up more than 15% in unofficial after-hours trading to $403.44 in New York. Netflix is valued at more than $20bn and its shares have risen by almost 600% in the past five years.• The Interview arrives on Netflix
A list of email addresses and passwords for Minecraft players published online in January was not the result of a security breach at developer Mojang, according to its parent company, Microsoft.Personal details for more than 1,800 players’ accounts were published onlinein plain-text format, sparking fears that hackers had gained access to Mojang’s customer database – which includes more than 100m registered accounts for the PC version of Minecraft.Microsoft has now confirmed that there was no such breach, meaning that the email addresses and passwords were obtained through other means before being published: for example, through email phishing attacks or malware installed on players’ computers.“We can confirm that no Mojang.net service was compromised and that normal industry procedures for dealing with situations like this were put in place to reset passwords for the small number of affected accounts,” a spokesperson told the Guardian.“When we discover lists of gamertags, usernames and passwords posted online, we take immediate action to protect our customers by reviewing for valid credentials and resetting account access when necessary.”Mojang, which wasacquired by Microsoft for $2.5bnin 2014, alreadyoffers players advice on picking strong passwordsfor their accounts on its service, which are used for online play as well as downloading digitally purchased copies of Minecraft.Minecraft’s huge popularity – besides the 100m PC registrations it has sold 30m copies on mobile devices, and tens of millions more on consoles – may make it a target for cybercriminals.Why would they want Minecraft passwords? Because some players will have used the same email addresses and passwords for other internet services – banking, shopping and email for example.Microsoft’s statement should ease any fears among Minecraft players that their personal data has been compromised, if they weren’t among the initial 1,800 accounts.However, it’s a reminder to all that choosing strong passwords – andnotre-using them for multiple websites – is an important element in keeping personal data secure online.•The Simpsons meet Minecraft in new content pack for Xbox
I need to get something off my chest. Well, I need to get my chest off my chest. No, wait, let’s start again.Video games are a technological art form. Anything you can imagine, you can create. Vast and varied open worlds? Done. Terrifying, unpredictable monsters governed by the most advanced AI we’ve ever seen? Easy. A blue hedgehog with a fetish for golden rings? Sure, why not. But apparently for Capcom, which has just released a graphically overhauled reboot of its survival horror classic Resident Evil, the most creative thing that can be done with these limitless powers is to give the game’s kickass zombie hunter hero Jill Valentine a pair of boobs with a mind of their own.Source: Vine/Lance E McDonaldUnfortunately for Jill, who probably just wants to get on with the whole zombie apocalypse situation, her sweater puppies (I’m sorry, this bosom slang is only going to get worse) are completely non-compliant. Jiggling around like they’ve been possessed by some kind of demonic spirit, Jill’s rather excitable funbags have become a rippling distraction to anyone attempting to play the game. Exactly why the developers decided that the one thing the original Resi was missing was a couple of rowdy bazongas challenging the laws of physics, we may never know.But this is really just one entry in a long and fairly depressing encyclopaedia of Things Game Developers Don’t Know About Anatomy. Turn to page 834, if you will, to begin the section titled “Boob Boobs”, subtitled “how incredibly wrong people can possibly be about the humble mammary gland”.You’ll find a range of breast-related mishaps in video games, from over-stuffed, rigid lumps that protrude from the chest like a fist through a wall, to the comically large hooters favoured by fighting games and RPGs, often set in a parallel universe where breasts have the power to wobble violently, completely of their own accord, like a couple of drunken jellyfish in a mosh pit.Consider Ivy in Soul Calibur, who’s actually more boob than person. Does she have a defining characteristic other than “that proper lumpy lass”? If she were in a crowded room, and you had to point her out to your friend, would you say “she’s that one over there with the white hair” or would you say “see those knockers over there? Yeah, she’s the woman attached to them, about 20 metres back”?I’ve been in possession of my very own pair of jumper turnips for a while now, and I’m pretty clued up on how these things work. For starters, they definitely don’t freely bounce around like two bald men wrestling under a blanket. Nor do they completely ignore the movements of the rest of the body. Jill’s problem is that her lady lumps act like a completely separate and possibly even sentient part of her torso, wiggling along to some sick beat that none of us can hear.That’s precisely the problem with video game baps: they’re never conceived as a part of the human they’re attached to. In fact, it’s entirely plausible that the only reason some of these women - consider Ivy, for example - are in these games at all is to be the bearer of fleshboulders. It would, after all, be rather disconcerting to have disembodied breasts floating around - and probably not all that titillating, either.You’ve seen thatnew screenshotof gorgeous, realistic Nathan Drake from Uncharted 4, right? The one so detailed you can count the individual pores on his nose, or whether or not he cleans his ears out regularly? How exactly have we advanced so far in facial modelling, but we still treat tits like a complete mystery?I understand that boobs are sexy, and often hilarious. That’s cool. That’s biology. But their depiction in games doesn’t always have to appeal to the lowest common denominator. And designers definitely don’t have to show complete disdain for their female audience by treating digital women like the Page 3 models that the Sun has just scrapped.Games have come so far in the past few years, giving us fully realised worlds stuffed to the brim with trees that look just like trees, water that ripples and flows just like water, and yet my Dragon Age: Inquisition character still looks like someone stapled on a couple of half-deflated basketballs about five inches lower than where boobs actually are.If you’re going to fetishise every single character in possession of a pair of boobs, you could at least make them look like actual boobs, rather than the current seemingly mandatory options: immovable unripe melons and jiggle-happy jugs. Perhaps we could even take into consideration that not everyone has the kind of rack that could support a full set of tableware, or the sort of cleavage that could crush a man’s skull, like that scene with Joe Pesci and the vice in Casino.Alternatively, maybe we could strive for complete equality and introduce some ridiculous dong physics in to video games. Helicopter wangs, anyone?Ryse and the problem of breasts in video gamesShinji Mikami: the godfather of horror games
In 2012, a contest for US schools to win a gig by Taylor Swift was hijacked by members of the 4chan website, who piled ​on its online vote in an attempt tosend the pop star to a school for deaf children.Now, imagine a similar stunt being pulled for a general election, if voting could be done online. Far-fetched? Not according to Rick Falkvinge, founder of Sweden’s Pirate ​party.“Voting over the internet? Would you really want 4chan to decide your next government?” he said, during a debate about democracy and technology in London, organised by the BBC as part of its Democracy Day event.Falkvinge was responding to a question about whether online voting – or even voting from smartphones – would encourage more people to vote. Besides online pranksters, his reservations included the potential ability of governments and security agencies to snoop on people’s online votes.“Surveillance is so ubiquitous, we are at a crossroads. Yes, technology can be used for good, but we are also in a Big Brother society well beyond the nightmare dystopias of the 1950s,” he said.“Searching online is as close to a mind-reading machine as we’ve ever come. And that is now eavesdropped by governments. We are arriving at a point where the government has the ability to hold you accountable for how you vote. That is a 180-degree reversal of power.”​His fellow panelist Arvind Gupta, head of social media for India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), agreed. “It should be private: your vote is a secret ballot. We have to ensure privacy and the secrecy of the ballot,” he said.The debate’s co-chairman, technology journalist Bill Thompson, added that “the risks of adopting an unknown technology are so enormous, we may be better to stick to the known restrictions… paper ballots are broken in ways that we understand”.However, Gupta and Falkvinge praised the growing use of electronic voting machines in elections, where voting still takes place in person at poll stations rather than over the internet.“If you have a vote over the internet, the government is unable to make sure you don’t have an abusive spouse behind you telling you how to vote, or an employer behind you telling you how to vote,” said Falkvinge.“You need that physical space that the government ensures, so you have privacy and your own conscience. Once you have that, then you can go electronic… a machine that prints a ballot with your options, which is machine readable, and then you have the paper tray.”The merits of electronic voting machines, and their potential for fraud, has been discussed widely in recent years, including in India. However, Gupta said that the technology has not given cause for concern so far.“In India, we have close to 2.2m electronic voting machines. If there is a malfunction in a couple of them out of 2.2m, I think that’s not a concern. I think that’s overplayed,” he said, adding that the ability to get results “in real time” in a country with more than 815 million eligible voters is a step forward for democracy.The BJP won a landslide victory in the 2014 election in India, although the run-up to the voting saw heated debate about the role that social media would play in the campaigning process.“In the two years preceding, there was a concerted effort to first discredit the medium, and to stifle free speech – to ban the medium and put a lot of restrictions on it,” said Gupta.“But the same set of people are now realising the importance of open, free media, and social media as part of that … We’ve seen the voting percentages go up more than 10 percentage points.”The panel also talked, albeit all too briefly, about the potential impact that large internet services – and Facebook in particular, with its news feed algorithm – may have on democracy. For example, whether the social networkcould influence voting patternsby hiding or showing certain stories from its users’ news feeds.“If we’re getting too dependent on certain tools, certain platforms from a technology perspective, does it present a risk that these platforms under pressure of legal guidelines can influence democracy in a manner that we cannot predict?” said Gupta.“It’s a worry. Today these companies have a lot of control over our thinking process. Instead of a printing press having control, it’s probably now an online platform that has control over how we think and how we work.”“It does bring a light to what power exists today with single players,” agreed Falkvinge.Rick FalkvingePhotograph: BOB STRONG/Reuters/CorbisA separate question about whether social networks are creating “filter bubbles” as people only follow others who they agree with politically was batted back by Twitter’s general counsel Vijaya Gadde, who was also on the BBC panel.“I think you can see by the vigorous debates that happen online, including the Scottish referendum with more than 7m tweets. I don’t think it was an echo chamber. It was a debate between people who had very different ideas,” she said.Gadde also said that Twitter has learned a number of lessons from criticism in 2014 over its response to online harassment, with thetreatment of British MP Stella Creasycited as one example of trolling so intense and abusive that it risks driving people away from social media.“There are definitely lessons we learned from that incident about making sure we create a safe environment for our users,” said Gadde. “If you let vitriol go unchecked, you’ll find trolls are marginalising the same voices that we’re trying to give a platform to speak freely.”Gadde added that high-profile examples of Twitter users like Creasy being harassed have led to changes in the company’s policies, response times to complaints and its product features.Questioned about whether electronic surveillance of social networks by agencies including the NSA and GCHQ is damaging for democracy, Gadde pointed toTwitter’s decision to sue the FBI and US Department of Justicein October 2014 in able to publish more details about government requests for user information.“We’re trying to take a stand here, but it’s something that citizens need to take a stand on too,” she said.The panel also focused on politicians’ growing use of social media to listen to voters and join conversations online, as well as explaining their policies and beliefs.Emma Mulqueeny, founder of Young Rewired State and a commissioner for the Speaker’s commission on digital democracy, admitted that some politicians remain intimidated by social media.“I don’t know whether it’s resistance, so much. There’s fear: fear of the unknown,” she said. “The fear of not knowing how to use social media or even their emails. Their fear of that is taking them away from looking at digital.”Falkvinge agreed, saying that he still sees politicians in the European Parliament “getting their emails printed for them by their secretaries, making them think they know what the internet is all about. And these are legislators who have their fingers on the yes or no button.”However, Mulqueeny and Falkvinge agreed that it’s important for politicians to conquer their fears and technical ineptitude, to ensure they aren’t seen as irrelevant by the voters who are going online to learn about and discuss political issues.Specifically with young people, they are unbelievably political, because of social media they have seen things put in front of them on their Facebook pages that we never saw. So they do care about things,” said Mulqueeny.“Politicians claim young people have no interest in civil issues, but we have never ever had a generation so eagerly, intensely and passionately discussing the society they live in. They are just disinterested in discussing the last generations problems and their solutions to their problems,” said Falkvinge.Is there a risk of a digital divide between people who are and aren’t comfortable with the internet, which could be harmful for democracy? Mulqueeny said she wants to reframe that whole debate.“The divide for me is between real life and digital life. I don’t understand why people can’t understand that online digital is as real as us sitting here. It’s not a separate thing,” she said.“Bullying online is the same as bullying offline. Illegal practice online is the same as offline. If we don’t engage properly with technology in a democracy, the people who are going to be left behind are the digital natives: the people who are used to communicating and influencing and learning in this space. Not those who don’t.”Falkvinge called for more positivity in the way technology’s impact on democracy is reported, though. “There is fear of the unknown, and people are exploiting it politically. The internet is not something strange: it’s an amplifier of human nature,” he said.“Yes, there is vitriol online, and there is hatred online. But that’s so much smaller than all the helpfulness, friendship and love online. People are helping each other more than at any time in history, and that’s shaping something beautiful.”•Strictly algorithm: how news finds people on Facebook and Twitter•State surveillance is enabled by our own sloppy habits
Shazam, the mobile music recognition service, has raised $30m in a funding round that pushes its valuation to $1bn.The company has not revealed who the new backers are, but says they had not previously invested in Shazam.Its core product is a music recognition app which can be installed on mobiles, computers and even Google Glass, that listens to ambient music and reports back to the user the name and artist of the song currently being played.Initially launched in 1999, long before smartphones were popular, Shazam started as a text-message based service which charged 50p per song. Customers called 2580 and held the phone to a speaker before waiting for a text message with the song information. The company’s first app launched with the iPhone app store in 2008, and in 2014 it released a desktop app for Macs.The investment takes Shazam’s equity funding raised to a total of $125m over the past eight years, a period in which its revenue has risen from £2.5m in 2007 to £31m in 2013.But the company has not made a profit in that period: its smallest loss was a hair under £90,000 in 2009, and in 2013 it lost £2m.In 2005, Shazam even sold the core technology behind its service to record label BMI, beforebuying it back six years laterfor an undisclosed sum.The company’s primary revenue stream is the commission it receives on sales of digital music users tag, but it also has advertising within its apps. It has also been promoting its technology to TV studios, allowing users to tag the show or advert they’re watching and receive targeted information.
Rami Ismail is something of a whirlwind. Co-founder of the dutch games studio Vlambeer, he is a constant traveller, darting between industry conferences all over the world. Ostensibly, his home is in the Netherlands, but he reckons he was only there for 40 days last year. He probably spent more time in airports, where, because of his Egyptian heritage and rucksack full of gadgets and cables, the security process can be as challenging as one of his games. Last year, he started a website namedDid Rami Get Random Checked, logging all the times he was marked for extra security attention. It happens a lot.We finally meet at the PG Connects smartphone gaming conference in London. He’s due to deliver a keynote on “indie survival” and is volunteering to judge at another session for industry newcomers, but somehow, I prise him away for 20 minutes.I’m desperate to catch him because Vlambeer is one of the most fascinating developers in the world right now. Founded in 2010, when Ismail and his friend Jan Willem “JW” Nijman dropped out of a university course in game design, the studio soon released Super Crate Box, a twitchy platform shooter praised for its lightning pace and uncompromising difficulty. Later came the crazed angling sim Ridiculous Fishing and 2D dogfighter, Luftrausers, both similarly lauded for their tight yet frenzied mechanics.The current project is Nuclear Throne, a post-apocalyptic role-playing shooter, filled with heavily armed mutants, warring over control of a scorched landscape. It was originally created for a 48-hour game jam, but two years later, JW – a brilliant coder and designer with a genius for creating rat trap-like compulsion loops – is still perfecting it.“We knew it was fun but we didn’t quite realise what we had,” shrugs Ismail. “People just couldn’t stop playing it – and we couldn’t stop developing it. We thought maybe we’d wrap it up in six months, but we just kind of fell in love with the game. Then we put it into Steam Early Access and the community became such a huge part of our lives – it’s really hard to wrap something like that up.”The Early Access generationVlambeer is at the forefront of a new era in game development, facilitated by Early Access, an area of the PC gaming download site Steam, where fans can pay to play unfinished projects. It works for gamers because they get to help shape games they’re looking forward to, and it works for developers because they can refine projects before full release. But the system comes with its challenges.“Early Access has thrown a wrench into a lot of ideas about what game development is,” says Ismail. “I’ll admit that we have fallen into feature creep, but usually in our games that means even more ridiculous weapons, so it’s not that bad. However, we’ve had moments where we’ve said, OK, are we adding this feature to make the game better or just for the sake of adding it? We’ve had to learn discipline. Our biggest problem is that our community is now too good at the game - we need to get feedback from new players. All of the issues are so different from what we’re used to. As a producer, it’s been fascinating to figure out how we solve them.”Ismail’s interest in business development has taken him beyond the usual games industry circuit – North America, Europe, Japan – and into emerging territories. “There are a lot of interesting places right now,” he says. “Last year I spent some time in India, which is obviously booming – especially in mobile games. I was very impressed with Uruguay. South Africa has an amazing development community.”He says he has started to see patterns in how territories evolve. “You begin with a disconnected group of people making games – they don’t talk, they don’t know each other. Then eventually they start to organise, they hold events, they attend international conferences, and finally someone is successful and releases a hit. Every new territory needs a hero they can admire, but that they also want to rebel against - it must be both. As soon as you have that, an industry develops.”We talk about how different national cultures imprint on to the games they make. Seemingly unrelated aspects can have an effect on game design. In India, for example, Ismail noticed that a lot of the hit mobile games revolve around specific sorts of puzzles with only one solution – like sudoku. “When I pointed out that trend to Indian developers they said, ‘well, India is very much a service culture – we fulfil specific tasks provided by other people’,” says Ismail. “That’s fascinating. A lot of people think I go to different places to teach people about development, but I go to find out what’s happening. This is a beautiful medium and it’s expanding rapidly.”A schism in gaming cultureThe expansion hasn’t come without cost or trauma. The explosion of video games beyond their historic core of young males has brought in new voices and experiences, but also resistance. The Gamergate controversy, which kicked off last August, is a sort of leaderless online protest against suspected cronyism and corruption in games journalism, but its “enemies” are often progressive industry figures who are suspected of wanting to censor and re-shape the medium. This is not so much about “ethics in journalism”, the mantra of Gamergate; it is about sociocultural conflict.Ismail has been regularly caught in the vociferous online debates. A well-known industry figure, he’s not afraid to wade in, and when he does, his responses get amplified around social media. He has been critical of Gamergate, but understands its impetus.“Gamergate was inevitable – it’s not a thing we could have avoided,” he says. “These movements have been in motion since the early 2000s, and what has happened is fascinating from a sociological perspective – although tremendously depressing, personally. Very clearly, a group of people are completely disenfranchised with the direction games are going in, and they don’t know who to blame so they blame anyone who has any sort of say in the industry – but not the people they like. The developers who are still making the games they appreciate – they’re fine, but the people trying to make new stuff, or reporting on new stuff, or have any sympathy for new stuff, are all obviously part of a huge conspiracy.”According to Ismail, maintaining that conspiracy is now a vital element of the movement. “When it started, they were in this really interesting position where they were both the weak and the strong party,” he says. “They were weak because this is a huge industry that they are just a small part of, but they also had toappearstrong because you can’t attract people if you’re not potentially powerful. No one will join a hopeless cause. They had to balance that in a really specific way, and the people who ran the campaign at the start were good at it.“But what eventually happened was, as Gamergate grew, they couldn’t remain the underdog, even though they had to. You can’t be a revolt against something that you’re as loud as. So every time they grew, they invented a new conspiracy that was slightly bigger so they could retain the underdog status. I don’t think that was intentional, it’s just how something like that grows.”Ismail feels that Gamergate, or at least the frustrations that it embodies, will not be going away: the conservative viewpoint it seems to represent is fixed. It is part of the landscape. But this needn’t be a problem. “If the harassment and abuse stops, I think we could happily live as a medium where there’s a traditionalist conservative sector,” he says. “One of the people I most admire in this is Brandon Orselli who started a website called NicheGamer. I don’t agree with anything he writes, but I appreciate his approach: ‘There’s a problem so let’s fix it’, rather than, ‘There’s a problem, so let’s demonise our enemies.’ But I have the luxury of being able to give people the benefit of the doubt. Zoe Quinn can’t do that. That’s the worst thing.”The future beyond the ThroneFor Vlambeer, the key concern is finishing Nuclear Throne. It’ll be coming to PC first and then PlayStation 4 and Vita – all later this year. Probably. But both Ismail and JW are eager to get started on something new; he talks about his generation of indie developers – the class of 2010 – and how a lot of them have had a shot at making a big successful title, but now want to scale back and experiment with smaller projects. “We have a little prototype of a game that we think might be fun, so maybe we’ll work on that,” he says. “We like streaming, so maybe we’ll develop it live on Twitch.”For Ismail, the interesting thing about Vlambeer remains its confrontational nature. “Normally with a game studio, you get people who are aligned,” he says. “They may not agree about everything, but they have a similar vision. But me and JW don’t have that at all – we’re more about collision, and when that happens we don’t know where it’s going to end up or how far it’s going to shoot.“With Nuclear Throne, we’ve known for too long about where things are going. Having an understanding with JW is so alien, and it’s not why Vlambeer exists. We want to create something we can disagree over. We want to collide again.”Clone Wars: is plagiarism killing creativity in the games industry?
If there is one thing we know about Windows 10, it is that the Start menu will not be missing this time. Microsoft, which reveals more details about the latest iteration of its operating system later today, needs to get at least that right after the miscalculation of Windows 8.The new operating system, the first under new boss Satya Nadella, replaces the unpopular Windows 8, an operating system that was arguably ahead of its time. Replacing the Start menu with the Start screen, big interactive tiles, slide-out menus and full-screen apps all made Windows 8 great on a touchscreen device, but frustrating at best on a desktop or laptop with a keyboard and mouse.An update, Windows 8.1, revived the Start button, but did little to convince users to upgrade, resulting in poor sales of the now two and a half year old operating system. Windows 7 accounts for 56% of the desktop computer market, according to Netmarketshare data, leaving Windows 8 and 8.1 languishing on just 15%. Even the now 14-year-old Windows XP is still running on 18% of desktops despite no longer being supported by Microsoft.Window 10 doesn’t have to beat Windows 8 - it has to entice consumers and business users to upgrade from Windows 7 given that the days of routine upgrades are long gone.The desktopThe Windows desktop is coming back, combining the best of Windows 7 with new tools from Windows 8.Photograph: MicrosoftWindows 10 must have a solid, reinvigorated desktop experience. Previews of the operating system indicate Microsoft understands that this is the crucial piece of the puzzle that could dissuade businesses from upgrading if it gets it wrong.Wanting to improve the desktop experience is perfectly understandable, but it must remain familiar and easy to use. Most business users will simply want software like Microsoft Office to work fast and efficiently. The same goes for home users, who could be instantly put off by something that doesn’t vaguely resemble their ideas of how a computer should work.However, it must also function well on tablets, hybrid touchscreen computers and smartphones. Microsoft’s “continuum” promises to do just that by detecting whether a keyboard and mouse are attached and presenting the right interface for the device.The Start menuIf it looks like a Start menu, acts like a Start menu and is called a Start menu, is it not, a Start menu?Photograph: Microsoft/EPAMicrosoft has confirmed that a proper Start menu is coming back in Windows 10. Windows 8.1 reintroduced the Start button, but now the menu is going replace the full-screen tiled Start screen.Here it has to tread a delicate line between innovation and familiarity. The Start menu can include active tiles that display information as they did on the Start screen. They are useful, and something Microsoft does better than anyone else. But the Start menu can also display simple to use and understand program icons and settings as it does in Windows 7.A straightforward and intuitive Start menu that looks fresh and introduces small but useful features could make the difference when attracting new home users and keeping businesses away from Windows 7.SearchA universal search function is an essential feature on a desktop computer. Windows 10 is expected to transplant Microsoft’s digital assistant Cortana from Windows Phone to the desktop. Combining it with search is a natural fit, but Microsoft must be mindful that Windows users are normally in an office with hundreds of other people.Office users may not want to talk to Cortana, Microsoft’s personal assistant, on their computers in the same way they might on their smartphones.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APTalking to a computer or having one talk back to you is just not going to work for many. Cortana can add useful information, but users will quickly regard it as a curse rather than a blessing if it becomes frustrating.Universal appsMicrosoft is using Windows 10 to attempt to unify its various software platforms across different devices under one Windows brand and software.Photograph: screengrabMicrosoft is promising to unify its Windows stores across the desktop, tablets and smartphones. For home users this could be a killer feature.No other manufacturer can make that claim. If Microsoft can get developers interested, it could help boost its lagging Windows Phone and help it to compete against Android and Apple’s iPhone.Microsoft is far from a one-product company, but Windows remains an important part of its business and Windows 10 needs to prove that it can still deliver something people need as more and more services become browser-based.•Windows 10: ten things to know about Microsoft’s new OS
Hey, wait a minute, did I miss Tuesday?
Microsoft will unveil the first major update of its Windows operating system under new boss Satya Nadella on Wednesday as it fights to win back mobile customers from Apple andGoogle.TheWindows 10 upgradewill be revealed at an event in Redmond, Washington, and could mark the end of an era for the tech giant. Analysts are predicting Microsoft could make the new system available for free – a major shift for Microsoft which used to make most of its money from selling its operating system.Windows once dominated the computing market, but its share of the world’s operating systems has fallen as users have shifted to mobile devices. This year people will buy three times as many devices running Google’s Android operating system as they will buy PCs, the area Microsoft still dominates.Related:Windows 10: the start menu is back and nine other things to know“That’s the problem of the incumbent,” said Colin Gillis, senior technology analyst at BGC Partners. Gillis said if successful the system will make Microsoft the first company to offer one operating system that will work across all devices, from PCs to tablets and phones. “Arguable Microsoft could put itself ahead of the competition for a change,” he said.Business customers received a preview of the system last October, which will replace the unpopular Windows 8 operating system. The company has said it skipped using the name Windows 9 to go straight to 10 in order to make a break with the past.Windows 8 focussed on touch commands as Microsoft positioned itself to take on Apple and Google in mobile and tablet computing. But customers found the system awkward and a decision to drop the start menu had to be reversed with an update, Windows 8.1.Frank Gillett, principal analyst at Forrester, said Microsoft had failed to convince enough people that Windows 8 was worth the upgrade and that he expected to see a significant shift in the way the company released its operating systems in the future.“Windows 8 is on about 10% of PCs and even on tablets it’s only around 19%,” he said. “The problem is people don’t upgrade because it costs and it is scary.”Gillett said that developers had also been put off by Windows 8 and that it was vital that the company won them back with the new system. “You could argue that this is the last chance for Windows to make itself relevant for developers in the modern age,” he said.He predicted that this could be the last big version of Windows and in the future, Microsoft will roll out upgrades in the background, much as Google does with its Chrome system, as it responds to changing technology.Microsoft has a history of launching popular operating systems after unpopular upgrades, which could bode well for Windows 10. But Gillett said Microsoft faced an uphill battle even if the new system proves a hit. “I’m skeptical that even with these technological improvements Microsoft will it needs to become a solid instead of distant number three in mobile,” he said.
Google is reportedly considering a billion-dollar investment in SpaceX, Elon Musk’s spaceflight company, in order to boost its deployment of cut-price satellite internet.The investment, the exact size of which is unknown, puts a value on SpaceX of more than $10bn.News of Google’s plans wasreportedby Jessica Lessin at The Information.If the investment is finalised, it would advance Google’s efforts to explore alternative methods by which internet access can be spread to the developing world. The company has already explored using weather balloons to hoist wireless internet into the sky, in a plan called “Project Loon”.“By partnering with Telecommunications companies to share cellular spectrum we’ve enabled people to connect to the balloon network directly from their phones and other LTE-enabled devices,” the company explains. “The signal is then passed across the balloon network and back down to the global Internet on Earth.”At Facebook’s Connectivity Lab,the plan is to use low-flying, solar powered drones to boost connectivity instead. The company has also launchedInternet.org, a non-profit aimed at achieving the same goal with more low-tech interventions.Both companies are pushing to increase access to the web, in part due to humanitarian aims, and in part hard-headed business decisions. Facebook’s userbase is close to 50% of the entire internet-connected population of the world, and it may be easier to increase that latter number than get the holdout half to use the service.SpaceX has become the first private company to win a contract to restock the International Space Station, and Elon Musk, the company’s chief executive, is expected to announce plans for a mission to Mars in 2015.
Moroder. Kraftwerk. Numan. Without Moog, chances are that none of these artists would have their place in the music hall of fame.Half a century after Dr Robert Moog unleashed his first synthesiser on the world, Moog Music has announced plans to release a limited run of its three most sought-after large format, modular synthesisers: the System 55, the System 35 and the Model 15.The trio were first manufactured by Moog in 1973 and were used by Giorgio Moroder on Donna Summer’s I Feel Love, Brian Eno, Yes and Stevie Wonder’s albums in the 1970s to name but a few.The foundation for Moog’s decision was laid at Moogfest 2014, when the company released the Emerson Moog Modular System – a “faithful recreation of Keith Emerson’s legendary modular instrument”.Kraftwerk were one of the artists who performed at Moogfest 2014.Photograph: Alicia Funderburk/Getty ImagesMoog Music said the re-issues were not about reliving the past: “Artists had only begun to grasp the vast possibilities of these large format modular synthesisers when they went out of production over 30 years ago ... Today, the modular synthesiser is viewed in the manner Bob Moog originally intended: to ‘discover endless offbeat, unconventional, and even irrational ways of working’.”They will not come cheap, however. The System 55 will cost a cool $35,000 (£23,000) and only - you guessed it - 55 units will be hand-built to order using the original circuit board and art files.‘Sonic depth and dimension’“Each individual module is hand-stuffed and the components are hand-soldered to circuit boards using traditional wiring methods. Each module is then finished with a photo-etched aluminum panel, and placed in its new modular instrument,” the company says.The System 35 will be even rarer, with only 35 units to be made, but slightly more affordable at a mere $22,000 (£14,500). The five-oscillator instrument has 22 handcrafted analog modules and is housed in a solid walnut cabinet. The company promises it will deliver “all of the sonic depth and dimension found only in a vintage Moog modular synthesiser”.The re-released Moog System 35 synthesiser - a snip at just $22,000.If you pocket won’t quite stretch to either of those, then perhaps consider the comparatively pint-sized System 15 at $10,000 (£6,600).Moog describes it as an “ultra-powerful, compact studio synthesiser designed for live performance and portability” that “focuses on speed, creativity and simplicity while still providing the enormous sonic depth and dimension”.The Moog System 15 synthesiser.To mark the re-issues, Moog brought together electronic music pioneers such as Suzanne Ciani, Malcolm Cecil, David Borden, Dick Hyman and Herb Deutsch alongside contemporary artists including Holy Ghost!, Gavin Russom and Jacques Greene.Each artist played a patch live, in one take with no overdubs, on one or more of the new Moog Modular systems.Moog Music’s Back to the Future SoundsAfter a serious of disastrous changes in ownership, Moog left his own company in 1978 and then worked as a consultant on other electronic music innovations such as theFairlight CMI.He did not regain rights to the Moog Music name until 2002 when he returned to synths with theVoyager– a well-received update of the Minimoog. He died three years later at the age of 71.•Hey, what’s that sound: Moog synthesisers
Adventure Time has been a hit as a TV show and as a series of mobile games, but its latest interactive spin-off wants to get children creating as well as playing.Released for iOS and Android devices,Adventure Time Game Wizardis a platform game featuring Finn, Jake and several other stars of the Cartoon Network show, which has stretched over six series since its debut in 2010, with a seventh to come.However, the heart of the new game is its “Create” mode, where children can make their own levels using a digital editor within the app, or by drawing scenery and items on paper then scanning their levels in using their device’s camera.Cartoon Network worked with mobile developer Pixel Press on the app, building on technology previously used for the latter company’sPixel Press Floorsapp, which launched for iOS in April 2014.The Adventure Time version’s pen-and-paper aspect involves downloading and printing outa “starter kit” of worksheets, with gridlines to help children plan blocky 2D scenery for their levels, before using “glyphs” to indicate features like lava, moving platforms, coins and power-ups.The pen-and-paper creation mode in action.Once created, levels can be shared via the in-game “Arcade” for other players to download and play. Cartoon Network is charging £3.99 upfront for the game with no in-app purchases. It’s the latest mobile game based on the show, following Card Wars, Ski Safari, Treasure Fetch and Time Tangle.Game Wizard – and before it Pixel Press Floors – are part of a small but growing number of apps that aim to blend digital play with real-world creativity, however.Other examples includeSquiggleFish, where children draw and scan in sea creatures for a virtual aquarium;Foldify Zoo, where kids create animals on-screen, then print them out as papercraft versions to colour in;Drawnimal, which provides animated faces for animals that children draw on paper; andcolAR Mix, which turns coloured-in printable pictures into 3D animations.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
India’s ICICI Bank has launched a new service called “icicibankpay” that allows customers to transfer money using Twitter.Customers simply need to follow the bank’s Twitter account to register their mobile phone with the bank and then send @icicibank a direct message with the recipient’s user name and the amount to be transferred. The recipient does not need to be an ICICI Bank customer.ICICI Bank, one of India’s big four banks and the second largest in terms of assets, is the second bank to add pay-by-tweet facilities. France’s second-largest bank Groupe BPCE introduced a similar service last year.Mobile internet boomMany internet users have a mobile phone or smartphone as their primary computing device in India, where around 185 million of thetotal 213 million internet usersaccess services through a mobile internet connection last year.India has a population of 1.2 billion, of which about 10% or 120 million people owned a smartphone in 2014, according to data fromresearch company IDC. But the number of people owning smartphones in India is forecast to grow substantially as an influx of more affordable smartphone, such as the Motorola Moto G and models from local vendors including Micromax.“This rapid pace of growth in smartphones is expected to continue in India. While we notice that much of the growth is coming from low-cost devices using the Android operating system, Windows is making adequate gains too based on the strength of the entry level product mix in smartphones,” said Kiran Kumar from IDC India.Rajiv Sabharwal, executive director of ICICI Bank said that it was the company’s strategy to go where its users are and that social media and mobile devices are key.The new financial services are the result of Twitter’s push into e-commerce as the social network attempts to expand beyond advertising as a potential revenue stream, and aims to make Twitter a core experience in other activities.Twitter introduced a feature that allowed users tobuy good directlyfrom some promoted tweets, while Amazon introduced a feature that allowed users to addstuff to their basketsfor purchase using tweets.•Facebook and Twitter have ‘social responsibility’ to help fight terrorism, says David Cameron
A new app for French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has been released for iOS, Android and Windows devices, letting readers worldwide get hold of a copy without queueing at newsagents.The app is illustrated with the current cover, a cartoon of the prophet Muhammed, in a change from the norm for Apple’s notoriously censorious App Store which has previous banned satirical and controversial apps.The launch of the app on Apple’s store comes after the firm put a Je Suis Charlie banner on its French homepage, a rare move for a company with a typically conservative web presence.Shortly after the banner appeared, Applereportedly fast-trackedan app called Je Suis Charlie through its approval process. The app let users find vigils for the magazine’s murdered staff happening near them, and show their support using social media.Currently, only the most recent issue of the magazine is available, in both English and French editions. But the app also offers annual subscriptions starting at £69.99, alongside the individual issues for £2.29.User reviews for the app have been overwhelmingly positive, with the majority of negative comments coming from users who couldn’t find the English translation. One one-star review does, however, brand the app “bad”, saying it is “based on racism and anti-muslim”.Apple’s relationship with satire has not always been so rosy. In 2010, the company banned apps from string of prominent editorial cartoonists for breaching a policy against “ridiculing public figures”. Mark Fiore (a pulitzer prize-winning editorial cartoonist), Tom Richmond and Daryl Cagleall saw their apps denied approval for sale.The first two were eventually allowed on after public outcry, but the latter’s app was never granted permission.An Apple spokesman says thatthe company’s guidelinesnow make explicit that that “professional political satirists and humorists are exempt from the ban on offensive or mean-spirited commentary”. That clause was added in September 2010.Under other rules, however, the company continues to prevent edgy content from being sold on its storefront. Most recently, the game Papers Please, which mimics the experience of being a border guard in an authoritarian regime, wasforced to remove nudityfrom a scene involving body scanners before the company would allow it on the App Store.Apple has also censored publications sold through in-app purchases, perhaps the closest direct analogue to Charlie Hebdo. In November 2013, itrejected two issues of the comic Sex Criminals, and retroactively removed another, over the book’s explicit content (the award-winning comic features two lovers who discover that time stops when they have sex; they use that ability to rob banks).
British retailer Office has been given a warning by UK privacy watchdog the information commissioner, but has escaped a fine, after personal data of more than one million customers was exposed by a hacker.The company has promised to fix the issues resulting from the data breach, which involved the hacker potentially accessing contact details and passwords via an unencrypted database that was due to be decommissioned.According to the information commissioner’s office (ICO), the incident – which was undetected at the time – highlights the need for companies to tighten their policies on unnecessarily storing older personal data, and beef up the security around the customer data that they do retain.“All data is vulnerable even when in the process of being deleted, and Office should have had stringent measures in place regardless of the server or system used,” said Sally-Anne Poole, the ICO’s group manager.“The need and purpose for retaining personal data should also be assessed regularly, to ensure the information is not being kept for longer than required. Fortunately, in this case there is no evidence to suggest that the information has been used any further and the company did not store any bank details.”According to theundertaking signed by Office’s chief executive Brian McCluskey, the company told the ICO about the breach in May 2014, after the hacker managd to evade Office’s “technical measures” to prevent people accessing data on its older servers.As part of the agreement, Office has promised to amend its privacy policy to explain how long it retains customers’ data for; to provide formal data protection training to its staff; and to hold regular penetration tests of its website and servers, to ensure its security measures are effective.Meanwhile, the ICO has used the case as its latest opportunity to remind online shoppers not to use the same password for different websites and internet services.“It’s important to use a unique, strong password for each separate account; preferably a combination of numbers and letters – not a name or dictionary word,” said Poole.•ICO warns that privacy is at risk thanks to basic security failures
Microsoft’s Xbox Live service has regularly been a target for hackers, but now another of its gaming brands may be under attack: Minecraft.According toGerman publication Heise, email addresses and passwords of more than 1,800 Minecraft accounts have been published online in plain-text format, although it remains unclear how they were obtained.As its report notes, the details would allow strangers to log in to each of those user’s accounts on Minecraft to play online, and download the game to their own computers.However, the more serious implication would be for any players who had used the same email address and password combination for other online services, from shopping and banking to email and social networking.1,800 accounts is a fraction of the overall Minecraft population. The game hasmore than 100 million registered accountsfor its PC version alone.On the one hand, this means 1,800 accounts is an extremely minor breach. On the other, if it turns out to be the tip of an iceberg of compromised player data, it will be a serious problem for Minecraft’s developer Mojang and its parent company Microsoft.“There’s no guarantee that whoever gained access to them hasn’t got a whole lot more in their back pocket which they haven’t chosen to release to the rest of the world,”wrote online security expert Graham Cluleyin his reaction to Heise’s report.“There is no mention of the security breach on Minecraft’s homepage, but my recommendation would be that if users have any concern that their accounts might be exposed to hackers that they should change their passwords immediately. It goes without saying that they should be particularly concerned if they are using the same password anywhere else on the web.”As Cluley noted, Mojang has already provided players with advice onhow to choose a strong password for Minecraft. Even for players who aren’t worried about Heise’s story may wish to read that post and consider changing their password.•The Simpsons meet Minecraft in new content pack for Xbox
Last Tuesday after work, I headed to a bar in Kings Cross with a couple of colleagues, slung my rucksack on the table next to us, and spent a pleasant hour brainstorming feature ideas. When I got up to leave, the rucksack was gone – complete with my laptop, notebook and a copy of The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole that I was only three quarters of the way through.I didn’t see my laptop being taken and I was not confronted or assaulted by the thieves – but it was a shocking intrusion. I felt vulnerable and stupid, and for a few days, it ate away at my sense of control and security. What really got to me were the little things. I’d just downloaded a bunch of photos of our family Christmas, and there were emails I’d saved from friends and relatives, some of whom are no longer with us. There were sound files of incredible interviews, there was a document full of things I’d learned and studied about autism; things to help me with my son.Just the stuff of everyday life.I now have a new Macbook Air, and thanks to a (slightly out of date) Time Machine back-up, I’ve restored my old desktop rather than starting again from scratch – the familiarity of my recklessly organised files, folders and stickie notes was bizarrely comforting.In the days that followed the theft, I learned a lot of things. I learned that, as soon as you can, you should call a friend and let them know what’s happened. Ask someone to come and be with you. However minor the crime (and my experience was extremely minor – I’m aware of that), it’s still upsetting and confusing.I also found that certain people will delight in telling you what youshouldhave done and all the security measure thattheyhave in place. This is natural and these people think they’re helping – they don’t mean to make things worse, but that’s exactly what they’re doing.With this in mind, if someone you know is a victim of crime, don’t lecture them. Just give your friend a hug and tell them everything will be OK. In the hours after my laptop was stolen, I discovered that this is what I needed most.On a more practical level, here’s what you need to know if it ever happens to you.Police and thievesGadget theft is very common and thieves are very quickYou won’t believe how quick thieves are. I left my bag on the table close to me and my colleagues, but for a few brief seconds we were all distracted. CCTV footage from the bar shows two men approaching the bag, one guarding it from view and the other ready to grab it. Then they were gone.According to the technology research firm Gartner, a laptop is stolen every 53 seconds;Figures from the Metropolitan Policesuggest a vast majority of these are stolen from bars or public transport. “The reality is that there is a burgeoning market for stolen laptops,” says Raj Samani, European CTO for Intel Security. “The goods go to pawn shops or unsuspecting people purchasing electronics from the internet in the majority of cases. It’s much less common for a thief to be specifically interested in your data.”Preventing the snatch and run approach is your first line of defence. Ensure your laptop is in sight at all times, or use a purpose built laptop lock to secure it to the table or yourself. It’s also possible to buy proximity alarms like hipKey or the Kensington Proximo which emit a loud noise if your bag is moved beyond a certain range.Always call the police and your insurer – but don’t expect muchWhen you know your laptop is missing, call the police using the non-emergency number 101. They’ll take an initial report and later give you a crime number. The Metropolitan Police also sent me a letter five days after the theft, predictibly advising me that they would not be pursuing the case, but providing me with extra information and contacts. It’s unlikely a stolen gadget will ever be recovered, but you can register it with a service likeImmobiliseso if it later turns up as part of another police investigation, it may be returned to you.You should also call your insurance company as your laptop may be covered under your buildings and contents policy – although probablynotif – like me – you sometimes use it for work. Indeed, I’d phone your insurance company right now and check if your gadgets are covered for street theft, and if there are any caveats to that coverage. It’s a cliche, but when I called my insurer, the conversation seemed laser-targeted on avoiding payout.Check the local areaA few police officers I spoke to said that thieves may well have checked the bag for valuables then dumped the rest in a bin near the pub. I wouldn’t have found my laptop of course, but I could perhaps have retrieved my notebook filled with feature ideas and daft observations.What to do nextRemotely log out of all sessionsAs soon as you can get on to another computer, it’s worth logging out of any online sessions you may have accidentally left running on your stolen device. You can log out of Google via the Gmail window (click on “Details” in the bottom right-hand corner, then on “sign out of all other web sessions”), thende-authorise your missing laptop. You can alsoremotely log out of Facebook, but it seems you need to change your password to remotely log out of web-based Twitter sessions.Use a tracking app to delete all your dataTracking services like Prey, LoJack and LockItTight all provide a range of features allowing you to trace gadgets and secure or delete data. It’s also possible todiscover the IP addressof the thief if he or she tries to log in to various sites and services. If you have an up-to-date Apple Macbook, you can switch on theFind My Macoption in the iCloud settings, then track it and delete the hard drive via your iPhone or another browser.Whatever happens, do not try to retrieve the laptop yourself – you are not Batman. Provide the tracking information to the police.Protect yourself from identity theftIf there were personal emails or documents on your machine, you are vulnerable to identity theft.There are two very quick things you can do to protect yourself. The fraud prevention agency CIFAS offers anIdentity Protection servicefor £20 a year. This puts a warning flag against your details on the National Fraud Database, which is used by hundreds of banks and other financial institutions when checking credit applications.It may also be worth signing up for regular reports from one of the three main credit reference agencies: Experian, Equifax and CallCredit. Costing about £15 a month, these will let you know about recent applications for credit in your name, as well as any changes to your credit rating. Monitoring this information along with your bank statements will allow you to spot suspicious activity.How to protect yourselfPassword protect your laptop – and besmartwith passwordsYou should set up your laptop so that you have to enter a password every time you boot up, or whenever you come back to it after it has switched to the screensaver. Skilled computer users may be able to bypass this feature, but it will protect your data from common thieves.It’s not just about picking difficult-to-guess passwords filled with capital letters, numbers and symbols (although that is a very good idea – and you can run potential passwords throughMicrosoft’s strength checker). You should also enable two-step authentication on any site that holds personal data including Facebook, Twitter and Google.If you can’t remember the wealth of passwords you’ve created, don’t stick them in a text file on your desktop. Instead, you could store a list on a cloud service like iCloud or Dropbox (if you trust them), or better still, try a password manager which allow you to log in with one universal password. Services like LastPass and 1Password store your passes in an online vault, while KeePass stores them on your machine. Both approaches have theirstrengths and weaknesses. Dashlane, meanwhile, allows users to store passwords and personal data on their computer, but also allows premium customers to have an encrypted version stored on the company’s servers for backup and syncing.Alternatively, many new applications offer biometric authentication. “This is a strong tactic for protecting your data, as it will eliminate the need for you to remember multiple passwords,” says Samani. “Our own product, True Key, uses things like facial features, or a fingerprint to log you in.”Futhermore, although it’s convenient to allow your computer or browser to remember all your passwords and log you in to sites automatically, it’s probably not a good idea on a laptop that is often on the road with you. All browsers allow you to prevent the storage of passwords: you just need to go into the preferences folder and look for the security settings. Googlehas a handy link to all this informationfor Chrome, Firefox and Windows Explorer. And whenever your browser helpfully asks if it should remember a password, just say no. It’s all aboutthe risks you’re willing to accept.Encrypt your hard driveOn a new PC running Enterprise or Ultimate versions of Windows 7 or 8 you can use Microsoft’s own Bitlocker solution, butthere are alternatives available, including McAfee LiveSafe. On Mac, Apple’s FileVault application can be switched onto similar effect. These solutions will protect your data even if the thief removes your hard drive from your laptop and access it directly.Limit the data on your machine - and back up regularlyOne thing I’ve learned since losing my laptop is to limit what I keep on it. If you can strip your hard drive back to the bare essentials, storing most of your vital documents and files elsewhere, the potential woes of its loss are reduced. Have a look at everything on your machine and ask, “does this top-secret government file have to go with meeverywhere?” If not, leave it on your home computer, or store it on a small encrypted drive or USB memory stick (just don’t keep this in the same bag as your laptop).Oh and back up regularly. Every week. Every day if you can be bothered. I didn’t back up for three months so I lost hours of work and dozens of half-finished articles. It’s easy to put it off, so make it habitual. Every time you boot up your laptop at home or the office, plug in an external drive and back up. Back up a lot.Many thanks to security, technology and gaming consultant Josey Howarth who advised on this feature and makes YouTube videos on laptop and gaming security. She tweets from@joseyhowarth.If you have been a victim of crime, you can get in touch withVictim Support, an independent charity that helps anyone affected by crime in England and Wales. They’re contactable via their website or the support line:08 08 16 89 111
The BlackBerry Classic, as the name suggests, is the Canadian firm’s return to what it does best: a business-focused smartphone with a physical keyboard.On its announcement, BlackBerry forthrightly proclaimed that the Classic was the second coming of the Bold, a phone last updated in 2011 and the one most diehard fans still cling to.If a phone for emailing with a physical keyboard is the dream, this just might be it … but for everyone else, is this just a curio best left to another time?Classic Bold designThe back is a tough, grippy plastic which flexes slightly when squeezed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBlackBerry weren’t kidding when they described the Classic as a new Bold. Most people would be hard pressed to tell the difference between the two at first glance.The Classic has a new metal band, around the edge and sealed back, which means the battery if not removable. The nano SIM card slot and microSD card slot for adding more storage are in the side of the phone.The bottom of the phone has three holes, one for the micro USB cable for charging and syncing the smartphone, one for the speaker, which is decent if not exceptional for a smartphone, and the other for a microphone.The BlackBerry sleeve that protects and acts as a wake/lock device makes a welcome return.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Classic is quite thick and heavy for a modern compact smartphone at 10.2mm and 177g. By comparison the Bold was 11.4mm thick and weighed 107g and the iPhone 6 is 6.9mm thick and weighs 129g. Most top-end Android phones have similar statistics and even the low-cost Motorola Moto G weighs less at 143g.The BlackBerry feels solidly built, however, designed to last as many of the company’s older models did. The back and sides also provide a reassuring grip in the hand. Using the Classic one-handed is easy thanks to the welcome return of BlackBerry’s action buttons and optical scroll button.The screen is 3.5in and square, with a pixel density of 294 pixels per inch (ppi) – far below the 493ppi-plus screens of the large Android smartphones such as the Nexus 6 and even the 326ppi of the iPhone 6.The screen is sharper than the 245ppi Bold, however, and text and images appear crisp enough for most uses. Only on small text do the pixels show and the edges become noticeably fuzzy. Images look colourful and the screen has wide viewing angles.The keyboard is the real star of the show. It is arguably the best physical keyboard available, complete with shift, symbol and alternate keys, which makes entering text, numbers and punctation easy. It is a significant improvement on the keyboard of the Passport.The Classic’s keyboard is the best physical keyboard yet, but touchscreen keyboard users might miss the advanced auto-correct and dynamic keyboard characters of competing platforms.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:3.5in 720x720 (294ppi)Processor:1.5 GHz dual-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 PlusRAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16GB plus micro SD cardOperating system:BlackBerry 10.3Camera: 8MP rear camera, 2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0, FM radio and GPSDimensions:131 x 72.4 x 10.2mmWeight:178gYesterday’s chipsA microSD card slot and nano SIM slot in the side.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe chips and processors used in the Classic aren’t going to win any awards for speed or performance. They are older chips, which makes the Classic slower than the square Passport.For what the phone is designed to do – process email, texts and messages – the Classic is up to the task. For playing games and those demanding apps that are available for the BlackBerry through Amazon’s app store (more on that later), the Classic will struggle.Launching some apps, like the maps app, Facebook or Twitter, can take a while with a few seconds of lag that can be irritating. Switching between them once running is snappy, but the experience is noticeably slower than rivals such as the iPhone 6, Nexus 6 and even the Motorola Moto G.The Classic will last a solid day of reasonably heavy use on a single charge, constantly reading and sending emails, checking Twitter and Facebook, with a little streaming music via Spotify.Call quality was solid, as was the Classic’s reception, which matched competitors picking up 4G and 3G signal well.Better softwareBlackBerry’s ‘Hub’ - a unified inbox and notification system - is one of its best features.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Classic runs the latest version of BlackBerry 10 software with access to both BlackBerry’s and Amazon’s app stores. The latter provides a selection of Android apps, which is designed to overcome the shortcoming of apps available directly through BlackBerry.While there are some exceptions to the rule, essentially that means business, productivity and secure apps come from BlackBerry World and entertainment apps come from Amazon. The flaw in the system is that Amazon’s app store only has a smaller selection of the billion-plus Android apps.Apps such as Spotify, Feedly and a decent selection of others are available through Amazon, but some such as Netflix and BBC iPlayer are not.The BlackBerry Hub collects all messaging notifications into one place and works better than any other “unified inbox” on any other platform. The BlackBerry is still the best machine for sending simple text to other people.BlackBerry’s Universal Search is also solid and includes the BlackBerry Assistant, which although doesn’t quite have the same personality and panache of Siri or Google Now, works well for hands-free control and dictation.The browser is much improved compared to older BlackBerrys, but still struggled with complex sites such as The Guardian, something Apple’s Safari and Google’s Chrome do not on modern smartphones.CameraThe Classic’s camera isn’t anything to write home about but will get the job done for casual photos.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe eight-megapixel camera is solid, with panoramic, high dynamic range and time shift features that bring it up to par with the competition. Images are decent in good lighting conditions, but the camera struggles in low-light and can take a while to focus.The front-facing two-megapixel camera is average and produces mediocre selfies that lack detail and colour accuracy.PriceThe BlackBerry Classic costs £350 without a mobile phone contract, which undercuts the £539 iPhone 6 by £189 and the £499 Google Nexus 6 by £149. But it is three times the price of the £100 Motorola Moto G, which has recently started to be bought by businesses as BlackBerry replacements.VerdictThe Classic is easy to use in one hand unlike many competing smartphones.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe BlackBerry Classic is the smartphone BlackBerry diehards have been waiting for. It’s keyboard is the best yet, the quick keys make touch-typing possible and the menu buttons speed up navigation.But the Classic has little to tempt people away from the iPhone or the many solid Android smartphones, some of which are a third of the price. It feels sluggish and a bit clunky in use and is antiquated in look and feel compared to the competition.The Classic achieves what it sets out to do and is a worthy upgrade for users of a Bold or other older BlackBerry. Better options are available for everyone else.Pros:the best physical keyboard, solid build, good universal inbox, OK cameraCons:lack of games and entertainment apps, confused interface with Android apps, sluggish performance, heavy and thickOther reviews•Motorola Moto G review – the best small smartphone is just £135•Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone•LG G3 review: the most usable phablet to date•Motorola Moto X review: listening out for your dulcet tones•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device
Can’t afford to buy your own 3D printer? What if you could buy it one bit at a time? That’s the idea behind a new partwork magazine from publisher Eaglemoss.Over 90 weekly issues of3D Create &amp; Printat £6.99 a pop, the company is hoping to get a 3D printer into the homes of people who are keen to experiment with 3D printing, but have balked at the upfront price of existing models.There’s something distinctly Apple-esque about the device itself – the Vector 3 – hammered home by the cover of the first issue, which shows it perched next to an iMac on a suitably-modern desk.Its designer is Sebastian Conran, whose CV before setting up his own product design studio ranges from Mothercare and Wolff Olins; trusteeships at the Design Museum, Design Council and industry body D&amp;AD; and (in his student days) being the first person to book the Sex Pistols for a gig.He’s alsoveryexcited about 3D printing, well beyond his company’s partnership for the new partwork. In fact, the interview is barely underway before he’s enthusing about a current in-house project.“We’re producing a cycle helmet which has programmed-in crumple zones built into it. We’re all used to buying shoes that fit us, but we don’t buy cycle helmets that fit us properly: they tend to vaguely wrestle around on people’s heads,” he says.“So we’re trying to build one where you go in and get your head scanned – which is actually a very simple thing to do – and then we make the helmets to fit the specific person. And we’ve designed it so the latticework inside absorbs impact, and allows a huge amount of air to come through over your head. It will be both more comfortable and more effective.”This, according to Conran, is one example of why 3D printing is much more than a novelty. “We’re trying to think of ways where it actually makes the product better: where this is the best way of making it,” as he puts it.“Cars have crumple zones programmed to crumple up and absorb the energy of a crash, so how can you program a helmet to do that? The only way you can do it is 3D printing: you can’t really usefully do it in any other way.”Sebastian Conran: ‘This is the new Meccano or the new Lego’Photograph: Sebastian Conran AssociatesConran’s studio,Sebastian Conran Associates, has been using various 3D printers for some time now, and is currently using several smaller models from MakerBot, having realised that they can “whizz along much quicker” than a single large printer.He’s also been using the technology personally. “I just spent the holidays refurbishing an old Moulton bicycle, and I needed a chain guard so I 3D printed it, and it looks rather nice,” he says. “People say ‘oh, that’s a nice chain guard’, and I say ‘Oh, I 3D printed it!’ I’m constantly finding useful things to make.”Conran hopes the Vector 3 will spur that desire in other people, including those without formal design training. That’s part of the thinking behind its look.“It’s designed to be a domestic printer, for the home. It’s quieter, has a safety enclosure, and it’s meant to be engaging from a learning point of view. As people build it, they learn how to use it,” he says.Conran says that he was keen to ensure that the Vector 3 “didn’t look like it had been designed by William Heath Robinson” – the illustrator known fordrawing deliberately over-complex machines.“We wanted it to actually look like a domestic accessory. We chose a vaguely kitchen-appliance look in terms of the visual language, with white and grey so that it doesn’t look toy-like,” he says.“We don’t want it to look like a Toys R Us product: we want it to look serious. You’ll be plugging your Apple computer into it, so we wanted to get that look of smartphones and computers these days: the styling is played down, but the detailing is very thoughtful.”Conran is also enthusiastic about the partwork format, since people building the Vector 3 will also be learning about what they can do with it as they go along.He suggests that for many people, owning a 3D printer will spark their creative urges, particularly when it comes to customising existing products and parts – a view matchingthat of Chris Elsworthy from 3D printer firm Roboxin a recent Guardian interview.“When I was a child, I was mad keen on electric train sets, and I would buy very simple injection-moulded people and stuff, then paint them up myself and make them look lovely, and paint bridges and make houses and things like that,” says Conran.He suggests that one of the early domestic uses for 3D printing is making furniture and other items for dolls’ houses, which often involves customising existing designs rather than simply printing them out. Conran thinks this is something the toy industry could learn from.“Wouldn’t it be wonderful to have something like Scalextric where you make your own track? You might buy the one bit, but then the rest of it could be 3D printed, so instead of shipping big boxes over from China, you’re just shipping a small intelligent component, then printing the rest yourself,” he says.“Downloading a file and printing it out will be interesting for a while. It will get you going. But after that you’ll want to make a special one and learn more about it. This is the new Meccano or the new Lego! Or, I suppose, more like a cross between them.”Conran notes that he learned 3D computer aided design (CAD) in the 1990s, before gradually losing his skills as the tools changed, and he hired people to do the CAD for him. Now, 3D printing is encouraging him to relearn, while a younger generation may take to the technology like ducks to water.“Kids coming out of school now are perfectly able to use 3D printing and CAD packages effectively,” he says. “There’s no reason why the next generation can’t put things together and create things in the way that you or I might go to B&amp;Q, buy a packet of screws, some sheets of material and then cut the bits up and put them together.”Conran is also watching closely to see how 3D printing technology develops, including working with a team at the University of Sheffield led by professor Neil Hopkinson,conducting research into “high-speed sintering”[HSS] which involves using powdered plastic, heat-sensitive ink and infra-red lamps.“It works very fast, you haven’t got lasers shooting all over the place, and it’s a lot less expensive. You can do several items at once, which is difficult in a conventional 3D printer,” says Conran. “This technique is probably going to be the next technique that will come into the home, and the products that come out will be much better.”The interview segues into Conran’s other technological passion: robots. Although as it turns out, the two often merge. For example, one of his five current robotics projects involves a customisable robot with interchangeable 3D-printed parts. He’s also looking to the future.“You have to ask what have we got that’s really consequential from 3D printing and robotics? It’s looking at opportunities for that, rather than a Japanese robot that can barely walk up stairs without a whole team of technicians,” he says.“Something much simpler is having an over-bed table that’s robotic, where if you’re in the hospital bed, you can ask the table to come to you and go away after your meal. Or if you’re at home, you can send it into the living room or wherever. These sorts of robotic platforms are much more interesting, especially if you join them up to a tablet, as then you’ve got a telepresence robot.”Conran is also thinking about how the technology used by robot vacuum cleaners like the Roomba might be used for this kind of product in the future.“Think about a table that can navigate its way around a home? People might say ‘What do you want one of those for?’ but if you show it to someone who’s disabled or old, they’ll say ‘That’s fantastic! When can I get one?’,” he says.“In 21 years’ time, I’m going to be 80, and there aren’t going to be enough care workers to look after us baby boomers. We’d better start designing for our future selves!”•30 things being 3D printed, from jet parts and icebergs to crime scenes
The festive season is behind us and it’s time to get moving to burn off the indulgence of the celebrations. Thankfully, technology is here to help and fitness trackers are better, cheaper and more abundant than ever.Here’s our quick guide to the best of the bunch for the start of the new year.Jawbone Up MoveJawbone’s Up Move is a small square fitness tracker that comes with a clip but can be slotted into an optional wristband.Photograph: JawboneCost:£40The Up Move is the low-cost fitness tracker from Jawbone, makers of the popular Up band. The Move is a small square button-shaped tracker that counts activity, steps and sleep using an accelerometer.It uses a coin cell battery, lasting for around six months per battery. Swapping out the battery is easy using the small screw-on door at the back and saves having to charge it every five days or so.The Move is water resistant, but not water proof, has an LED display to show activity progress and syncs via Bluetooth to an Android or iPhone. The Jawbone Up app is one of the best available with useful graphs and suggestions for improving sleep, activity and general health.It comes with a belt clip but wristbands are available in a variety of colours.Verdict:cheap and cheerful with a good app but an ugly deviceMisfit FlashMisfit’s cheaper Flash fitness tracker comes with a clip and a wristband.Photograph: MisfitCost:£50The Misfit Flash is the follow up to thegreat Shine fitness trackerthat packs all the same features into a cheaper, plastic body.The Flash is waterproof, unlike the Move, and can track activity, sleep and steps using an accelerometer. It can be worn almost anywhere, including while swimming, and like the Move is powered by a coin cell battery lasting around six months per cell.The Flash comes with a comfortable wristband and belt clip, while clothing such as cycling socks with small pockets for the Flash are available. It can also be used as a watch to tell the time using a hidden ring of LED lights that also show your activity progress through the day.The small device is about the size of a pound coin and syncs via Bluetooth to an iPhone or Android device. The Misfit app shows hours of light and deep sleep, calories burned and steps taken, but can output the data to a variety of fitness services including RunKeeper and MyFitnessPal.Verdict:waterproof, attractive and lasts six months per batteryFitbit ChargeThe Fitbit Charge tracks steps, altitude and shows the time.Photograph: FitbitCost:£100The Fitbit Charge is a chunky wristband fitness tracker with a rechargeable battery that lasts around a week and is charged via a magnetic cable from any standard USB charger.Like most other fitness gadgets it tracks activity, steps, calories burned and hours slept using an accelerometer. It also has an altimeter that tracks the number of stairs climbed and a silent vibrating alarm for waking you up.It has a small screen that displays the time and fitness stats, activated by a small button on the side of the band. The screen can also show caller ID notifications from a smartphone syncing via Bluetooth. The Fitbit app is available for Android, iPhone and Windows Phone and can export data to a number of third-party services.The button clasp on the band can be difficult to shut, but stays closed even with vigorous activity. The band is comfortable to wear, but bulky on the wrist and struggled to fit under a shirt cuff.The Charge is water proof to 1m, which means it will be fine in the shower but not while swimming.Verdict:screen is useful, but basic, bulky and needs charging once a weekJawbone Up24Jawbone Up24 tracks steps and sleep with a silent, vibrating alarm function.Photograph: TAKA@P.P.R.S/flickrCost:£100The Up24 is Jawbone’s more sophisticated wristband fitness tracker. Like the Up Move it tracks steps, activity and sleep using an accelerometer.But the Up24 also has a silent alarm that can be set to wake you up at the best time for your sleep pattern in the morning, within 30 minutes of your ideal wakeup time, to help you feel refreshed.The band is charged via a USB cable and will last around two weeks per charge. The Up24 has no screen, but has a button on the end and two icons that show tracking of sleep or activity, which the user has to manually switch between.The Jawbone syncs to the Up app on an Android or iPhone via Bluetooth and gives activity and health advice for better sleep and general fitness. The Up24 is water-resistant, but can’t be taken in the shower.Verdict:two-week battery life and solid fitness tracking with useful appSony Smartband TalkSony’s SmartBand Talk is a cross between a fitness tracker and a smartwatch with an e-ink screen and gesture control.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianCost:£120The Sony Smartband Talk is a cross between a smartwatch and a fitness band. It tracks steps and calories burned, but not sleep, using an accelerometer.It connects via Bluetooth to a Android phone and Sony’s Lifelog app that tracks activity but also what music you listen to, who you spoke to and other “life events”.The Talk has an e-ink screen like an e-reader, which displays the time, activity and can be used for alarms and smartphone notifications such as emails, texts and WhatsApp messages.It can also make and take calls using a built-in microphone and speaker like a Bluetooth headset on the wrist. The microphone is sensitive enough that the band doesn’t have to be held close to the face to continue the conversation.The Smartband Talk is waterproof to 1.5m for 30 minutes, fine for a shower or in the rain but not for swimming. It’s charged by a standard microUSB cable and lasts around three days between charges.Verdict:a fitness band turned simple smartwatch but only for Android phonesBasis PeakIntel’s Basis Peak has a constant heart rate monitor.Photograph: BasisCost:£169The Basis Peak is the latest fitness tracking watch from Intel. Unlike the others in this group it has a heart rate monitor as well as galvanic skin sensors for measuring temperature and sweat, and an accelerometer for general activity.It constantly measures heart rate for around four and a half days between charges using a little magnetic USB charging dock.The screen is constantly on simply displaying time unless you are walking or running, at which point is displays distance and heart rate or other information appropriate for the activity. The screen has a small backlight for reading at night.Sleep monitoring with heart rate also allows the Peak to track sleep quality instead of just how long you slept – a big step forward in sleep tracking. It can tell which phase of sleep you’re in between light, deep and REM sleep.The Peak promises to perform smartwatch duties after a firmware update, but right now it feels slightly unfinished. The Android or iPhone app is also confusing, but the data is accessible from the easy to use Basis website.Verdict:the fitness tracker with the most promise, but not fully baked yet•The future of wearable technology is not wearables – it’s analysing the data•Click tock: which is the best smartwatch this Christmas?
A group of people targeted with online harassment have launched a support network aimed at helping others who find themselves in the same situation.The network,Crash Override, will go further than many previous attempts to help harassment targets, not only providing emotional support but also helping those affected interact with law enforcement and the media, institutions which often fail to understand the realities of online abuse.Crash Override is the brainchild of Zoë Quinn and her partner Alex Lifschitz. Quinn’s abuse, at the hands of the nascent anti-feminist Gamergate movement, saw her website getting hacked and her personal details posted online, including her home address and her parents’ phone numbers. She plans to bring the lessons she learned dealing with that harassment, as well as the contacts made along the way, to bear in helping others – initially on a pro-bono basis.Quinn said: “We are a small group of people working out of pocket and we’re not asking for funding right now, which may or may not change down the line based on our needs, so we can’t take every single case.”One of the groups’ first clients was Israel Galvez, a web developer and Gamergate critic who wasthe target of an attempted “swatting”from a forum linked to the movement. Swatting, which involves calling in fake tip-offs in an attempt to encourage the dispatch of armed police to the target’s home, is a tactic for bringing online harassment into the physical realm.Galvez said:“Crash Override helped me immensely when I was working with police to ensure I would be safe when I was swatted.”Alex Lifschitz adds that the network’s immediate priority is to sort out who needs help, saying that it is “quite cognisant of the likelihood of false-positives, trolls, and harassers brigading us as we launch in the current environment”.“We will be assisting people in being able to take care of themselves while putting active priority on very particular cases of relentless and dangerous harassment that we have pre-vetted, while continuing to alert and assist new targets. We’re remaining as adaptable as the situations we encounter.”
Rap Genius made its name as a website where people could annotate the lyrics of their favourite hip-hop tracks, before raising $15m in venture capital, rebranding as Genius and expanding to other musical genres.Now the company’s grand plan is emerging as far more than music: Genius has ambitions to become a platform for annotating any website.The US-based company is beta testing its new feature withwhat Capital New York describesas a “small group” of investors and media figures:“The new functionality lets users add genius.com/ to the beginning of any URL to access a version of the page on Genius. The page is fully annotatable, so users can highlight and annotate any text on the page and view others’ annotations.”The article points out that some of the sites being annotated – it uses the New York Times as an example – may object to their content being pulled in to Genius’ website.However, Genius tells Capital that visits to these pages will not cannibalise the source’s traffic or advertising revenues, nor will they be able to annotate any content hidden behind a paywall, as used by a number of prominent news sites.Genius has experience of copyright rows from its roots focusing on music, however. In late 2013 the company washeavily criticised by American music publishersover its lack of licensing deals for the lyrics that it was publishing.Since then, it has agreed deals with major publishersSony/ATVandUniversal Music, as well as with their trade body theNational Music Publishers’ Association.Genius has not hidden its ambitions to use its annotation platform for much more than music. “We’re trying to make Rap Genius into Everything Genius,”co-founder Mahbod Moghadam told the Guardianin July 2013, after the $15m funding round in October 2012.That round was provided by venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, whose co-founder Marc Andreessen had harboured similar ambitions when he was co-developing the Mosaic web browser that later became Netscape.“It seemed obvious to us that users would want to annotate all text on the web – our idea was that each web page would be a launchpad for insight and debate about its own contents,” wrote Andreessen in an annotatable blog post on Rap Genius as the funding was announced.“So we built a feature called “group annotations” right into the browser – and it worked great – all users could comment on any page and discussions quickly ensued. Unfortunately, our implementation at that time required a server to host all the annotations, and we didn’t have the time to properly build that server, which would obviously have had to scale to enormous size. And so we dropped the entire feature.I often wonder how the Internet would have turned out differently if users had been able to annotate everything – to add new layers of knowledge to all knowledge, on and on, ad infinitum. And so, 20 years later, Rap Genius finally gives us the opportunity to find out.”Genius has yet to announce when the beta test of its new feature will be opened out to a wider audience, as well as details of how it plans to make money from the platform once it is available to all.Its new feature followsa second funding round of $40m in July 2014, but also several controversies. In December 2013, it wasdemoted in Google’s search rankingsfor search engine optimisation (SEO) tactics that the companyadmitted were “more or less totally debauched”.Meanwhile,Moghadam resigned from the company in May 2014after criticism of his annotations of a manifesto published online by 22 year-old Elliot Rodger before he killed six University of California students.•Rap Genius raises $40m for move into history, sports, literature
There are gamers who cancomplete Super Mario Bros in less than five minutes, and gamers who still struggle with the finer elements of mushrooms, pipes and coins. But how would Mario fare playing his own games?Thanks to a team of cognitive modelling researchers at the University of Tübingen in Germany, we may soon find out. Their latest project: “An Adaptive Learning AI Approach for Generating a Living and Conversing Mario Agent.”The team have entered theannual video competitionrun by the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), publishing a YouTube video explaining their work in the hopes of winning its People’s Choice award through public votes.The project is aiming to create a Mario who “gets to know his own world” by becoming “aware of himself and his environment”, enabling him to make his own decisions based on his curiosity, hunger, happiness and fear, as well as through voice commands delivered by a researcher.The video shows Mario being taught that if he jumps on a Goomba then it “certainly dies”, with his knowledge converted into tags, and then natural speech. It also shows how his inner emotional state can be used to govern his behaviour.“Mario will collect coins if he is hungry, whereas when he is curious, he will explore his environment and autonomously gather knowledge about items he does not know much about yet,” explains the narrator.The Mario agent may not be ready for a five-minute Super Mario Bros run just yet, and it’s quite jarring hearing him speak with computer-speech tones rather than the familiar sound of Charles Martinet, who voices him in games.Even so, Mario’s popularity should make him a strong contender for the award, even though rivals includeself-organised robot swarms, arobot that children can teach to write, andtechnology to help self-driving cars negotiate crowds of pedestrians.•What are the five best Mario games of all time?
Seventy years after the liberation of the Auschwitz death camp, an Android and iOS application is aiming to provide new insights into the Holocaust for modern-day smartphone and tablet users.70 Voices: Victims, Perpetrators and Bystandersis the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust, which has made it available as a free download through Google, Amazon and Apple’s app stores.The app will offer 70 different perspectives on the Holocaust from people who were alive at the time, at a time when the number of people able to give firsthand accounts continues to dwindle.The app will provide a different “voice” each day for the next 70 days, with a weekly podcast also exploring the material’s themes and implications. The app’s content will also bepublished on the 70 Voices website.“In this significant anniversary year, we want to give as many people as possible the opportunity to take a moment to learn something new about the Holocaust,” said Karen Pollock, the trust’s chief executive.“We are always looking for new ways to reach people and this app puts that opportunity in the palm of their hands.”The trust’s head of education Alex Maws said the decision to use apps for Holocaust education was an attempt to avoid commemoration becoming “a passive act”:“In a world of Candy Crush and selfies, mobile technology may strike some people as rather frivolous – not a platform for serious engagement with truly horrific events of the past. I don’t share that view.I think we need to communicate with people using whichever media they prefer, using whatever tools are available, and wherever we may find them. For better or for worse, the ‘space’ where we are going to find the most people today is on their mobile phones and tablets.”This is not the first app using digital technology to explore the Holocaust and other aspects of the second world war.In 2013, book publisher Penguin Books and developer Beyond the Story releasedan iPad app based on Anne Frank’s diary, with its text accompanied by notes, historic documents, audio and video clips.Charitable trust Shadows of Shoahlaunched an iPad appin 2011 based on its artistic project using photographs and video accounts from Holocaust survivors, while in 2013 White Mouse Publishing turned the diary of another victim, Helga Deen,into a graphic-novel iPad app.Meanwhile, general second world war apps includeTimeline WW2 with Dan Snow, andThe Second World War Storyfor adults, andD-Day for Kidsfor children.•Beyond The Story talks Anne Frank, apps and publishing evolution
Hacking group Lizard Squad made a name for itself with high-profile attacks on Sony and Microsoft’s online gaming networks. Now the group appears to have been hacked itself, as it tried to profit from its fame by selling a service to take other websites down.The groupunveiled LizardStresser at the end of 2014, after itsChristmas attacks on PlayStation Network and Xbox Livewhich took both offline over the holiday period.It charged between $6 and $500 in the bitcoin cryptocurrency to help people launch distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks on any website or internet service they chose.Since then, online security researcher Brian Krebs has claimed thatthe service was using a network of “hacked home routers” to launch its attacks. Now he says that the site’s security was less than effective at protecting its own customers’ private information.“A copy of the LizardStresser customer database obtained by KrebsOnSecurity shows that it attracted more than 14,241 registered users, but only a few hundred appear to have funded accounts at the service,”wrote Krebs in a blog postclaiming that LizardStresser had been hacked.“Interestingly, all registered usernames and passwords were stored in plain text. Also, the database indicates that customers of the service deposited more than USD $11,000 worth of bitcoins to pay for attacks on thousands of Internet addresses and Web sites (including this one).”The news follows several arrests made as police investigate the original PlayStation Network and Xbox Live attacks.On 31 December, a22 year-old man from Twickenham was arrested by the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit(SEROCU) on suspicion of fraud by false representation and Computer Misuse Act offences, before being released on bail until 10 March.Then, on 16 January,an 18 year-old man was arrested in Southporton suspicion of unauthorised access to computer material, unauthorised access with intent to commit further offences, and threats to kill.The latter refer to incidents of “swatting” where US police were called out to what they believed was a major incident after what SEROCU described as “hoax calls via Skype”. The 18 year-old man has also been released on bail.•How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015
Three-owner Hutchison Whampoa is in talks to buy Britain’s second-largest mobile phone operator O2 for up to £9bn, according to reports.The Hong Kong conglomerate owns the UK’s smallest network, Three, which has 8 million customers but bought O2 in Ireland in 2014 to combine with Three Ireland and Orange Austria in 2012.Telefonica is in early stage discussions with Hutchison Whampoa and its Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing over the sale of O2 with its 23 million customers, according to a report by the Sunday Times.The purchase would reunite the O2 UK and Ireland and be the latest consolidation deal in Europe, where the economic downturn has instigated a scramble between mobile and fixed-line operators to combine efforts.BT’s£12.5bn agreementto purchase the UK’s largest mobile operator EE came as revenue for mobile operators continue to fall and revenue for broadband increase. The deal has put pressure on smaller operators in the UK, looking for ways to compete against the new largest fixed-line and mobile operator.“The rumours that Three is looking to acquire O2 from Telefonica come as no surprise, given the need to protect themselves from a new BT/EE partnership,” explained Imran Choudhary, consumer insight director at research company Kantar Worldpanel. “A merger would create the largest mobile operator in the UK – just ahead of EE, with a combined 34% share of the consumer mobile market – and would allow the group to compete with the new BT/EE entity in mobile.”Telefonica is under pressure to reduce costs and debts after being hit hard by the downturn in the Spanish economy. A sale or floatation of O2 would be one way to realise capital from its UK assets worth between £8bn and £9bn.How the move would be seen by the telecoms regulator Ofcom, which would see a potential reduction in the number of primary mobile phone operators from four to three, is unclear.Three, Hutchison Whampoa and Telefonica declined to comment.
Taxi-hire firm Uber is planning rapid expansion in Europe, promising to create 50,000 new jobs in 2015.Uber’s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, told a conference in Munich: “We want to make 2015 the year where we establish a new partnership with EU cities.”Kalanick said Uber’s expansion would take 400,000 cars off the road in cities that welcome the company. He added: “Uber is committed to establishing new partnerships with Europe’s cities to ensure innovation, harness powerful economic benefits and promote core city functions.”The promise is a change of tack from Kalanick, who has become known for striking a hard bargain with cities that attempt to force Uber to comply with what the company sees as outdated or protectionist regulation.Uber has been hit with court injunctions in Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain for violating taxi licensing rules. The app offers markedly different services in different markets, from minicab-style taxi hire in London to ride-sharing in Paris and carpooling in the San Francisco Bay Area, and is frequently limited in how it can roll out new features based on regulations which vary city by city.Kalanick also told mayors in Europe that if they relax regulations that prevent the firm operating, over the next four years Uber would create 10,000 jobs in each of their cities.“At the end of 2015, if we can make these partnerships happen, we create 50,000 new EU jobs,” he said.Those new jobs would not be Uber employees, by and large. As a leading proponent of the “sharing economy”, the company’s drivers are legally independent contractors in the cities, such as London, where it operates as a minicab firm. In other cases, as with its UberPOP service, the company allows its own customers to become drivers, and its carpooling service links up drivers on commutes with paying riders.When it comes to taking cars off the road, the company argues that “Uber complements existing public transport options,” citing the example of Paris, where it says that 15% of Uber trips start or end more than 1km away from a metro or train station.As part of its carrot for city governments, Uber dangles to possibility of increased tax revenue, pointing out that “app-based transportation brings transportation economy ‘on the grid’, where the industry has long been cash-based.“Uber wants to partner closely with tax authorities to increase transportation providers’ compliance and overall tax revenue for cities and countries across Europe.”Uber, now the world’s most highly valued venture-backed start-up, worth upwards of $41bn, has faced regulatory scrutiny and court injunctions from its earliest days as a San Francisco start-up.It has also come under fire for its aggressive response to rivals and critics as well as questions over whether the company has enough safeguards in place to ensure the physical safety and privacy of passengers using its services.A woman who was allegedly raped by an Uber taxi driver in India’s capital has hired a prominent lawyer to sue the online-hailing taxi service in US courts.Uber faces mounting complaints about its use of “surge pricing” to attract drivers at peak-demand periods. Some critics go further, arguing that Uber’s system may drive down the prices drivers can charge for their services in the long-run.
Retro gaming can prove to be a nuisance, a pastime that caters to clutter. It festoons living rooms with a host of tangled wires and weathered, troublesome consoles that may still need a ritualistic blow in the cartridge slot to bring them to life. It’s a situation the much-delayed RetroN 5 hopes to address. This Frankenstein’s monster of a machine runs, in a single box, NES, SNES, Mega Drive, Game Boy, Game Boy Color, and Game Boy Advance games, as well as those of their international variants such as the Famicom. However, while it uses emulation technology, you will still need the original cartridges to play; hence the row of slots on its surface.The RetroN5 comes with its own controller that covers all the formats, but has ports to support original SNES, NES and Mega Drive pads. It outputs exclusively via HDMI, and while the games look adequate on a modern screen, they the visual sharpness and vibrancy of the original consoles hooked up to a muscular CRT TV. But it’s tremendously convenient, and while its ungainly casing and rather lacklustre bundled controller do little to dazzle, its ability to save old games at any point rather than predetermined positions offers a one-up on the classic hardware.There’s a good chance that those who already own ageing games will also have the original consoles, but if you’re looking to revisit your retro collection without weaving dusty cables across the lounge, the RetroN 5 offers a functional and convenient alternative that might just encourage gamers to dig some classics out of the attic.Fire Emblem: The Sacred StonesWii U Virtual Console, Nintendo, cert: 7One of the fewFire Emblementries to makes its way west,Sacred Stonesis a rousing example of how great Nintendo’s tactical RPG series can be. It follows Ephraim and Eirika, twin heirs to the kingdom of Renais, who build and lead armies to restore their homeland, which has been overthrown by former allied nation Grado. Originally released on the Game Boy Advance in 2005, the gameplay remains sharp a decade on, requiring keen attention and calculating manoeuvres to win the many turn-based battles. Units offer a range of magical or martial skills, with each type or weapon class having strengths and weaknesses. Although 2013’sFire Emblem: Awakeningis more sophisticated, this remains a challenging, engaging game.However, reissuing it for the Wii U rather than the 3DS (though it had an exclusive release, in 2011, to those who purchased the handheld before its price drop) results in a blocky, pixelated big-screen experience that can be tricky to follow, and is likely to deter players from the long-play sessionsFire Emblemthrives on.Matt Kamen
Infinite runner titles have come to the fore on mobiles, but by fusing the format with an old-school 16-bit platformer, Nitrome has elevated the genre. Platform Panic begins with a small robot dropping into view, but although the landscape is there to be traversed, there’s no cumbersome virtual D-pad to negotiate. Instead, the miniature mechanoid is in perpetual motion, diverted around the world with swipes to the side to change direction, and up to jump. With pleasingly diverse levels – jumbled into a different order each time, with some requiring a discombobulating right-to-left navigation –Platform Panicshows just how far a bit of original thinking can go to lift a tired gaming staple.
Uh-oh, here comes Monday again, and it’s cold as well!
With Uber – the taxi-ordering app –now valued at $40bn (£25.5bn),it is no surprise others are trying to take old-school, real-world services on to your mobile phone.ZipJet(iOS, Android, free) attempts to move the dry-cleaners into your pocket. Only in London at the moment, the interface is slick – finding your location automatically and scanning your credit card number with the iPhone’s camera, making it a breeze to order. Put in what it is you need to be cleaned, then choose a half-hour collection and delivery slot. The cost compares well with a service wash at a local launderette – £12.50 for a bag of washing and £10 for a two-piece suit – and it works fantastically, but while it is sure to be a big hit in New York, where communal facilities are the norm, it seems unlikely it will ever be more than a niche product in the UK. Equally,Zomato(iOS, Android, Windows Phone, BlackBerry, free) is the latest restaurant finder, but what makes it stands out is the breadth of its service. Select to search for coffee-shops, a plethora of culinary genres, or even somewhere specialising in hot chocolate, and the app locates them on a map. From there you can browse the menu and book a table. Good for the tastebuds, if not so beneficial to the waistband.
One of the fewFire Emblementries to makes its way west,Sacred Stonesis a rousing example of how great Nintendo’s tactical RPG series can be. It follows Ephraim and Eirika, twin heirs to the kingdom of Renais, who build and lead armies to restore their homeland, which has been overthrown by former allied nation Grado. Originally released on the Game Boy Advance in 2005, the gameplay remains sharp a decade on, requiring keen attention and calculating manoeuvres to win the many turn-based battles. Units offer a range of magical or martial skills, with each type or weapon class having strengths and weaknesses. Although 2013’sFire Emblem: Awakeningis more sophisticated, this remains a challenging, engaging game.However, reissuing it for the Wii U rather than the 3DS (though it had an exclusive release, in 2011, to those who purchased the handheld before its price drop) results in a blocky, pixelated big-screen experience that can be tricky to follow, and is likely to deter players from the long-play sessionsFire Emblemthrives on.
My Google search for “Michael Fertik” returns a page of uncommon order and serenity, like one of those Japanese gardens where the gravel has been diligently raked into perfect swirls. The first result is his personal website, then Wikipedia, Twitter and LinkedIn, followed by a couple of prestigious publications he contributes to (Bloomberg Businessweek,Forbes) and the Amazon page for his books. We learn instantly that Fertik is 36 years old, an American internet entrepreneur who is the founder and CEO of reputation.com. Photographs show a smiley man with rimless spectacles and a cascading black mane. Nothing random, nothing embarrassing; not a hair – literally or figuratively – out of place.These results are no fluke. Fertik’s company, which he started in 2006, has curated the online reputation of 1.6 million customers who pay upwards of £700 a year to have their most flattering activities showcased to the world via search engines. He has a staff of 240 in California and in 2013 he acquired the British company Reputation 24/7 and launcheduk.reputation.com. Fertik likes to say that we are all naked on the internet and that your digital screens – phones, laptops and tablets – are actually more accurately viewed as the windows to your house. His job is to open and close the curtains to show you looking your best.Explaining his own pristine search results, Fertik says, “Well, I use my own technology, that’s rule number one. But, thank God, very few critical things have been written about me. It’s not like there’s been some big-hit piece in theNew York Times. That’s never happened because I’m pretty much who I describe myself as.” Fertik talks fast, a New Yorker now transplanted to Silicon Valley, but momentarily he stops. “That doesn’t mean it doesn’t happen to good people, I see it happen all the time.”Fertik believes in the old-fashioned idea that your reputation matters and in his new book,The Reputation Economy, he argues that it has never been more important. As we move from an era of big data to the more considered and perceptive big analytics, the amount of information you give away about yourself – your “digital footprint” – increases exponentially every time you go online. Fertik thinks it is only a matter of time before each of us has a reputation score, just as we now have a credit rating. He writes, “Reputation is becoming more valuable than money or power.”He’s not alone in this belief. Last year, in her bookThe Nature of the Future, futurist Marina Gorbis predicted that we are moving towards a “socialstructed” world: a new economy where your web influence and social connections will matter just as much as the money in your bank account. We are already seeing this happening in a sense. Last November, a middle-aged mother of two – a school governor with a perfect credit history – wanted to attend a concert at Die Glocke in Bremen but found that she was unable to book an apartment through Airbnb because the websitejudged that she didn’t have enough friends on Facebook.Meanwhile, surveillance of our internet activities remains a highly charged issue. David Cameronhinted last weekthat he would like all methods of online communication to be available to the state. Services such as Snapchat, where messages can be shared for a short period of time before being deleted, would be outlawed under a rebooted communications data bill, aka the snooper’s charter.“Edward Snowden and newspapers like theGuardianhave woken people up to the problem of surveillance,” says Fertik. “But the category error theGuardiancommits, and that is committed by most journalism outlets – which are run by people who have liberal education in the tradition of the 1960s, 70s, 80s – is that it is the government and government surveillance that is the problem. But I am less afraid of big brother than I am of little brothers, meaning companies that have all this data.”Michael Fertik: ‘I believe in the value of privacy and the virtue of privacy.’Fertik sees a day when numerous decisions will be made about each of us – about our lives and careers, even our dating prospects – based on reputation alone. One example: at present, when you apply for a job, it is possible your CV will undergo some basic automated screening, perhaps a check for previous convictions or other conspicuous red flags. Soon, however, computers could become more involved in recruitment or what Fertik calls “decisions almost made by machine”. In this world, employers might specify particular keywords or skills they are looking for. A human would probably make the final decision but from a field dramatically narrowed down by screening software.What would the computer be looking for? It’s hard to specify exactly, although Fertik points out ominously that even if you delete your browsing history and make all your purchases securely, you should still assume that all electronic information will be recorded and stored indefinitely.“People think there’s not a lot they can do,” says Fertik. “They say, ‘I don’t post a lot on Facebook, so I’m fine, right?’ No! We are being digitised, analysed and in many cases compromised. So instead of pretending it’s not happening, putting your head in the sand, I want to get people thinking about how they can turn it to their advantage.”Maintaining a reputation used to be a lot more straightforward. “So, 20,000 years ago, your reputation as the guy with the biggest club was the thing that we knew about each other,” says Fertik. “You’d have to fight occasionally, but probably the reputation of being the guy with the biggest club was enough to settle the argument. Now we are coming back to where we started in a way. We are just coming back a lot more intelligently.”Computers might be intimidating adversaries, but in some sense, Fertik insists, they are still “dumb”. When he first advises companies, invariably he instructs them to begin collecting genuine reviews from enthusiastic customers. Once you have the material, share it online in as many places as possible. The same applies to individuals looking to give their reputation a brush-up. Join as many sites as you can think of – Facebook, LinkedIn, Tumblr, Twitter – and saturate them with positive content about yourself. Before long, search engines should get the message.When Fertik started reputation.com – originally called ReputationDefender – he had not long graduated from Harvard Law School. He thought his clients would mainly be parents whose children had posted embarrassing content online; instead, his services proved popular with business professionals who felt their image had been tarnished in some way on the internet. Most would want to clear their name, something he usually advises against unless an accusation is categorically untrue. In the business, this is known as theStreisand effect, after the heavy-handed way the singer responded to a paparazzo photographing her house in 2003. Another of Fertik’s sayings is: “When you wrestle with a pig, you both get covered in mud.”Fertik’s response to slurs is again to create enough positive “noise” that any negative comments will fade into the background, and plummet down the search rankings. And, of course, prevention is much more effective than any treatment. Fertik strongly recommends that you avoid therapeutic purging on the internet. Keep the content you post light, frothy and relevant to your area of expertise. Even a persistently snarky tone to your tweets, he claims, could be enough to turn potential employers off you. Fertik instead suggests something really old-school: picking up your phone and calling your friends.Privacy is important to Fertik, as becomes obvious from a glance at his online search results. It’s almost as if he was born in the year 2000: there’s no mention of the school he attended, his parents; he may have a wife and children, but you would have to do some serious digging to find out. In aNew York Timesarticle from 2012, he describes his upbringing as “Jewish, lefty, pinko”, but that’s about it. This is intentional: in person, he is happy to talk about his family and his politics, but he’d rather stay off the record.“I’m not hiding it, but I believe in the value of privacy and the virtue of privacy,” says Fertik. “There’s a specious and historically false claim that is propagated and circulated by large social-media companies today that privacy is just an invention of the 18th or 19th century. That it never existed. But that’s just ahistorical crap and it is repeated by smart, self-serving people in Silicon Valley, which is an ahistorical place.”When Fertik launched ReputationDefender, he was identified as a threat to free speech, burying the bodies of those wealthy enough to afford his fees. A version of this argument resurfaced last year when the European Union’s Court of Justice ruling on “the right to be forgotten” came into effect and Google was immediately swamped with requests to drop links that were “inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant”. But Fertik believes the tide of opinion is changing, at least with what he does, and the reputation of reputation.com has received a modest uplift.We were early in figuring out there were threats to your freedom, whether it’s free speech or digital freedomMichael Fertik“When I started, the cool kids who were at the nexus of technology and law were worried that what we were doing was not consistent with free speech,” says Fertik. “That was never true and now I think they actually think the opposite. We were early in figuring out there were threats to your freedom, whether it’s free speech or digital freedom. We are no longer Chicken Little. We were right.”What if you don’t have much of a reputation to protect or promote online in the first place? What if you are, say, anObserverjournalist who has written a book on the Rwandan cycling team and is looking to raise his profile a little? To be more specific: me. As a final question, I ask Fertik what I should do to improve my reputation.For the next 15 minutes, I am in the full glare of Fertik’s headlights. He is part cheerleader, part life coach, part bully. He begins by Googling my name – you should always start with self-Googling – and finds anunderwhelming, near-invisible set of results. “So first of all, you are not the most important Tim Lewis quote unquote according to Google,” he says. “And there’s also what I call the ‘doppelnamer’ problem: there are many Tim Lewises, so you are not really showing up as a Tim Lewis anywhere. So that’s problem number one… Or opportunity number one.”No question, Fertik is skilled at what he does. He rattles off a list of sites I could join, places I need to post, and berates me for creating a personal website that includes neither the word “Tim” nor “Lewis” in the web address: “That’s cute and stupid. It’s deeply dumb.” As he talks, for a few moments, I allow myself to dream that a Google search for my name could one day be as comprehensive and adulatory as it is for Fertik. Then I put the phone down and life returns to normal.The Reputation Economy (Piatkus £13.99) is out on 20 January.Click here to order a copy for £11.19
The news that Google’s share of the web-search market in the US has suddenly dropped is interesting. According to an independent analytics firm, StatCounter, last monthGoogle’s market share droppedto 75.2%, compared with 79.3% a year earlier. That is its lowest share since 2008, when StatCounter started tracking the data. Yahoo, by contrast, seems to be on the up: its December market share (10.4%) was the highest it has achieved since 2009.This could be just a blip, of course, and it doesn’t change the fact that Google is still the dominant player in search or thatits share of the European search marketranges between 90% and 96%, depending on which country you look at. So this is not the time to start selling your Google shares, but it does make one look at the company through a different lens. What if the dominance of its core business were beginning to wane?Remember that Google is, despite the hoopla about self-driving cars,antisocial spectacles, YouTube, the “right to be forgotten”, stratospheric balloons and the other exotic stuff, primarily a company that makes its (colossal) revenues from search-driven advertising. (Advertising provided $51bn of the company’s $56bn revenues last year.) All the cool, PR-friendly stuff that the company does stems from two things: those vast revenues and the shareholding structure that enables the company’s co-founders to do as they damn well please rather than being hounded by quarterly earnings reports and Wall Street expectations.Google’s existential challenge is therefore how to keep the search money-pump going. So far, the main strategy has been to do everything in its power to extend internet use. The more people who are connected to the net, the better it is for Google. (Which is whyProject Loon, which aims to bring free internet connectivity to poor countries using balloons in the stratosphere, makes both philanthropic and commercial sense.) But since most new internet users in the next decade will access the network via mobile phones, that means Google has to be active in that space too. Hence its development of Android, the operating system that powers the overwhelming majority of smartphones.So Google is doing all it can to keep its core product growing. But it’s also working on a Plan B just in case search declines or is displaced by some as-yet-unknown technology. Part of Plan B is trying to be spectacularly innovative (self-driving cars, say); another part is to acquirestartup or young companies such as DeepmindorBoston Dynamics, just in case one of them has managed to find the secret of life, the universe and everything. This quest has probably turned the search giant into the largest and most active venture capitalist in the US. You could view this either as a quest for world domination or planning for life after search.Bill Gates once said that the only technology company that reminded him ofMicrosoftin its early days was… Google. Thanks to one of those delicious ironies in which capitalism excels, guess which company Google now reminds people of? Answer: Microsoft in its current dotage. Gates’s creation was once even more dominant in the industry than Google is now. It had three core products – the Windows operating system, Office and Windows Server – which were licences to print money. Microsoft had huge revenues that just rolled in every quarter, just as Google’s advertising revenues do today, and on the back of them builta huge 128,000 employee company. But, cushioned by its money-pump, it failed to innovate and, in particular, failed to address the decline of the desktop PC and the rise of mobile computing.Despite Google’s self-image of an ultra-agile, young company, in fact it’s become a 55,000-employee monster, which is what is leading some people to see parallels with Microsoft. The Bloomberg columnist Katie Benner is one. “Microsoft,”she writes, “was stymied by a huge headcount and, more importantly, legacy products that no one inside the company wanted to mess with for fear of killing the golden goose… Even when those commanding positions were eroded at the margins, it was hard to see a world in which Microsoft wouldn’t be the backbone of a PC-centric tech industry.”By the same token, it has been impossible to envisage a networked world in which Google would no longer be a dominant player. But after last week’s revelations about market share, maybe it’s time to downgrade “impossible” to merely “difficult”.
Price £28,860MPG 67.3Top speed 155mphAs a driver you only really have two things to look at: that endlessly changing grey ribbon of tarmac that stretches ahead of you and, if you glance down, the instrument cluster on your dashboard. The latter hasn’t changed much since the start of the last century. The first speedo was patented as long ago as 7 October 1902. Before that a dashboard was just the plank which stopped mud being “dashed up” by your galloping horse and ruining your nice breeches.Well, glance down inAudi’s latest TTand you’ll see something very new: a “virtual cockpit”. This makes it sound like you are sitting in a flight simulator – pony-tailed gamers are probably salivating and rubbing their thighs at the mere thought of it – but it only refers to the instrument panel itself. It’s a real game-changer, though. Where once there were boring old dials and warning indicators you now have a high-resolution, pinsharp LCD display a foot wide and 6in high.Dial it up: the revolutionary ‘virtual cockpit’.When the virtual cockpit opens you still see the classic image of the speedo and rev counter. But switch to infotainment mode and those dials slink away leaving you with the flickering screen of a digital canvas. Using buttons on the steering wheel you can then move between map views, endless media functionality and vehicle settings. It’s the kind of breakthrough that you show every passenger. The navigation mode is particularly startling. Opt for the dynamic 3D setting and you see the background shift seamlessly as your route, marked in blue, snakes off into the distance. The only other car boasting this technology is Lamborghini’s Huracán – but you’ll have to pay £182,000 for that.The TT has been turning heads since it arrived on our streets in 1998 – this is now its third generation. It’s the same size as the outgoing model and only a little lighter, yet it manages to be much more efficient and more powerful, too. The pick of its engines is the 2-litre TDi diesel, which achieves a scarcely credible consumption of 67.3mpg with a CO2output of only 110g per km, yet it can also do 62mph in 7.1 seconds and top out at 155mph. These sort of figures, of frugality paired with performance, used to be mutually incompatible; now they happily co-exist in the same vehicle. Handling is smooth and infectiously immediate. Tap the throttle and the acceleration is gloriously punchy. The car has not lost its low-level, engrossing ride.Inside story: the super plush interior of the TT.This TT appears to be very similar to its two predecessors. But look carefully and you’ll see it has grown out of some of its curves and sharp creases now dominate. It has shaken off some puppy fat and now seems more grown up, more adult. I can’t decide if that’s a good thing or not – everything in life seems so much more serious these days.The interior is sumptuous and filled with materials and touches that would be at home in a sheikh’s limo. Outside the cabin, 10-spoke alloy wheels, sports suspension, Xenon headlamps with LED running lights and a speed-dependent active rear spoiler all feature as standard. It has a surprisingly big boot, but the rear seats are tiny. For the purposes of a full assessment, I persuaded my wife and her friend to sit in the back. They jammed in OK, and for a short journey were happy to sit with their heads bent at a crazy angle. But getting them out was another matter. I had to open my door and give their bottoms a good shove – like a farmer pushing two frisky heifers out of a trailer. I thought it was very funny. They didn’t… See what I mean about everything being serious these days?Striving on StravaRide to live, live to ride: more of us than ever before are cycling.Strava, the online network for athletes, has released a comprehensive report showing the landscape of UK cycling and running in 2014 based on tens of millions of GPS activity uploads. Cyclists using Strava rode a total of more than 320 million miles last year, while runners covered over 27 million miles. Strava has millions of members with approximately 100,000 new members signing up every week – all gaining support, inspiration and camaraderie from the online community. The data uploaded gives interesting insights into the landscape of cycling and running in Britain. It turns out that the UK’s most popular day of cycling last year was Sunday 8 June, no doubt inspired by temperatures of 24C and the Tour de France coming to Yorkshire. Runners came out in force on Sunday 7 September. The average cycling distance for males was 41km (25 miles), while the female average was 8km shorter at 34km (21 miles). When it came to speed, women were even closer, riding an average speed of 12mph compared to the men’s average of 14mph. The most popular commuter cycling day was Tuesday 22 July, when 50,532 activities were recorded on Strava, and throughout the year the average commuter rode 17km (10 miles) per commute at a speed of 16mph (faster than the overall cycling average). Strava found, however, that not all commuters ride rain or shine, with a 54% drop off in commuter rides between summer and winter.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The MonolithAndroid &amp; Ios, freeStarting with a monstrous egg that must be attacked by tapping it, players earn points to hire a caveman with a club to give them a hand. His efforts help you save up for another, until you’re eventually fighting the hatched beast with nuclear missiles. Weirdly addictive incremental gaming.Brothers in Arms 3: Sons of WarAndroid &amp; iOS, freeAlthough the shooting mechanics of Brothers In Arms 3 are solid enough, every other aspect of the game is focused on fleecing you. Grenades, weapons, upgrades, medical kits and extra missions all cost real money, the game itself reduced to the role of tawdry sales executive.Monument Valley: Forgotten ShoresAndroid &amp; iOS, £1.49Monument Valley was like exploring a series of interactive MC Escher drawings, the game’s impossible architecture continually toying with perspective. The sequel builds on its invention, adding new tricks and a fresh arc to its subtle, minimal story. A thing of beauty.Kingdom Rush OriginsAndroid, iOS, £2.29Near-perfectly engineered tower defence that despite its balance and refinement suffers from the same problem as its predecessors – namely that a single mistake at the end of a 20-minute level can force you to restart the whole thing.The Silent Age Episode 2Android &amp; iOS, £3.99The polished, finely observed point-and-click time-travel adventure gets a satisfying concluding episode, in which your hero makes his way between past and catastrophic future in an attempt to prevent a global cataclysm.Run Sackboy! Run!Android &amp; iOS, freePlonking the hero of PlayStation’s splendid LittleBigPlanet series into an infinite running game, this does more than most to add variety and a sense of progression to the usual obstacle-hopping in-app purchase.Sleep Attack TDAndroid &amp; iOS, £2.29Defend a napping monster from waves of antagonists by building defensive turrets, as well as rotating parts of each level to re-route attackers along your best defended paths. A neat innovation and a well-engineered take on the genre.Earn to Die 2iOS, £1.49Driving your upgradeable vehicle through hordes of zombies towards distant petrol stations entails little more than mindlessly holding your thumb on the accelerate button, repeating sections ad nauseam to afford puny upgrades.Sarah &amp; Duck – Day at the ParkiOS, £2.99CBeebies stalwarts get the interactive treatment in this gentle fun for little ones, including building kites, populating your own park and helping Sarah search for her duck.Clear Vision 3Android &amp; iOS, freeThe lightly satirical shooting game gets touched by the cold, dead hand of freemium, the price tag of previous episodes replaced with a system designed to force you into ponying up for microtransactions.
The BMWi8 is sleek, fast, futuristic and, most of all, defiant. The rules are, if you want to be green, you have to be crap. These were laid down in stone by eco-friendly cleaning products, and reinforced by decades of dirty hippies. The i8 is flash, showy, outrageously fast – and the future: one day, all cars will be like this – lighter, run on batteries – or cars will have ceased to exist.The hybrid electric motor drives the front wheels, the turbo-charged petrol-triple engine the back. Sure, it plugs into the mains now, but as soon as they perfect the solar battery, this car is going to be first in line to run on sun. The frame is carbon-fibre reinforced plastic, somewhat lighter than aluminium, tonnes lighter than steel.The resulting drive is, in any of the modes – SPORT, COMFORT or ECO-PRO (I’m not shouting; this is what BMW calls them) – more like driving in a video game than driving a car: silent, smooth, otherworldly. The speed dial is projected forwards into space, so only the driver can see it. This is handy, I imagine, if your passenger habitually tells you to slow down. Mind you, in this car, your passenger is going to tell you to slow down anyway. I defy you, feeling so protected (a high window line makes the world seem quite far away) and so omnipotent (thanks to the crazy raw power), not to go too fast, or at the very least accelerate in an ostentatious fashion.Before you drive the i8, though, you have to get in; the doors open upwards in a gull-wing fashion. My kid asked me if it could fly. There is always someone taking a picture of it, if not as you approach, certainly by the time you’ve got the key out of your pocket. One time, walking purposefully toward it, then suddenly exhausted by the effort of explaining why I had it, even though it wasn’t mine, I just took a photo with my phone and walked away. You really have to be cut out for the kind of attention this car will garner: it’s like being famous overnight.The cabin is swish and intuitive; in the dark, it comes alive with illuminated blue piping. The seatbelts are bright blue and heavily redolent of the professional pitstop. The posture is low and luxurious in a Swiss-watch-advert kind of way (“I’m reclining like this because I can afford to, not because my back’s gone”).The motorway is where it gets to show off. It can make a decent noise, for a start, some of it simulated (people like that). More relevant is the ease with which it takes everything, and its remarkable fuel efficiency: at speed, something like 50mpg, roughly the same as aPrius, which feels like you’re pushing it along with your own buttocks.The prototype for the i8 was inMission Impossible: Ghost Protocol. I can’t figure out how Tom Cruise swung out of the low driver’s seat on his tiny little legs, but I can’t conceive of a more Hollywood-ready car.BMW i8PriceFrom £99,895 (this model £106,110)Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 4.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption134.5mpgCO2emissions49g/kmEco rating10/10Cool rating10/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter.
Games, music and children’s channels ruled the roost on YouTube in 2014, with its most popular channelPewDiePie’s videos watched more than 4.1bn times last year.The UK-based gamer – aka Felix Kjellberg – ended the year with more than 33.5 million people subscribing to his YouTube channel, which focuses on “Let’s Play” footage of him playing games and providing a running commentary.PewDiePie was YouTube’s biggest star in 2014 according to the Guardian’s analysis ofmonthly charts published by online video industry site Tubefilter, based on data from video analytics firm OpenSlate.Kjellberg’s channel had the most views for 2014 overall, but second-placed children’s channelDC Toys Collectorwas more popular in the last three months of the year, boosting its overall total to 3.3bn views.MusicianKaty Perryhad the third most popular YouTube channel in 2014 with nearly 2.4bn views, fuelled by the popularity of the videos for singles including This Is How We Do, Birthday and Dark Horse.The Guardian’s analysis of the data reinforces the sense of YouTube as a melting pot of old and new media stars.Shakira(just under 2bn views) and US chat-show hostJimmy Fallon(1.7bn) rub shoulders with Minecraft channelsStampy(2.2bn) andThe Diamond Minecart(1.6bn) in the upper reaches of the chart, for example.Other YouTube kingpins in 2014 included Dutch dance-music channelSpinnin’ Records(2bn); pop-culture focusedWatchMojo(1.7bn); musicianEnrique Iglesias(1.7bn); wrestling brandWWE(1.6bn); Russian family channelGetMovies(1.7bn); and the channels for record labels in Thailand (GMM Grammy’s 1.6bn views) and India (T-Series’ 1.6bn).A montage of PewDiePie’s recent videos (language NSFW in places).The figures are also a reminder that some of the most recognisable “stars” of YouTube aren’t among the biggest channels by views.Prominent American YouTubers likeMichelle Phan,Grace Helbig,Tyler Oakley,Connor FrantaandBethany Motararely appeared in Tubefilter’s monthly charts of the 100 most popular channels, even though they continued to build solid audiences of subscribers.Meanwhile British vloggerZoella’s main channel grew steadily throughout 2014 from 10.9m views in January to 22.4m in December, but its 214m views for the year as a whole were less than a tenth of the biggest British star Stampy’s – PewDiePie is Swedish, although he now lives and works in Brighton.YouTube remains an incubator for new production companies and online media firms, though. Successes in 2014 includedBuzzFeed Video(1.3bn views),The Fine Brothers(1.3bn) andSmosh(1.1bn).Meanwhile, children’s nursery rhymes channelLittle Baby Bumnotched up more than 869m views in the last four months of the year alone, having not previously appeared in Tubefilter and OpenSlate’s chart.It was the fourth most popular YouTube channel in December, behind only DC Toys Collector, PewDiePie andTaylor Swift, whose channel totalled 1.4bn views for the year despite a quiet first few months when she was recording her album ‘1989’.The charts also reveal the wider growth of YouTube – or at least its most successful channels.Tubefilter and OpenSlate’s rankings for December 2013revealed more than 6.9bn views that month for the service’s top 100 channels, butby December 2014that figure had grown 91% to more than 13.2bn.•These thumbs are the biggest YouTube stars you’ve never heard of•Top 100 YouTube games channels watched 4.4bn times in September
The founder of Ship Your Enemies Glitter, an Australian website that lets anyone in the world ship their enemies bags of glitter – the most irritating party product yet invented – has put his company up for sale, after begging potential customers to stop using his website.Mathew Carpenter’s creation is up for auction on startup marketplace Flippa,with a starting bid of just $1, boasting of the site’s “$20,000+ in sales and 2.5m visits in four days”.But, he says, the site was a joke that got out of hand. “I launched this website as a bit of a joke not expecting this level of attention. Heck, I launched this website while I was on holiday!“For the past few days it has been stressful dealing with all of the media attention and even more so because this was only intended to be a small side project. It’s taken on a life of its own, and I want to watch it continue to grow under a new owner.”The sale comes days after Carpenter, 22, took to start-up website Product Hunt, where his creation had racked up almost a thousand votes, toask potential users to just not.“Hi guys, I’m the founder of this website. Please stop buying this horrible glitter product — I’m sick of dealing with it. Sincerely, Mat.”Since schadenfreude is the internet’s mother tongue, the replies were less than sympathetic. “You have made your glitter-coated bed and I’m afraid you will have to lie in it,”read one.It’s certainly a lucrative business. Carpenter’s details the profit margin for potential buyers: “Each purchase is worth $9.99AUD. I’ve calculated that the total cost of shipping an envelope filled with the glitter &amp; the A4 letter to most places in the world from Australia ranges anywhere from $2-$4. That leaves $5.99 to $7.99 profit on each order.”“Somewhat overwhelmed… I decided to take the ability to order down, despite receiving thousands of emails &amp; tweets from people wanting to purchase.”For what it’s worth, Carpenter is willing to sign a three-year non-compete clause with any potential buyer, meaning that if a follow-up website – say, ShipYourEnemiesConfetti.com – does get made, it won’t come from him.
