"Google just released theAccount Authentication Proxy for Web-Based Applications-- which looks a lot like Passport. According to the website, this proxy lets web-based applications create services protected by a Google Account by enabling a web application to get an authentication token without ever handling the user's account login information. The user must log into their account using a Google supplied login page and grant limited access to the web application," says ZD Net'sGoogling Googleblog."Web applications, if granted, can access certain information associated with that users Google account -- for example Google Calendar events. Users explicitly have to give websites access to their services before any of their data will be shared."Comment: Or not. Although several blogs have linked to the Google page, and Googling Gooogle has a screen shot, the link no longer works.Passport does the authentication when you log into Hotmail, and was a key part of Microsoft's programmable web vision, called Microsoft.net. About six years ago, Passport spooked Sun into organising theLiberty Allianceto create an open alternative, which aims to have "more than one billion Liberty-enabled identities and devices ... by the end of 2006".So, based on what you know, do you think Google will: (a) join in with what looks like an emerging open industry standard; or (b) throw its weight behindSxip's Indentity 2.0; or (c) introduce its own system because Google can do whatever it likes?PS: Sxip is pronounced "skip".
Sony has launched another salvo in the bitter war of words that currently blights the next-generation gaming scene like a cloud of mustard gas. In an interview with the US PlayStation magazine, Kaz Hirai, president and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment America (SCEA), was asked if Sony and Microsoft are going down the same route. To which he replied,"We seem to. Every time we go down a path, we look behind and they're right there - we just can't shake these guys. I wish that they would come up with some strategies of their own, but they seem to be going down the path of everything we do. If you look at their strategy in other business areas as well, they tend to do that."Of course, several industry watchers have pointed out that Microsoft has sort of led the way with online gaming, and that Sony is having to play catch-up with its PS3 services. Oh and Sony is not adverse to the odd 'me too' tactic - for example, the Dual Shock pad following the N64 rumble pak, and a tilt sensor being shoved into the PS3 controller to compete with Nintendo's freaky Wii.We all know that the next-gen victor will not be decided in the musty debating rooms of corporate chiefs. It will be fought out and won in our living rooms. But this inter-company bitching does at least provide some light relief while we wait for people to start releasing games again.You're up next Microsoft - cry havoc and let loose the inaccurate hype of war...
Mario is the star of this week'sreviews, with New Super Mario Bros for the DS getting a warm welcome. "As addictive as it was in the 1980s," says reviewer Steve Boxer. And decades aside - I'd say 1991's Super Mario World was the pinnacle - who can argue? I reviewed the latest game of an entirely different gaming hero - Agent 47. The latest Hitman game, Blood Money, is more intuitive than previous outings but still has enough niggles to frustrate. Finally there is The Movies expansion pack - Stunts and Effects - which should appeal to the three of you that bought the original game.Elsewhere, Alekstakes a lookat the US Congressional Hearings into videogame violence. "Legislation in the US will be another excuse to moralise output," she says.
I bought an Apple iPod about four months ago and it no longer works. Do these things have a short lifespan? Ann PerrottMany products based on computer technologies have a short lifespan compared with traditional "consumer durables", including hi-fis, TV sets, cameras and so on, which can last for decades. Rapid progress means hi-tech products soon become obsolete, so when they break, they aren't worth repairing. The suppliers can sell you a much more advanced model for a lower price instead. However, the things are not supposed to fail after four months, and if you contact Apple, it will repair or replace your iPod under guarantee. Unfortunately, it will not replace music you might have bought from its iTunes Music Store.Technically, the Sale of Goods Act should protect you if goods are faulty, even after the one-year guarantee runs out. But Apple and other suppliers generally do not support this view and, no doubt coincidentally, this encourages users to buy their extended warranties.MacInTouch has published an excellent survey of iPod reliability atwww.macintouch.com/reliability/ipodfailures.html. I have seen no evidence that iPods are either more or less reliable than rival models, except for the discontinued 40GB Click Wheel model, which MacInTouch says "appears to have been a lemon".Backchat: Steven Robinson says his first 40GB Click Wheel iPod lasted 11 months but its replacement stopped working after eight. Tim Davies says: "I have had four iPods. They kept breaking and PC World kept on replacing them. Eventually I got the money back and bought a PlayStation Portable." Kathy Fowler's iPod stopped holding a charge after 10 months but "these things happen, and Apple's service was second to none".
I'm on Windows 2000 but want to play with the beta of Office 2007, which works on XP. Is it worth upgrading, and why? Ketlan OssowskiWindows 2000 (Windows 5.0) and XP (Windows 5.1) are basically the same operating system, and unless you like XP's more colourful user interface, there are very few reasons to upgrade. XP's advantages include better compatibility with old Windows software and games, plus extras such as Windows Movie Maker, the built-in firewall and Remote Desktop support. The main difference is the considerable rewriting and security-hardening that went into XP SP2 (Service Pack 2). Microsoft didn't do this for Windows 2000, leaving it orphaned from a development point of view. But if you don't have any security problems, it would make financial sense to wait for Vista, or even Vista's SP1.Note: Microsoft will support W2K SP4 until January 1, 2010, whereas Windows 98, 98SE and Me reach the end of their lives on July 11, and Windows XP SP1 on October 10, 2006. (There wasn't room for this in the print version.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
The release of Half Life 2: Episode I, the first high-profile episodic title, was accompanied bywavesofcontemplationabout what effects player-feedback would have on the design of future interactive entertainment. According toJoystiq, the mechanical machinations have already started turning, and the information gathered on users is providing boundless player-consumption statistics in time for the continued development of the series.At the minute, thestats made publicly availablearen't hugely interesting (how many gamers play on hard, who's using Closed Captioned and HDR, completion time), but they provide a benchmark for future technical adaptations. Later information might automatically query player actions (time spent on levels, with individual puzzles) to generate a more detailed account of how players consume their media.Later, with the right technology, they could evenwatch us from within the game and socially engineer our thoughts and real-life actions. Won't that be fun?
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Surfing with a safety netThe government is leaning on ISPs to install web filters for home broadband, at huge cost. But, asks Sean Hargrave, is that the best way to stop paedophiles' online activities?Time to tell this travel site where to goApart from giving wrong directions, what is a public-sector behemoth doing in the dynamic knowledge economy? Michael Cross reports.Will Microsoft corrupt the security sector?With the wreckage of Netscape, Lotus and Borland in its rear-view mirror, Microsoft now seems to have another group of software vendors in its sights, ready to run them down: antivirus vendors.Big Brother takes a controlling interest in chipsA chilling novel details how everyday technologies could gradually lead to a far more invasive society than even Orwell dreamed of.Newly Asked QuestionsWho is winning the Blu-ray battle?Funnily enough, both sides are losing. We were looking forward to a slugfest between Blu-ray and HD-DVD, the two blue-ray laser formats bidding to become the high-definition replacement for DVD, but both seem more intent on committing seppuku (aka "hari-kari") instead.How much does it cost to display an OS map on a website?Much less than we estimated last week. In "Time to account for travel maps' costs" (June 22), we wrote: "For a charity to put [those maps] on a webserver that might be used by hundreds of people (a typical server can handle 2,000) would cost millions of pounds annually."Don't let the politicians play games with usAleks Krotoski: The US comic Jon Stewart gave Congress another what-for on last week's episode of his programme, The Daily Show. Stewart's handling of the congressional hearings into videogame violence set out to lampoon the greyhairs in charge of the nation. In doing so, he exposed the ignorance that saturates elected officialdom.GamesNew Super Mario Bros | Hitman: Blood Money | The Movies: Stunts and EffectsThinking small could be beautiful for Britain's ITMichael Cross: Every working day, the government spends about £20 million on information technology. As it is more than anyone else in the country lays out on computers, and shows no sign of decreasing, it is worth asking what the spending is for.Why WinFS had to vanishWindows users won't miss the planned storage and search system - nobody could find a good use for it.The revolution will be online - virtuallyVictor Keegan: I was at a conference the other day when someone came up to me afterwards to share a recent experience. He was involved in selling services to the National Union of Students and was worried by the amount of time students were spending on MySpace.com.TechnobileChris Alden: Buying a train ticket from a machine shouldn't be this hard. If the Germans can make it easy, why can't we?Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesCarbon fibre TX3 | Are you mouseproud? | Charge on the go | Total broadband | Safer shopping | Talk to the trees | Hello Gbuy | Not that K9Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Every working day, the government spends about &pound;20 million on information technology. As an item on the public spending bill, that's not huge - little more than 1%. But as it is more than anyone else in the country lays out on computers, and shows no sign of decreasing, it is worth asking what the spending is for.The conventional answer is to improve the government machine. The money goes on services, software and hardware to help deliver (sic) more effective public services. We're buying doctors the kit to call up X-rays electronically rather than on film and allowing police officers to spend more time on the street, not in the canteen.At another level, the IT is supposed to cut the cost of running government's back offices, so we can either employ fewer civil servants or give them more useful things to do. All this is part of the prime minister's strategy that aims to "transform" public services.No doubt this transformation is worthwhile. But by concentrating exclusively on putting its own office in order, the government neglects another potential outcome of public spending: to nurture the British IT industry. Nearly every other government has such a goal, albeit with varying degrees of openness. Here, senior officials make it a point of pride that they have moved beyond nationalistic concerns.In the Cabinet Office's Transformational Government strategy, the idea that nurturing domestic industry is a legitimate goal of government IT policy merits not a single line. Some significant government IT programmes have been designed with the opposite aims - the massive NHS IT programme, whose procurement processes received a nod of approval from the National Audit Office last week, deliberately set out to replace local IT suppliers with "industrial strength" multinationals.In a typical exercise in joined-up government, the Department of Trade and Industry was trying to promote UK healthcare informatics companies overseas at the very time the Department of Health was deciding they were not good enough for the NHS.When I ask the people who run the government's IT projects what they can do to put business in the way of UK companies, they generally react as if I have suggested rolling a joint in their office - it is a possibility simply not on their agenda.I am not suggesting offering special treatment for British business. Like smoking dope in the Cabinet Office, that would generate certain legal difficulties, as well as being thoroughly antisocial. It would not even be good for the businesses concerned - certainly the Fujitsu IT company has a higher international reputation nowadays than it did when, as the UK "national champion" ICL, it collected government IT contracts according to Buggins' turn.But if outright protectionism is out, another option is exercised by many free-trading governments. This is to ensure that a percentage of government IT spending goes to start-ups and other small businesses. Small businesses generally, though not necessarily in the information age, operate close to home.The US government seems to regard supporting small business as a worthwhile policy objective: the federal government's General Services Association will this year reserve contracts worth up to $250 billion to small and medium-sized enterprises. Many other governments, notably Canada and the Netherlands, parcel out government contracts in lots rarely exceeding a million dollars.The UK has no such policy. One distinctive feature of HMG's IT policy is its enthusiasm for mega-contracts, worth hundreds of millions or billions of pounds. As a result, four fifths of government IT spending goes to 11 contractors, nearly all of which are based overseas.Although in the short term these contracts look efficient, especially if they involve transferring risk to a well-resourced private contractor, they have longer-term costs. One is that a nation cannot live by cutting costs alone, and strong IT companies are excellent at generating wealth. After all, EDS was a start-up once. Second, there is a correlation between governments taking the "small parcel" approach and success in IT.While the DTI this week launched a website collating information on government contracts to make life easier for small companies to bid, this falls a long way short of guaranteeing them the work.Finally, there is the matter of public support. The government's programme of IT-based reforms, whether electronic health records, shared "back office" services and identity cards, is controversial. One way to generate engagement for the programme would be to assure the public that the commercial benefits from it will flow to Birmingham as well as Bermuda.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft has just killed off its future storage system, most recently known as WinFS, and hyped as one of the three pillars of Windows Vista. On the WinFS Team Blog, Microsoft program manager Quentin Clark put a positive spin on the news: Microsoft had chosen a different "packaging strategy", and the WinFS technologies would be used in products such as SQL Server instead.But, he had to admit, "these changes do mean that we are not pursuing a separate delivery of WinFS, including the previously planned beta 2 release" (http://tinyurl.com/km37t). So Windows XP and Vista users will never find a WinFS folder on their desktops, either as part of the operating system or an optional 30 megabyte download.Mercy killingThe mercy killing caused remarkably few ripples, possibly because hardly any Windows users have a clue what WinFS is, or was, and certainly won't miss it. Oddly, the news seemed of much more interest to Mac users: in 2004 Apple boss Steve Jobs picked up on one aspect of what Microsoft had promised for WinFS - the desktop search - and boasted about delivering it first as the Spotlight search feature in Tiger, the release of Mac OS X that appeared in April 2005. Given the limited search features that will appear in Vista without WinFS, he will turn out to have been mostly right.Another reason why the demise of WinFS aroused little wailing was that we have seen it all before. In the 90s, before Microsoft released Chicago (aka Windows 95), it was also working on a new operating system called Cairo. Cairo was to have an Object File Store (OFS) with virtual folders. It never appeared. OFS was followed by Storage+, which never appeared, then by the Relational File System (RFS), which never appeared.WinFS was different, because by this time it was a relational database sitting on top of Windows' New Technology File System, not a replacement for it. Basically, WinFS sucked the data and metadata (such as a photo's exposure speed or a document's creation date) from the Windows Documents and Settings folders into a giant SQL (structured query language) database. From the inside, this looks a lot like a file system, as long as we overlook the fact that it contains many things that aren't files. From the outside, it isn't: all the files are still there, in folders, on your NTFS hard drive.A simple analogy is to compare it to a music library viewed in Media Player or iTunes. The songs are in the library and you can search and sort them via metadata (such as name of artist) that isn't part of the file name. But the real MP3 files are still there, in the file system, probably scattered all over your hard drive.The three big ideas behind WinFS were to unify storage, make it searchable, and make it accessible to applications. Unified storage meant things like songs, photos, word documents, email messages, calendars and so on could all be held in the same database. Programmers could stop developing storage systems for different applications - like the scary PST files used by Outlook - and everyone could use WinFS instead. That's why it was considered, until 2004, a pillar of Vista.Being based on the next version of Microsoft's SQL Server, WinFS has powerful search facilities. And a search produces a list of "objects" such as photos and Word document files and "persons" (a data type in WinFS), not directory listings of where the files were when they were last indexed. All in all, it sounded good.Lacking tractionBut using WinFS is another matter. In theory, you could take the "contact details" objects and extract contact data to define a group of customers, then filter that against company sales data in a different application to find those who spend more than &pound;1m a year, find the emails you hadn't answered from these high-value customers, display their photos as a timeline in order of birthdays, then save the search and use it again later. But the chances of ordinary users - for whom WinFS was supposed to be designed - doing that seem rather small. WinFS, unlike desktop search, is a platform. Without developers building on it, creating applications like Life Journal, which Microsoft demonstrated, it would probably never get used.There has been some speculation that WinFS was killed because it was one of Bill Gates's pet projects, and they no longer have his protection because he is stepping down from an active role at the company.But a more likely explanation is this: Microsoft delivered a working beta of WinFS last August, and it sank like a stone. The WinFS team made a four blog posts in the first five months of this year, attracting a total of 36 comments. Microsoft also has a WinFS newsgroup on Usenet with few users. WinFS is a technology without any traction. Under the circumstances, giving it to the database guys looks like the right thing to do.It could still have a future, if delivered transparently as an online service - especially since it has built-in synchronisation to work as a distributed database. Microsoft could, for example, deliver on the promise of WinFS by combining data from multiple desktop and notebook PCs in one searchable online store, while leaving your "real" files intact. People might even pay for that.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
With the wreckage of Netscape, Lotus and Borland in its rear-view mirror, Microsoft now seems to have another group of software vendors in its sights, ready to run them down: antivirus vendors.That at least is the accusation made by Alex Eckelberry, chief executive of Sunbelt Software, which makes antispyware products. "It's bad enough that Microsoft is getting in to all aspects of security. But now they are going to kill their competition through predatory pricing," he wrote on a blog posting (http://tinyurl.com/l9e6v).The source of his annoyance: the pricing schemes for Microsoft OneCare, the security suite that Microsoft will offer for $49.95 (&pound;27) for up to three machines, undercuts competitors such as Norton Antivirus and McAfee VirusScan by 44% and 29% respectively. On the enterprise side, which Eckelberry says is the most profitable, Microsoft's Antigen product comes out (under different scenarios) at between 53% and 63% cheaper than rivals such as Trend, Symantec and McAfee.Are companies like Symantec worried? We met Enrique Salem, head of Symantec's consumer division, at about the time Eckelberry was composing his blog post. Salem appeared unworried by the threat: "OneCare's capabilities aren't anything new," he said. "They're working on threats that we used to focus on previously."Symantec, he said, was looking forward to the world as it will be, when almost every user will be online all the time, and will routinely expect that spyware, viruses, keyloggers and Trojans will be kept off their computer. The problem then, suggests Salem, will be in knowing what sites you can trust as phishing and "poisoned" sites (which might carry malware in adverts or downloaded software) grow.To deal with that, Symantec is building a cooperative product in which the users themselves will rate sites for trustworthiness; that will automatically and anonymously be reported back to a central system that will make the recommendation (or lack of it) available to any other Symantec user.If that sounds like the sort of thing a search engine such as Google or Yahoo might find useful, it is. Salem wouldn't say whether Symantec has tied up a deal with a search engine (clearly, it won't do it with Microsoft). But it may be indicative that it has previously signed a deal in the UK with Yahoo.Of OneCare, Salem said: "I'm not saying that Microsoft isn't going to run fast [in updating its security offerings]." But, he suggested, Symantec is going to make sure it runs faster to keep ahead.Salem did not respond to subsequent requests for comment about Eckelberry's posting. A Microsoft spokesman said: "We believe that Windows Live OneCare and Microsoft Antigen products provide good value to customers and that all firms should compete to provide good value. Our customers have made it clear that malicious software and other internet threats represent a major problem and they want Microsoft to deliver effective solutions."Microsoft believes that customers want the freedom to choose the security solutions that work best for them and we're committed to seeing the sector stay competitive, with a large, thriving ecosystem of innovative companies."But Eckelberry is worried for the whole sector. "It's one thing that Microsoft has destroyed competition in browsers, languages, word processors, spreadsheets, presentation packages, and all the rest ... But it's another thing to kill competition in the security space. Because the security landscape has changed."There is now a tremendous incentive to hack Windows, because there's just so much money to be made by the bad guys. It's free market economics - energy goes where there is a profit. So Vista will get hacked, there will be zero-day attacks, there will be evolving forms of viruses and malware. And Microsoft security products will be targeted. In a world where Microsoft has a hegemony on security, the implications may be far reaching, possibly to our own national security."
iPod failureI bought an Apple iPod about four months ago and it no longer works. Do these things have a short lifespan?Ann PerrottJack Schofield replies:Many products based on computer technologies have a short lifespan compared with traditional "consumer durables", including hi-fis, TV sets, cameras and so on, which can last for decades. Rapid progress means hi-tech products soon become obsolete, so when they break, they aren't worth repairing. The suppliers can sell you a much more advanced model for a lower price instead. However, the things are not supposed to fail after four months, and if you contact Apple, it will repair or replace your iPod under guarantee. Unfortunately, it will not replace music you might have bought from its iTunes Music Store.Technically, the Sale of Goods Act should protect you if goods are faulty, even after the one-year guarantee runs out. But Apple and other suppliers generally do not support this view and, no doubt coincidentally, this encourages users to buy their extended warranties.MacInTouch has published an excellent survey of iPod reliability atwww.macintouch.com/reliability/ipod failures.html. I have seen no evidence that iPods are either more or less reliable than rival models, except for the discontinued 40GB Click Wheel model, which MacInTouch says "appears to have been a lemon".Up to XPI'm on Windows 2000 but want to play with the beta of Office 2007, which works on XP. Is it worth upgrading, and why?Ketlan OssowskiJS:Windows 2000 (Windows 5.0) and XP (Windows 5.1) are basically the same operating system, and unless you like XP's more colourful user interface, there are very few reasons to upgrade. XP's advantages include better compatibility with old Windows software and games, plus extras such as Windows Movie Maker, the built-in firewall and Remote Desktop support. The main difference is the considerable rewriting and security-hardening that went into XP SP2 (Service Pack 2). Microsoft didn't do this for Windows 2000, leaving it orphaned from a development point of view. But if you don't have any security problems, it would make financial sense to wait for Vista, or even Vista's SP1.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Carbon fibre TX3Next month Sony will start shipping a new TX3 series of ultra-slim (4.5mm) ultra-portable Vaio notebook PCs with carbon fibre laminate bodies. It says the new material is "stronger and lighter than any magnesium alloy". Dell has also launched an ultra-portable, the Latitude D420.Are you mouseproud?Digital Unite and Age Concern are soliciting nominations for the annual Silver Surfers of the Year awards. The closing date is July 21.www.silversurfer.org.uk/awards.htmlCharge on the goChargeBox is installing more than a hundred kiosks that will enable users to recharge mobile phones, iPods and other devices while out and about. Sites include airports, hotels, gyms, bars and other centres.www.chargebox.comTotal broadbandBT has announced a Total Broadband service that includes a home hub with a VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) service, the BT Fusion mobile service, and the BT Vision movie and TV download service, which will be launched in August.www.bt.com/broadbandSafer shoppingSymantec has announced Norton Confidential, which it says is "the world's first comprehensive transaction security suite", to help guard against identity theft and fraud. It will be available in the autumn for Windows and Mac OS X users.www.symantec.com/transactsafelyTalk to the treesSome parts of London now have "Bluetooth-enabled" trees, thanks to IBM, so mobile phone users can get the latest scores from Wimbledon. (IBM is the official supplier of the tournament's live score and match data.)Hello GbuyGoogle was expected to launch Gbuy, a new online payments system, this week.Not that K9BlueCoat is offering parents K9, a free program that blacklists undesirable internet sites to help protect children on the web.www.getk9.com
Much less than we estimated last week. In "Time to account for travel maps' costs" (June 22), we wrote: "For a charity to put [those maps] on a webserver that might be used by hundreds of people (a typical server can handle 2,000) would cost millions of pounds annually."In fact, Ordnance Survey points out, the cost would be more like &pound;18,000 per year - a hundredfold less than we suggested. The error (which was ours) arose when we followed up on a query made by mySociety, the charitable organisation that demonstrates beneficial use of public information online. It had asked OS how much it would cost to display its "time travel" maps, which show how long it takes to travel to parts of the country from different starting points.The response: a single-user, internal licence would cost roughly &pound;1,000 per year (excluding VAT) for "internal business use, display and promotion as long as there is no financial gain".So how much more expensive would it be for a web service, where you would potentially have thousands of people - in effect, "users" - accessing the data? Wouldn't you have to multiply the single-user cost by a factor of a thousand? But Ed Parsons, OS's chief technology officer, said that was wrong. To the OS, all web users count as "one user", as long as the original data being manipulated remains behind an organisation's firewall, a condition of the licence.But the confusion is understandable. OS's page on copyright licensing for internet use (athttp://tinyurl.com/kyxuu) does not specify that internet users en masse only count as one; hence mySociety's expectation that internet use would lead to an explosion in costs.Not so, said OS. For a single scale mapping of the country - say, at 1:50,000 scale - including Code Point for finding postcodes (so you can get a map of a postcode's location), the annual licence for a website serving 20,000 map images per day, every day, would be &pound;18,200 per year.To provide the mapping service most web users are used to, one would have to license several scales: we have grown used to being able to zoom in on a point.Streetmap offers seven mapping scales; Multimap offers 13, though not all appear to come from OS. Using multiple scales will, of course, ramp up costs very quickly - as will being popular. But even licensing seven scales will only take your annual costs to around &pound;100,000 - not into the millions. Unless, of course, you are wildly successful.Tom Steinberg, mySociety's director, says: "The price for these maps, which cover only a small chunk of the country, is way above affordability by most small and medium-sized enterprises, a group that employs more than half the UK workforce. Furthermore, it excludes the entire caste of internet-based enthusiasts who've produced about 80% of all the innovative mapping work in the world over the past couple of years."We agree. We don't think there should be any charge for using OS's map data online. But to find out it's lower than we thought is certainly a pleasant surprise.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If your holiday plans involve driving through the Channel tunnel, beware of asking HM Government for electronic directions. This week, we asked the Transport Direct web portal (www.transportdirect.info) for a route from London N6 to Eurotunnel. It suggested a drive lasting seven hours and 34 minutes to the Ardneil Hotel in the Ayrshire resort of Troon.This is not a teething bug. Transport Direct has been live since 2004, at a cost of &pound;30m to the taxpayer. I have searched regularly for directions to the Eurotunnel terminal in Kent, using the name Eurotunnel and Channel tunnel. It is exactly the sort of journey for which you might need directions from the web. The portal has never come up with a correct answer.Four months ago, I reported the bug to the site, and on February 15 received a response signed by David Gott, programme support office manager, Transport Direct. "Please be assured that every comment and suggestion made is taken forward for investigation and action as appropriate."This week, Transport Direct's chief executive Nick Illsley blamed "human error"; and said it would be fixed by next week.While it might be tempting to accuse Troon chamber of commerce of hacking into the system to hijack English holidaymakers, it is more likely Transport Direct is simply overwhelmed by complexity. It is trying to run "a world first ... the first ever website to provide national coverage for information about all types of transport".Big questionMost of the time Transport Direct works. The Department for Transport says the portal has had three million users this calendar year. Half were for "point to point" journeys, the portal's main unique feature. The question we want to ask is: what is the government doing in this market?In an age when it is not seen as appropriate for the public sector to run power stations or railways, why is it running nationalised industries in what should be the most dynamic sector of all, the web-based knowledge economy? The question lies at the heart of our campaign, which argues that government's role should be to collect and administer high-quality raw data, but make it freely available to everyone to create innovative services.Transport information would be an excellent example. Much of the information that goes into Transport Direct is owned by local authorities, which are funded by local rates and central taxation. Shouldn't it be available to all comers?Since its conception nearly a decade ago, "e-government" has been exempt from conventional political wisdom about competition, monopoly and state aid. The consequences are not only theoretical. In 2000, at the height of the dotcom boom, a London startup company called iMPower had the idea of launching a service to sell fishing licences on the web. It was supposed to usher in a new age of "intermediaries" providing electronic routes to public services. In theory, this was supported by government policy - but another government policy required the Environment Agency to launch its own fishing licence service on the web. The private-sector offering was unable to compete.Ilsley says that research by the department before Transport Direct's launch showed the private sector wasn't interested in providing a one-stop all-purpose site. However the site was launched in a market already populated by the private sector, albeit with less sophisticated offerings. Their operators argue that these are more in tune with public needs.One such site is Xephos (www.internet.xephos.com), offering integrated journey information based on rail, coach and bus timetables. It was set up in 2001, originally as part of the Traveline initiative (www.traveline.org.uk, a state-sponsored competitor to Transport Direct, providing regional information).Xephos is still going strong, though founder Peter White was this week working as a supply teacher to keep the wolf from the door. It does not have the bells and whistles of Transport Direct. But White says this matters little in practice.Golden rules"The golden rule is that you can be either comprehensive or comprehensible. Transport Direct attempts to be comprehensive. We go for comprehensible; the majority of people know their local bus stop. In any case, the bus has a useful technical resource for providing information - the driver."Another competitor is Journeyplan, a specialist company supporting some of the 11 Traveline initiatives (www.planajourney.co.uk). The chief executive, Mac Logan, says he finds it challenging and sad to be facing such a "powerful, nearly monopolistic competitor" as Transport Direct.Its privileged position in the market has other consequences for the knowledge economy. It claims crown copyright on most of the information displayed on the site, and imposes restrictions on photocopying and other reproduction. Its terms specifically ban the use for financial gain of any of the material on the website.Some local authorities, which have been leant upon by central government to provide data to Transport Direct, are worried about losing control. One officer raised concerns at the plan to incorporate data on Britain's 20,000 public car parks: "Instead of linking to our content, they want to copy the car parking info on our site so they can hold it on their site ... this will complicate matters, as we will not have control over our data and there is a potential that the information ... could become out of date and we would not be able to ensure it is changed."The result could be yet another chapter in the saga of Transport Direct bugs - a classic example of the public-sector behemoth entering the knowledge economy. Prudently, Transport Direct covers itself against such blunders. Its terms and conditions warn that content is "provided on an information basis only, and should not be relied upon". Any travellers ending up in Troon rather than Calais this summer would no doubt agree.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;Tickets are still available for the Free Our Data debate, hosted by RSA. See:www.rsa.org.uk/events/detail.asp?eventID=1901or phone 020 7451 6868&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last week, the Virtual Global Taskforce, formed by police agencies around the world, secured its first UK conviction. Lee Costi, a 21-year-old student from Surrey, was found guilty of raping two underage girls and sentenced to nine years in prison. He was caught after a Nottinghamshire mother alerted police to online conversations he was having with her 14-year-old daughter.A triumph over online paedophiles? Perhaps. With the rows over child abusers becoming increasingly heated in the tabloid headlines, the Home Office is attacking on a number of fronts. One is online, where it has confronted internet providers with a stark alternative: install web filtering for your domestic broadband customers, or we'll force you to.That ultimatum was announced last month by the parliamentary under secretary for policing, security and community safety, Vernon Coaker. In a written parliamentary answer (http://tinyurl.com/mfjg9) he assured MPs that the Home Office was expecting broadband ISPs to install web-filtering technology voluntarily by the end of next year but, if this deadline is not met, he would - he hinted strongly - consider legislation to force them to.There's just one problem. ISPs say the costs are huge, running to hundreds of thousands of pounds for a large provider, and that the suggested filters are easily circumvented. Furthermore, a Cambridge professor of computing who has analysed the blocking system developed by BT, which claimed in 2004 to have been used to block thousands of attempted visits to banned sites, says it could be exploited by paedophiles to compile a list of the worst sites.The move to web filtering will require ISPs to join the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) and receive its regularly updated, encrypted list of paedophile and race-hate sites, which they would need to block with their filtering software and hardware. But the web-filtering experts and ISPs prepared to talk on this issue said the technology will only help prevent home broadband users (dial-up and business customers are not, apparently, included in the proposals) from accidentally accessing child-abuse sites."It's well intentioned, but irrelevant," says Simon Davies, managing director of the internet provider IDNet. "The technology is expensive to have to offer within your normal service, and it will have little effect. Sure, it may stop accidental access but I don't really see there's a problem that needs solving."Web communicationHe points out that web filtering at present is only applied to connections made to the standard "port" for web connections - port 80. A port is like the window of a hotel - a means of communicating between inside and outside. Any web server has more than 65,000 ports available for connections to other computers."Paedophile sites simply need to switch to another port to remain unblocked," Davies says. "Very little paedophilia is shared online [by web servers], it's more often done through peer-to-peer (P2P) networks, which cannot be controlled."Tom Newton, product manager at the web-filtering developer SmoothWall, concurs. "The problem is these sites only go live for a very short amount of time, just long enough for those in the know to be informed, and then they're taken down again," he says. "It means there's probably very few on the list you're blocking that are still live. The vast majority of pictures are swapped on message boards, forums and P2P networks so there's virtually nothing you can do with web filters."Could artificial intelligence techniques, blocking sites by the appearance of their content rather than their URL be effective? Not according to Puresight, another web-filtering company: paedophile sites do not have a generic look. "We can filter out normal porn sites because they have a typical look that an AI engine can pick out," a spokesman says. "We can't do the same for paedophile sites because they're just a bunch of pictures that software can't distinguish from an innocent page of family snapshots."So automated methods won't work, but the cost of providing the service will affect ISPs. It's the sort of contradiction that you would expect the Internet Service Providers' Association (Ispa), normally vocal on the issue of government proposals raising its members' costs, to be bruiting about. Unusually, and like several of its members, it has remained tightlipped.Ispa said in a written statement that it supported the government's action against child-abuse sites but cautioned it would only curtail "casual browsing" and "will not hinder organised distribution of such images". It also warns that many of its members will find the costs of web filtering "disproportionately high" and that there is a "long tail" of small ISPs that are not Ispa members and so would be difficult to identify and reach within the government's deadline of the end of 2007.Cost of responsibilityTiscali is one of the few ISPs prepared to comment. Its director of media and operations, Neal McCleave, says that by the end of next month, all its broadband subscribers will be blocked from sites on the IWF list. The cost: several hundred thousand pounds. "It's a cost we have to bear as part of being a responsible ISP, but it is obviously not inconsiderable," he admits.Tiscali is rare among ISPs in developing its own filtering solution. Several are trialling or are expected to adopt BT's CleanFeed filtering system, widely accredited with alerting the Home Office to the possibility of blocking child-abuse sites.However, Richard Clayton, a professor of computing at Cambridge University, believes the system could do more harm than good if paedophiles turn their minds to cracking it. "The government seems convinced there's a problem of people stumbling upon child-abuse sites but I don't see how that can be," Clayton says. "The sites don't normally have everyday names because they don't want to be found; they're only used by people in the know and many are based in east Europe and Russia, and so don't have everyday names you could accidentally type in."Major search engines, including Google, already use the IWF list so illegal sites will not appear in search results - cutting the chances of innocent users stumbling on a rogue link.Clayton suggests the government is likely to exaggerate the effect of people searching for child pornography, and will position itself as being tough on online child abuse by introducing filtering. But doing so runs a risk of making the problem worse if a clever paedophile reverse engineers the CleanFeed system."I published a paper [in June 2005] on how the CleanFeed system works and how a clever person ... could use software to fire off thousands of potential web addresses at the system, then see if any had been routed back through a proxy server, which is how the system operates for sites on the list," Clayton says. "They'd then effectively get the official list of where the really hard core stuff is. It's not difficult to do. I did it but I obviously haven't looked at the sites because that would be illegal."BT's director of portfolio infrastructure, Mike Galvin, says Clayton did not get round CleanFeed. "It took him six months and he couldn't crack the system, and he's a Cambridge professor of computing," he argues. "Some people may complain about the effectiveness and the cost but it's either the taxpayer, through the government, or the subscriber, through their ISP, that will pay for this protection - and we think the latter option is fairest."A Home Office spokesman confirmed that the government expects ISPs to bear the cost of web filtering, and that it believes the technology will protect against accidental exposure and help to curtail committed paedophiles. At the same time, UK law enforcement agencies are establishing links with forces around the world to help tackle the problem of sites not based in the UK.Effective filteringThe fact that sites are hosted abroad should reassure those who doubt the effectiveness of web filters, says the IWF's communications coordinator, Sarah Robertson. "Before the IWF [set up in 1996], 18% of child-abuse pictures accessed in the UK were stored in the UK," she points out. "Today it's only 0.4%, thanks to our work in getting these sites shut down. Techie people say, 'why bother with filtering', but our success speaks for itself."Industry experts are largely agreed that international cooperation between police forces and heavier sentences for those caught with the material is the only solution. But that doesn't seem to be happening. Mark Taylor, a consultant with computer forensics company Ibas, believes the UK has missed a huge opportunity. As a former detective at the High Tech Crime Unit at New Scotland Yard in London, he knows from experience that not only is web filtering ineffective and irrelevant, but that usually when offenders are caught they are not prosecuted or, in his opinion, not given sentences that act as a deterrent.Taylor worked on Operation Ore, the UK's largest investigation of paedophiles, which began in 2002. It was instigated by the US authorities, who passed on a list of 7,000 UK citizens believed to have paid to access child-abuse images from a Texas website, whose owners were each sentenced to more than 100 years in prison."It was an amazing, rare opportunity for the UK," says Taylor. "Paedophiles collect pictures by swapping them, there's not normally money involved. That's why it was so rare for us with Operation Ore to have a money trail and 7,000 suspects, 1,200 of whom have since been convicted. [But] the sentences were really low. The maximum was four years, but most were getting around six to 18 months."At Ibas, I'm still investigating suspects' computers because there's been such a backlog of cases. The chances of them still having the same computer four years on are minimal. I know my former colleagues who are still in the police are distraught. It was a huge opportunity to crack down that wasn't fully taken advantage of."It's not clear that web filtering could have made any difference in the Costi case, which involved chatrooms. Does that indicate that paedophiles pose a greater risk in interactive chatrooms than through web access? A Home Office spokesman said that "blocking websites is an important initiative, but it is only one element of our work to make the internet safer for children".&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I was at a conference the other day when someone came up to me afterwards to share a recent experience. He was involved in selling services to the National Union of Students and was worried by the amount of time students were spending on MySpace.com - the phenomenally successful website where young people gossip, listen to music, flirt and share photos - rather than at the union where they could be spending money. He looked up MySpace and found animated discussions about a cult TV programme that was no longer being shown. He decided to do a screening in the union to attract them back. Lots of people came to see it, but they didn't talk about it. It was as if MySpace was increasingly the real world in which they interacted socially.We had better get used to this. MySpace is merely the biggest of a constellation of social sites, which include Faceparty, Face-pic and Bebo, enjoying explosive growth. The latter was founded by a Brit living in the US, and will, according to Heather Hopkins of Hitwise, the online stats company, overtake MySpace in the UK anytime now. The difference between the two is that Beboers tend to live with their parents while MySpacers are a bit older.MySpace, owned by Rupert Murdoch's Fox corporation, claims to have 80 million members around the world, or approaching twice as many as Technorati's estimate of the 46m people writing blogs or online diaries. Lunarstorm, a Swedish social networking website, is reported to have attracted more than 80% of 12- to 24-year-olds in that country.These mainstream sites are operating alongside dozens of specialised ones dedicated to showing videos uploaded by users (YouTube claims 50m video downloads a day) and other sites, such as Photobucket.com - which has just overtaken Yahoo in popularity - and the more sophisticated Flickr, which embraces the interactivity and tagging that Photobucket lacks.Parents are becoming increasingly worried about what their children are doing upstairs, where they are spending an increasing amount of time. As one wag said: "Staying in is the new going out," Of course, if they disappeared on to the streets instead of staying upstairs parents would be even more worried. They should be grateful they at least know where they are.The interesting point, which was raised last week at a seminar, What MySpace Means, is that soon the MySpace or Bebo generation will be going into industry and politics, bringing with them entirely different, if not revolutionary, ways of doing things.The BBC boosted its online credibility recently when it rented a tropical island in the online game Second Life, where it can stage music festivals with popular bands. Second Life is a multiplayer computer game that has its own currency - Lindens. They are being exchanged for dollars at varying exchange rates.What if the growth of such online economies is not just the result of the hobbies of geeks, but an indication of where the economy is heading in a post-industrial society? It is only a small step from a company such as Google whose products consist entirely of computer code but which intersect with the "real" world (whatever that means these days) to one that exists entirely online, providing pleasure, money and jobs for its members. Maybe we will soon see the growth of new corporate giants that exist only within virtual economies.On present trends, the raw material for the virtual revolution (a potential successor to the industrial and technological revolutions) will be content created by the members of the network. Marx may have been hopelessly wrong in predicting that workers would seize the means of production. But if, as an article in the current issue of Mobile Entertainment suggests, you substitute "users" for workers, then he may not have been so far off the mark after all.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Funnily enough, both sides are losing. We were looking forward to a slugfest between Blu-ray and HD-DVD, the two blue-ray laser formats bidding to become the high-definition replacement for DVD, but both seem more intent on committing seppuku (aka "hari-kari") instead.The first Blu-ray player went on sale in the US this week - the $1,000 (&pound;550) Samsung BD-P1000. The Digital Bits tried it with four movies and opined: "The Blu-ray camp has dropped a dud with their big launch too. Every bit as klutzy as HD-DVD." (http://tinyurl.com/zxmlk) Stuttering replay, scaling issues, poor definition and bugs meant Blu-ray probably underperformed HD-DVD, leaving the website's reviewer "less than impressed".Sony couldn't even make the launch of its own format. Just a few weeks ago, its BDP-S1 Blu-ray player was due in July, but this slipped to August and then to "on or about October 25, 2006". Sony also missed the boat with delays to its Blu-ray based PlayStation 3 console, and presumably felt it had to respond to the HD-DVD camp's pre-emptive strike. But you have to wonder how much serious bug-testing and product refinement might get lost in a rush to market.Still, lest it be seen to be taking an unfair advantage of Sony's stumbles, Toshiba tried to redress the balance. According to Reuters, Toshiba's president Atsutoshi Nishida told the company's annual shareholders' meeting in Tokyo: "We have not given up on a unified format. We would like to seek ways for unifying the standards if opportunities arise."With players from both high-definition formats reaching US shops and movie studios starting to churn out high-def versions of old hits, it's a bit late to launch into that old vaudeville routine - "let's call the whole thing off".But that might be the sensible thing to do. US market research firm iSuppli Corp has stripped down Toshiba's $500 player and reckons it could be losing $200 on each one sold. Sony could lose as much or more on each Blu-ray player and PS3. But most of us are going to wait a few years until the systems are debugged and prices come down before investing our cash. Why not spend the time doing the job properly, instead of rushing out products to sell at a loss?At best, format wars have only one winner. But sometimes they have two losers.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There's more to Apple than meets the eyeJack Schofield was disingenuous to Apple with his sideswipe at OS X (The end of the death march, June 22). The inference that it was Apple's only sizeable software project is not true. Apple's software roster is more extensive than Microsoft's. Let's start with Quicktime, a constantly upgraded cross-platform multimedia application. There are the movie industry standards such as the huge and complex Shake. There's also Final Cut Pro &amp; Express, Motion, Logic Pro, Aperture, Soundtrack Pro, DVD Studio Pro and FileMaker Pro. Phew!Then there is iTunes, GarageBand, iPhoto, Mail, iMovie, iDVD, Pages, Keynote, iWeb, AddressBook, iCal, Safari, FontBook, iChatAV and OS X Server.With the exception of the standout Microsoft Office - which was written for the Mac platform - I cannot bring to mind any other industry-leading applications that Microsoft produces.Microsoft's days of hegemony are coming to an end. Good riddance to bad software, I say.Charlie FellowesBrooklyn, NYStick to what you do bestI remember being astounded at mycokemusic.com's poor usability and excessive use of Flash. Simple is always better - hence iTunes's growing success. I also had to laugh at the draconian platform restrictions applied to the site. No Firefox or Mac user will ever be able to access it. Maybe Coke should stick to what it does best: fizzy drinks.Ijaz AkramLondonIt's good not to talkI thought I was the only one who hated voicemail (Technobile, June 22). Well said!Shakif HussainLondon&middot;There have been several attempts to make access to content more efficient but almost none ended up in the marketplace. I spent more than three years working on speech-to-text for voicemail and on automatic summarisation of the text generated automatically. A summary and review of the state of the art is athttp://tinyurl.com/qmmsf.Costis KoumpisTwickenham&middot;Charles Arthur asked about a speech to text convertor. Spinvox, a British startup, has an excellent one.Chris Huggett (and others)&middot;Gerrards CrossWhen in roamKate Bulkley (Revolutionary calling, June 22) has little understanding of mobile roaming, or of the Rebtel service. Roaming charges arise from taking a mobile outside the range of its own operator, thereby relying on a different company's network. Despite Bulkley's claims of Rebtel eliminating roaming fees, it has nothing to do with roaming but is concerned with international calls made from within, not without, the "home country".John WaltersBexhill[Kate Bulkleywrites: You can avoid roaming using Rebtel now if you get a local Sim card in the country you are roaming to. But it's true this isn't avoiding roaming per se; just becoming a "local" mobile user. Avoiding roaming charges using Rebtel will only work once Wi-Fi-enabled handsets become common - Rebtel's plan for next year.]Album art lives onI noticed on the MC Lars website that album cover art of a sort still lives on in digital form - Aim buddy icons and wallpaper for mobiles. Not quite the same perhaps, but signs that art for the musical masses will live on.http://style.nmylife.com/blogCheaper way to chargeThere is a cheaper version of the SynCh device (Gadgets, June 22) - multi-mains plug and only drives a USB socket - from Proporta, which I believed would charge my third-generation iPod. I found out the hard way that only fourth-generation iPods charge via USB. The same will be true of the SynCh device, and, unlike Proporta, they tell you this on the site. Maybe readers should be warned?Bob LloydCambridge
Science fiction writers love to ask "What if?" What if a super-intelligent alien race had planted a pair of devices to boost our development at key moments? What if new technologies such as television and electronics become pervasive? George Orwell's answer to the latter, in 1948's 1984, was to show the apparently perfect, controlled society they could enable.But one thing usually missing is the "how?" At the Computers, Freedom, and Privacy (CFP) conference, held in Washington, DC, last month, Vernor Vinge, a retired computer scientist and the author of Rainbows End, provided a compelling explanation of how developing technology and powerful interests could create a society far more invasive and controlled than anything Orwell dreamed of.The scenario he describes is the background he researched for Rainbows End. Set in 2025, the characters are surrounded by logical extensions of today's developing technology. Wearable computing is commonplace. Tagging and ubiquitous networked sensors mean you can look at the landscape with your choice of overlay and detail. People send each other silent messages and Google for information within conversations with participants who may be physically present or might be remote projections. One character's projection is hijacked and becomes the front for three people. The owner of another remote intelligence is unknown. Several continents' top intelligence operatives try to solve a smart biological attack that infects a test population with the willingness to obey orders.AssumptionsVinge makes two opening assumptions: no grand physical disaster occurs, and today's computing and communications trends continue.He added a third trend: "The great conspiracy against human freedom." As novelist Doris Lessing has observed, barons on opposite sides of the river don't need to be in cahoots if their interests coincide. In our case, defence, homeland security, financial crime enforcement, police, tax collectors and intellectual property rights holders offer reasons to want to control the hardware we use. Then there are geeks, who can be tempted to forget the consequences if the technology is cool enough. Vinge quotes the most famous line from the comic strip Pogo: "We have met the enemy, and he is us."Vinge's technology to satisfy these groups' dreams is the Secure Hardware Environment (She), which dedicates some bandwidth and a small portion of every semiconductor for regulatory use. Deployment is progressive, as standards are implemented. Built into new chips, She will spread inevitably through its predecessors' obsolescence.This part is terribly plausible. It sounds much like the Trusted Computing Platform, implemented in Intel chips and built into machines from Dell, Fujitsu-Siemens and others. Most people don't realise their new computer contains a chip designed to block the operation of any software not certified by the group. Now enhance that and build it into RFID chips, networked embedded systems, shrink and distribute as "smart dust". All are current trends or works in progress.Geeks are willing to fight Trusted Computing on the grounds that it could be used to block open-source software or to enforce draconian digital rights management. But what if accepting it meant less visible security, less bureaucracy, even slight profit? She automatically sends taxes, enables much less noticeable surveillance and gets you through security checkpoints with no waiting. There's less crime, because legislative reality can be enforced on physical reality. Fewer false convictions. Make regulation automatic, and it seems to go away. New laws can be downloaded as a regulatory upgrade."She," Vinge concluded at the conference, "fits the trajectory that economics and technical progress are following. The infrastructure for such control will probably arrive in any case." He also calls his scenario optimistic.This is, however, one of the paths to Technological Singularity, which Vinge wrote up in a 1993 essay. It's the moment superhuman intelligence is achieved, either through systems we build or human augmentation. The Singularity changes everything; nothing after it is predictable. In the world of Rainbows End, he thinks, they are either on the verge of Singularity or it is happening. 
This caused its own singularity in science fiction. Charlie Stross, whose novel Accelerando attempts to depict living through the Singularity, has called it "the turd in the punchbowl of near-future SF - you may politely pretend it isn't there, but everyone has to deal with it."Author Ken MacLeod places the Singularity in the context of post-2001 hopelessness. "When human beings feel they can't change the future, they begin to imagine that maybe superhuman beings can: gods, angels, aliens - and now artificial intelligences (AI). The idea of the Singularity is just a sophisticated version of this ancient ... superstition, that human history is or soon will be made by something other and better than human beings."Way to believeVinge doesn't dispute the notion that humans look for a way to believe things will be better. Year 2000 software remediation is an example: "Prudent apprehension caused an awful lot of money to be spent ... and was one reason there were no significant problems."Most people assume the cause of the Singularity, if it happens, will be the effect of Moore's Law (that the number of transistors that can fit in a given space on a semiconductor doubles every 18 months). It's also usually connected to AI. In his essay, however, Vinge suggested four or five paths to the Singularity, only one of which was unitary AI.But here is where Vinge's thinking gets optimistic (unlike the CFP conference, which saw surveillant databases everywhere). The road to technological Gaia is full of frictional costs that could stop it."It's not going to work very well," he says, "but it will be attempted, both by the state and by civil special interest petitioners." The drug laws provide a perfect illustration: "The ideal job to have in government is something everybody is convinced is essential to be done successfully that cannot be done successfully and the government is the only entity that can do it. Every time you fail, you say, 'The problem is much larger than we imagined, give us some more money.'""The leaders of most powerful countries are coming to realise that the most important natural resources are not factories or the size of armies. Economic power is in the size of the population that is well-educated, creative and generally happy enough to be optimistic enough to want to do something creative.""The illusion of freedom becomes a strange thing when a government is dealing with ... thousands of people who are as bright as the smartest people running the government. Together, they outclass the people running the show. The turning point is the notion that to provide this illusion of freedom for such a group would wind up being more like real freedom than anything in human history." 
Or, as he thinks Pogo might say for the 21st century, "We have met what's going to save our ass and it is us."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The US comedic curmudgeon Jon Stewart gave Congress another what-for on last week's episode of his sarcastic news programme, The Daily Show. Stewart is equally vilified and celebrated in the US for his straight-talking commentary on the state of the nation. There's no subject he won't tackle, spreading bare the gaping holes between rhetoric and political reality.Stewart's handling of the congressional hearings into videogame violence set out to lampoon the greyhairs in charge of the nation. In doing so, he exposed the ignorance that saturates elected officialdom.The Republican representative from Michigan admitted to being a gamer, having been an "expert" at Pong. Another allied himself with Civilisation IV, but was unable to construct a grammatically correct argument. Offering greatest insight, however, was Nebraska's Republican representative, Lee Terry, who was concerned about the content of the games played by his children, aged six, eight and 11. As far as I could glean, he stands and watches them while they play.The show's point was to make buffoons of the out-of-touch representatives responsible for the games industry. Here's the thing, people: if gaming goes down in the US, we'll feel the waves in the UK. We are as much subject to the whims of those officials as our own when it comes to legislating the sale of media.The reason? It's not just gamers watching the proceedings with bated breath; mega-corporations are also taking note of what content is within and, importantly, in polar opposition to the moral remit of America.Why does this matter to us? UK-based developers and publishers have long been under the thumbs of US capitalist palaces of consumption. America is where the big bucks are, and for a game to be considered a success it needs to chart there.Sony, Microsoft, EA and Nintendo may have nominal control over interactive entertainment trends, but supermarkets sell one-third of the launch sales of videogames. Innovation has already been a casualty of the supermarketisation of gaming, resulting in sequel saturation; legislation in the US will be another excuse to moralise output.I'm extrapolating profoundly here. We don't know what Congress is even arguing for. Politicians are simply looking for answers to a raft of questions.But more serious and depressing is the bandwagon-jumping. As Stewart explained to a crowd of whooping fraternity boys, "violent videogames [are] the latest target of Washington's election year ire". The last thing the industry needs is the kneejerking that accompanies the development of political agendas.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
New Super Mario BrosDS, &pound;29.99Nintendo4 starsThe revival of the moustachioed plumber for the DS, plus the recently released and extremely desirable DS Lite, takes the old blueprint and adds a few touches. Thus, among the jumping, swimming, pounding and collecting of power-ups and coins - inside that familiar, surreal Mario universe - you also find power-ups that turn Mario into a destructive giant and a tiny figure with a jump like a flea, random flying red blocks and hammer-throwing turtles that yield power-ups, numerous side-levels that you can buy your way into with star coins and rings that expose eight red coins for a short while, which yield a power-up if you collect them. Mario can now wall-jump, swing on ropes and hang from ledges. The touch-screen is barely used but this is classic platform action, as addictive as it was in the 1980s.Steve BoxerHitman: Blood MoneyXbox 360, PC, PS 2, &pound;39.99Io Interactive/Eidos3 starsIf your idea of good gaming involves sneaking, disguises and a small bit of puzzle-solving, then Hitman comes recommended. Even if you prefer a more gung-ho approach Hitman will appeal, mainly because it is an easier way to finish the game. Hitman involves taking out a series of targets in increasingly fiendish levels. How you achieve these goals is up to you but there is more entertainment by taking a methodical approach. Stealing clothes off a recently garrotted assailant and brazenly walking past guards is more satisfying than gunning them down. However, the challenges of later levels mean the all-action approach can't be disregarded. Unfortunately, the artificial intelligence lets the game down, with predictable headless chicken-style behaviour spoiling the atmosphere. A spiteful save-game system and occasional control issues are also frustrating. It's an unpolished diamond, but worthy of investigation.Greg HowsonThe Movies: Stunts and EffectsPC, &pound;19.99Lionhead/Electronic Arts3 starsThe Movies proved a game of two halves. It was hung on a strategy game that was hard to love even when you got the hang of it. This add-on pack throws in a few extras; new buildings to own and facilities to nurture the stuntmen. There are also new movie lots in the shape of a jungle, a city street and, to go with the special effects studio, a green screen. Unfortunately, the strategy side still has niggles. There are never enough staff even for a successful studio to hire, and the whims of your stars require constant micro-management. But if you have finished the original this will more than do until the inevitable sequel arrives.Mike Anderiesz&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You're rushing to catch a train and you arrive at the station to find the ticket office closed. No problem, you think - find a machine.And then you see the problem. One machine is broken. The other has a queue. The woman at the front of the queue wants to pay with a &pound;20 note. The machine spits it back at her without so much as a word of thanks. She tries it again; it does the same again. She looks in her wallet for a card, but before she has time, the machine decides with a "click" that she's taken too long. She starts all over again.The next customer wants a ticket to a destination that isn't listed on the machine. He spends five minutes trying to find it because the letter J doesn't work on the touchscreen. The following customer wants to buy a saver ticket but, after fiddling about for a few minutes, realises that the machine is trying to sell him the most expensive ticket for the journey and gives up. The customer after that is you. But guess what? You've missed your train.Fellow commuters, believe me: it need not be this way. In this World Cup month, all we need to do is follow the example of the Germans.As England fans travel by train between World Cup cities in Germany, they can't fail to compare the comfort and efficiency of Deutsche Bahn, the German national train network, with what passes for a train service back home. And because Germans know that all journeys start with purchasing the ticket, the machines they use are like their high-speed bullet trains in contrast to our slow and unreliable counterparts.Want to buy a Deutsche Bahn ticket for a journey starting at a station other than the one you're at? No problem, sir. Want to print out timetable information for a journey you are making in a few weeks' time, so you can make a decision about it later? Of course, step this way. Want to reserve a seat in a no-smoking carriage on a specific train on a specific day? Be my guest. We'll even put signs on the platforms so you know where to stand.Want to do any of that at a ticket machine in Britain? You might as well get the bus.The philosophy behind ticket machines in Britain seems to be: limit the number of things people can do on a machine and they won't take as long using it. Wrong. The more flexibility you give people, the more likely they are to have their needs met first time.It's only six years until the London Olympics, when our infrastructure will be on show to the world. By that time, is there a chance that we'll we have learned the lessons of German design ourselves?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
ModelVW Urban Fox 1.2Price&pound;7,190Top speed92mphAcceleration0-62mph in 17.5secsConsumption46.3mpg (combined)CO2emissions146g/km (road tax band C)At the wheelBig Brother's GlynThey'd rather walkBig Brother's NikkiOn the stereoCrazy FrogEn route forSwanseaWhat on earth possessed VW to call their new, bottom-of- the-range city runabout, the VW Fox? More particularly, what possessed them to name the slightly upscale version of this car, still more catastrophically, the Urban Fox?There it is, in plain, unignorable chrome capitals on the boot: URBAN FOX. Why? Does this car come in along the railway lines and stink up your street? If you park it near bins, does it scatter the contents of those bins over an area roughly 30 square metres overnight? Does it look as skinny and ill as you would if you lived by licking the grease off discarded McDonald's wrappers and chewing on week-old chicken carcasses? Does it, almost invariably, limp?Crikey, even some of the most vigorous, toff-taunting, scent-destroying campaigners against fox-hunting were prepared to turn a blind eye in the case of the urban fox. And the urban fox would, of course, turn its own blind eye back. Surely Volkswagen could not have made this car less immediately appealing had they called it the VW Vermin.How does a marketing gaffe like this come to pass? Did the people responsible think they sensed a shifting national mood in favour of the fox? Did they think that whole Ban the Hunt thing was about fellow feeling for our crafty, fluffy friends rather than about naked antipathy towards the people who hunted them? D'oh!Until now, the cheapest VW was the Lupo. I know - that nearly means fox, too. But it's foreign, and that's different. And there was no Urban Lupo - or "Lupo Urbano" as it might have been.The car deserved so much better. It is, in fact, exactly the sort of car we should be welcoming into our lives with open arms - even leaving food out for it, if necessary. Sensible, small shape, low emissions, polite consumption figures - this is the future of urban driving, assuming it has one.Even so, the Fox doesn't seem to be working all that hard to tempt us. True, because it's built relatively robustly by VW, you assume, correctly, that it won't burst the first time it catches a speed bump. That said, it's not exactly chunky or bombproof, even though you'll need to be ready to give the driver's door a fair old shove to get it to close.And it's not quite stubby enough, somehow, to be cute. The Toyota Yaris creams the Fox for cuddliness. It can't touch the Suzuki Swift for cool. It's nowhere near as perky as a Citro&euml;n C2 or Toyota Aygo. And it doesn't have sliding doors like the Peugeot 1007 (although, in fairness, you pay quite a lot extra for those).In fact, so plain is the Fox that it aroused my suspicions. I kept waiting to discover a big, yet hidden, unique selling point. Perhaps it ran on rainwater and recycled cardboard. Maybe it came with some hilariously low-price ticket - &pound;79.99 and it's yours to drive home in today!But no. All I could find was the use, in the construction of the roof lining and parcel shelf, of fibres from the curaua plant - a member of the pineapple family, apparently, and indigenous to Brazil, where the VW Fox is assembled. Well, it's a talking point, I guess. Note for people who hate pineapple: curaua is odour-free. Or, at any rate, it is by the time they have finished mixing it with polypropylene.Of course, it's no bad idea to step back slightly, at moments like these, and remember what driving around in a small car was like as recently as a decade ago. It was a challenge to mind and sinew. Small cars were traditionally designed to impart the maximum amount of discomfort to the minimum number of people in the shortest amount of time.Electric windows? Power steering? Drink-holders? Sliding rear seats? In your dreams. You had to content yourself with driving with your knees in your ears and your feet in the glove compartment. Full lock could only be achieved at the expense of repeatedly elbowing your passenger in the face. Getting the sound of the radio to rise above the noise of the engine remained a distant vision beyond technology's horizon.At any speed in excess of 25mph, the air would flail away at the windscreen and wing mirrors, producing a perfect simulacrum of hurricane conditions, even on windless days. It was next to impossible to hear yourself think about which car you would rather be driving around in.And yet here we are in 2006, snootily turning our noses up because the bodywork doesn't seem quite sexy enough and complaining about having to shove the door a bit. Truly, we live in golden and privileged times.
"You are just a few clicks away from a free online test drive of the latest version of Microsoft Office programs. Take them out for a spin in this quick, easy-to-use, browser-based trial experience," says theOffice System preview site.It works with:* Windows 98, 2000 and XP * Internet Explorer 5.5 and laterSo don't bother trying it with Firefox on a Mac ;-)
This month'sWired (issue 14.07)has a monster feature about everybody's favourite media mogul, Rupert Murdoch, and his quest to conquer the web. Well, unlike Time Warner, he was sharp enough to buy MySpace before MySpace got big enough to buy him....There are some assorted quotes on page 5, and it's interesting that Rupe gets WiMax. He says:What you get today is not real broadband, especially if you're talking about hi-def television. Satellites are fast enough, but they don't give you a two-way connection. That's why we're looking very seriously at building out a WiMax network in the US.
"If you stand on a street corner in Tokyo today you can point a specialized cellphone at a hotel, a restaurant or a historical monument, and with the press of a button the phone will display information from the Internet describing the object you are looking at," reportsThe New York Times."The phones combine satellite-based navigation, precise to within 30 feet or less, with an electronic compass to provide a new dimension of orientation. Connect the device to the Internet and it is possible to overlay the point-and-click simplicity of a computer screen on top of the real world."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sometimes you just have to sink to the floor and say a quiet prayer of thanks for the game design bravery of the finest Japanese studios. Here's the latest case in point - and apologies if you've already heard about it fromothersources. Namco has released screenshots and information on a forthcoming Xbox 360 RPG entitled,Trusty Bell: Chopin's Dream. Now, you may think the name itself is a gift from the gods, and you'd be right. But the excitement doesn't end there.Trusty Bell is set in a dreamworld conjured into existence by composer Frédéric Chopin during the last three hours of his life. In this world, he teams up with a young girl suffering from an incurable disease and her teenage swordsman boyfriend. Together they must search for a magic potion that can save the kingdom. It seems that, logically enough, music is going to play a key part in the game with Russian pianist Stanislav Bunin drafted in to perform key Chopin works for the soundtrack - perhaps Ballade in (RP)G minor?Now, imagine if this bizarre scenario were to be pitched at a western commissioning executive. If he actually understood what you were going on about at all (because you wouldn't have used the magic words 'gangsta', 'respect', 'ultra-realistic visuals' or 'Halo-beater') he would have some kind of seizure. Simple as that. You'd be trying to explain your reasons for reanimating this giant of piano music within a classic RPG framework, and he'd be convulsing in disbelief while slamming his shaking hand against a button on his desk marked, 'security'.Who knows, it might be crap. But it's a sublimely off-kilter idea - and the developer has a decent CV:Tri-Crescendowas also responsible for cult RPGs such as Valkyrie Profile and Star Ocean. Plus, the 360 certainly needs more Japanese flavoured titles and this title represents part of a movement away from US brands like Halo and Splinter Cell.Can you think of any other adventure games based around the dying fantasies of world famous composers?
With Sensible Soccer back in the charts after nearly ten years it seemed only right to have a chat with creatorJon Hare, who was heavily involved in the remake. Powdery PR puff and banal comments about how great the game is? Not a bit of it. Unambitious publishers, mobile gaming being rubbish andSubbuteo'srelationship to Sensible Soccer are just some of the areas covered.What do you think today's games industry could learn from the era when you started?Publishers who took a chance on young talent - likeOcean- are sorely missed. They were run by entrepreneurs and were ready to take a gamble. There weren't shareholders sitting on top of directors sitting on top of middle managers, all having to justify their hefty salaries. It was just let's give it a go and see if we can make a success of this. Publishers weren't faceless corporations back then. Today's publishers lack the ambition to try something new and are scared of taking a gamble.Can you explain the thinking behind the remake of Sensi?Our company sold the rights to Codemasters about seven years ago. Initially I was working on a new Cannon Fodder game which never saw the light of day. I did a large amount of design work on it. But basically I've been waiting for Sensible Soccer for 7 years.I guess Codemasters thought now was the right time. They are beginning to revisit their older licenses likes Micro Machines. The time is also right in the football market. Both PES and FIFA are in at least their 5th iteration and have been knocking around for donkey's years. They are not going anywhere and are digging their own hole. You can't change very much in either of those games. Codemasters saw the chance to bring out something different to the football market. Six of seven years ago this wouldn't have worked. People would have said what are you doing, you've changed it too much. But now people remember Sensible Soccer as an idea or a feel, which is exactly how it should be. Of course, there are still some diehards who continue to play SWOS 96/97. There's a German website with about 3000 players still playing and that's absolutely fantastic. But they look at the new game and are comparing it to SWOS when it was never meant to be a new SWOS. I'm very proud that those guys still play though.I grew up in the 70s and Subbeteo was my favourite game at home. For me to have made Sensible Soccer, which for four of five years in the 90s was to thousands of people what Subbuteo was to me in the 70s, is as good as it gets work-wise. I was very likely to have been able to do that and am very proud of the legacy. We were the fist game to have black players in; we had 1500 teams, 26,000 players. That all came after being a Subbuteo fan as a kid. All Sensible Soccer was to me was an electronic version of Subbuteo.What was your involvement in the remake?My role was creative director of the game. I worked with a junior designer at Codemasters and also David Darling. We spent a lot of time looking at the old Sensible Soccer and analysing how we could make the new one emulate the older games. I was involved in the competition and unlocking structure and all the other things that help make the larger product. Don't get me wrong, there was a lot that I wanted that we couldn't get in. I was also dealing with the legal side and other areas.Nowadays a lot of games designers come from QA and don't get the exposure to the wider areas in the business. There is a huge dearth of games design companies because they haven't been given enough respect or power. The best companies are now starting to use a creative director and producer who can manage the project effectively. It's been an interesting experience working on this first one and the main aim has been to get Sensible Soccer back out there. When we do the second one we will add in what people want. I know what people want. They want handheld, online, SWOS style management with all the teams in the world. So do I. But we can't do all this in one hit. We have to do it bit by bit. It will probably take two or three iterations before we get everything we want. Whether this happens or whether I'm involved with it, I can't control, but hopefully the sales and feedback will make it happen.Assuming Sensi is your pride and joy which other of your games are you most proud of and why?In terms of respect from the industry and creating something that lots of people enjoyed then yes, Sensible Soccer is the game. Sensible Soccer is an iconic game and it is my legacy. But at heart I'm an artist so games like Wizkid,Wizballand Mega-lo-mania are ones I'm very proud of. These are what I call the out there games. In the last ten years these kind of out-there games have stopped being made. I'm waiting and hoping that these kinds of games will be made again.Aren't mobile or handheld supposed to offer the creative freedom to create these styles of game?Mobile games are the most licence driven pile of shit you've ever seen. You can't sell a mobile game unless it has a license attached. Mobile is the worst format for gaming. The DS and PSP have far more potential. The PC, certainly in online gaming. already offers original games. Live Arcade? It's all about getting money out of them. I hope some younger companies, like we were in the 80s, will come through and be able to earn enough money to make their mark. I see it happening more in other countries than the UK.What are the possibilities of a "Retro Sensible" compilation release? SWOS, Cannon Fodder + Mega Lo Mania altogether on 1 disc...or maybe even for psp/ds?The recent compilation "toy" that bundled some games was fantastic. I thought those guys did a great job. But as for getting these on mainstream games formats - it's all up to Codemasters. I hope they realise the potential that these titles have.I'd also I'd like to see the C64 stuff given a re-release. Some of the stuff we did on the Commodore - Wizball, Micropose Soccer - were groundbreaking products that have been lost in time. But that's the problem with this industry. I've had seven number one games but you can't play any of them on current formats. That really pisses me off to be honest. When the industry changed in the mid 90s it became hard for any game that had made its name before then - especially in the UK - to be noticed or picked up. The games industry made the transition from Spectrum to PlayStation in ten years, which is incredibly fast compared to other industries. But this has meant a lot of cracking games got unfairly left behind.Any chance of a DS version of Cannon Fodder?The answer to any "can we have" question is ask Codemasters.I would like to know why, with the lone exception of Sensible Soccer, he made games that were so difficult and virtually uncompleteable? I'm thinking the final level Mega-Lo-Mania, the skidoo levels of Cannon Fodder (I still cringe at the memory), the second half of Cannon Fodder 2, and the great bane of my childhood, Parallax, which despite my love for it was blighted by an insane level of difficulty.We never set out to intentionally make difficult games. We always tried to judge the learning curve and add new features. The last 5 or 10% of a game you would always have to be pretty good, but that is fairly standard. Last level of Mega-lo-mania? It's easy, annoyingly easy. Cannon Fodder, to be fair, did get quite difficult. And as for Cannon Fodder 2, that was the one game I was hands off with. In hindsight I should have been more hands-on as it did get out of hand with difficulty. Parallax was our first game and we learning how to make them. It was bloody difficult to make and we were still learning.Have Codemasters given you a clear indication of how many units have to be sold to get a decent development budget to give this latest incarnation the full swos career treatment and how are sales going?Codemasters haven't given us any clear indication of how many units we need to sell. It will be reviewed in a couple of months to see how it does. If Codies make the decision to go for it they will go for it. It looks like the signs are good though.I'd like to know how much testing time was devoted to Sensi 2006 - I'm sure some of the niggles people have with the game could have been spotted and fixed with just a few days testing.With the QA process for any game you have to know when to kick it in. We had to stop the QA process for Sensi slightly earlier than we would have liked because we had a short development time of about a year. The game is not absolutely perfect but I think it offers great entertainment and value at the price it sells for. The things that people are picking up on are mainly preferences rather than genuine problems. But yes, games can always be better. Every game I have ever put out I have always had points I've been unhappy with. I don't think with the development time we had we could have done any better. From a development point of view I would have liked to have longer so that we could have added some more features, but it is always about getting the balance right.Also, Cannon Fodder, with a 2-thumbstick control mechanism would surely be a huge Live Arcade title. When can we have this, please Jon?Codemasters are looking at Cannon Fodder now and will assess which format this game will come out on. Live Arcade is a possibility, as are the other formats. Everything is possible at this stage.What system have found to be the easiest to develop for? Any machines out there that you hold particularly dear in your heart?This is easy - the Amiga. It gave you top quality games with reasonably good graphics. There were absolutely no publishing problems, no consideration for Sony or Microsoft protocols. It was a totally free publishing platform. All the publishers were up for it and it was easy to communicate with them as teams were much smaller. Games took 18 months max to make which is just enough to keep you creatively interested. We made some great games and a lot of money on the Amiga - it was great times. I'd love to see a new format which emulates this environment sometime in the future but we need independent style publishers to come to the fore again. At the moment there isn't a publishing model that allows this to happen with the amount of money taken by the hardware manufactures.
It's summertime, and if you haven't already been away you are no doubt preparing to jet off on holiday (unless you're a millionaire masochist with a deep hatred of customer service in which case you'll be staying in Britain). As usual, you can expect to face countless hours in an airport passenger lounge, and then countless more hours collapsed on a sun lounger ignoring medical sense in an attempt to lose that deathly pallor in favour of a healthy Mediterranean scarlet.Luckily, there are plenty of new(ish) mobile games to keep you entertained once you've finished that brick-sized airport novel about religious conspiracies and nano-technology in a Boston courtroom. Here's a selection of what I've been sent recently.First up, some familiar puzzles games.PileUp! from Finnish veteran Mr Goodlivinghas taken the now well-trodden route from online casual gaming phenomenon to mobile title (see also Zuma, Bejeweled, etc). It's a presentable combination of Tetris, Dr Mario and Columns - groups of three coloured balls fall from the top of the screen and congregate at the bottom, but if four balls of the same colour get-together they disappear. When you clear a group, this'll dislodge other balls that roll down the piles, forming new groups and starting off a cascade for lots of juicy points. If you don't already have a shape-sorting game on your phone, this is a decent enough take on the genre.Better, though, is Gameloft's staggeringly good conversion of PSP hitLumines. This time, it's clusters of four squares that need to be guided down the screen - there are just two colours to worry about, and getting a group of same-coloured cubes together at the base of the screen causes them all to disappear. The trick here is that you have to wait for the line that regularly pulses across the screen to clear the connected cubes. This allows you to build combos, but presents problems when the piles get higher.Gameloft has performed a minor technical miracle to bring the psychedelic disco light show visuals to mobile (I played the Sharp 903 version, though, and don't know how the game fares on lesser handsets). The developer also seems to have ported across all of the PSP game modes to add bucket loads of variety. If you only download one mobile game this summer... etc, etc.Marble Galaxy fromInfoSpaceis a mobile exclusive, cleverly combining Puzzle Bobble with pinball. Your job is to fire a series of coloured balls onto a galactic pinball table, moving your, erm, ball-shooter left or right in an attempt to aim each ball at its respectively-coloured hole. Lots of obstacles, power-ups and bonus items litter the playing space and as with Puzzle Bobble the skill is in getting the angles just right. It's a nice little idea, very well executed, and with enough levels to see you through even the most soul-destroying flight delay.Disney Mobile's Cars, an isometric driving game based around the forthcoming Pixar movie, has been a bit of a surprise. I was expecting a cheap top-down racer with a few plot elements wedged in between circuits, but this is actually a sort of mini-RPG where you play as Lightning McQueen carrying out missions given to you by NPCs and getting involved in racing competitions. The intricately crafted cartoon visuals and free-roaming design give the game an easy charm that you don't expect from kiddie movie tie-ins. The developer is talented Canadian outfitCapybara, also responsible for excellent 2D platformer, Monkey On Your Back.Also from Disney Mobile, another unlikely hit, Muppet Dance Party. This puzzler artfully combines rhythm action presentation with a fruit machine sim and a block-sorter. And the Muppets. All bases pretty much covered then.The action takes place in a gaudy disco where grumpy old men turned superstar DJs, Waldorf and Statler, are on the wheels of steel. You control a dancing Muppet who must control the differing notes pumped out by the disc-spinning OAPs, slotting them onto a sort of one-armed bandit display. Matching similarly coloured or similarly shaped notes creates combos - you can also reject up to three notes in a run to let you build better scores. It's more challenging and demanding than it sounds, especially when the BPMs really start pumping up.You start with only Miss Piggy available but a quick jaunt through the challenge mode opens up other familiar Muppet stars. It's a ridiculous clash of puzzle game styles and unconvincing anthropomorphic felt puppets but somehow, thus ungodly clash works, and should appeal beyond the kiddie audience Disney has its beady eye on.I'm going to add to this later on when another couple of games have arrived, including the unmissable-sounding Beach Ping Pong...
I'm not sure ifthishappened Monday or is happening on Friday (the date on the page says "Friday 26 June, 02006"), but if you're around in Northern California and are within easy-transit to Herbst Theatre in San Francisco, there's a discussion between musician Brian Eno and game designer Will Wright which should make for fascinating cogitation.Will Wright, creator of the video games "Sim City," "The Sims," and the forthcoming "Spore," will speak (with Brian Eno) on playing with time.Pleasingly vague.It's part of theSeminars About Long-Term Thinking(SALT) series run by theLong Now Foundation, a forward-thinking institution which aims to generate a style of thinking which stretches beyond the immediate and into the future. Thus Long-Term.Should be a truly enlightening event.
The French call them "chutes" - a term so much more expressive than the old Anglo-Saxon. Une chute somehow gets at the experience in the way that that general-purpose workhorse of a word, crash, just doesn't. It captures the sense not only of the first jarring impact, but also of the sliding or skating down the road - tarmac-surfing (a phrase with a grim sense of humour since it makes something really unpleasant sound almost fun).We have all fallen off our bikes from time to time. Unfortunately, "coming a cropper", as the penny farthing pioneers used to call it, seems part of the deal. Generally, we get up, dust ourselves down and go on our way with our egos the most bruised thing about us. But a real crash, une vraie chute, is what happens at speed - a hazard chiefly of racing. Next week, the first week of the Tour de France, you will see plenty.On the Tour, the best a rider can hope for is to escape with a nasty dose of "road rash": deep grazes raw to the touch and weeping for days. You see the riding wounded afterwards with gauze bandages taped to their limbs. But more serious damage is just around the corner: by the law of averages and long experience, it is predictable that a few unlucky riders will exit the Tour early with broken wrists, ribs or collarbones.Crashes in amateur races are an ever present risk, but relatively rare. Two of my teammates went down last week. I was lucky: it happened just behind me - all I caught was a glimpse of something going awry and then that sickening ring of metal and plastic clattering on Tarmac. But a friend lost a couple of teeth - all because someone in front of him got his bars snagged on another rider and fell over.The pros seem to crash more often, which seems mysterious - these, after all, are the best cyclists in the world. Week in, week out, they ride side by side in 150-plus groups over cobbles, through towns and over mountain passes. But in the Tour, the stakes are high: the pressure is on each team to deliver results for its sponsor; and every rider is thinking about where his next contract might be coming from.The sprints that usually provide the finale to the flat opening stages are ferociously competitive, the speeds - 35-40mph - astronomical. Pushing and shoving is normal, since position is vital. All it takes, then, is for a touch of wheels or for a gap between riders and barriers suddenly to close, and then you have a spectacular. You will see it happen. And you will watch it again in slo-mo.So spare a thought for the rider who will spend the next fortnight trying to sleep on the side that didn't get the cut-price dermabrasion job.&#183;On Your Bike! The complete Guide to Cycling by Matt Seaton is published by Guardian Books priced &pound;16.95. To order call 0870 836 0749 or visitguardian.co.uk/bookshopand get free.
A console that doesn't sell out at launch feels rather quaint these days, sothe newsabout the DS Lite is worth a read. Nintendo's shiny new handheld has sold around 35,000 copies in the UK since last Friday's launch, around half of the units available in the shops. Has it flopped? Sony needn't get too excited - the combination of the World Cup and the fact that the Lite is essentially just a redesign will have put off the punters. And casual gamers - ultimately the DS's core audience - won't be bothered about getting the thing on launch day. But don't bet against it bettering the original DS's 1.3 million UK sales. Interestingly sales of the original DS have held up despite the Lite's launch - conclusive proof that looks aren't everything.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
...although 'war' might be too strong a word. Perhaps 'slight disagreement at the dinner table' is more appropriate. Anyway, videogame news site 1up.com (amongothers)hasa few words from hermit-like Sony CEO Howard Stringer who appeared at a press conference earlier this week. The publicity-shy exec 'bigs up' PS3 before moving on to clobber Xbox 360 with the following tooth-busting haymaker:"When you bring into new technology, do you go for a cheaper transitional [product], or do you take a chance on future-proof, higher technology which will keep you going for many, many years?"1up then sought a response from a Microsoft drone, who apparently told the site:"We're offering more games, a better, more advanced online experience, all at a price point that actually makes sense to the consumer, and we're doing it right now."Thwack! Take that, Sony CEO Howard Stringer!Although already testing the Geneva Convention to its limits, this bitter war is certain to heat up as the PS3 launch date zooms toward us like a wonky but expensive missile. Where will this go next? Bare-knuckle executive street fighting?
According to Antipodean tech siteAPCthe Australian Office of Film and Literature Classification has refused to grant an age rating to Eidos' forthcoming Reservoir Dogs tie-in. Without official classification the game will be effectively banned in the territory.Overtly violent content is likely to be the sticking point. Players control several of the criminals from Quentin Tarantino's 1992 movie as they re-group following a failed diamond heist. The title almost certainly makes use of Mr Blonde's token ear-slicing technique, plus the characters meet various bystanders and innocent victims as they rampage through LA. At E3, for example, it was revealed that the game features a Threat function which allows you to wave your gun at other characters in order to scare them into submission. Weirdly, that may well be more provocative to a censor than merely shooting them.The game marks a startling change of pace for Leamington-based developer Blitz, usually better known for its family-centered animated movie tie-ins. However, last year the company opened a new studio, Volatile, to create more mature content. This is perhaps not the start they were looking for. Or then again, maybe it'sjustwhat they were looking for...
From today, British mobile phone users will be able to access Google's news and email services using their handsets and personalise their own mobile version of the search engine's homepage, as the American company pushes ever further into the mobile internet.Google has become increasingly excited about the internet on mobile phones as it sees growth in mobile handset sales far outstripping the growth in sales of computers. Deep Nishar, Google's head of mobile products, said: "There are roughly twice the number of mobile devices in the world as there are PCs and the number of mobile devices is growing faster than PCs. In many emerging markets the only way that people are able to access the world's information is through mobile phones."Until recently the mobile phone companies tried to steer users towards specific mobile web sites, trying to earn extra revenues from downloadable content such as music and ringtones. But a lack of consumer take-up has forced them to reassess their role in the mobile internet, accepting that consumers do not want to navigate complex operator-run portals, but go straight to the web sites they already know, albeit repurposed for a mobile's small screen. Google's search screen is already, for instance, the homepage for users of T-Mobile's Web'n'Walk service.Mr Nishar denied that offering Gmail, Google News and a personalised Google homepage regardless of which mobile network a customer uses, is an attempt to further sideline the mobile phone companies. Google has partnerships in the mobile space with several operators including T-Mobile and Vodafone and handset makers such as Motorola and SonyEricsson. "We think this actually enhances our relationship with operators and device manufacturers," he said. "Because it gives consumers yet another reason to consume mobile data services." While the services are being offered by Google free, users will be charged for data calls made to access them by their mobile network.Google News looks set to become the de facto news site for most mobile internet users. Already available in the US, it is being launched today across the UK, France, Germany and Spain. As well as providing users with the option to browse through quick links to specific news categories such as business, science and technology and sport, the news stories that appear will only be from sources whose content has been designed for viewing on a mobile phone. Google reckons that most phones bought within the last few years will be able to access Google News, Gmail and the personalised Google homepage.
"An 'emotionally aware' computer being developed by British and US scientists will be able to estimate an individual's thoughts by analysing a combination of facial movements that represent underlying feelings," reportsReuters."The system we have developed allows a wide range of mental states to be identified, just by pointing a video camera at someone," ProfessorPeter Robinson, of Cambridge University, said."Imagine a computer that could pick the right emotional moment to try to sell you something, a future where mobile phones, cars and websites could read our mind and react to our moods," he said.Themind reading systemis featured in theRoyal Society Summer Science Exhibitionin London.
The Harvard Business Review hasposted(subscription required) a fascinating feature about marketing directly to the avatars of MMORPG players. Aleksbloggedabout this a couple of weeks ago, but I wanted to go off in a slightly different direction. AsCollision Detection points out, it's often strange to see games like Second Life written about in this way - with little insight or passion for the content or experience, but heaps of excitement about the money-making and marketing opportunities.What really does it for the author, are the incredible data mining possibilities. Everything we do on an MMORPG can be monitored, collated and analysed. To the marketer, an online game is like a supermarket reward card, a hotline to our activities and desires that bypasses the need to survey us, which is inconvenient and misleading (because we rarely admit to what we do or want - not even to ourselves). Although this is a business publication, it makes a very salient point about the nature of massively multiplayer games - the avatar is the id. From the abstract:"Of course, the human behind the avatar controls the money in the real-world wallet. But the avatar, as a distinct creation of the user's psyche, can influence its creator's purchasing behavior and even make its own purchases of real-world products in the virtual world, deliverable to the user's real-world door. At the least, avatars offer a window into people's hidden preferences and a means for achieving sustained consumer engagement with a brand."Spooky stuff. And there's more...The feature talks about avatar-to-avatar transactions, the selling of in-game or real-world goods within a virtual world. By tracking each avatars' actions, businesses operating within the virtual world could personalise their marketing assault to individual players. From the article:"the avatar clerk might automatically adjust his or her behavior to become more appealing to the avatar customer. Research conducted at Stanford University's Virtual Human Interaction Lab has found that users are more strongly influenced by avatars who mimic their own avatars' body movements and mirror their own appearance. This virtual manifestation of an old sales trick makes avatars potentially, if insidiously, powerful salespeople. Using a simple computer script, the selling avatar clerk is able to subtly and automatically tailor its behavior - its gait, the way it turns its head, its facial features - to the avatar buyer's, thus making the clerk seem more friendly, interesting, honest, and persuasive."Marketing professionals love the communities and environments that we create ourselves, because our collective guard is down. The super ego is shut out. It is like selling within a dream.see also Business Week'sinteresting takeon the virtual economy
Patrick Curry likes his job. He's a games designer who worked as Lead onStubbs the Zombieand others, and has set himselfa rather astounding challenge: he's to design a new game every week that is a) good, b) nothing to do with work. The results from the past 27 weeks are on his blog - a fantastic read brimming with great and bizarre ideas, fromPuppet Show("all about puppetry") toSalon("You play as an upscale hair-stylist who has just opened a new salon in a trendy part of town").For each, he provides information on High Concept, Platform, Why It Needs to Be Made, a Description, Why It Will Be Fun, and a few Final Thoughts. A tremendous resource and a valuable exercise for anyone interested in the design side of computer gaming.
Today Microsoft's Jeff Raikes unveiled the next stage of the company'sUnified Communications strategy, showing the bells and whistles that will be added with Office Communicator 2007 (which comes as a desktop client, a browser-based client and a mobile phone/PDA client), Office Communications Server 2007* and Exchange Server 2007. Basically, with Office 2007, you can go seamlessly from email to IM to video conferencing to VoIP and mobile telephony, with only one client program and a single directory. Big companies are already doing most of this stuff, of course, but typically with three or more incompatible servicess, and several incompatible directory systems.Microsoft claimed to be supporting open standards and announced several IP phone partners such as LG-Nortel, Thomson and Polycom. In response to a question from the floor, Microsoft said it was llicensing technologies to Symbian, Palm, RIM etc so users would not necessarily be limited to Windows Mobile phones. In the switching business, the main partner isSiemens. HP and Motorola were also featured.The cutest part of the display was a teleconference using Microsoft Office RoundTable, which is a sort of recording super-webcam that switches automatically between speakers and can handle a 360 degree view. If you are talking to four people seated around a table, you get a videoconferencing view with them side by side, more likeUniversity Challenge. The product has been shown in Microsoft's Center for Information Work (CIW), its future-office lab, and will appear with the software about a year from now. (Creative Matchhas a picture of prototype devices from CIW.) It was originally called RingCam.The demo teleconference with Redmond, which I watched via LiveMeeting, was on the mission critical decision, what to have for lunch. Some argued for the superior gastric user experience of Thai food while others praised pizza's hands-on interface: "what you see is what you eat," said one. And so on.* This used to be called Microsoft Live Communications Server, but the Live name is now being used for online services such as Windows Live and Xbox Live.Comment: This isn't an area where Microsoft faces much competition, except from IBM with its forthcoming Hannover software, based mainly onLotus Sametimeand Notes/Domino. This should appear first, but is still playing catch-up, and brings with it the negative connotations ofLotus Notes.
As if on cue, Gamesindustry.biz has posteda storyclaiming that game publishers will be able to offer downloadable premium content via Nintendo Wii. Apparently, Reggie Fils-Aime, president and COO of Nintendo of America, made the confirmation in an interview with US magazine, Game Informer:"If you've gotten to a particular part in a game, we could push content out to you, so you get to battle a new boss. Maybe you get a new artifact; maybe you get a new weapon," he said.Of course, this kind of microtransaction is a long way from delivering a whole title over broadband, but then we already know that Wii will allow users to download retro titles from Nintendo, Sega and Hudson's respective back catalogues...You see - digital deliveryisthe future.Kind of.
A handy site for those who have a computer to hand before they start their journey: a map overlay from the BBC which shows reported weather plus traffic and rail (including underground) incidents, holdups, etc.Find it athttp://bbc.blueghost.co.uk/site4.php#(yes, we do mean the # - don't ask us why it's there).It's YAGMM - Yet Another Google Maps Mashup. (Maybe we'll start calling them Yegomamas..). Certainly very neat, and another project to emerge from theBBC Backstageconcepts melting pot.(Thanks for the link to theMap and GIS News Blog, which is itself a very useful resource for anyone interested in maps or mashups, but particularly both.)
For the last 24 hours or so, I have been getting the following message when trying to access Google:We're sorry...... but your query looks similar to automated requests from a computer virus or spyware application. To protect our users, we can't process your request right now.We'll restore your access as quickly as possible, so try again soon. In the meantime, if you suspect that your computer or network has been infected, you might want to run a virus checker or spyware remover to make sure that your systems are free of viruses and other spurious software.We apologize for the inconvenience, and hope we'll see you again on Google.Curiously, despite the message it is still possible to use Google via the search box that remains at the top of the page. And all the other Google facilities are available. It is just that I cannot get access to my personal home page.I use F-Secure for virus and spy-protection and it shows no viruses or spyware. Can you explain? Terry ByresMany search engines block searches that look as though they come from machines and that search for malware. For example, back in january, an article headedMSN Blockades phpBB Searchers, says:While researching the exploit on Monday, we discovered that Google blocked searches when "phpbb" was combined with "crack(s)", "hack(s)", "vulnerability" or "exploit(s)", returning only its 403 Forbidden page"-- which is the page you got.Search engines are, of course, a ready source of malware, hacking information and passwords, amongh other things.However, if legitimate searches are blocked by one search engine, they will probably work on a different one, so tryYahoo,Dogpileor something else. Although Google is my home page, I often use Yahoo Search, and quite often it produces better results.
As a Gamesblog reader, with your finger not so much on the pulse of technology as probing around in the artery itself, you are no doubt aware of the enormous impact digital distribution is having on the world of entertainment. But now, accountancy mega-corp PricewaterhouseCoopers has spelled everything out in its annual Global Entertainment and Media Outlook report, which has just beenmade availablefor purchase on the company's website.According to Yahoo, the report suggests that global spending via online and wireless channels reached $19 billion in 2005 and will increase to $67 billion by 2010. "Virtually every segment of the entertainment and media industry is shifting from physical distribution to digital distribution of content," explained Wayne Jackson, global leader of PricewaterhouseCoopers' Entertainment &amp; Media Practice.As Yahoo mentions, a key driver in the growth of digital distribution is the immense surge in the number of households with broadband connections and internet-enabled mobile phones:"In 2005, the broadband universe totaled 187 million households, up from only 30 million in 2001. By 2010, there will be an additional 246 million broadband households, bringing the total to 433 million globally. The number of people with a wireless telephone subscription is also growing rapidly, with a total of 1.8 billion globally in 2005. That figure will rise to 2.8 billion by 2010, adding one billion potential customers to mobile content during the next five years."Feel free to bat those figures around in the pub tonight...Anyway, we all know that entertainment companies love digital distribution - it's cheaper, it allows them more control over how we use their products, and they can mine so much data from our download activities that they'll probably be customising games and movies for specific viewers within a decade.What does this mean for the games industry? The success of Xbox Live and the ongoing experiments with download systems likeSteam, shows a business slowly feeling its way toward 100% digital distribution. PricewaterhouseCoopers' report suggests this is an unavoidable fate.So, will you miss videogame boxes? Are you likely to grow nostalgic for that saturday afternoon jaunt down to your local videogame retailer? As with music, there are always going to be people who like to collect, to physicallyown, their media. But you're just going to have to get over it, because the entertainment industry hates you.
Donna Bogatinblogs at ZD Net:This could be a watershed week in the Google era. The June 28 rumored launch of a Google online payment system, last known as GBuy (see myGoogle GBuy specifics: 'Could be a game-changer'), is setting up to represent more than just another Google "limited invite," or "test," or "beta." Last week, Google set in motion an eBay style marketplace affiliate network, "Content Referral Network" (see myGoogle goes for the hard sell: New 'Content Referral Network' targets higher click-throughs, ad rates and new GBuy transactions), most likely designed to serve as a platform for GBuy enabled product sales.Potentially, this pitches Google against Amazon as well as eBay. Bogatin conclues:While Internet users currently seem to accept the Google position that Google ads enhance user experiences at third-party Web sites, such an acceptance may be tested as "non-intrusive" and "relevant" text ads are replaced by  "intrusive" and "irrelevant" product pitches.
Warren Buffett, 75, the world's second richest man, is giving the bulk of his $44 billion Berkshire Hathaway fortune to the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which is already worth more than $30 billion. He will become the foundation's third trustee, after Bill and Melinda.On its current value, $31 billion, it's the biggest philanthropic donatation in history.Bill and Warren play bridge (Photo by Nati Harnik, AP, fromUSA Today)Warren and Bill are great mates, and playbridgeand sometimes poker, go golfing, and Gates also joined Buffett on the board of Berkshire Hathaway. For a holiday, in 1995, they took a train across China, to see what was going on there. A couple of times, they've got together totalk to students. Both are famously careful with money, and Buffett drives a 2001 Lincoln with a number plate that reads THRIFTY (photo).When Bill and Melinda got engaged, they flew to Omaha to buy her ring from one of Warren's companies, and he met them at the airport.Why give his wealth to the Gates Foundation instead of his own? He told Fortune magazine:The longer answer is that over the years I had gotten to know Bill and Melinda Gates well, spent a lot of time with them having fun and, way beyond that, had grown to admire what they were doing with their foundation. I've seen them give presentations about its programs, and I'm always amazed at the enthusiasm and passion and energy they're pouring into their work. They've gone at it, you might say, with both head and heart.Fortune has thecover storyand anexclusive interviewreprinted at CNN Money.There's also a story in theGuardian's business section.
I'm meeting Sensible Soccer creator Jon Hare this afternoon (Mon 26 June). If you've got any questions about Sensible Soccer 2006 or any of the classic Sensi titles - plus Cannon Fodder etc - then stick them in the comments. And yes, I will be asking him what he thinks of the remake and if he thinks game development was more satisfying in the day.
Last week a new mobile phone service was inaugurated in a village in Gashora, Rwanda, giving villagers, hitherto deprived of a fixed link, the opportunity to look for jobs or find out what prices crops are fetching in distant markets without having to go there. The initiative, a joint venture between the microloans bank Grameen and a local telecom operator, was a tiny event in its own right, but symbolic of the power that communications technology has to transform Africa's economic prospects. In South Africa last week high-speed internet access was brought to townships in the Gauteng province, which do not have affordable fixed-line access.This means that a township in Africa could well have high-speed internet before some of the more remote places in Britain, as the new information revolution reaches parts of Africa even before the 200-year-old industrial revolution has arrived. Figures recently released by the GSM (global system for mobile communication) trade association, which accounts for over 80% of all mobile phones installed, reported that the two billionth GSM phone had just been purchased. The first billion took 12 years to sell, but the second billion took only two and a half years, with 82% of all devices being installed in developing countries. The GSMA says this is the first communications technology to have more users in developing countries than in the developed world.The prospects for bridging the digital divide in underdeveloped countries could be boosted by the plans of several organisations, including the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology, to produce a sub-$100 laptop to improve education in poorer countries. The GSMA is simultaneously sponsoring a sub $30 mobile phone to accelerate adoption in the developing world. These devices are still expensive items for poor people and organisations to buy - and they are made more expensive by the myopic decision of governments to levy stiff taxes on the purchase price - but they can be shared and there is no reason why prices should not drop further as the price of technology continues to fall.It would be wrong to raise hopes too much for deprived regions such as Africa, still plagued by poverty, wars, corruption, disease and low economic growth. But it is at least possible that the recent revival of Africa's economy, on the back of a surge in world trade, could be prolonged by the benign effects of information technology. It cannot happen too soon for the most deprived countries on earth.
