The terror alert system brought in by the US government after the 9/11 attacks is to be scrapped and replaced with warnings on Twitter and Facebook.Under a new system set to be introduced on 27 April, US terror alerts will have just two levels – elevated and imminent – and sometimes be broadcast on social networking websites.Thecolour-coded warningsintroduced almost 10 years ago will be phased out in the move – a big departure for security officials who have struggled with how much information to reveal about terror plots.A 19-page Homeland Security document outlining the plans was obtained by the Associated Press. It describes the behind-the-scenes process when the US comes under attack.Terror alerts may be broadcast on Twitter and Facebook only "when appropriate", according to the hitherto top-secret document. Terror threats are made public only when members of Congress, various counter-terrorism officials, governors and mayors have been informed. The document even specifies how many minutes US officials can wait before organising urgent conference calls to discuss pending threats.The new advisory system is designed to be easier to understand and more specific. The present warning levels have been lampooned by comedians and criticised by TV broadcasters for being too vague and open to interpretation.According to the draft plan, the Homeland Security unit will issue targeted warnings based on the threat. For example, if there is a specific threat that terrorists are looking to hide explosives in US airports, the government might issue a public warning that would be announced in airports telling travellers to be extra vigilant and report any suspicious activity.Under the new system, an "elevated" alert would warn of a credible threat against the US. It would likely not specify timing nor targets, but it could reveal terrorist trends that intelligence officials believe should be shared in order to prevent an attack.An "imminent" alert would warn about a credible, specific and impending terrorist threat or an ongoing attack against the US.
If you're a Windows Phone 7 user, you might have been grumpy about the lack of copy and paste on your phone. Or you might not have been. I wasn't, but then I rarely use copy and paste on a mobile handset, so the grumbling largely passed me by.However, Microsoft has started to push outits "NoDo" update to WP7 handsets, bringing with it that missing function and a few other improvements too. I got the notification that the update was waiting for me on my way home last night; unable to resist even a minor upgrade to almost anything, I fired up the PC as soon as I got in.The process is straightforward: plug your handset in, the Zune software fires up and alerts you to the update. It took about 15 minutes on my handset and involved a couple of restarts to the phone itself.So what's new? A lot of the changes are incremental and/or under the hood. Many have said it's stuff that should have been on board when the WP7 handsets started appearing earlier this year. The many might well have a point, particularly with regard to copy and paste.It's as you'd expect: tap the screen roughly where you want to start copying the text and the text highlights. You can drag the cursor in either direction to highlight the text you want. Once that's done, tap the little copy icon. To paste – in any application that accepts text input – you'll see a paste icon. Tap that, and your golden words pop into the text field.The other noticeably big change is to Marketplace, Microsoft's app store. It looks better – the original iteration was a bit no-frills and ragged around the edges. My phone, a Vodafone LG Optimus 7, has its own section of the Marketplace, offering several free LG-specific apps, including Photo Stylist for those of you who can't resist over-processing your snaps; I'm a musician [sic], which places a virtual piano on the handset; and the potentially useful Metro Scanner, which uses the phone's GPS to locate your nearest Tube station (and works for other cities too).Microsoft says apps launch faster; the LG is a nice little handset that hasn't struck me as being slow off the mark, so I hadn't noticed that it's any faster to start an app, but every millisecond gained when using tech is a good thing, right? Ditto Facebook, which is already well integrated into the WP7 experience: apparently it's faster and better. As I say, every millisecond counts when you're posting what you had for breakfast.My only major gripe with WP7 is that it removes some of the more granular control previous versions gave you over your handset – no access to the file system, for starters – so the belated decision to reveal your handset's MAC address in the settings is a good one for those who need to join a Wi-Fi network that restricts access to specific devices. Next time, Microsoft, please, can we have access to the file system back?I'm a fan of this handset in general – the HTC devices got a lot of the attention when WP7 launched, but this slightly smaller phone, which boasts a couple of additional apps, including one that stitches photos together to form a panorama; and Play To, which streams content from the phone to any DNLA-capable device, is a nice alternative to the HTCs, and is certainly enhanced, if in subtle rather than shouty ways, by the NoDo update.There have been a few homebrew versions of the latest ROM out in the wild; the advice, as you'd expect, is not to apply them but to wait for your carrier to push out the official version for your handset. It will be landing soon if you're in the UK, so sit tight. The NoDo update is definitely a DoDo update.Pros:copy and paste; shinier app store; MAC address visibleCons:later than originally promised; still no access to the file system
It's Friday, Friday, gotta get down on Friday. Sorry.
As an independent network of nearly 300 historians aiming to build links with policymakers and the media, we have discussed the pros and cons of contributing our expertise to Wikipedia (Editorial, 6 April). We decided to insert links in the references of Wikipedia entries to History &amp; Policy articles,which can be found at www.historyandpolicy.org. The aim was to provide Wikipedia users with high-quality historical research, accessibly written and freely downloadable, and to drive traffic to the H&amp;P website. The result was startling: a few dozen links increased visitors from Wikipedia to H&amp;P significantly, moving the online encyclopedia from below 10th to the third most popular source of traffic to our site. We intend to continue embedding links to our papers in relevant Wikipedia entries.Virginia BerridgeProfessor of history, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,Alastair ReidVisiting professor of history and policy, King's College London,Simon SzreterProfessor of history and public policy, Cambridge• The UK's leading academic research libraries share the frustrations caused by the expensive "barbed wire" thrown up by journal publishers around scholarly research. Some larger universities now pay over £1m per year to access content from individual publishers, but are limited by restrictive licensing terms in how they can make the content available to the public. Research Libraries UK is looking for the largest publishers to acknowledge falling library budgets by reducing their prices. In the longer term we support a shift in scholarly communication to open-access models so the fruits of publicly funded research are available to all.David ProsserExecutive director,RLUK
Frequently playing computer games appears to reduce a teenager's chances of going to university, while reading enhances the likelihood that they will go on to study for a degree, according to Oxford University research that tracked 17,000 people born in 1970.Reading was also linked to careers success, as the research finds 16-year-olds who read books at least once a month were significantly more likely to be in a professional or managerial job at 33 than those who didn't read books at all.For girls, there was a 39% probability that they would be in a professional or managerial position at 33 if they read at 16, compared to a 25% chance if they had not. Among boys, there was a 58% chance of being in a good job as an adult if they had read as a teenager, compared to a 48% chance if they had not. Playing computer games regularly and doing no other activities meant the chances of going to university fell from 24% to 19% for boys and from 20% to 14% for girls.Mark Taylor, of Nuffield College, Oxford, who carried out the research, said that results indicated there was "something special" about reading for pleasure.Even after accounting for class, ability and the type of school a child attended, reading still made a difference. He said: "It's no surprise that kids who went to the theatre when young get better jobs. That's because their parents were rich. When you take these things into account, the effect that persists is for reading."Taylor, who is presenting the research at the British Sociological Association's annual conference on Friday, suggested that other extra-curricular activities might prove more beneficial than computer games because they were either communal, like playing in an orchestra, or had a direct academic application, like reading.However, he added that times had changed in computer gaming: "The main thing I would highlight, because this is the 1970 cohort, when they played video games in 1986, that's not very many people. And the state of videogames in 1986 is nothing like it is now."Despite gaming reducing the chances of becoming a graduate, the research suggests teenagers who spend a lot of time playing video games should not worry too much about their career prospects. Playing computer games frequently did not reduce the likelihood that a 16-year-old would be in a professional or managerial job at 33, the research finds. Taylor's analysis also indicates that children who read books and did one other cultural activity further increased their chances of going to university.For 16-year-olds whose parents were working in professional or managerial jobs, the chance that a 16-year-old would go to university rose from 40% to 51% for boys and 38% to 50% for girls if they read books. If they read books and did another activity such as playing an instrument or going to museums, the chance of going to university rose from 40% to 70% for boys and from 38% to 68% for girls.While reading helped people into a more prestigious career, it did not bring them a higher salary. None of the extra-curricular activities at 16 were associated with a greater or lesser income at 33, he finds.Taylor suggested that the reasons that reading was significant could be that it improved the intellect of students, or that employers felt more comfortable taking on someone with a similarly educated background. It might also be the case that children destined for better careers tended to read more and there is no causal link.
It was one of the most successful home computers of the eighties and now it's making an unlikely comeback. Anew version of the Commodore 64is set to be released this summer, featuring entirely modern innards including a 1.8ghz dual-core Intel Atom D525 processor, Nvidia Ion 2 graphics chipset, 2 GB of DDR3 memory and your choice of a DVD or Blu-ray drive.Best of all, the revived machine will feature exactly the same design as its 8bit predecessor, right down to the beige body and chunky keyboard (you can see more images on theCommodore USA Facebook page). The old cartridge port and joystick interfaces will be gone, though, replaced with HDMI and USB connections. Users will also be able to install Windows 7, although the machine will ship with Linux and will eventually get its own Commodore OS 1.0, complete with an emulator to play classic C64 titles. The new device is apparently on sale now, and orders are being taken at the price of $595 (£364), although at the moment, the company's website seems to be struggling to cope with the amount of interest a PC in a brown plastic box is generating.Although the original Commodore Business Machines declared bankruptcy in 1994, the brand has passed through a number of hands in the subsequent years. It is now jointly shared by the creator of the new C64, Commodore USA, as well asCommodore HoldingsandCommodore Gaming, which builds high-spec PCs.But the big question is, which classic C64 titles should be updated along with the machine?
A former high-ranking executive at Hewlett-Packard is being sued for allegedly stealing hundreds of documents from the tech giant.Adrian Jones, HP's former head of enterprise sales for the Asia region, now works for the tech firm's arch rival Oracle. His former employer claims Jones stole documents and emails on a USB device which contained proprietary and valuable information about HP's products and customers.The lawsuit claims HP was about to fire Jones in February after an investigation into his relationship with a subordinate and spurious expense claims. The suit further alleges that Jones arranged for a 97% pay increase for the subordinate, and claimed several thousand dollars in expenses for visits to the subordinate that had no apparent business purpose.According to HP, Jones resigned and joined Oracle before any action was taken. He is now Oracle's senior vice-president for Asia Pacific and Japan.The lawsuit,filed in the California Superior Court in Santa Clara, California, calls for all the allegedly stolen documents and emails to be returned and damages to be awarded. According to HP, among the documents taken were financial plans, sales figures and employee data.Once close allies, HP and Oracle became fierce rivals after Oracle's purchase of Sun Microsystems in 2009 pushed it firmly into the server hardware market, an area where the two had previously cooperated. Relations soured further last year whenMark Hurd was ousted as HP chief executiveand swiftly joined Oracle.The latest scandal echos Hurd's exit. Hurd left HP after an investigation of a sexual harassment claim uncovered inaccurate expense reports. The company concluded Hurd did not breach its harassment policy.Larry Ellison, Oracle's founder, called the decision to oust Hurd "the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple board fired Steve Jobs many years ago". A month after he quit, Hurd joined Oracle as president. Legal wrangling over Hurd's hiring are ongoing.HP has a history of internecine legal battles. In 2006, it emerged that private detectives employed by the firm had posed as board members and journalists to obtain private phone records as they investigated leaks on the board. The scandal triggered a criminal investigation.
Which two celebrities would you most like to be stuck in a small cell with? This and many other video game questions were asked – and sometimes almostanswered– by our community of electronic entertainment veterans in the week of March 21-25.If you want to find out what else the Chatterbox fraternity got up to in the closing days of last month, you have very much come to an adequate place.MondayFirst?Of course I am. There's no one else here. I win.Books. Films. Games. The news. The weekend. Airports. Meats. Racial profiling. Beer boasting. Jesus. Tennis. Kevin Costner. Finger nails. America!That appears to be little more than a string of random words or statements, seemingly unrelated, with an exclamation mark at the end for emphasis. Seeing it written down like that, it doesn't really work. Still, we're too far in now. And those really are the things that everyone talked about, in roughly the order they talked about them, so I'm not sure what else you expect me to do here.A big morning of sports chat focused mostly on a revitalised Irish rugby team, who just the previous Saturday had dismantled a hugely disappointing England side in Dublin. Dreams of an historic first ever Grand Slam for the red rose shattered. Men against boys, someone said. The chat turned to Blood Bowl soon enough, the sport for people not cut out to play real sports (and me, of course). The blog's own 'Blood Bowel' league was piloting a fairly new approach to online competition, where no one actually plays any games, and all matches are decided by a complex (and secretive) set of mathematical formulae, developed by Blood Bowl 'Boss of Bosses' Henry Pootle. The field was narrowed, and there was all to play for. Or not play for, or whatever.Sometime around lunch, the font on the blog seemed to change. But had it really? Well, yes. I'd accidently hit a button on my keyboard that made everything appear bigger. It's still massive. I have literally no idea what I pressed or how to fix it. Anyway, that's not the point. Although larger in sheer size, the overall quality of the chat remained much the same as before (i.e. awesome). A discussion of the Comic Relief live television broadcast from the previous Friday didn't last long, with the consensus being that it was all a bit depressing for a block on the schedule traditionally reserved for light entertainment. For the record, I personally thought Frank Bruno was superb. Newcomer LukeTs then popped in to say hello, and attempted to spark an intelligent paid-for debate about the future of gaming, a debate he envisioned lasting at least… four days. This place would be perfect for that, I thought, but I didn't have the balls to speak up for the kid. It's one of my biggest regrets.The afternoon drew to a close with some talk about sitcoms featuring predominently African American casts, and about all the dancing and the sexualised subtext and everything. It was what I'd imagine film school to be like, but with better arguments, and probably more girls. Someone posted all the lyrics from the theme song to 'Fresh Prince of Bel Air', and that sort of ruined it. I just went home after that.Quotes of the day"In retrospect the third movie is probably the weakest, it's really forgettable"R042, a man who clearly doesn't get the 'K-9' trilogy at all."Idle hands make light work of the brooth."HateMale. I don't actually know what this means. I just thought it was a good sentence.MouesdayA bit of a departure for the Chatterbox as "Lazy" Keith Stuart forgot about Tuesday until lunchtime, meaning that today's is Mouesday's. Clearly 'journalism' for the Guardian Technology section involves not setting the alarm on your fruit phone.Mouesday began with further news of the Blood Bowl League quarter finals omni-shambles, with the only games played featuring both the players who are on different continents to the rest of us.  Recriminations and apologies were forthcoming, along with arrangements made. Brilliantly one of the quarter finalists, RustyJames, was drunk by midday – "I'm f**ked.  I'm on holiday, not at work."  We look forward to tonight's result!Homefront continued to split opinion, although tales of the MP experience were generally positive. Annual bonuses were hoving into view for some bloggers, with some getting more than others.There was a lot of love for Virtual Tennis today. Uncle3en had fallen, and fallen hard:"I'll be honest, I saw Worv, Treble and StiLt playing Top Spin on Sunday afternoon after talking about it Friday. No one was playing KZ. Bit bored, so headed to HMV. Living in town is dangerous sometimes. Usually these purchases are a mistake. This, so far, has been a great success. Stayed up 'til 1am playing career last night. On a Monday? 'Sake. Hooked. Lovely stuff. Online with career player? Oh my."Talk of the hideous player faces you can create, and making female players "grunt" for you tells you all you need to know about the type of people enjoying this.The afternoon descended into a lot of impenetrable PC upgrade chat, most of it acronym-riddled jargon-filled nonsense although doubtless a useful resource if you live alone.  Or with your mum and dad in your twenties.  Luckily the day was saved by Warhammer 40K blog rearing its ugly head.  Wait, no.Quote of the Day"Cunning gets an extra £20 for every time he pedantically corrects someone in the office. I heard he's buying a yacht this year."Limni reveals that bonus structure in fullWednesdayDo we only like games we are good at? Apparently not. Most bloggers seemed to get a rude awakening as to the limits of their talents with the advent of online gaming. However good you think you are, there's always someone harder, better, faster, stronger, it seems. Intrav3nus still seems relatively fresh to it all judging by her post: "I commandeered the Xbox and played some Bayonetta. Very enjoyable, although I found myself flailing and doing things without being quite sure how I did it. Am currently stuck trying to get through a wall." We all started somewhere...Someone with some genuine ethereal ability at Pro Evolution Soccer is Goody84. He swooped in to castigate late runners as usual, but he also had a special announcement: "PES community 1 hit 1300 games last night. Plus 400 in the overspill community 2. I think it should be in the top 20 of the world now." That's a massive achievement, congratulations to everyone involved.Makar27 had been idly fantasising his way through the morning: "I was tinking earlier about which two people I would like to be stuck in a room with. And when I say room, I mean like a really small cell... measuring say 3ft by 3ft." Predictably enough this quickly transformed into bloggers listing two individuals they would attempt to have sex with simultaneously. If you have a genuine desire to find out who fuels the flame of desire for the nation's geeks then you will have to go back to source.The chaste, and to be honest bewildering, choice of R042 deserves special mention though: "Sue Perkins and Konnie Huq. Untowardness aside, the conversation would probably be good." Whether or not timthemonkey has 'met' Summer Glau was a bone of contention a little later on. The dictionary backs him up, but most agreed that anyone paying to have their picture taken at some convention, while they awkwardly pose next to, and paw at, some jailbait starlet is not really 'meeting' someone. It's hardly the foundation on which lasting and productive relationships are built.ImperfectRex especially wasn't impressed, he pointed out the disparity of emotional investment on the opposing sides of such an encounter, andbrilliantly illustratedthat it's mostly oddballs who attend these kind of events. Sorbical and DrStatham were abuzz with news about bees and the dangers they face from the Varroa destructor; which is some sort of mite apparently. Do we have a couple of Apiarists in our midst? The chatterbox truly is the font of all knowledge at times. Game Over Wednesday.ThursdayThursday? Blood Bowl, Anchorman, quoting.Beyond this: the power of love ... A 51 year old with an 18 year old girl. Pregnancy. Boom. This is life. Scamander posted his own intrigue. Viagra and dementia. But not his own.One man mooted an unused blog topic. Worst tourist attractions.A shabby haunted house.A lawnmowing tributeThe Imperial War Museum ('No actual war ...')Piip experienced some trying house beefs, bouncing the chat into 'bad housemates'. It soon became clear the Chatterbox was actually full of 'bad housemates', and that the rest of the world just tolerated them.Fantomex self-aggrandised, a lot, and as 'Chubby blog' ambled into view the day closed, much like any other.Quote of the day"They all pan the Bee's tech advice and then come crawling back with tails between their legs. 'It's not the hard disk after all,' they say. It's always the same."BeardOfBees auditions for the next series of The I.T CrowdFridayThe end of the week is upon us and it's a day for reflection on the week's successes and failures. Today saw the release of the new 3DS and the iPad 2.  Milkncheese followed some of the early morning coverage on BBC Breakfast. "It was like two-year-olds trying to describe the Budget to an Inuit. Confused and pointless."The caring familial nature of the blog was revealed early on as Discobox enquired as to health of Weecooper following his revelation the previous day that he's a MAS (Middle Age Shredder). Apparently all is well as wee has "A Good Touch for a big man".The morning progressed in its usual eclectic fashion covering such diverse topics as cereal blog, coffee passed through the intestines of small mammals, nut/seed/kernelblog, diceblog and Disney singstar with a helping of quantum mechanics/physics/theory? (It's all beyond me to be honest) for good measure. Then SuperSmashIn waded in with the dilemma of the day.  "Bacon or Sausage? If you could only ever have one of these for the rest of your life, which would you choose." A divisive question which is probably best summed up by HateMale: "It's like asking me which of my two nieces I'd shoot if I was forced to by a crazed gunman."As the morning turned to lunchtime and lunchtime to afternoon, golf was high on the agenda (A blog first?). Several bloggers seem keen on spoiling perfectly good walks and offered a variety of playing, club and fashion tips.  Catzilla offered Limni some crucial fashion advice: "Jeans? T-shirts? This, quite frankly, is an outrage! To participate in Golf, one must look the part. If you turned up at my golf club in that attire, you will either be escorted off the premises or handed a plunger and told to get busy in the staff toilets."The afternoon progressed with the disparagement of those who use well known text abbreviations and advertising catchphrases in everyday conversation. Simian pondered whether this could be grounds for a 'separation'. "Missus Sim says simples, and even does the squeek thing after... i accept I'm going to have to have her put down, cunning could I borrow a spot under your patio?"As the afternoon wound down the chat bounced around more than... something very bouncy. Blog pitfighting, archaeology, Time Team and Tony Robinson, wistful memories of youthful fitness and plans for the weekend.Quote of the day"I'd probably be surprisingly normal if it hadn't been for all of that."Cunning reflects on his time spent posting on the chatterbox.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Sleepyhead' by Passion PitCheck theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by McBegbie, Fantomex, RustyJames, CrispyCrumb and HereComesTreble. It was edited by, 'a very special guest editor who shall remain nameless.'"The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not 'Eureka!', but 'That's funny...'"Isaac Asimov
I have an iMac. Just for interest, I downloaded three different anti-virus programs. The first two found nothing, but the last one, Sophos, found eight "threats", which appear to be spyware. I wonder if it was a more effective anti-virus, or are they trying to sign me up for something?GavinThere's often some discussion as to what constitutes a threat, and whether an anti-virus program should deal with it, and this is particularly true on the Mac. At the minimum, a Mac anti-virus program should identify any viruses that might be a threat to Mac OS X. At the maximum, an anti-virus program could also identify and clean up any Windows malware that it finds (which might be in the web cache or attached to emails, for example), and also any tracking cookies that could compromise your privacy. Sophos is a well known and highly regarded supplier of anti-virus programs for Windows, and tends to deal with the Windows stuff as well. This is not a bad thing, because you might unwittingly send malware to friends who have Windows machines.Note that if you want Sophos to remove malware, Mac OS X will ask for your password where a Windows PC would probably let you hit Continue. Rich Baldry from Sophos says: "This ensures that only authenticated users of the computer can perform these actions, which potentially involve removing or modifying areas of the system to which they wouldn't usually have access."Sophos is free and not asking you to sign up for anything, but I assume the company is looking forward to future business when the Mac has a big enough market share to attract lots of malware.Second screen for a laptopHow can I connect a monitor to my Dell Inspiron 4000 and still see the laptop screen?Norman LewellYour laptop has a standard 15-pin VGA port so it should just be a question of plugging in a VGA cable. Most monitors will work using Plug and Play, though in some cases, you might be prompted for a driver disk or .inf file to provide support for extra features. Once the monitor is plugged in, hold down the Function (Fn) key and press whichever numbered function key controls the displays: it might be F3 or F8, for example. The correct function key may well have two images of screens separated by a slash. Press this key a few times while holding down Fn (ie press Fn+F8, or whatever) and the Inspiron should cycle through the options. These will include having only the laptop screen on, having only the external display on, and having both screens on. There should also be the option to use one screen as an extension to the other, so you can use the mouse to pick up a program running on one screen and drag it to the other screen, or have it straddle both. If you plan to use this mode, right-click on the Windows desktop, select Properties, and click the tab for Settings. This will show the two screens numbered 1 and 2. If the second screen is on the left of your primary display, drag the box marked 2 to the left of the box marked 1, and so on.Reading old clipboard imagesI have some .clp image files, made by Windows 3.1's Clipboard application. I have been trying to find a way to open them on XP.Joseph GattAlthough the Clipboard application is obsolete, Microsoft still shipped it with Windows XP, just in case people needed it. If you go to the Windows directory and open the System32 folder, you should find a 101K file called clipbrd.exe. Double-clicking this will enable you to read your old clipboard files.However, it would be a better idea to download the free image viewer,IrfanView, or its somewhat slicker but larger rival,XnView. You can use either of these to view the old clipboard files and save them in a more useful format such as JPeg (.jpg) or as Windows Bitmaps (.bmp). Once you have converted them, you won't need Clipboard again.Microsoft didn't ship the Clipboard application with Vista or Windows 7, so with these operating systems, conversion is the best policy.
About half of the world's smartphones will be using Google's Android operating system by the end of 2012, according to the research firm Gartner.Google will lead the race with Apple, BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) and Microsoft by the end of this year and take 49.2% of the market in 2012, Gartner forecast on Thursday.Nokia's tie-up with Microsoft's new Windows Phone 7 operating system would also be a success, Gartner predicted, with a 19.5% share of the smartphone market by 2015 – leapfrogging its rivals to the number two spot. That finding concurs withforecastsfrom analysts IDC and Ovum.Worldwide smartphone sales are expected to reach 468m units in 2011 – a 57.7% increase on 2010. The explosive growth in affordable smartphones will see annual sales top 1.1bn by 2015, Gartner said. Sales of PCs, by comparison, will reach 387m this year, a 10.5% increase on 2010, the research firmpredicted last month.In line with other analysts' forecasts, Gartner expects the battle for smartphone supremacy to be a four-horse race, with no one company enjoying a huge market share before 2015.Google's Android will lead the smartphone market in 2012 with a 49.2% share, Gartner said, with Apple's iOS – which only runs on the iPhone, unlike Android which is used by a growing number of manufacturers – making up 18.9% and BlackBerry slipping to 12.6%.By 2015, Android will enjoy a 48.8% share of the market, ahead of Windows Phone 7 on 19.5%, iOS on 17.2% and BlackBerry on 11.1%. Nokia's once-dominant Symbian will shrink to 0.1% of the market in this period, as its Finnish maker switches to Windows Phone 7 on higher-end handsets.Roberta Cozza, a principle analyst at Gartner, said the forecast represents a smartphone market "truly democratised" by the booming emergence of Android since 2009. "As vendors delivering Android-based devices continue to fight for market share, price will decrease to further benefit consumers," Cozza added."Android's position at the high end of the market will remain strong, but its greatest volume opportunity in the longer term will be in the mid- to low-cost smartphones, above all in emerging markets."
Google is strengthening its relationship with Hollywood and online programme-makers in an attempt to reposition YouTube for the rise of internet-connected TV.The world's most popular video website will invest tens of millions of dollars in professionally-produced original programming as more viewers watch YouTube from their living room.Google is alsoreportedto be planning a "major overhaul" of YouTube this year, with the introduction of channels for topics such as arts and sports. About 20 of these channels would feature several hours of professional programming a week, according to the Wall Street Journal.The move would represent a big shift away from the user-generated video that made YouTube the third most-popular site on the planet.However, Google has attempted to play down the reports. "We're always updating the look and feel of YouTube. Any changes in YouTube's design would involve lots of research and would be rolled out slowly, over time to ensure the best possible user experience," a spokesman for Google said on Thursday.Although partnerships with broadcasters such as the BBC go back to 2007, Google has hastened its experimentation with full-length TV programming in recent months.Partnerships with online programming company Next New Networks, which is behind viral hits such asBed IntruderandObama Girl, and Hollywood talent agencies are aimed at keeping viewers on the site for longer, thereby increasing its value to advertisers. YouTube, which was bought for $1.6bn by Google in 2006, generated about $544m in revenue last year and is thought to have recently become profitable.The internet giant has also signed up a number of high-profile media executives, including former Netflix boss Robert Kyncl and Universal Sports chief Claude Ruibal, to boost YouTube's movie and sports content.Earlier this year, YouTubeannounced talkswith the US National Basketball Association and National Hockey League – as well as "most pro sports leagues" – about broadcasting live sports coverage on its site. YouTube made the Indian Premier League itsfirst major sports rights dealin January last year.Although YouTube remains popular for viewing short video clips on computers, the rise of online streaming on TVs could leave the site lagging behind its longer-form competitors."The trend YouTube has to respond to is internet viewing on high quality screens, like connected TVs and tablet computers," said Nick Thomas, a senior media analyst at Forresters. "Users want on-demand and there's a push to higher quality online. A lot of YouTube content just doesn't work there – it needs to address this if it's going to remain relevant."Thomas said YouTube's investment in original programming, rather than spending millions on acquiring the rights to popular TV series, is a wise move. "Licensing deals are very complex so it makes sense to spend money on creating original content," he added."For the global play, actually owning the content becomes even more important. There's still a concern that YouTube is like the wild west and an uncontrolled space – so investing in premium content is a bid to attract advertisers. Even if you've got a big chequebook you can't snap up all the content, but there's a lot more you can do with ad-supported programming."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
The latest Pac-Man game for iPhone came out today, and for keen iOS gamers its premise may seem familiar."Pac-Man's at it again, feeding his hunger for yummy yellow dots," explains theApp Store listing for the awkwardly-named Pac'n-Jump. "Bouncing and bopping, he just can't stop! Bounce for the skies! Keep your momentum, but be careful: one fall and it's back to the bottom."In other words, a vertically scrolling game where Pac-Man jumps up platforms collecting power-ups, steered left and right by tilting the iPhone. Essentially, it's Pac-Man getting remixed with the dynamics of Doodle Jump.It could be seen as a clever mash-up of a classic gaming brand with a modern game dynamic that's proved highly popular on the App Store – Doodle Jump recently notched up its 10 millionth download.Then again, Pac'n-Jump could be seen as a cynical attempt to reboot an ageing franchise by copying something that's been more popular with modern-day iOS gamers. An argument likely to provoke a raised eyebrow from those of us who relished Doodle Jump partly because it brought back fond memories of games like Rainbow Islands.This morning, I clocked Pac'n-Jump's launch on the App Store just before attending a talk at the Connected Creativity Conference in Cannes by Matt Mason, author of The Pirate's Dilemma.In the talk, he hailed the pace of innovation in the games industry, and traced that back to the ease with which developers can copy and "remix" one another's ideas, innovating on top of them.Whether Pac'n-Jump is doing the latter is open to debate, but it's hardly out of character for the iPhone gaming market.Doodle Jump has already spawned hordes of games running with the idea of its "doodle" visual style. Flight Control inspired a host of games using the line-drawing dynamic. And there are already several iOS games where you sling angry things that aren't birds at things that aren't pigs.Angry Birds, Doodle Jump and Flight Control all took inspiration from older games in their turn, of course, too. The key was that they all did it in a way that felt fresh to iOS gamers who had or hadn't played their inspirations.Does Pac'n-Jump feel fresh? Is Namco's new game a canny reboot of the franchise, or something more cynical? How else might Pac-Man be reinvented for touchscreen mobile devices? Let us know by posting a comment.
Biz Stone and Ev Williams discovered pretty quickly that Del Harvey was serious about the task they'd set her of putting a lid on Twitter's spam problem. Within a month of her joining in late 2008, she had suspended both of their accounts on the grounds that they seemed to be acting suspiciously ... like spam. Oh, and for good measure she also suspended the head of personnel and Jason Goldman, the head of products.Just over two years later, Harvey, a 29-year-old with a laconic line in humour, can look back on it and joke about it. But it still gives her chills. "This message went around on the internal email saying 'Hey, er, is anyone else seeing this 'Account Suspended' thing?" she recalls. "That was not my best day. But they didn't fire me, so that was good."Happily, Stone and Williams saw it as a sign of overzealous effort, not a career-limiting failure to understand her task – as the only member of the "Trust &amp; Safety" team. Since then the team has grown and grown, slightly faster than Twitter's. In January 2009, the company's total staff numbered 29 (and Harvey was still the lone Trust &amp; Safety person; she only started getting team-mates in May 2009). Now Twitter's staff is more than 400-strong, a 14-fold increase, while Harvey's team – which deals with not just spam but also trademark, malware, malicious apps, and user identity – is now 30-strong ("and hiring!" Harvey adds encouragingly).Spam alone occupies seven people full-time, plus the services of two engineers who write code to catch those misbehaving. Arrayed against "Trust &amp; Safety" are a fearsome set of weapons deployed by the spammers, such as proxy servers, captcha farms, obfuscated redirects, affiliate links and Koobface infections.But even before dealing with those, there's a more fundamental one: on Twitter, what is spam?If you use Twitter, you might think you know. Write a tweet with the word "iPad" in it, and you're pretty likely to receive a response – known as an "@-reply", because it consists of "@" followed by your username, the method used to contact people publicly – saying something along the lines of "Hey, I got a free iPad 2!" and including a link.The link will have been generated by a "bot" – a small program running on a server or computer somewhere linked to a Twitter account. Click it, and you're likely to find yourself whirled through a blizzard of redirects – sites that record who set up the link before handing you on to another site (because there will be "affiliates" skimming off some money in any future transaction you get sucked into) – until you end up either somewhere that asks you to take a "survey" and hand over personal details including your mobile phone number (so those can be sold on) or which will more straightforwardly try to scam you, pretending to have stock of whatever item you clicked for and asking for your details.There are those, and there are sex spams (where you'll be asked to authorise apps that promise to show you "just-released NAKED pictures of celebrities!") and there is ... pretty much all the spam you can expect anywhere online.But what's different on Twitter compared to every other spam-battling system is that Harvey and her team don't try to filter content; instead, "spam" is determined more by how an account behaves. That's because, as Harvey puts it, "on Twitter, one man's spam is another man's breakfast".Though she's too nice to say so, one gets the clear impression that the two phrases Harvey hears too often are "Why don't you just ...?" and "Surely it's obvious that ...?" With Twitter and spam, it's hardly ever a case of "just" or "surely" anything.Such as this: a new account is created on Twitter. It begins sending out tweets containing a weblink and a few words and "@-replies" to a huge number of people (so it will show up in those peoples' timelines). It's following 0 people, it has 0 followers, but within 30 minutes it has sent out the same message – with variations of who is targeted, but the same words and link – 30 times.Spam? You might think so. But, she points out, what if it is a Libyan or Saudi or Iranian or Chinese protester linking to an important page with information they want heard? Twitter takes its task of connecting people very seriously, so is very careful to avoid "false positives" – wrongly accusing someone of spam.Ah, you say, OK – but if it has the word "iPad" or "iPhone" in it, then it must be spam. But, again, what if it were a Foxconn employee withtales of abuse or suicide(or just some leaked information about a forthcoming product), trying again to grab media attention?As soon as you say "obviously, you'd have to look at it ..." you've reached the space where Harvey has laboured for the past three years or so. In that time, both Twitter and its spam problem have grown exponentially; when you consider that the service now handles a billion tweets per week, the surprise isn't that there's any spam, but that unlike email (where, like Twitter, users' addresses are pretty much open) it has avoided becoming completely overrun by it.Accounts whose behaviour are judged to be spam are suspended automatically; if the owner complains then its reinstatement is reviewed by hand.And how big is the spam problem? "That's really hard to evaluate," says Harvey. "There are aspects that make it different from everything else." Such as the difficulty of saying what, at the core, spam is. But the threat from that and associated malware (since the two often go together) is big enough that the "Trust and Safety" team is one of the few ones inside Twitter offering round-the-clock coverage.Third parties don't have many ways to evaluate spam levels on Twitter; the company itself refers to it only infrequently, and lastposted about it on the company blog in March 2010pointing out how spam had fallen from a high of 11% of tweets in August 2009 to around 1.5% in February 2010. Of course, that doesn't tell you if the absolute number fell; only it fell as a proportion.Certainly though the spammers are hard at work. Harvey harks back to the "good old days" when levels of spam were close to zero (indeed, in March 2008 – when Twitter was just two years old – Guardian Technology once felt moved to ask "Why are there no spam or trolls on Twitter?". At the time, it was probably true. "Trust &amp; Safety" started in October 2008, "when there wasn't really much in terms of bad behaviour," she says. "The heavy influx [of spam] wasn't until we hit about 40m users. It was probably in March 2009 that we started seeing an uptick in spam. It's not like a bell went off, that – ding! – we hit 40m, but that was the sort of time and scale."The spammers too have learnt new tricks. "In the beginning, the spammers weren't very sophisticated," she says. "It wasfantastic." Naive in the ways of Twitter, and thinking it worked something like the early web, the spammers would create accounts, and include links to the websites they were trying to promote in the account description. Unsurprisingly, nothing much happened. The early Twitter users knew better than to click odd-looking URLs, and recognised the accounts' lack of engagement."And then byGodthey evolved," says Harvey.Diet pills and porn quickly followed, using tactics such as following huge numbers of people and then unfollowing them if they didn't follow back; those who remained would be bombarded by direct messages. The porn turned out to be easy to repel: because they contained affiliate links (where a middleman was getting paid for each clickthrough and signup), "Trust &amp; Safety" assigned someone to contact the porn sites, getting affiliates' accounts cancelled for bad behaviour. Turning off the money tap worked surprisingly well as discouragement.Then in 2010,Koobfaceappeared on social networks, dumping malware on the machines of people unwise enough to click links to overly enticing offers. Spam and malware could go viral. Koobface became part of the wider problem for "Trust &amp; Safety", along with spam, and spam accounts. Basically, says Harvey, if it's a problem with the website itself, it's one for support; anything else, her team looks after. Copyright, impersonation, API problems, bad applications; all belong to her team.But to stop the spam accounts being set up couldn't – that phrase again – Twitter just make the captchas that it uses for registration harder, so that it would reward the spammers less to crack them? "There are captcha farms," Harvey replies. "They hire solving them out to humans, you can buy 2,000 solved for five bucks. Really reasonably priced," she adds laconically. "If you're looking for solved captchas there's a number of sites I can direct you to."OK, how about banning the IP addresses for the captcha farms? "They'd just change the proxy servers they came through," Harvey explains. Meaning the IP address would look different. OK, ban someone using obfuscation? Uh-uh: "we get people using Tor, which obfuscates where you're connecting from, for valid reasons."Then is there any clue or pattern in where the spammers are based? Are they Russian, Chinese, east European, Florida-based?"We've seen waves of activity from ... from Russia, from different global issues, but primarily we don't have the resources to investigate the origin of most of these. The most we can do is answer 'where is the proxy server they're using'. We're so small ... maybe some day we'll be able to pull off the thing like the Rustock spamkill [where the combined efforts of Microsoft, the police and ISPskilled a giant spam botnet."All it needs is to be as big as Microsoft, I suggest."You know, that's fine. I'm fine with that," jokes Harvey. "I will totally commit to doing that if we get as big as Microsoft."The most useful resource in fighting spam, it turns out, is Twitter's users – via the "Report Spam" button found on every user's page. Though even that can be abused if you have "flagging mobs" who try to knock people off the service.In the meantime, she knows the reality of trying to beat the spammers: "The bummer is that it's an arms race," Harvey says. And so far nobody has found a way to end any spam arms race. So Harvey's team might be hiring for a while yet. But she leavesher Twitter accountopen to replies – just in case, she says, someone has the brilliant idea that will kill all spam on Twitter, forever. It might take a while.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team•Attack hijacks sensitive data using newer Windows [and Mac OSX] features &gt;&gt; The RegisterExploits the preference of newer versions of these OSs to use IPv6 for connecting local networks, plus a zero-configuration system: upshot is that bad guys on a network can grab your traffic.•I think I'm having a Gene Amdahl moment &gt;&gt; Android Developers BlogAndroid's kingpin, Andy Rubin, refers to Amdahl because in the mainframe days IBM would plant "fear, uncertainty and doubt" to worry buyers thinking of defecting."In fact, all of the founding members of the Open Handset Alliance agreed not to fragment Android when we first announced it in 2007. Our approach remains unchanged: there are no lock-downs or restrictions against customizing UIs. There are not, and never have been, any efforts to standardize the platform on any single chipset architecture."Finally, we continue to be an open source platform and will continue releasing source code when it is ready. As I write this the Android team is still hard at work to bring all the new Honeycomb features to phones. As soon as this work is completed, we'll publish the code. This temporary delay does not represent a change in strategy. We remain firmly committed to providing Android as an open source platform across many device types."Still allows the playing of favourites, though.•Entrepreneur featured on front page of #StartUpBritain speaks out &gt;&gt; PostdeskAnd she doesn't have much positive to say about the experience of being part of the trimmings in the UK government's PR machine.•Samsung to Sell Wi-Fi-Only Version of Galaxy Tab &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Samsung said on Wednesday that it will start selling a Wi-Fi-only version of its 7-inch Galaxy Tab beginning Sunday."The Android tablet will sell for $349, which is higher than the price many cell phone carriers are charging for their versions, though to get the lower prices, consumers have to sign up for a two-year contract."One key question: will it be able to access the Android Market? Usually you need phone (3G) capabilities for that - Wi-Fi only means you don't qualify.•Apple Ordered 12 petabytes (!) of Storage on Isilon's Systems &gt;&gt; Storage Newsletter"Apple ordered as much as 12 petabytes of capacity from Isilon Systems, notably to manage the video download of its customers using iTunes, according to an inside source of the new division of EMC."•The Motorola XOOM is most certainly not a flop &gt;&gt; BGR"So, according to Deutsche Bank, Motorola has sold 100,000 XOOM tablets in less than a month and a half, which is an average of over 75,000 units per month. That's a flop?"The XOOM starts at $600, which means that is is responsible for $60m in hardware sales at a bare minimum. That's a flop?"•Android openness withering as Google withholds Honeycomb code &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMore-in-sorrow-than-anger analysis: "..the fact that [Google] are declining to release source code now doesn't seem like a change in direction. It's the natural evolution of a culture where openness is a marketing gimmick and not a core principle."What makes it all the more troubling is the extent to which Android deviates from the conventional upstream Linux stack. The insular nature of the Android userspace makes interoperability between Android and conventional mobile and desktop Linux platforms difficult and impractical. Android's Linux kernel even diverged from the official upstream Linux kernel due to different approaches to power management..."Because Android operates its own Google-controlled fiefdom outside of the upstream stack, its growing popularity doesn't materially benefit upstream Linux. As more hardware vendors flock to Android, the growing ubiquity of Google's platform necessarily marginalizes the healthier and more inclusive environment that exists upstream."•Change, survival and the fighting spirit in our DNA &gt;&gt; Nokia ConversationsDeparting head of communications offers some tidbits: "You have to remember that 25 years ago, portable phones were very niche products: we'd only just launched the first model. It would be another two years until the Mobira Cityman, the first handheld mobile phone would launch. So at that point, our main businesses were wood pulp, paper, rubber and cables. Toilet paper was one of our major earners. We supplied the UK with 30% of its toilet paper needs! More in some other countries."Imagine the corporate transformation involved in moving from that to being the world leader in mobile phones, and you have to agree that survival is a core competency in Nokia.•UK Government Spending Data CSV Validator &gt;&gt; Rewired StateNeat system that looks at the CSV files output by government agencies for their helpfulness for mashups.•Significant Error &gt;&gt; xkcdThis is basically our view of pretty much every "survey" that comes our way. Note the alt text, as ever.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Here comes Thursday!
My former colleague Fred Cooke, who has died aged 73, worked on the technology of plastics for more than 50 years and was of the generation that&nbsp;pioneered and shaped his industry. His ingenuity, good humour and can-do attitude was a perfect fit for the early days of innovation and the boom years of rapid development. He was widely known for his work on processing machinery, particularly in injection moulding and extrusion, and his long career was notable for an ability to keep pace with and adapt to profound changes in technology.After an apprenticeship with the injection machine builder Peco in his native Battersea, south-west London, and national service with the Royal Engineers, Fred became sales and project engineer with Hamilton Machinery Sales. His drive and eye for a deal made it inevitable that he would strike out on his own.This he did with the formation of&nbsp;Optimum Machinery Sales, which evolved into a plastics industry service group, covering design, marketing, consultancy and recruitment. Here, Fred's gift for lateral thinking came to&nbsp;the fore, particularly in the prototype of a sea-going injection-moulding system for cable-laying ships.Fred also worked as a technical journalist and lectured at East Surrey College and what is now London Metropolitan University. In his leisure time, he was a keen skier, swimmer and scuba diver, and a judo black belt. He&nbsp;hoped to be remembered as "not such a bad bloke after all", a modest wish that will surely be granted. He&nbsp;is&nbsp;survived by his wife, Jenny, whom he married in 1956, and their sons, Stephen and Andrew.
It's official! The Xoom is a flop! Thusquoth Silicon Alley Insider, running its inky finger down a note that has emerged from Deutsche Bank, where an analyst - we'll see if we can join the dots for you - saw John Gruber's (of Daring Fireball)linkto theAndroid Developer statistics, which show - at present - that more than 65% of Android devices which access the Android Market in the past 14 days are running "Froyo" 2.2, for example.. but only 0.2% are running "Honeycomb", the tablet-only Android version.Android Market access by OS share, past 14 days on 5 April 2011: Honeycomb shows an 0.2% shareThe analyst then, aided by some ComScore 2011 numbers on adoption of Android in the US site:comscore.com, and decided that the 0.2% showing there for Android 3.0 ("Honeycomb") translated into 100,000 sales of the Xoom (which has only been released in the US, and only in the 3G version until the Wi-Fi version joined it on 27 March).Two questions: is that a reasonable deduction? And is that good or bad for the Xoom, which launched in the US on 24 February, just under six weeks ago?Deductions first. The chart indicates that 6.2% of the phonesthat accessed the Market in the past fortnight(a phrase that you have to keep bearing in mind) used Android 1.5 or 1.6. For Android 2.1, it's 27.2%; for "Froyo" (2.2), it's 63.9%. For "Gingerbread" (2.3x), it's 2.5%.And then you have Honeycomb bringing up the miniscule at 0.2% - ie, 2 in every 1,000 devices that accessed the Market in the past 14 days were on 3.0.ThecomScore numberssay that in February, Android had 33% of the US smartphone market. And the US smartphone market by that stage was somewhere north of 45m devices - though likely just below 50m. Call it 48m for convenience.If you assume that 33% of those 48m are Android phones, that's 16m. If you assume that all of those constantly access the Android Market at least once every 14 days, then 0.2% of the share (ie how many Xooms are accessing it) translates into 32,000 (because it's pretty much a certainty that someone unboxing their Xoom is going to have a look around the Market).We can take that 32,000 as an absolute lower bound for the number of Xooms being operated.But there are some obvious gaps in that calculation - the key one being that it assumes that all the Android phones in the world are in the US. That's clearly not true. So let's dig further: the analysts Canalys reckons that 33.3m Android handsets were sold in the fourth quarter of 2010 worldwide, of which 12.1m were sold in the US.So it would be logical to think that to get absolute numbers for Android handsets accessing the Market, you should multiply the earlier number by three. So our 32,000 devices creating an 0.2% market share for Honeycomb becomes (once you take the rest of the world bumping up the total accesses to the Market, and so pushing down the share of Honeycomb) three times bigger: at least 96,000 sold.So there's our first conclusion:the 100,000 figure is reasonable. What's more, this is 100,000 in the hands of owners, rather than "shipped" (which is where Samsung has been guilty of a certain amount of, um, pushing at the truth envelope; there's little data about how many people are actually using the "2 million" Galaxy Tabs that escaped its factories).Could the number be higher? Very easily: if a new Xoom owner looks in the Market and sees no apps of interest, they won't go back. And there's not many 3.0 apps. New Android phone owners, on the other hand, have a very large number of apps to choose from: they'd be more likely to make return visits. So the number of Xoom accesses could be artificially deflated.Unfortunately, there's no way to know by how much. What we're confident of is that 32,000 is a lower bound and that 100,000 has a finger-in-air feel of "about right".Now the next question:is that number good or bad?Sure, it's nothing like the iPad's first incarnation, where itsold 3m iPads in its first 80 days. (The Xoom has been on sale for about half as long.) But it feels absurdly premature to write it off. The Wi-Fi only version may be suddenly doing gangbusters (unfortunately there aren't historical graphs of the Android Market access graph); the 3G version might have been a dog (and given its much higher price compared to the iPad, that seems to have been the case; the Wi-Fi version is more keenly priced). There's plenty of life to be found in the tablet market yet.And we know at least that the Xoom is actually selling. Now the challenge is on for Google to prove that it has a viable tablet OS - and for its hardware partners to see if they can match Apple's pricing. Will RIM and Samsung manage it?
A new ultra-fast wireless internet network being built in the US could drown out GPS signals and interfere with everything from aircraft to police and civilian navigation devices, experts are warning.The network, under construction by a company from Virginia called LightSquared, would provide a nationwide wireless broadband network – but using frequencies close to those on which the time signals from the Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites are transmitted. GPS equipment manufacturers say that any strong signals from the LightSquared system could drown out the incredibly faint signals from the orbiting satellites.A technical fix could cost billions of dollars, according to one estimate, and it is unclear who would have to pay. US government officials say they will block LightSquared from activating the network unless they get assurances that GPS will still work.In response LightSquared has set up a working group to report every month to the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) which is trying to establish the risk. The group includes representatives from LightSquared, the GPS receiver industry and a number of US government bodies which rely on GPS.The FCC granted the licence to LightSquared on the explicit requirement that it should not cause any GPS jamming. The aim of the network is to boost wireless competition and bring faster, cheaper internet links to rural and other parts of the US. LightSquared and the FCC both insist the new network can coexist with GPS systems.But device makers fear GPS signals will be wiped out. The power of a GPS timer signal received at the ground is actually less than the background "noise" from electronic systems; only careful amplification makes it detectable. A GPS navigation device has to detect multiple signals, amplify them and distinguish the differences in their timing to determine its own location on the ground. Adding extra noise in a frequency close to the GPS one could increase the challenge.LightSquared intends to build a network using as many as 40,000 transmitters. "The potential impact of GPS interference is so vast, it's hard to get your head around," said Jim Kirkland, the vice-president and general counsel of Trimble Navigation, which makes GPS systems. "Think 40,000 GPS dead spots covering millions of square miles in cities and towns throughout the US."One of the biggest risks is to the GPS navigation systems used by about 40% of commercial and private planes. Backup systems that rely on ground-based radio signals are not as accurate and have coverage gaps. Some older private planes have no backup at all. GPS interference could mean a pilot "may go off course and not even realise it", said Chris Dancy, a spokesman for the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association.LightSquared's network could also undermine the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) multibillion-dollar program to upgrade the US's air-traffic control system, which is based on secondworld war-era radar technology.The new GPS-based system is more precise and lets planes fly more direct routes. That will save airlines time, money and fuel and cut pollution. It is also key to accommodating projected increases in airline traffic by enabling planes to fly safely closer together.Public-safety officials, too, are nervous about LightSquared because they rely on GPS to track and dispatch police cars, fire trucks and ambulances. Many 911 systems also use GPS to help locate people. Disruptions could delay responses to emergencies, said Harlin McEwen, an official with the International Association of Chiefs of Police. Even the Pentagon has expressed concern as it relies on GPS to guide planes, ships, armoured vehicles, weapons and troops."We have every reason to resolve these concerns because we want to make sure there is a robust GPS system," LightSquared executive vice-president Jeffrey Carlisle said.Dan Hays, a consultant with the firm PRTM, insists the technical solution is straightforward: GPS devices need to include better filters to screen out the LightSquared signals. But estimates on the costs of a fix vary hugely. Hays believes it will cost no more than $12m, or $0.30 per device, to install better filters in roughly 40m standalone GPS units made worldwide each year. Mobile phones, he said, won't need it because they don't rely solely on GPS to determine location and have better filters. But Tim Farrar, a consultant with TMF Associates, insists cellphones need upgrades too, raising the annual cost to as much as $1bn.LightSquared plans to compete nationally with super-fast, fourth-generation wireless services being rolled out by the likes of AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless. It won't sell directly to consumers, though. Instead, LightSquared will provide network access to companies including Leap Wireless, parent of the Cricket phone service, and Best Buy, which will rebrand the service under its own name.The bigger challenge though may be in financing the scheme. The estimated cost of building the entire network is put at $7bn, but so far the company has raised only about $2bn, including$586m of debt in February.LightSquared has its roots as a satellite-phone operator, but in January the FCC gave it permission to build a broader, conventional wireless data network. Although the company will continue to offer satellite service, it plans to cover at least 92% of Americans by 2015 with high-power wireless signals transmitted by base stations on earth.Hays said the real problem is that GPS receivers are "eavesdropping on signals outside of where they are supposed to be" in LightSquared's space. That was not a problem until now. LightSquared and the FCC say the GPS industry should have been preparing for a ground-based network nearby since the FCC first allowed backup wireless systems in that space in 2003.All of which leads Hays to portray the problem this way: "This is a situation where the neighbour [GPS] built the fence too far over the property line and may not have realised it at the time. Now the other neighbour wants to build a pool and there is not enough space. So the question is: who has to pay to move the fence?"
When Facebook launched the Facebook Places feature in its mobile apps, the focus was on people checking in to locations to let friends know where they were. A recent update let them also check in to events, and according to head of international business development Christian Hernandez Gallardo, those events should include TV shows.Speaking at the Connected Creativity Forum in Cannes on Wednesday, he described the new feature as giving people the ability to check in to "a time and place", and said that broadcasters and TV producers should "think about having a time and a place around every single episode of your series"."You begin to create these hubs where you can take the passionate screaming and bring them together, because you realise that 10 of your friends are watching Top Gear at the same time," he said. "We've talked to broadcasters about putting their whole EPG as events on Facebook, and letting people RSVP to them to get a reminder."If more people start checking in to TV shows on Facebook, it will be a threat to startups like GetGlue, Miso and IntoNow who are focusing on this area – not to mention the TV Check app unveiled by Orange at MIPTV this week.The Numote iPhone appHernandez also encouraged the TV industry to think of Facebook as a platform for distributing content and making money from it, not just for promoting it and engaging with viewers. He cited the example of Warner Bros, which is renting streaming movies on Facebook paid for with the Facebook Credits currency. He also flagged up a new partnership with mobile payments company MIG, which will help broadcasters charge people to vote in reality shows, again paid for with Facebook Credits.Hernandez also said Facebook has designs on becoming a key factor in the discovery of TV shows. "The thing I'm dying to make social is the EPG," he said, suggesting that if people were able to log in to their set-top boxes or televisions using their Facebook ID, they would be able to get recommendations of shows to watch based on the content they have Liked in the past, and the content that their friends are watching.He highlighted one mobile app, Numote, which is trying to do this on the iPhone, but said there are several other startups focusing on social EPG apps, using Facebook's social graph. "That is a social experience for TV."
Normally, when a video game finds itself at the centre of a storm of controversy, you expect complaints levelled at it to revolve around its violent content. In years past, games such as Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, Medal Of Honor and any Grand Theft Auto title you care to mention have had spurious claims hurled at them that they corrupt the fragile minds of their audiences in this regard.But the upcoming first-person-shooter Duke Nukem Forever finds itself coming under fire for a completely different reason, and in this instance, the criticisms aimed at it weren't being voiced by the moral-hand-wringing brigade, but by the gaming community itself.The furore stirred up by Duke Nukem Forever isn't about how its release date recently shifted from May to June. By now, anyone interested in playing the game will have been waiting 13 years, so really, what's a couple more weeks on top of that? Rather, Duke Nukem Forever has become a topic in the debate concerning sexism and misogyny in video games.The argument in this case concerns a mode in Duke Nukem Forever's multiplayer mode called Capture The Babe. I haven't had a hands-on with this part of the game, but from the descriptions I've read, it seems it's basically a Duke Nukem-themed version of the Capture The Flag mode that has featured in the multiplayer of numerous shooters.However, instead of a picking up a flag and heading back to base, players will carry off a squirming female – who, according to reports, will occasionally "freak out" and try to wriggle free. To prevent this, players have to give the character a good slap on her rump to calm her down.The news has caused something of a split in the gaming community. On the one hand, some gamers have slammed the Capture The Babe mode as, not only offensive, but an indicator of the sexism that is endemic in video games. Others have dismissed it completely, pointing out that Duke Nukem Forever has always had a leering, immature attitude towards the fairer sex, and besides, the entire game is a throwback to the testosterone-soaked, flagrantly un-PC entertainment of earlier times.Gearbox CEO Randy Pitchforddefended the mode in an interview published in Xbox Magazine, saying: "Our idea isn't to startle people, though we consider there's little things that'll be only a bit uncomfortable."As I said, I haven't played it, but I do have to say that the idea of slapping female characters around to calm them down makes me feel queasy. What do you think? Do you find the idea of the 'Capture The Babe' mode offensive?Have video games moved so far on from Duke Nukem's uber-macho visage that something like 'Capture The Babe' is now, not only immature, but just plain wrong? Or is being politically incorrect part and parcel with the sort of gaming experience we should expect from this franchise? Ultimately, does it put you off the idea of buying a copy of the game?
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur as they dissect the latest technology headlines. This week, the dream team are reunited to talk Google: what's happening with the anti-trust investigations in the EU and the US, how should new CEO Larry Page roll out his new vision for the company, and what role with the successful mobile platform play in its future? Should, as Jemima suggests, they change the name Android to hit the mainstream market?Pressing questions, indeed.Also under the microscope is the future of YouTube. Jemima spoke with Google's internal head honcho for the video service, Hunter Walk. How will Google maximise the "You", rather than just focussing on the "Tube"?Amazon's new Cloud music streaming service gets a look in too. Will the company's bullish attitude towards taking this product to market ahead of the Google and Apple competition put it in the leadership position in the future?Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Customers of one of the UK's leading high street retailers, Marks &amp; Spencer, are among millions of people whose email addresses have been stolen in ahuge US internet security breach.Marks &amp; Spencer warned customers late on Tuesday their details may have been compromised by the attack on email marketing firm Epsilon. The retail giant is the first British company to admit it was breached in the attack.An email to customers on Tuesday stressed that Marks &amp; Spencer does "take your privacy very seriously" and added it would "continue to work diligently to protect your personal information". But it also warned customers to expect unsolicited spam emails.The data breach could prompt an investigation from the UK Information Commissioner's Office. Although the US does not operate the same data protection laws as the UK and Europe over privacy and security, companies which pass UK citizens' personal details to US-based companies are required to ensure that the destination has a proper "safe harbour" arrangement to safeguard the data to European standards. Such arrangements could be revoked if the ICO deems that it fails to meet them. An ICO spokesman said: "We are making enquiries to determine whether a breach of the Data Protection Act has occurred."Computer hackers stole the names and email addresses of millions of people late last week in the attack on Epsilon.Around 50 of the 2,500 companies Epsilon works for were affected. Customers of some of the world's most-recognised brands, including Hilton Hotels, Best Buy, Barclaycard US and Capital One were taken in the assault, described as one of the largest internet security breaches in US history.Credit card details are not believed to be affected – though the spam emails may attempt to "phish" bank or credit card information from unwary users, experts warned. The personal details are almost certainly being traded on a lucrative online black market, where they would be more valuable than usual because they could be linked to a specific company or product ."Given the phishing activity it feels like a hacker crime ring," said Kevin Rowney, the director of breach response at security firm Symantec. "It's not a nation state or an intelligence agency. It's clearly someone interested in profit from this data." It would be weeks before investigators could identify the attackers, he added.Rik Ferguson, a security analyst at Trend Micro, said the attack "could turn out to be one of the biggest breaches of its kind" and that the culprits could easily piece together the likes, interests and online habits of people affected."The person – or people – behind this clearly did their research and knew what they were going after. It's clear that the motive is financial," he told the Guardian.Ferguson added that a list of a million "untested" email addresses – those not easily linked to a company or product – would fetch around $8 (£4.90)on an internet black market, but the details stolen from Epsilon – thought to include tens of millions of email addresses all linked to specific companies – would be worth substantially more to cybercriminals.Epsilon confirmed on Monday night that about 50 of the 2,500 companies it handles email marketing for were affected by the attack. Epsilon put a warning on part of its website on Friday stating its systems had been "exposed by an unauthorised entry" into its email system."The information that was obtained was limited to email addresses and/or customer names only," Epsilon said in its statement. "A rigorous assessment determined that no other personal identifiable information associated with those names was at risk. A full investigation is currently underway."
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team ...Apple Wins Reversal of $625.5 Million Mirror Worlds Verdict &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Apple won a court ruling that throws out a $625.5m patent-infringement verdict over how documents are displayed on a computer screen."A federal judge in Tyler, Texas, today said Apple didn't infringe a patent owned by Mirror Worlds LLC and closed the case in Apple's favor. The court also said the damage award was too high. The judge did uphold the validity of the three Mirror Worlds patents."'Mirror Worlds may have painted an appealing picture for the jury, but it failed to lay a solid foundation sufficient to support important elements it was required to establish under the law,' U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis wrote."Will the Center Hold in Larry Page's Google? &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"The main theme that seems to be emerging: An elimination of Google's more centralized functional structure-where Rosenberg was one of several manager kingpins-to one in which the individual business units and their engineers, such as its most independent Android division, rule more autonomously."Reimagined like this, Google would become an ambidextrous organization with more powerful unit line execs, mostly engineers, doing what needs to be done to succeed, less burdened by the need to vet every little effort through various managers of Google's powerful operating committee."And that might mean fewer of those centralized execs-which raises the question of which general manager is next to go, whether on their own volition or not."Which is pretty much as we forecast.Microsoft working on new Windows 8 activation protection &gt;&gt; WinRumors"The protection allows PC makers and system builders to pre-activate copies of Windows for use on their hardware. OEM BIOS activation (OA) was originally introduced with Windows XP. Microsoft shipped OA version 2.0 with Windows Vista."The software giant is now readying OA version 3.0 for Windows 8. According to sources familiar with the company's plans, Microsoft is working on a key new technology that will enable it to protect against activation hackers. Illegal copies of Windows have been widely circulated thanks to mechanisms created to bypass Microsoft's OEM activation certificates. Windows Vista and Windows 7, which both rely on OA version 2.0, have fallen victim to activation cracks and bypass methods. In July 2009, months before its release, Windows 7 was fully cracked and activated with an OEM master key. Microsoft is keen to avoid the same cracks with Windows 8."Windows 8 Secrets: Modern Reader &gt;&gt; WinSupersite"Modern Reader is the first actual AppX application we've uncovered. AppX is a new type of packaged application model in Windows 8, and it very closely resembles Windows Phone 7 application packages. For this reason, we surmise that the AppX application type could be common to both Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 (codenamed "Apollo"), providing developers with a way to write applications that target and can transition between a variety of devices, including traditional PCs, tablets, and phones."So Windows 8 will have a built-in PDF reader, and its apps will come as "bundles" where a folder looks to the user like a single item. Mac OSX users will find it familiar from 2001.HTML5 Is Breathing New Life Into the Web &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"HTML5 represents the 'next big step in the progress of the Web,' says Jeffrey Jaffe, chief executive of the World Wide Web Consortium, which guides the development of technical standards. Paul Mercer, a veteran Silicon Valley software designer, says the technology will make it possible to 'achieve the dream of expressive, interactive applications on the Web that are Cupertino-class,' a reference to the headquarters of Apple, where Mr. Mercer worked for years."There are also potentially sweeping business implications, executives and investors say. The technology could alter the playing field in the emerging market for digital media and mobile applications, creating new market opportunities."'Right now, we're in a native apps world,' says John Lilly, a venture partner at Greylock Partners, a venture capital firm in Silicon Valley. 'But people are underestimating the power of the Web. I think we're going to see an explosion of Web-based apps over the next couple of years.'"Motorola Xoom WiFi gets price cut at Dixons: down to £479.99, before it's even on sale &gt;&gt; Recombu"Dropping from £499.99 to £479.99, we're not sure if this is competitive pricing from Moto, Dixons getting a better handle on pricing, or even cold feet, but the 32GB model will be going up against the brand new (previously sold out) iPad 2 on launch."The Xoom does have a few tricks up its sleeve - it's a 10.1-inch tablet with a 1Ghz dual-core processor and includes high-resolution cameras, both rear and front-facing."It's also able to playback 1080 HD videos, which can be output to HDMI capable screens without the need to spend more money on adapters."Telcos Dead In 20 Years - And They Deserve It &gt;&gt; FalkvingeThe Pirate Party writes, with an interesting observation: "When I was in the Netherlands this week, a major source of irritation was Vodafone NL, who charged me by the megabyte (!!) of 3G internet traffic. To quote Christian Engström, Member of European Parliament: Megabytes? I didn't know they still made those. 80M cost EUR20. That is an exorbitant price: 25 cents per meg."It is not an exorbitant price because it's the market price, but because it *isn't* the market price. The production cost of transferring one gigabyte over a 3G network is approximately one euro. Or was, a year ago; there is no reason to believe prices have risen like oil."So why use Vodafone, if I'm so angry with them? Why not use my ordinary provider? Because they (3, as in the provider "3?) charge me three euros per megabyte. That's a 300,000 per cent profit margin. That pricing has absolutely nothing to do with market prices."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Wednesday. What are you up to?
The latest company looking to bring Foursquare-style check-ins to TV viewing is Orange, with an app called TV Check. It was shown off at theMIPTV show in Cannesthis morning by the telco's VP of digital innovation and communities Patrice Slupowski.The app, which was demonstrated on an iPhone, enables TV viewers to check in to the shows that they are watching, earning points and badges if they do it regularly. The app taps into Facebook's social graph to also help users connect with their friends and recommend programmes. It is initally  available in France.Slupowski showed a feature that involves checking in to a show simply by pointing the iPhone's camera at the TV, and also hinted that the keenest fans of shows may get their 15 seconds of fame. "People can expect that they will be featured in the shows they like," he said.No release date was given for the app, which will face competition from existing apps including GetGlue, IntoNow and Miso, which all offer similar check-in based social features for TV viewers. GetGlue in particular has signed a number of deals with broadcasters to offer branded virtual "stickers" – its equivalent of Foursquare's badges – to fans who check in to their shows regularly.Slupowski was appearing on a MipTV panel about multiplatform apps and social TV, which covered smartphones, tablets and connected TV apps, as well as websites where viewers can play along with game shows in real-time.Endemol's director of digital gaming business development David Jullien talked about its playalong website for The Million Pound Drop, which aired for two series in the UK in 2010. At its peak, 189,000 people were playing along online at once – 8.6% of the TV audience. Over six shows in the second series, 785,000 unique users played along, with an average dwell time of 27 minutes."We really want to put connected features inside a show – inside its DNA," said Jullien, explaining that second-screen interactivity will now be a core element in new shows made by Endemol, as it also looks to add them on to its existing formats. "What we want to do with Big Brother, and we started testing this last week in France, is to allow people to give live polls and opinions."Samsung's head of content services in Europe Daniel Saunders also talked about his company's plans to make apps and second-screen features key selling points for its 2011 range of HDTV sets. This year, Samsung's connected TVs will have Twitter and Facebook apps running "side by side with linear broadcast", which Saunders described as a first for the industry.He also said Samsung will launch connected TVs with twin tuners and local streaming features this year too. "They will allow you to watch one channel on your big screen, while channel-hopping or browsing other channels on your tablet or smartphone."
The government's code to clamp down on illegal filesharing will not come into force for another six months as the Digital Economy Act is held up by a high court challenge.However, plans to send thousands of warning letters to alleged copyright infringers are still on track to begin in the first half of next year, the government said on Tuesday.The introduction of the code, which sets out how music and film companies can take steps to identify people accused of illegal downloading, wasdelayed indefinitelylast month after alegal challengeby two of the UK's biggest internet service providers BT and TalkTalk.The government now says that the measures, known as the initial obligations code, should be introduced by October – 10 months later than planned."This is a deadline – we would hope the code can be made before then and are still aiming to have the first notification letters go out in the first half of next year," said a spokesman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport."Our principal concern is to establish a system that works and provides the UK's creative industries with the tools they need to protect their hard work and investment. We understand the urgency, but will not rush this important task."Under the government's controversial anti-filesharing scheme, internet service providers send notification letters to customers accused of illegal downloading by music and film companies. Repeat copyright infringers could have their internet access slowed or even blocked under secondary measures in the act.
Tom Steinberg, the founder of the MySociety charity (which gave you the wonders of theyworkforyou, making Hansard accessible, and publicwhip.org, which shows you how MPs have voted), has weighed in to the debate about the proposed closure in the US of the data.gov site, already beloved of data wonks everywhere.Steinberg's comments are important because he's now working with the Conservatives and inside the Cabinet Office to push the open data agenda forward, along with Francis Maude, the minister responsible.Writing on his personal blog, Steinbergcommentsthat the question some people are asking - what should be changed about data.gov to make more people use it - is "exactly the wrong question".As he explains:Open data policy matters because it reduces barriers to people with bright ideas from creating goods and services that make the world a bit better, either socially or economically. It really is as simple as that.Data.gov and all its' domestic and international spinoffs suceed only in so far as they help the frustrated innovators or researchers to get what they need quickly and easily, so that people in the future don't have to break the law by 'stealing' their own parliamentary transcripts data, as the first TheyWorkForYou volunteers had to.I think the notion that a large volume of people should ever be expected to come to sites like Data.gov, and that these sites should offer mass market, easily accessible content is quite wrong (although I have sympathies for the political pressures that might have been at work when the funding was originally granted) . Sites like Data.gov should be entirely honed to serve the needs of a small number of frustrated data seekers, whether from business, journalistic, research or social enterprise backgrounds.What does that mean for the debate now going on - such asthis post on the Guardian Datablogby Nathan Yau of Flowing Data? Yau points out that the data.gov site seems inordinately expensive to run (at a reported $4m per year) given its very small number of visitors, and that even they struggle:I've tried to use Data.gov a number of times, but the results are rarely useful. The site is slow, hard to use, and hasn't changed much since it launched two years ago. Look for a dataset, and you're most likely to get old datasets dating as far back as four decades ago. Recent data is harder to come by on the site.Steinberg's solution? Forget the glitz, because data repositories (or, as data.gov.uk is, data portals) aren't about glitz. Glitz, in fact, is the thing that they are not about.There is no more need for a Data.gov to be a big shiny, well trafficked site than there is for apage on Public Key Encryptionto be shiny, friendly and well trafficked - what counts is that the right people (who in that case work for our banks, and our governments) do visit those pages sometimes and get the things they need to. When their needs are met, we all benefit - we get secure banking and private email as a result.The open data community should shake off its guilt about not producing data for direct consumption by end users - power station managers don't feel guilty about not producing iPods. Instead we should be proud of and fiercely focussed on enabling the next generation of entrepreneurs and story tellers to do their mass-market magic.That's a terrific closer - that power station managers don't feel guilty about not producing iPods. Data truly is the raw fuel for the information age. Closing a fuelling depot won't stop people getting it - but it doesn't help either. So the question isn't how you get more people to use data.gov. It's how you get the right people using it. And you do that, of course, by demonstrating how useful free, open data is. Over to you, developers....
Living Social, the daily deals service that claims to have popularised thefish pedicurein the UK, has been valued at more than $3bn in a new round of funding thatraises an additional $400mfor the site.Photo bySébastien Michelon Flickr.Some rights reservedAs sharply observed by All Things Digital reporterKara Swisher at SXSW, "There's not enough rat holes to stuff all the money from Silicon Valley down at the moment." Daily Deals is arguably the hottest of those holes, and Living Social is keen to prove it's a good bet.Living Social, based in Washington, has been battling to differentiate itself from arch-rival Groupon by focusing on a range of 'experiences' like white-water  rafting, wine tasting and spa trips. Living Social in October acquired the US adventures&nbsp; break specialists Urban Escapes, now renamed Living Social Adventures, and has launched 'Family Edition' deals for Manchester, Liverpool, Sheffield, Newcastle and Dublin.Of its 25m registered users (those who have signed up with email addresses) 55% are female with core audiences in the US, Canada and the UK. Rather than chains, said chief operating officer Eric Eichmann, a former Yahoo, Living Social targets small, premium businesses and uses local sales people in each location. The prize is a $144bn local advertising market in the US and a $20bn market in the UK, teasing money away from sites that traditionally benefit from the marketing spend of local businesses, like Yellow Pages. Living Social typically takes 50% of the money made from a deal."A lot of that is spent by local merchants who don't know what the performance of those ads is," said Eichmann. "We think there's a better model and one that has potential to grow significantly over time."GivenSeth Priebatsch's high profile of late, does Eichmann think Living Social should be worried bySCVNGR's mission to find the secret of long-term engagement of customers, beyond one-off deals? "Whether SCVNGR or other players with things that make the experience more interesting, with more engaging components will start to own the space is a good question. But by and large what matters to our business is that people get good deals from great merchants, and that needs a strong local sales force."Living Social's London team has grown from 50 in October to 100 this  month - one of 200 countries where Living Social now operates. Eichmann claimed 90% of Living Social's merchants return to do another deal, and that "very few" of the complaints about daily deals sites come from Living Social. "Merchants are aware of those complaints so that has been damaging," he admitted.Living Social raised $183m in December from Amazon, Lightspeed, Grotech and Revolution. Eichmann would not comment on specifics of funding saying he is not involved in those decisions, but did add that there is huge interest in the daily deals space. Having confirmed a second round this week from Amazon, Lightspeed, T Rowe Price and Institutional Venture Partners, Living Social is now likely to pursue even more aggressive expansion against Groupon. "We were very happy when Amazon invested significant anounts in the space," said Eichmann. "They know a lot about ecommerce so it said 'this space is real and here for the long term'. It was proof for us that we are doing the right thing."As for rival products from Facebook and Google, Eichmann said big companies with important assets always need to be taken seriously. "But the question for them is whether this specialist business is worth it...it takes a lot of investment in people on the ground, and is that the direction they want to go in?"Eichmann wouldn't rule out acquisitions in the UK, if they fit Living Social's objectives. "We're called living Social for a reason, so social is core to people's lives and to what we do. A lot of what's pwering this is the value of social networks and social interactions that is driving all this, and we're well positioned to profit from it and help that movement to grow."
On the front page of Tuesday's Sun, a story declares "Refund row hits Nintendo". Thearticlesuggests that "thousands" have been affected by dizziness while playing 3D games, and that "record return levels" have been reported as a result.Nonsense, say Nintendo, HMV and Game. Industry news source MCV spoke to a Nintendo UK spokespersonwho stated:Recent reports are incorrect. The number of calls and emails with queries on Nintendo 3DS is in fact well below the rate experienced during past hardware launches and having spoken with our retail partners there are only a handful of people who have actually gone into stores to request a refund.Meanwhile, Game – with more than 500 stores throughout the UK – claims to have had, "fewer than five complaints".It would also seem that there are other factual inaccuracies in the print version of the story, which claims that HMV has been offering full refunds to customers. In fact, HMV is offering a trade-in value of £200 on 3DS consoles, which have been returned in mint condition to its stores.When I spoke to a clearly frustrated HMV representative earlier today, he told me: "We have not had any problems, we are not issuing full refunds and we have not had hundreds trying to return it. It has been totally misrepresented."The implication of the article – that gamers who have experienced dizziness as a result of playing the 3DS are entitled to their money back – is also highly questionable. Retail stores are only required to provide refunds if a product is faulty, and experiencing unpleasant after-effects following the viewing of 3D images does not currently qualify.Indeed, it is known that a small percentage of people are susceptible to these symptoms when viewing any similar technology – including 3D films or 3D television – because of the way our eyes are required to focus on two different inputs in the absence of other sensory cues. 3D TV manufacturers are regularly placing warnings in instruction manuals that some people experience discomfort while viewing 3D images."The law only provides you with a remedy if the goods are not of satisfactory quality," said Espe Fuentes, a lawyer with the Which? legal department. "Shops are not to obliged to offer anything. The only way a customer is protected in this sort of situation is if the store has a no-quibble guarantee. Obviously, if Nintendo decides there is something wrong with the console, there would be a product recall, but from what the Sun has written, it's just a few people having problems – that doesn't make the console faulty or of unsatisifactory quality."If you do want to return your 3DS because of ill-effects, you're likely only to get the current trade-in value from stores that offer pre-owned services. This will usually be higher if you swap it for items in-store rather than request cash.But this may not be necessary. Nintendo has advised that gamers rest after 30 minutes of play, and suggests experimenting with turning down (not necessarilyswitching off) the 3D effect via the slider at the right side of the screen.On Friday, the company announced that 113,000 3DS devices have been sold in the UK since the launch on 25 March.
US semiconductor company Texas Instruments said on Tuesday it will buy rival National Semiconductor for $6.5bn (£4bn), in a move that will consolidate the analogue sector, whose chips are used in mobile phones, cars and industrial systems.The price is a 78% premium on National Semiconductor's $3.4bn market capitalisation on Monday, and roughly four times its revenues. But analysts thought the deal was positive for Texas Instruments, which has 10 times the value and profits, and should be able to benefit from economies of scale.The deal, one of the biggest in the industry for years, was described by Citigroup as a "much-needed consolidation" in the highly fragmented analog sector which underscores the need for scale, an evolving theme in the analogue semiconductor industry."We suspect other analog companies will be forced to consider complementary portfolios, combined sales forces, and eventually 300mm capacity," Citigroup analyst Glen Yeung said.TI and NatSemi, as they are known, are two of the oldest companies in the chip business, founded in 1930 (though the name dates to 1951) and 1959 respectively. Analogue chips are used to connect to real-world data such as sound, temperature, light or battery levels, and either regulate them directly through other electronic systems, or used to translate levels into digital 0s and 1s so that other, digital processing chips can use them. Apple's iPod touch MP3 player and Motorola's Xoom tablet computer use Texas Instruments' power control analog chips, according to IHS iSuppli, which analyses supply chains. The average mobile can have 30 analogue power management chips. "Digital chip makers like Intel used to disdain analog, but it's the way you get information in and out of these mobile devices," Kim Caughey Forrest, an analyst at Fort Pitt said.The acquisition will extend TI's lead in the vast but fragmented market for analog chips, while NatSemi, with a strong portfolio of power management microchips for industrial uses as well as for mobile phones, may be open to a deal because it lacks stronger long-term growth prospects."It will improve TI's position in power management chips – that's where National has particular strength," Morningstar analyst Brian Colello said.Some analysts thought TI might be hoping to seal a deal and thwart rival bidders. But TI said it was "comfortable" with the price, and both companies said they could achieve $100m in cost savings annually by sharing sales forces and capacity."Texas Instruments has been a pretty prudent company. There is either some kind of buried patent [owned by NatSemi] that is unbelievably attractive to them, or there were other bidders and they felt pressured to get it," said Caughey Forrest.The worldwide semiconductor market saw spending on equipment grow rapidly last year, more than doubling according to data released by the research company Gartner on Tuesday morning. That indicates that chip businesses see rapid growth ahead.
Six Hollywood film studios are suing an internet movie-rental site, Zediva, claiming the Silicon Valley startup infringes their copyright by streaming films over the web directly from DVD players.Zediva streams movies such as The Social Network and Black Swan shortly after they are available on DVD – but weeks before legitimate sites such as Netflix have them available. Its members pay as little as $1 (61p) to stream the new releases over a two-week period.Other movie-streaming sites such as Netflix and Coinstar have licences from the studios which can require them to wait up to four weeks before making films available online, and have higher charges, typically $4 or more.The Hollywood giants – including Sony, Time Warner, 20th Century Fox and Walt Disney – argue Zediva needs a specific licence to play the DVDs, which they deem a public performance. Zediva's claim to be a traditional DVD-rental firm, such as Blockbuster and Lovefilm, is "a sham", the film studios asserted on Monday evening.Zediva claims it exploits a loophole in copyright law that means it does not have to pay royalties to film giants. Venky Srinivasan, the founder and chief executive of Zediva, last monthtold the Financial Timesthat its approach is founded on the age-old principles of DVD rentals – albeit on the internet – and so would be difficult to challenge on legal grounds. The individual renter appears able to control the DVD player directly, over the internet, in a way that resembles other services such as Slingbox, which lets users away from their home control a DVD player or TV set and stream that to their location. Zediva's argument is that it is effectively renting a DVD player to each user to let them watch the film – but the DVD player and the user are in different locations."We are fairly confident that the law allows a user to watch a DVD they've rented and we're actually building upon these other ideas to offer a very compelling service," Srinivasan said."We also spend millions of dollars to buy DVDs, so we would like to think that we are a pretty important customer to [the studios]."The studios however are unimpressed. "Zediva's mischaracterisation of itself is a gimmick it hopes will enable it to evade the law and stream movies in violation of the studios' exclusive rights,"saidDan Robbins, the senior vice president of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), which represents the six major Hollywood studios. "Courts have repeatedly seen through the facade of this type of copyright-avoidance scheme, and we are confident they will in this case too."The MPAA filed the lawsuit in a US district court in Los Angeles on Monday. A Zediva spokeswoman said the company was considering how to respond to the action. On Tuesday, the site remained closed to new members, claiming "registration is temporarily full". The site has been intermittently closed to new members since its re-launch last month.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 2 AprilPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Crysis 2(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (28)PC (6)22 (–)Zumba Fitness (3+)Wii (95)Xbox 360 (5)13 (2)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (33)Wii (21)PS3 (20)DS (14)24 (–)Shift 2: Unleashed(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (40)PC (4)15 (3)Homefront(15+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (32)PC (2)36 (–)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12: The Masters(3+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (46)Wii (5)17 (–)WWE Allstars(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (37)Wii (6)18 (10)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (33)PSP (7)DS (7)279 (5)Pokemon White Version(3+)DS (100)510 (–)Art Academy(unrated)DS (100)13UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Professional wrestling has always had a fractious relationship with reality. The action, of course, is fake, but the athleticism, bravery and, often, pain felt by the performers is real. This leads to something of a quandary for games developers hoping to faithfully represent the "sport" – how much of the fantasy do gamers want to buy into?According to WWE All Stars, the answer is simply: a helluva lot. Best seen as an arcade-style counterpoint to the Smackdown vs Raw series, it's wrestling as seen through the lens of the imagination of an eight-year-old. In 1992. And this is by no means a bad thing.By focusing in recent years on gritty realism, complexity and depth, THQ's flagship franchise has lost something of the pick-up-and-play simplicity that has made wrestling games so popular in the first place. Their appeal was far broader than the "sports entertainment" itself, offering as they did a dumbed-down beat-em-up experience for those without the dexterity or patience to master the 360 piledriver. Allstars looks to rectify this by offering a spiritual successor to those classic 16-bit titles titles – with a roster, and controls, that everyone will be familiar with.The premise is simple – 30 or so classic wrestlers (including unlockables and forthcoming DLC) spanning the past 30 years, duking it over across various game modes and arenas just for the sake of duking it out. A story mode and a simple "Fantasy Warfare" option in which similar wrestlers from different eras compete (Andre the Giant vs The Big Show, for example) offer the possibility of prolonged play, but depth is not at a premium here.What is at a premium is pure, unadulterated fun. The moves are exaggerated, with wrestlers flying through the air and bouncing off the mat like action figures guided by the hand of child. The character models themselves are huge, barrel chested cartoons, and though some take a while to get used to – Ultimate Warrior in particular manages to look even more freakish than his real-life counterpart – the stylised presentation lends itself excellently to the tone of the game.Poor loading times aside, it's a decently presented package, with what I found to be a reliable and smooth online offering and a nifty create-a-wrestler mode to allow you to add your own favourites to the competition. The video montages that introduce the Fantasy Warfare bouts are particularly pleasing, and crank the nostalgia value up for those in whom the name Macho Man Randy Savage evokes a warm, fuzzy feeling.Controls are simple and responsive, and seem to pack a more satisfying punch than All Stars' big brother, SvR. Beneath the outer simplicity, though, there's a depth to the fighting mechanics that's hard to fathom without a decent in-game tutorial. Doubtless one will be up on YouTube before long, but it's small exclusions like this that can make All Stars feel just a little too shallow at times. As if (conspiracy theory warning ...) there was a fear that a more exhaustive offering could bleed into SvR's sales.Finish the single-player modes in a matter of hours and your faced with a disappointing lack of exhibition and multiplayer options. And while the learning curve is tough as you switch up the difficulty, without any decent instruction it there's not much technique to master beyond learning when to press the "counter" button.All Stars will put a smile on the face of any lapsed wrestling fan pining for the simple, undemanding action of the WWF games of yore. Still, it's hard to justify paying the full RRP for a game that seems to go out of its way to have as little depth as possible.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
I'm a little late with this one, but the figures are worth mulling over. US research firmStrategy Analyticshas claimed that the "active installed base" of the PS3 has overtaken that of the Xbox 360.Apparently, Sony's machine reached 43.4 million at the end of 2010 compared to 42.9m for the Microsoft console.Wait a minute, you're probably thinking, Steve Ballmerannounced back in Januarythat Xbox 360 sales had reached 50 million units, and he's not a man to get publicly over-excited. Oh and Sonyclaimedin February that the PS3 was on 47.9 million. So has someone's adding up let them down? Should there be a 'see me' written in red ink at the bottom of the Strategy Analytics report?Not really. The key is in that awkward phrase 'active installed base'. According toa blog post on the research company's website: "Our ownership models apply assumptions about device retirement life cycles to console sales data on a regional and global basis." Which would appear to mean that these figures aren't based on raw sales data, they're based on some sort of algorithmic alchemy that seeks to determine how many of the consoles are being played with, and how many are gathering dust inside cupboards, or propping open annoying fire doors. That's surely the market statistical equivalent of trying to track down and quantify the Higgs boson particle, and I'm willing to bet Strategy Analytics do not have a Large Hadron Collider in their cellar. Though, of course, their maths could well be much more scrupulous than the phrase 'assumptions about device retirement' suggests.Meanwhile, however,a separate reportfrom games retailer GameStop put the European figures at 14.7 million PS3 units to 13.7 million Xbox 360s. In the US, though, it's the other way around, with Xbox leading with a user base of 25.4m compared to PS3's 15.4m. And of course, the Wii is way ahead, with a worldwide base of 75.5m.I'm wondering where this leaves the 360...Nintendo is almost certain to announce a Wii follow-up at this year's E3, which won't be ground-breaking in terms of bleeding edge tech specs and raw processing grunt (Nintendo hardware never really is), but will surely be more powerful than the current hardware generation. This means Microsoft will be supporting the oldest architecture in the marketplace. Even if its capabilities have been extended by the launch of Kinect, this is possibly not a desirable position for the corporation.Microsoft has insisted that Xbox 360 will havea ten-year lifespan, but of course, that doesn't mean we won't get a follow-up until 2015. Sony supported PS2 well into the PS3 lifecycle (even if Microsoft dropped the original Xbox rather quickly in its haste to embrace the HD era) – if this generation has proven anything it's that multiple console skus can now exist in harmony because the gaming demographic has widened so massively.But then image is important, and development staff are no doubt itching to get their hands on a fresh generation of games equipment. We're already seeing high profile insiders like Mark Reinfantasisingover where the Xbox lineage may go next, and Microsoft'srecent job adsasking for staff, "responsible for defining and delivering next-generation console architectures from conception through implementation" left little to the imagination.Was there a plan in place for 2013? And with PS3 gaining ground, will that plan be hastily re-drawn? Whether we want a generational refresh or not, might statistics, however ambiguous, be pushing us in that direction?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle: Departing Product Chief Rosenberg Will Write A Book With Eric Schmidt &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Departing Google product chief Jonathan Rosenberg will be writing a book with former CEO Eric Schmidt about the company's rules, values, and cultures."Twitter updates user recommendation engine &gt;&gt; Twitter"We've made it easier to find and follow Twitter accounts based on your interests. When you search for a topic, you can now discover accounts that are relevant to that particular subject. (Previously, you would have seen accounts that have the specific term in their name or username.) "Blu-Ray Blues &gt;&gt; Khoi Vinh"None of the four or five DVD players I've owned ever required firmware updates, but this Blu-Ray player seems to survive on a monthly diet of them. Each firmware update is labeled with a long and confusing version number (e.g., BEv1.03_090528_BDP3600_XAA) and provides virtually no clue as to what improvements it holds or problems it corrects. In fact, some of the updates have seemed to make the hardware perform worse, and the user forums are littered with complaints from people whose players have stopped working altogether after firmware patches. After applying one such update, my player stopped working with my receiver altogether, forcing me to connect it with a different set of cables."Guardian.co.uk Switching from Java to Scala &gt;&gt; Infoq.com"The guardian.co.uk website comprises about 100,000 lines of code. It uses a fairly typical open-source Java stack of Spring, Apache Velocity and Hibernate with Oracle providing the database. Like the website, the Content API was initially being developed in Java, but the team decided to switch to another JVM-based language, Scala, in its place. Web Platform Development Team Lead Graham Tackley told us."Microsoft adds 11 Windows Phone mystery sessions to its Mix conference lineup &gt;&gt; ZDNet"While there are blurbs for most of the planned sessions, there are 11 Windows Phone sessions that still are 'TBA'(to be announced). Many of these sessions include other tags, such as 'Silverlight,' 'tools' and 'XNA'. My (not so crazy) guess: It sounds like there will be more to say around Silverlight 5 features that are unique to Windows Phone, and perhaps specifically targeting the 'Mango'Windows Phone update, due out later this year."Android 'overtakes Apple' to be UK's leading smartphone platform &gt;&gt; Brand Republic"According to the survey of 2,001 people, 28% of smartphone users now use the Android platform, with 26% using Apple's iOS, and 14% using Blackberry's platform. Nokia's Symbian platform has a 6% share and Microsoft's Windows Phone platform 5%.."A few thoughts about the survey: (1) 2,001 is a representative sample *if* it was done using a non-self-selecting methodology (YouGov did it, but uses "panels"); (2) was the iPhone ever the UK's smartphone leader? You'd think it would be Nokia, as in most parts of the world; (3) the findings don't tally with RIM's claim that the BlackBerry was the UK's best-selling smartphone in 2010, which also makes us suspicious.The further detail in the story (iPhone users are the most in debt, BlackBerry users are more careful with their money, etc) feel like typical survey-fare - as well as giving people an excellent chance to mistake correlation for causality.Letter.ly becomes letterly.net as Libyan domain expires and goes unrenewedThere is a certain irony that the screenshot of the apologetic email from letter.ly is hosted on a .ly domain. It's only re-registration that's at risk presently. But in future..?Please make me a music player &gt;&gt; James CridlandJames Cridland's ideal music player: Plays MP3 or AAC files, can play remote files, can run on Mac OSX, can run on Android. That's it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Hello, Tuesday, how are you?
Google is bidding $900m to buy a tranche of 600 patents from the bankrupt telecoms company Nortel in a defensive move to protect itself against lawsuits from other companies with larger patent portfolios.The bidding is not yet complete, which means that rivals such as Apple, Microsoft and BlackBerry maker RIM could still jump in with bigger bids for the patents, which Nortel says cover "a broad range of wires, wireless and digital communication technologies" - including 4G wireless, data networking, optical, voice, internet, internet service provider, semiconductors and other patents.Success for Google, where Larry Page has once more taken over as chief executive, would bolster its position in defending itself against companies such as Oracle, which is suing it over aspects of the top-selling Android mobile operating system.Some of the patents are already covered by cross-licensing agreements with Microsoft, which says that any sale will not affect their licensing because they are "perpetual, worldwide, and royalty-free" following a deal signed in 2006.In ablogpost, Google saidThe patent system should reward those who create the most useful innovations for society, not those who stake bogus claims or file dubious lawsuits. It's for these reasons that Google haslong arguedin favor of real patent reform, which we believe will benefit users and the U.S. economy as a whole.But as things stand today, one of a company's best defenses against this kind of litigation is (ironically) to have a formidable patent portfolio, as this helps maintain your freedom to develop new products and services. Google is a relatively young company, and although we have a growing number of patents, many of our competitors have larger portfolios given their longer histories.A large patent portfolio is essential for companies operating in the mobile phone space, because the technology underlying handsets and mobile connections is highly complex and widely patented by different companies. Nokia is a notable leader in the mobile patent field, and has filed a number of patent claims against Apple - which are still unresolved. Owning patents in those fields can make the difference between effectively having to pay a rent to another company for success in mobile, and being able to make a zero-cost cross-licensing agreement with the other business.However Google's claim that its relative youth is the reason for its comparatively small patent portfolio was challenged by Florian Mueller, who has analysed the back-and-forth of battles such as Google and Oracle. "Google tells less than half the story by attributing its weak patent portfolio to the company's young age. Their R&amp;D [research and development] activity is still very narrow. Google still doesn't file many new patent applications per year as compared to its major rivals. That fact points to a major weakness in R&amp;D," Muellernoted.Google does not even rank in the top 50US companies that filed patents in 2010.Mueller added that the move indicates that an analysis he made in January - that Google's patent portfolio is too weak to protect Android from multiple lawsuits - is essentially true.The auction isexpected to go ahead in June, subject to US and Canadian court appeals, as part of a selloff of the intellectual and other property of the company, which fell into administration in January 2009.
Computer hackers have stolen the names and email addresses of millions of people in one of the largest internet security breaches in US history.The names and email addresses of customers of Barclaycard US, Capital One and other large firms were taken in an attack on the marketing email provider Epsilon last week. British customers of Barclays Bank, which owns Barclaycard US, were not affected. A spokesman for Barclaycard US confirmed to the Guardian that it would continue to work with Epsilon despite the breach.Other information, such as passwords or credit card details, are not thought to have been exposed. However, some banks have warned customers to expect fraudulent emails attempting to solicit further login details.The UK Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), which investigates data breaches of this kind, said it was making inquiries into whether any Britons were among those affected.Epsilon, which provides marketing services via email to about 2,500 companies, put a warning on its website on Fridaystatingthat its systems had been "exposed by an unauthorised entry" into its email system. Epsilon said it would not be comment further on the breach when contacted by the Guardian. It is not yet known who perpetrated the attack, which US law enforcement agencies have begun investigating."The information that was obtained was limited to email addresses and/or customer names only," Epsilon said in its statement. "A rigorous assessment determined that no other personal identifiable information associated with those names was at risk. A full investigation is currently underway."Over the weekend, dozens of Epsilon clients began to warn customers that their email addresses may have been stolen. Some of the largest financial institutions in the US, such as JPMorgan and Citigroup, are among the companies affected. Best Buy and Walt Disney subsidiary Disney Destinations also began warning its customers about the security breach. The list of companies affected is expected to continue to grow.TiVo, the US video-on-demand company, wrote to its customers on Sunday morning: "Please note, it is possible you may receive spam email messages as a result. We want to urge you to be cautious when opening links or attachments from unknown third parties."A list of millions of email addresses with their source is likely to be incredibly lucrative for so-called "phishing" scams, where credible-looking emails are sent to people soliciting other sensitive information, such as bank account details."Losing your email address via a service to which you already belong makes it much easier for scammers to hit you with emails which match your existing interests, at least loosely,"saidPaul Ducklin of internet security firm Sophos. "That, in turn, can make their fraudulent correspondence seem more believable."The attack has drawn parallels with other large-scale computer infiltrations, most notably theHeartland Payment Systems breachof 2008. More than 40m bank account details were stolen in that attack, conducted by a criminal gang led by notorious hacker Albert Gonzalez. Gonzalez was later sentenced to 20 years in prison.Last month an Iranian hackerclaimedhe stole digital security certificates used for online transactions by some of the web's largest sites, including Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Skype.
As far a petrol-head credentials are concerned, Shift 2 Unleashed has the lot. The second instalment of the simulation-wing of EA's much-loved Need For Speed franchise features the world's best tracks and cars (even including the not-yet-released Pagani Huayra – the only car named after a gag-reflex), as well as an innovative helmet-cam view which has you nodding under braking and acceleration, plus – for the first time in a game – rigorously modelled night-racing.It looks amazing, in a slightly oil-and-rubber-marbles-spattered manner, unlike the squeaky-clean visuals that other racing simulators adopt. In terms of immersiveness and gritty realism, there's no doubt it sets new standards. But in some aspects, it frustrates.First, a big caveat: although you can turn on a host of driver-aids, Sunday drivers need not apply. It's fearsomely hard, with a learning curve which is admirably gentle for the first hour or so, then suddenly drives into a skyscraper.Two aspects of the game contribute to this: AI opponents who delight in battering you off the track and will happily perform offences that would bring about black flags in real life on every corner; and occasionally questionable car-handling, which is surprising given Shift 2 Unleashed's pedigree.The moment the learning curve goes ballistic occurs when you're invited to take part in an Invitational race over five laps at Suzuka, in a Lotus Exige. Barrel into the first high-speed left-hander and you'll find more understeer than the cheapest and nastiest supermini.If you actually manage to get the thing turned in, oversteer is available mid-corner when you pile on the power, but all the rear-wheel drive road-cars in the game seem to be similarly afflicted. An excellent, incredibly detailed tuning system lets you dial the understeer out, but that seems a ridiculous thing to have to do as a matter of course for any rear-wheel drive car.Another aspect of the game rankles: presumably to ensure that it sells well in Japan and the US, drifting has been included. This kicks off with a tutorial which is not only impossible but unspeakably tedious – although I did discover that you can cheat by engaging reverse gear and slamming on full throttle and lock. It was impossible to detect even a milligram of fun in the drifting element of the game.That said, if you're a serious driver who is prepared to tinker with car-tuning and ignore the drifting events, you'll love Shift 2 Unleashed. It has a great mix of races, hot-lap challenges and eliminators (where the last car is excluded at the end of each lap), and an even better version of the glorious Autolog, as seen in Hot Pursuit, lets you set and respond to vast amounts of challenges involving your online friends, providing endless opportunities to secure bragging rights.Circuits like Brands Hatch, Monza, the Nordschleife, Suzuka and Donington have never looked better in a game, the car upgrading and especially tuning systems are vastly superior to those in Gran Turismo 5 and there is a proper damage model (although you can set it so that it is cosmetic and doesn't affect handling). If Shift 2 Unleashed's flaws weren't so glaring, it would be a contender for the crown of best racing-sim ever. As it stands, most motor-racing nuts will be able to gloss over them, but those with a less all-consuming enthusiasm for all things on four wheels will find it provides more frustration than enjoyment.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
It's rare to see a developer announcing plans to launch more than 100 apps in a calendar year, let alone doing it for one device. Canadian developer Polar Mobile said last week that it's doing just that for Research In Motion's BlackBerry PlayBook this year.It's a ringing endorsement of a device that is not yet on sale, and which faces stiff competition from Apple's iPad, numerous Android slates and HP's TouchPad, so Apps Blog got in touch with chief executive Kunal Gupta to find out more."What we like about RIM is access to BBM, their IM client, and the ability to use push technology and notifications," says Gupta."What we like about the PlayBook is the form factor, in that we expect consumers to use it on the go, whereas the iPad can be seen as an evening and weekend device. That means consumers may look at their PlayBook five to six times during the day, and will want content available easily and quickly through apps."Polar is by no means a BlackBerry zealot – it has published more than 500 apps across iOS, Android and Windows Mobile/Phone, as well as BlackBerry. For tablets specifically, Gupta says Polar is focused on working with the native features and APIs of each platform, rather than a "one size fits all" approach.What kind of apps will it be making? Polar's business is built around making apps for "media publishers" – magazines newspapers, broadcasters and websites – with clients including Condé Nast, Bloomberg, Time Inc and CBS Sports.The company has its own service – SMART – which it will expand to tablet apps later this year on behalf of its clients. "It will include iPad, PlayBook and Android to start with, but we do expect to support additional tablets soon thereafter," says Gupta."What we have heard from our Publisher customers is that in an age where content is open, dynamic, social and real-time, they expect a tablet experience to align with that. Monetisation they feel will initially come from selling sponsorships (at launch) as the inventory grows, followed by campaign-based selling and potentially in-app payments to drive premium user revenue."
Joshua Topolsky has planted his tanks squarely on Arianna Huffington's lawn. The outgoing editor of AOL-owned technology site Engadget isto launch a new gadget news site– and is taking eight of Engadget's core team with him.The as-yet-unnamed site will launch later this year under the somewhat unfamiliar umbrella of SB Nation, the network of US sports blogs chaired by Jim Bankoff. (It was Bankoff, lest we forget, who brought Topolsky and Engadget to AOL six years ago.)On the face of it, Topolsky and co. are leaving onebig corporate entityto join anotherbig corporate entity. So far, so dull. But Topolsky's new venture should, in theory, be allowed to blossom where Engadget was hamstrung. Huffington, freshly charged with leading AOL's new "journalism-heavy" content strategy, will have a keen eye on the site.As Topolskytold the New York Timeson Sunday evening:We have been working on blogging technology that was developed in 2003, we haven't made a hire since I started running the site, and I thought we could be more successful elsewhere. We had done what we could with the resources that were given to us and taken it as far as it would go. I know and trust Jim [Bankoff], and he gets what we do. After looking under the hood of what they have in terms of technology, we're very excited about what we will be able to do there.Topolsky announced he was leaving Engadget early last month, in the aftermath of theleaked "AOL Way" memo, which detailed in blistering cynicism how its content should be optimised for the web. One or two editors leftbecause of itand, although Topolsky is thought not to be one of them, the fallout continues.It doesn't take a cryptographer to read between the lines ofthe 34-year-old's personal blogpost:But beyond the technology (and possibly more important than the technology), there's another factor here that's driving my decision. It's that SB Nation believes in real, independent journalism and the potential for new media to serve as an answer and antidote to big publishing houses and SEO spam — a point we couldn't be more aligned on.•Elsewhere in the revolving doors of technology sites, Owen Thomas, the executive editor of VentureBeat, isleaving to found The Daily Dot, a "bold experiment in crowdsourced journalism".
In the 10 years since the last time Larry Page was Google's chief executive, the company has changed a bit. It has gone from an ambitious startup to a publicly-listed giant of the internet which generates cash and has 24,000 employees (and will probably have 30,000 by the end of the year); it has a stake in the fast-growing smartphone market, which barely existed; and it has also begun facing up to the changes inherent in being so large, one of which – the risks of bureaucracy – are well-known to most chief executives; the other – the threat of antitrust action in Europe and the US – are not.As Page, who turned 38 last month, takes over the reins of the company again from Eric Schmidt, whoannounced in January he was stepping down, he knows he has to get those problems fixed. And although publicly Google is telling journalists "don't look for dramatic or immediate changes", Page has already begun tweaking the way that the company is organised and run in the three months he has had to prepare to take over fully.That's not to say that Google's big visions (projects such asdriverless carsor theGoogle BookScan project) are going away. Page is in many ways the ideal face to represent the company: he's rather geeky, isn't very outgoing, but is extremely smart.And he's bringing a number of changes to the company and how it runs.• Product and engineering managers have been asked to email him about their projects now under way, with a view to slimming them down: they were asked to describe their projects in 60 words or fewer, effectively getting them to pitch the ideas. He also spent parts of February and March touring the company and its outposts asking those managers about what problems they think they face in getting things done.• The detail of meetings – which can be the making or the death of a large company – has also been tweaked: attendees are told to pick a decision-maker and hold off working on their laptops during the meeting. (That would be something of a departure for Page, who – as the New Yorker writer Ken Auletta documents – once spent most of a meeting with IAC's powerful Barry Diller with his head buried in his Palm PDA reading emails.)• Page has reinstated a form of the "weekly meeting" that Schmidt got rid of when he took over in 2001. That meeting had brought together the company's (then rather fewer) top executives and allowed anyone to come up and query them about something. Schmidt felt it distracted from their work. Page clearly thinks it's time it came back: he has announced that the divisional heads will be available in a central space each day in the iconic Building 43 of the main headquarters, so that if someone does have a pressing query, they'll know when and where to find them.• Google isn't going to be the "bottom-up" culture of past years, when someone like Paul Buchheit could knock together the prototype of Gmail in a single day (as happened in 2001) and then build it up by accreting engineers from other teams. (Buchheit also came up with the "Don't Be Evil" mottothat the company took to its heart.) Instead, a better model is how the Android platform has been driven, with a clear strategy (which despite claims to the contrary, has not diverged from its earliest intentions) driven by its lieutenants. The idea was never that Android would be an open-source project where absolutely anyone could make a phone, stick software in it, and call it "Android-powered".Instead Andy Rubin, who Google acquired in 2005 with the eponymously-named Android company, has been given his head by Page to make the phone system into a money-spinner for Google; itsrise to the lead in the US and world smartphone markets, and the increasingly tight restrictions that Google is making on what tweaks can be made to the software, means that that could easily be achieved. Gene Munster of the analysts Piper Jaffray reckons that by next year there will be more than 130 million Android users worldwide, and that their viewing of ads on phones, plus other income sources (such as the Android Market for apps, where Google takes a 30% cut of any purchase, just like Apple) could generate more than $1bn in straight revenue.• Data will remain the most important decision-maker. Google once tried to figure out what the best shade of blue was to get people to click on hyperlinks. An in-house designer picked one shade; an engineer then showed the results of a small test which suggested another shade would do better. For Google, more clicks means more ad revenue – so it embarked on a huge test with millions of GMail users as guinea pigs in which it tracked clickthroughs as they were served very slightly different colours of blue. The data won – and the rebooted Google, with a computer scientist at its helm, will reiterate the importance of always following the data. It might not seem like an inspired way to do design. But Google is about size.• Doing something in the "social software" space remains an ambition at Google, but Page stands somewhat aloof from it. He isn't on Facebook or Twitter (unlike Schmidt, whoelliptically announced his departureon the latter). Google already has a long track record of failure in social software: Jaiku wanted to be Twitter, and wasn't; Google Buzz was so dreadfully implemented (released to the wild after some limited testing in-house) that it led to lawsuits and Federal Trade Commission slapdowns that mean Googlewill have to tolerate oversight on its privacy policies for the next 20 – that's twenty – years.It's possible that social software is simply a blind spot for a company whose culture is dominated by engineers and whose brand is built around search. It's an oddity, because Google leapt to prominence a decade ago with the American public when they discovered that it wouldn't just lead them to good factual answers, but that you could find out about potential dates and lovemates: "Googling" as a verb first appeared in a US paper at the end of 2000 when the New York Observer noticed that people used it to check out their upcoming dates because it could lead them to names. But Google has never managed to become a place where you connect with people – possibly because Page and Sergey Brin, its two inventors, designed it not as a destination but as a staging point on the web, your midpoint to whatever you were looking for.• The A-word – antitrust – might look like a headache for Page. The European Commission has sent out sets of three detailed questionnaires to advertising companies around Europe, asking about how well the online advertising market works and whether Google is behaving in an overly dominant way by using its heft to prevent others competing fairly (in antitrust lingo, this is known as "foreclosing the market"). The signals emanating from the EC suggest though that Google may escape this time – though its clearly preferential treatment of its own results, as has been highlighted by one of the principal complainants, theBritish search startup Foundem, may have to end.Industry observers shook their heads at the irony of Microsoft weighing in on this last week, in which itfiled an antitrust complaint to the EC, offering a more-in-sorrow-than-anger tone and acknowledging its own rocky antitrust past with the EC (which only stopped biting chunks out of it in 2004). Google may not have to adjust its behaviour too much. One thing that won't change with Page's ascent: the deeply felt antipathy inside Google towards Microsoft, which had already been the target of a sting earlier this year over search results, and with which Google is increasingly tussling for business contracts to offer cloud services such as email and document sharing.In fact, it may be the fight with Microsoft that will define Page's tenure more than the driverless cars or the potential dominance of Android. There's no chance that Google will chip away at Microsoft's principal monopoly, Windows, which generates roughly half the Redmond giant's profits; the Chrome OS laptops Google is encouraging PC makers to build will be suitable only for a small group who live always-connected lives.But if Google can start to undermine the Office monopoly, which generates the other half of Microsoft's income, then it can begin to destabilise its ageing enemy. And at present, Microsoft remains the only company that can challenge Google on every front – smartphone operating systems, cloud services, search.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTeam From Engadget Makes Jump to SB Nation &gt;&gt; New York Times"So Mr. Topolsky and as many as eight of the more prominent editorial and technology staff members at Engadget have left or are leaving AOL and are about to build a new gadget site by joining forces with, yes, you guessed right, their old friend Mr. Bankoff, who now runs a federation of sports sites called SB Nation."When Is a Tech Company Dead? &gt;&gt; GigaOm"We can tell when a company will no longer be involved in generating the next round of real energy in the tech/internet world, and when they hit that point, they never come back to be an energy creator and so they are "dead" in West Coast minds."Step down of Lanci may hurt Asustek more than benefit &gt;&gt; Digitimes"Acer's ex-CEO and president Gianfranco Lanci's resignation may benefit Asustek Computer and help it grab market share from Acer in Europe in the short term, sources from notebook makers believe; however, as for the long term, Asustek may face the same problem that Acer has encountered."Although Asustek has declined to comment about how Acer's new developments will affect the company, the sources believe Asustek, which has been aggressively cutting into Europe, will have a great chance to expand its market share in the market; however, since notebook players' major enemies are no longer fellow notebook competitors, launching a product suitable for consumer demands has become the key for future growth."Notebooks aren't the key rivals for notebooks. Interesting point.ZeuS Source Code Already in the Wild &gt;&gt; Trend Micro"For about two weeks now, the ZeuS source code has been making its way around to different people. Many people have been offering it up for sale on multiple forums, but lots of times it is only pieces of the code and not everything. There are also conflicting reports about important pieces of the code missing, not allowing it to work, or that everything is there except the modules that can be added in."Zeus is "the banking trojan" - and very dangerous.MySQL.com compromised &gt;&gt; Sucuri"What is worse is that they also posted the password dump online and some people started to crack it already. Some of the findings are pretty bad, like the password used by MySQL's Director of Product Management, it is only 4 numbers long. Multiple admin passwords for blogs.mysql.com were also posted."You read it with your fingers over your eyes. Four numbers long?"We already have a perfectly fine way to make non-cash payments" &gt;&gt; Digital Money blogMaking payments with mobile phones might be a lot simpler than trying to find chequebooks.Samsung Galaxy Tablet Not Thinner Than iPad 2, But Who Cares &gt;&gt; InformationWeekThickness really isn't important. But it's hard to work out what really is with tablets. "Core hardware is another tablet battleground, though raw compute and graphics performance may matter most to gamers, and possibly to those obsessed with things like 3D content. Nearly every tablet comes with dual-core processors.An exception is the just announced HTC EVO View, which has only a single core, even though HTC also introduced a phone with dual-core processors. (That's the sound of me scratching my head.) Apple uses, ironically, Samsung processors in its iPad 2; Samsung uses the NVidia Tegra 2. The new HTC tablet runs on Qualcomm's Snapdragon. Motorola also uses the Tegra 2, as does LG's G-Slate. (LG is also using TI's OMAP 4 dual core in its Optimus 3D, a full 3D, stereoscopic display phone--no glasses needed.)"Samsung's Fake Galaxy Tab Interviews: Hey, Those Words Sound Familiar! &gt;&gt; TechnologizerThe faked Samsung interviews around its 8.9-inch tablet releas... announced at CTIA in March just get weirder, explains Harry McCracken, who discovered that its "real life testimonials" were actually given by actors."Folks who are discussing my story on all this, both in the comments and elsewhere on the Web, are having fun pointing out other curious things about the interviews, such as the fact that "leading New York real-estate CEO Joseph Kolinski" raves about the 8.9" Galaxy Tab even though the only 8.9" Tabs that Samsung itself had on hand at CTIA were non-working models."Acer Sets Sights on Apple, HTC After Lanci Chase of HP Stumbles &gt;&gt; Businessweek"The Taiwanese PC maker [Acer] is realigning its business to focus on profitability, instead of sales volumes, spokesman Henry Wang said today. Lanci quit after a slump in Acer's stock this year, the most in the MSCI AC Asia Pacific excluding Japan Information Technology Index, as a focus on low-cost laptops eroded profit margins."Apple, maker of the iPad tablet, iPhone and iMac computer had a 21.5% profit margin in its last fiscal year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Acer had 2.3%."'There is good consensus among the board members that the tablet is the way to go,' CFO Tu said by phone today. Previously, the company's goal was to boost shipments of notebook computers to increase market share, he said."Comodo Says Two More Registration Authorities Compromised &gt;&gt; threatpost"Officials at Comodo have acknowledged that an additional two registration authorities affiliated with the company have been compromised in the wake of the high-profile attack on the company that was disclosed last week. However, no forged certificates were issued as a result of the new attacks."In a message on a discussion thread set up after the original attack on a Comodo registration authority, Robin Alden, CTO of Comodo, said that the company has discovered two fresh compromises of its affiliated RAs during the investigation into the first attack. Alden did not furnish any other details about the new compromises."Security through obscurity?Data.gov &amp; 7 other sites to shut down after budgets cut &gt;&gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"Two years ago the incoming Obama administration launched a number of ambitious websites, most notably Data.gov, that were dedicated to offering public and government data to the outside world. The stated intention was to foster transparency and offer a platform for the development of new software and services. It appears those experiments may be over for now."Today the Sunlight Foundation and Federal News Radio reported that the public projects Data.gov, USASpending.gov, Apps.gov/now, IT Dashboard and paymentaccuracy.gov as well as a number of internal government sites including Performance.gov, FedSpace and many of the efforts related the FEDRamp cloud computing cybersecurity effort would be taken offline in coming weeks due to budget cuts by Congress. Perhaps things like electronic government, software platforms and public accountability were just fads, anyway."Possibly driven by Tea Party-infused Republican eagerness to slash and burn. Incredibly shortsighted.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Well, it's Monday again. The only way you're going to get through this is by discussing video games.
From Kurt in Glee to Captain Jack in Torchwood, from Thirteen in House to Naomi in Skins, recent years have given us a glut of gay and bisexual characters on TV.Surprisingly, given its macho image, the same has also been true in videogaming. The 2010 game Mass Effect 2 gave the option of a lesbian relationship for those who played the main character as a woman (though not a gay relationship if they played the character as a man). Grand Theft Auto IV produced the downloadable contentThe Ballad of Gay Tony. And whileHollywood still seems to have a problem hiring gay actors to play gay characters, British-made hit game series Fable has cast Stephen Fry as the louche bisexual character Reaver in all three games.Now, BioWare, creator of Mass Effect, hasrobustly defendedits decision to include gay relationships in its new role-playing game Dragon Age II.Players who choose to be a man will be flirted with by another male character, as well as by several female characters. But receiving a male flirt, as well as the lack of "exotic" heterosexual romance choices, disturbed one player who posted angrily on a forum that BioWare was neglecting its "main demographic: the straight male gamer"."It makes things very awkward," said this "straight male gamer", "when your male companions keep making passes at you," before calling for the implementation of a "No Homosexuality" option, to remove this distressing gayness from the game. He resents the fact that, although in previous BioWare games "almost every companion in the game was designed for the male gamer", this is no longer the case. Plus, of course, he personally finds homosexuality "digusting".The response of David Gaider, senior writer at BioWare, was masterly: "Privilege always lies with the majority. They're so used to being catered to that they see the lack of catering as an imbalance . . . And the person who says that the only way to please them is to restrict options for others is, if you ask me, the one who deserves it least."Hollywood may still have trouble making gay movies or casting gay actors, but the gaming industry is already far more grown up.
Dennis Crowley was never meant to be a down-table Google engineer. Faced with the prospect of being one of the internet giant's forgotten would-be entrepreneurs, Crowley bounded out of its Mountain View HQ in May 2007. The man dubbed "the new king of social media" has never looked back.For someone on the verge of disrupting major established industries, Crowley has an easy demeanour. He bounces across the room and answers questions in rapid-fire fashion. His all-American grin and oversized baseball cap make him look younger than 34. The low-hanging jeans and mid-length hair, he says, are a relic from a past life: "I used to snowboard 30 days a year. Now it's down to eight."Crowley's lack of spare time is easily explained. The Boston-born inventor has spent the past three years vowing to make a success of the product Google bought – and quickly killed – in 2005. That product is Foursquare (then called Dodgeball), a mobile social networking game that encourages people to "check in" online to places they visit in the real world – bars, restaurants, Starbucks – in order to accrue points. More adventurous types, with lots of check-ins, win more points.The more places you visit, the higher you rank on a league table made up of you and your friends. If you check in to one place often enough, you become its "mayor". Though it may sound like the epitome of avant-garde geekery, Foursquare now boasts more than 8 million users around the world – with more than half a billion check-ins in the past 12 months. Crowley finally has Google in his sights."It's the perfect storm of things coming together," he says. "We have just the right people at Foursquare, with just the right skill set, just the right number of users and just the right amount of data to make it happen. We feel like a young company – I can't believe how much we've accomplished in a year – but we're competing with Google with 20,000 employees, and Facebook with 3,000. I don't know how big we're going to get, but we're steadily getting bigger."Despite writing after leaving that he was "incredibly frustrated" by Google's apparent lack of patience with his creation, Crowley says he feels no resentment towards the company. In fact, about a third of his 52 staff are ex-Googlers. "Google was fantastic because they have such a good process, so well-organised, with goals for every quarter. We've reproduced a lot of that at Foursquare. We've got Google engineers working with Google product people. It was a big accomplishment actually assembling our old lunch table," he says, only half joking.Tough breaksFoursquare launched in 2009 at South by Southwest, the annual gathering of future-thinking technology geeks, in Austin, Texas. Its unrivalled growth – the number of daily check-ins grew 3,400% last year, including one from the International Space Station – has brought new challenges."The more you build the company the more it breaks," he says, referring to the difficulty of achieving the right balance of product people and engineers. "When the company goes from two people to five people it's broken. When it goes from five people to 10 people it breaks. And from 10 to 15 people it breaks." Investors, including the renowned venture capital firms Andreessen Horowitz, Union Square and O'Reilly AlphaTech, have helped steady the ship. In July last year, Crowley and his co-founder Naveen Selvadurai took home just over $4.6m (£2.8m) each as part of a £12.4m funding round. The series B round left Foursquare with £9.6m to take on Facebook and Google – as well as the travel guide industry.The deal valued the then 18-month-old company at about $100m, according to Andreessen Horowitz.  Foursquare still generates a paltry amount of revenue, but has smart partnerships with the New York Times, Condé Nast and other companies looking to cash in on the local media boom. Dan Frommer, the founder of the influential Business Insider and Silicon Alley Insider tech news sites, speculated last month that Foursquare could field funding or acquisition offers of about $1bn.If that sounds hopeful, then at least immediate competitors, such as Loopt, Brightkite, Whrrl and Gowalla – which launched at the same time and event as Foursquare – have fallen by the wayside.Getting mobileAlthough Crowley lists Google and Facebook as Foursquare's immediate competitors, it is not hard to see whose turf he is really encroaching on: age-old travel publishers. He envisages a future where tourists will explore cities through their mobile phones: "We want Foursquare to be a lot about encouraging adventure."The mayorships, badges and point-scoring, he says, just add up to an "onboarding technique" to get people to come back. "All of that is in the background. The active part is actually going out and doing things." The argument sounds convincing. Why consult a dog-eared handbook meant for the general tourist if a realm of tailored recommendations is just three finger swipes away? Crowley tails off, imagining life as a game of Super Mario where adventures are rewarded, before recounting how, aged 11, he missed out on being one of the first 10 people in the US to beat the Nintendo game Legend of Zelda. He quickly backtracks: "But we don't want people to think of Foursquare as a game. We want people to think of it as a fun utility. Game dynamics are the bridge to get the people to use it from once a day&nbsp;to three times a day and then two weeks later."This may sound like a prospect far in the future, but in Foursquare's New York offices it's already here. Staff can check in there automatically, using signals sent between the elevator and their mobile phones. The coffee machine, which can be digitally wired up to their phones, pours coffee once they've checked in.Crowley's unashamed ambition is archetypal of New York's trendy East Village – where he launched Foursquare from his kitchen table – but it is also symptomatic of American entrepreneurship.  What's significant is that in this era, where Google seems to dominate, startups such as Foursquare now emerging from the bowels of the search engine giant. Such is Crowley's optimism that he may well prove his former employers wrong.Watch Dennis Crowley's presentation at the Changing Media Summit• This article was amended during 6-8 April 2011. The original contained a quote about treating your phone "like a passport" which was attributed to Dennis Crowley of Foursquare, the subject of this interview/profile. The quote has now been removed because it actually came from Josh Williams, co-founder of Gowalla. The error arose because both were interviewed at the Guardian in London around the same time about their similar companies, based on GPS tracking where users can check in to see if friends and shopping deals – among other things – are on offer in the area where they are at that point.
As the football season draws to its conclusion, the crushing inevitability of another disappointing year is beginning to dawn on all but a few lucky fans. And so it seems the perfect time to dive into a simulation far more likely to bring&nbsp;about some much needed happiness than the useless cloggers plodding about on whichever is your favoured pitch.Championship Manager 1980s Legendsoffers not only a faithfully entertaining management simulation, but also a healthy dose of nostalgia in which to bathe. The game allows you to take control of clubs in England, Scotland, Spain or Italy at one of three different points in the decade – 1980, 1983 or 1986.It's lovingly presented with flashes of newspaper headlines from the era and other period touches adding to the nostalgic feel, but it's the quality of the gameplay that is most pleasing. Even on the iPhone's small screen the graphics are crisp and clean, while the controls are pleasingly responsive, allowing for simple switches to formations, tactics and line-ups – with matches themselves presented via text and a topdown 2D perspective.However, the most fun will probably be had wheeling and dealing in the transfer market. The prices are refreshingly low – in 1986 a young Marco van Basten can be picked up for just a couple of million – and who can resist swooping for a host of future stars. Hindsight is a wonderful thing. When reality is a little tiresome, it makes for a thoroughly enjoyable retro football fix.
I wasn't expecting a picture of the current incarnation of Tiger Woods – penitent, loomed over by resentful sponsors and even more resentful women – but I was expecting a picture of Tiger at work. Mid-swing, perhaps, or high-fiving an anonymous caddie. ButTiger Woods PGA Tour 12: The Masters' packaging features a whacking great "Masters" logo, with Woods's name in an apologetic, undersized font as an afterthought. Ubiquity is conditional after all.Aside from the rather abrupt rebranding,TWPGAT12:TMis recognisable to anyone who's played any of the annual Tiger Woods games since 1998'sTiger Woods '99. All the minutiae so beloved of golf enthusiasts – club selection, slices, fades, weather factors, terrain – are in place, and the game engine that governs strength of swing, finessing of putts and so on is instantly recognisable, too.The big news forTWPGA12:TMis, as the new, unwieldy title implies, the deal to include the Augusta National course. As iconic sporting arenas go, Augusta's right up there – and the chance to compete for the fabled Green Jacket is an undoubted boost to what was a somewhat moribund franchise even before Tiger fell so spectacularly from commercial grace. For the first time since Xbox 360 and PS3 became the consoles of choice, then, there's a genuine reason to buy the latest Tiger Woods. You just may not recognise it in the store, that's all.
Based on Luo Guanzhong's famous historical novelRomance of the Three Kingdoms, theDynasty Warriorsseries is understandably adored in the east, and continues to carve a profitable niche for publisher Koei overseas. While the changes to this latest edition are unlikely to expand the cult audience much further, fans will delight at the richest and most visually impressive title in the series to date.It's empowering on the lower difficulties, allowing you to easily slice through swathes of enemies with swords, rapiers and axes, but harder levels require a more tactical approach to conflict. With myriad skirmishes occurring simultaneously across the battlefield, players must decide which are the most strategically and territorially important to fight. Detractors may bemoan the seemingly repetitive nature of the combat, but the simple controls make the game accessible to less skilled gamers, while the ever-shifting balance of power on the higher-difficulty settings ensures encounters are anything but monotonous.With four lengthy campaigns to master, developer Omega Force certainly hasn't skimped on content, while the new Conquest mode allows wannabe generals to rewrite Chinese military history. It may never win over its critics, butDynasty Warriors 7marks a significant step forward for this underrated series.
