The concept of a trusted platform for mass market PCs depends on the addition of tamper-resistant hardware to the basic design. This must be used in combination with some degree of monitoring. Does this mean the end of privacy, or could it enhance it to everyone's benefit?The debate on such issues has been stimulated by Microsoft's recent Palladium announcement. In essence, some future version of   Windows (in a couple of years' time) will inter-operate with some tamper-resistant hardware in PCs to create a "trusted environment" for software.Thus, Palladium depends on the existence of that trusted hardware, which is also on the drawing board. Suppliers (including Intel, Compaq, Microsoft, IBM and hundreds of others) formed the Trusted Computing Platform Alliance (TCPA) in 1999 to develop some of the chips and subsystems needed to complete the picture, making tamper-resistant hardware a standard feature of future PCs and other devices.So what does Palladium do? It allows software running on a PC to ask a secure co-processor (the SCP) to encrypt data for it. If the software later wants to decrypt the data, it must be running on the same machine and with the same "kernel" (a small, central part of the operating system) or it won't work.So, if some miscreant sneaks in over the internet and copies some of your data, they won't be able to read it because they're running on a different machine. If they load a virus into your kernel to send them back the unencrypted data, that won't work   either because the kernel will have changed.Palladium further envisages new central processing unit (CPU) chips with operation codes specific to secure computing, new motherboards (to securely interconnect the CPU, SCP, Ram and devices), new input devices (so the keyboard input cannot be intercepted) and even secure displays that can stop software from overwriting dialogue boxes and so forth.The SCP is the crucial pivot: it is used to store some keys and is to encrypt and decrypt data with those keys (the encryption and decryption take place inside the SCP so that the keys are never revealed externally). In the PKI environment, it is used to store private keys. The big question is: whose keys?As far as doing business online is concerned, there is nothing new about the addition of tamper-resistant hardware to PCs to create trusted   devices. Military systems have worked like this for ever.The first non-military system we worked on was the Bank of England Central Gilts Office (CGO) in 1986. The tamper-resistant module was a specially made (and expensive) board for the PC, rather than the more affordable chips now under consideration. It's not clear why the tamper-resistant hardware needs to be on the motherboard or part of the Pentium chipset when a smart card would be more convenient and portable. The point is that such chips can work (see, for example, the Wave chip that has been touted for years), and there are plenty of people who know how to design and implement such systems to provide real transactional security.It's not uncharted territory. The debate shouldn't be about whether a trusted platform can work. Clearly it can, and has done so for years in specialised niches. The question is about who owns it in the mass market. If I am given a PC that can securely and conveniently encrypt and decrypt email, that's great.If I am given a PC that won't execute virus code (because it doesn't have the correct digital signature   attached) then that's great too: provided I can decide what to run and what not to run. If someone else is deciding for me, then the consequences could be far from what the well-intentioned proponents exect.Some governments would undoubtedly welcome the ability to monitor individuals' PCs, to decide what software they can run and what ebooks they can read. But on the whole, it doesn't sound like the recipe for a healthy and economically vital society.To summarise: the argument about trusted computing platforms for the mass market is not so much about the feasibility, technology or even the desirability of such platforms as to the basic trust architecture: where are the keys (inside your computer or in your pocket) and who controls them (you, business or the government).The latter issue is by far the more important. If you own your keys, that's great. If my bank does, that's OK: there are some issues but they can probably be addressed. If the government does, then the orbital mind control lasers have won!
After AOLI am using AOL's flat rate tariff, but am finding that I have outgrown this portal. Can you recommend a flat rate ISP that does not provide you with a proprietary browser? Can I also transfer all mail going to my AOL account to this new portal?Steven RodneyJack Schofield replies:Internet service providers vary by area and over time, and can be affected by your phone line, your local exchange, the equipment you use and the way you use it. I have had excellent service from my three ISPs - BT Openworld, Telewest/ Blueyonder and AOL - but experiences vary widely. ISP Review tracks the best British unmetered ISPs with its own ratings and readers' views atwww.ispreview.co.uk/top10.shtml.If you avoid the set-up discs and get the account details separately, you can avoid installing a branded version of the browser. AOL is in the process of changing from a proprietary online service to an ISP, and with v6 and later versions of its software, you can use any browser. However, it does not officially support standard POP3/SMTP mail, so there is no simple way of moving or forwarding it.Forward Americawill do this for a fee in the US.I wrote asking if they would do the same for AOL UK users but have not had a reply. This could be a good time to think about buying your own domain name from a company that includes free mail forwarding, such asEasily.co.uk. That way you can keep the same email address and just forward email to whichever ISP you want to use.    The next step up would be to pay for a separate email account, instead of using your ISP. In that case, your mail would be sent from your own domain rather than, say, BT Click or Hotmail.Grab itI use an online tutorial site where tutorials may be freely downloaded, but it has proved laborious, as there are hundreds of linked pages to be downloaded. Is there a way of downloading the index pages only, then automatically downloading all the linked pages?Ramalitse SakoaneJS:Regetlets you right-click on a web page and choose to download all the linked pages. However, since you have broadband, it would be easier to grab the whole site. "Offline browsers" such as WebStripper, WebWhacker and WebReaper will do this. There are lots to choose from. See, for example,www.davecentral.com/andhttp://tucows.mundofree.com/winme/offlineme.html.Paste itIs it possible to copy and paste sections of text from one Word document to another without taking all    the formatting with it?Charlie HankersJS:Select and copy something from Word or another program. Go to Word's pull-down menu, choose Edit| Paste Special, and pick whichever format you want. The quicker keyboard shortcut is Alt-E then S. Microsoft Office XP does it nicely with a Smart Tag.Noises offSince installing Office 2000 Professional, my laptop and desktop PCs have started making irritating file searching noises. Any period of inactivity ushers in endless whirring.Kevin TalbotA file called cisvc.exe is consuming 100% of my processor every time I boot up Windows XP, and it slows my computer to a crawl. I've tried deleting the file but since it appears to be part of Windows XP, it just pops up again.Alan CawsonJS:Sometimes, endless whirring is caused by a virus or Trojan invader, but usually it is one of Microsoft's indexing programs. These index your hard drive in the background so you can find things quicker. In Office, the culprit is Find Fast. You can remove    its icon from the StartUp folder, but it is better to use Office Setup (Custom setup) to uninstall it.Also, FindFast should have its own icon in the Control Panel. Use this to delete existing indexes first, as they will quickly become out of date. See article Q158705 in the Microsoft Support Knowledge Base for help. In Windows 2000 and XP, this resource hog is installed by default as the Indexing Service. Go to Start|Run, type services.msc in the box and select Indexing Service on the list of services. Right-click it, and select Properties. On the General tab, go to the "Startup type" box and use the drop-down list to select Manual or Disabled, then click OK to exit.Office watchI have recently upgraded to Microsoft Office XP. This requires that I register with Microsoft within so many usages otherwise it apparently stops working. Do I have to register? Does registering preclude me loading this software on to my second PC/laptop?Malcolm MorrisonJS:Yes, you have to register Office XP, but it is a painless process. Officially, Microsoft allows you to use the same CD to install it on your desktop PC and your notebook PC.Backup MacYou replied to a question about backing up Outlook Express email when using Windows (July 18). Is there a different procedure for Macs?Brian ReadJS:The Microsoft Support Knowledge Base (MSKB) has a guide to backing up Outlook Express email on Macs. Search Google for Q304059 or go tohttp://support.microsoft.comBackchat&#183;Last week, John Bury asked about maximising Internet Explorer windows and I recommended F11. Russell points out (and I had forgotten) that you can maximise any window by double-clicking anywhere on the title bar, then revert that by repeating it. This is not restricted to IE.&#183;Continuing the topic of recycling PCs, John Billingsley suggestsUrban Minesin West Yorkshire: "a PC recycler for less advantaged areas".
Can you name the top 5 PC manufacturers in the German market? Have a go..... OK, time's up. The answer, according to IDC research, is curently: (1) Fujitsu Siemens; (2) HPaq; (3) Dell; (4) Actebis; (5) Vobis.
Ding dong:Tom Coates (European Blogger of the Year) v Simon Waldman (Guardian Unlimited)
The US Justice Department is investigatingaccounting practices at AOL Time Warner Inc., the world's biggest media company. Its "unconventional" deals were questioned a couple of weeks ago by The Washington Post (below). The company was already being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
IBM, the world's biggest computer company, is taking over the consulting business of the world's biggest accounting and consulting firm,PwC, for $3.5 billion, following PwC's failure to sell it to Hewlett-Packard, or get an IPO together.
First steps in public relations: when something goes wrong (1) say sorry (2) fix it (3) show how it'll never go wrong again. So, in the software business, when respected security experts uncover a vulnerability in software the company responsible gives a corporate 'oops' and sends out a patch to fix the problem. Now Hewlett Packard - motto: "the power of invention" - has brilliantly innovated a new way to deal with these alerts: they've threatened to sue the people who found the flaw (and who warned HP about it last year, it is claimed).In aclassic case of shooting the messenger, HP sent a letter toSnosoft, a research collective, earlier this week, warning them they could face a $500,000 fine and five years in jail for revealing a major flaw in its ageing Tru64 Unix operating system. The move is being made under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
Today, I'm embarking on an experiment. Y'see, like many people I've got a problem with email: I get hundreds of mails every week to my work address. Lots of spam, of course, of the kind you'd all recognise. But then there's the semi-spam from public relations companies - tons of it - and all the various mailing lists I've signed up to in the past and, lost in there somewhere, all the stuff that needs acted on now: tips, ideas, copy, images, invoices... you name it.This morning, I had a sediment of some 6000 emails which had built up over recent months. I decided to either file away or delete everything, and leave my inbox empty. Surprisingly, this didn't take too long: I'm now looking at a dozen emails that will be dealt with before I leave tonight.I might end up writing about this sometime for the paper, but not straight away. I've yet to discover if all the stuff I deleted holds anything important at all, or if - in fact - it was just there because of the hoarding instinct I think most journalists have. In the meantime, do any of you have any email management tips you'd like to share? Stick them in the comment box below... I'd rather you didn't email them :-)
Sweeping powers enabling law-enforcement and intelligence agencies to demand the communications records of British telephone and internet users may be illegal, according to legal advice obtained by the privacy watchdog.The information commissioner, Elizabeth France, has warned the Home Office that the new powers may breach human rights law because website, email or phone logs available strictly for national security investigations can be accessed by police or intelligence officers for more minor cases such as public health and tax collection.The legal advice, from Ben Emmerson QC, throws the government's electronic surveillance regime into fresh disar ray, and raises the prospect of David Blunkett, the home secretary, being forced to choose between rushing legislation through parliament or dropping the measures completely.It focuses on the contradiction between two pieces of legislation governing access by the authorities to communications data, which includes records of phone calls made and received, the source and destination of emails, addresses of websites visited, and mobile phone location data, which is capable of revealing the user's whereabouts to within a few hundred metres.Under anti-terror legislation rushed through after September 11, phone and internet companies will retain their customers' records for longer than necessary for billing purposes. The law states that access to this information by law-
 enforcement agencies should only be on the grounds of national security or for investigating crime related directly or indirectly to national security.But the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa), passed two years ago, allows police, the intelligence services, customs and the Inland Revenue to demand access without a warrant or court order to any data held by communications providers for a much broader range of purposes.In his written opinion, a summary of which has been seen by the Guardian, Mr Emmerson states: "The consequence of these two overlapping regimes is that data may be retained for longer than they otherwise would be, on the grounds that their retention is necessary for the purposes of safeguarding national security, but that the data may then be accessed for a 
 variety of collateral public purposes which have no connection (direct or indirect) with national security."He concludes that there is no doubt that retention of communications and disclosure of it to the authorities is a breach of the right to privacy, and warns there is a "significant risk" that someone accessing communications data under Ripa for a purpose unrelated to national security would be acting unlawfully.David Smith, assistant information commissioner, said: "The upshot of it all is someone who uses Ripa powers to get access to retained data may be breaching human rights law." He added: "There is agreement generally that the Home Office was in a hurry. They wanted to respond to the events of September 11 and they were under pressure, but 
 they could have thought these issues through more."Civil liberties and privacy campaigners said the legal opinion vindicated their opposition to data retention powers. John Wadham, director of Liberty, said: "This demonstrates a fundamental failure by the government not only to understand the basic principles of human rights but also to listen to parliament, which clearly wanted these powers restricted to national security cases."The bottom line is that when the government pushes through ever greater surveillance powers at a tearing pace then it finds itself on the wrong side of the law."Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, said: "Hopefully this means they will have to legislate again and I doubt they will find the time."This is the second embarrassment for the government over electronic communications surveillance in less than two months.In June Mr Blunkett was forced to apologise after the Guardian revealed plans to give a host of local authorities and quangos the power to demand communications data without a warrant. The measure was put on hold.The Guardian also revealed last November that access to retained data would not be restricted to anti-terror investigations, despite assurances to the contrary by Mr Blunkett.Last night a Home Office spokesman said officials were liaising with the information commissioner to find a way around the legal difficulties.
And now... from the people that brought youfuckedcompany.com... it'sinternalmemos.com! Much of it is pay-to-view, but there are still a few interesting memos on view.
The key to Microsoft's success with .Net will come through making it attractive for developers to use it, and building up a successful eco-system -- in other words, just the same approach it used for DOS and Windows (and, at Apple,Guy Kawasakitried for the Mac. In fact, Kawasaki wrote thebook). ZDNet has interviewed the "platform evangelist" in charge of the .Net effort,Eric Rudder.
Los Angeles-based United Internet Technologies is planning to introduce a series ofplushy toys that will translate instant messages into spoken words, reports ZDNet News.
Westminster had a secret makeover today - with the discreet launch of a revamped parliamentary website.The glossy new site - launched without fanfare - contains a refined search engine, live webcasting of the Commons, Lords, Westminster Hall and select committees, as well as better navigation and the chance to participate in the scrutiny of bills under debate.It replaces the old text-on-white website launched by parliament in 1996, although the relaunch has been postponed from May.Parliament - with the exception of the House of Lords - has already broken up for the summer, giving the web designers three months to fine-tune any teething problems before MPs return in October.The revamp was farmed out to Brighton-based Epic, a firm specialising in tailored work for government contracts, who have already set up Platinum, a secure intranet for top civil servants.The Commons authorities decided to go for a "soft launch" with little or no publicity to enable faults to be put right.Steve Rayson, project leader for the redesign, said: "We felt the old site was good at directions, and comprehensive, but not very visually engaging."There are two types of web user behaviour, the 'hunter' and the 'grazer', and the site as it stood - all text, links and search engines - suited the 'hunter' who wanted one specific piece of information quite well, but did not encourage users to explore the site, or research."The new site has pictures - including a shot of Big Ben on the front - but we have been careful not just to present the stereotypical image of peers in wigs. We want to show it as a working parliament.A spokeswoman for the House of Commons broadcasting committee said: "We also intend to make the site more interactive, by allowing users to sign up for email news and press releases from select committees and the like."The address of the site remains the same, but visitors are now greeted with a picture of the famous Big Ben showing the time at 3.35pm - just after the start of prime minister's questions.It also contains information for people wanting to visit parliament in person and a guide and glossary to how Westminster works - something noticeably lacking from the previous incarnation.There is also a feedback email for reporting problems with the new site.
UK mobile operatorOrangehas just launched an new service where users can order books, CDs, DVDs, tickets and the like by sending a text message on their mobile phone. Although it's not a real innovation, I particularly like the TexTicket function which means you should be able to turn up at an event and gain entry just by showing the doorman the text message e-ticket on your mobile. But there are things missing, perhaps for security reasons, perhaps because they haven't worked it out yet. There's not the degree of smartness you'd hope for in the new service: billing has to be done via credit or debt card, rather than mobile bill, and involves a phone call for the first order, and pin-numbers for subsequent orders. And nobody has really explained to me why you'd want to order a DVD, for delivery in "two to four days", while out and about.
The World Umpires Association hopes to show that the computer-based "umpire information systemis not accurate, especially on breaking pitches".
There has been more than the usual amount of rubbish written about Microsoft's plans to change "product activation" in the Service Pack 1 (SP1) that is on the way for Windows XP. If you have read any of it, get a corrective dose from The Register storyhere. In short, legitimate users who upgrade their XP systems with SP1 will not be affected by the changes.
Western Digital has started shipping a200GB hard drive.
CNet News.comreports: "iVillage is getting rid of pop-up ads, the publishing company said Monday, after a survey found that more than 95 percent of its readers considered them to be the 'most frustrating feature of the Web.'"
In Australia, PlayStation owners canlegally "chip" their machinesto play imported games and their own back-up copies following Sony's defeat in the Federal Court in Melbourne. Australia's competition czar argued that "region coding" was detrimental to consumers as it restricted access to competitively-priced goods. Sony had already won a similar action in the UK. A case of "Australia Fair trading, arise!"?
Over at ZDNet, Declan McCullagh takes a look at US government attempts toclamp down on piracyand get digital rights management features built into everything. Since America runs the content business, Europe will obviously get hit by the fall-out. Whether they will care in China and Taiwan remains to be seen.... Meanwhile AP has reported on the proposed Berman legislation that wouldallow copyright owners to stop violationson file-sharing networks, including hacking users' computers and knocking them offline, as long as they clear it with the Justice Department first.
Microsoft Hotmail continues its campaign to prove, beyond doubt, the old adage that says you only get what you pay for. This time the service, already famous for its security problems, spam floods and design flaws, is deleting emails over 30 days old from users' sent folder. Microsoft warned users in mid-June it planned to do this, and a product manager toldNews.comlast week: "if it's 30 days or older, it's probably safe to go ahead and delete that." Trouble is, if online services start making these decisions for you, suspicion of online services - including Microsoft's much-hyped .Net initiative - will only grow. You might save on hard disk and bandwidth costs now, but I'll bet buying that confidence back is going to cost far more in the future. For the record, only 300,000 of Hotmail's 110 million users have upgraded to the $19.95 paid-for service.
The creator of the Napster file-swapping technology talks to theNew York Times Magazine(registration required) about life, his long court fight with the major record labels, and plans for Napster as it gets ready to relaunch.
Vodafone, the world's largest mobile phone operator, today reported a rise in the revenue it receives per customer in its key UK and German markets.With the markets for mobile phones reaching saturation, mobile phone operators no longer focus on adding more customers but on increasing average revenue per user (ARPU). Vodafone's ARPU for the 12 months to the end of June climbed to £278 in Britain from £276 three months before.The chief executive, Chris Gent, said the figures were primarily boosted by an improvement in activity levels. Vodafone has also sought to improve its subscriber "mix" by attracting more contract users, who tend to spend far more than pre-pay users.The upbeat figures should strengthen Sir Christopher's hand as he seeks approval this week of his controversial pay and bonus package. He is expected to get the go-ahead despite significant opposition from some of Vodafone's largest shareholders.Critics say the package will more or less double his basic £1.2m salary, even though his performance is only average. Vodafone's share price recently hit a new four-year low amid a slump in the telecommunications sector.Subscriber growth of 2.8 million customers in the June quarter was higher than analysts had expected, and included 1.4 million new subscribers. Vodafone's total is now 103.9 million worldwide, and it has forecast full-year growth of around nine to 10 million.Data revenues, seen as a key to sales growth in the future, rose to account for 12% of the company's revenues for the year to the end of June, and made up 14% of revenues for the month of June. Vodafone wants to boost data revenues to a quarter of total revenues by 2005.Vodafone's first-quarter improvements in Europe's two largest economies follows ARPU figures from its smaller rival, mmO2, which also showed signs of growth in Germany and Britain in the June quarter.Vodafone was down just under one pence in early trade, slipping to 94p.
When Guardian Unlimited launched a competition last week to find thebest British blog, it was, in the words of Simon Waldman, our director of digital publishing,"to promote and reward the cream of Britain's bloggers".Announcing a £1,000 prize for the winner, he praised the bloggers whose "wit, imagination and flair in abundance" had made blogging one of the "wonders of the web".But there is only one problem. Among the cream of Britain's bloggers is one who will not be taking part.Tom Coates, the current holder of the European Blogger of the Year award forplasticbag.org, has announced on his site that the competition is a "bloody stupid idea", and that he will be boycotting it.Despite Waldman's claims that the Guardian has "embraced" blogging in the past two years, Mr Coates - who says many other bloggers back him - argues that the competition "isn't really in the spirit" of the medium.So what's a self-respecting dead-tree media organisation to do? We got Mr Coates and Waldman to bang their heads together on email - and the result is the following debate.To: Simon WaldmanSent by: Tom CoatesWhen Simon introduced this competition he said that the Guardian had  quickly embraced personal publishing. he's quite right - the  Guardian has probably done more to encourage people to start their own  weblogs than any other organisation in the UK. But I think it has now  moved from supporting a grass-roots movement to attempting to  appropriate it.If weblogs are valuable at all, they are so because they give people a  place to talk about whatever they want, however they want. Your weblog  could be an intimate, personal space to get advice about your burgeoning  sexuality, a frequently updated news feed about software development, or  a soapbox to declare your extreme political views. The thing that unites  all these people, however, is a certain authenticity of voice - these are  real people talking openly about the things that matter to them.In my opinion, pitting such radically different and very personal sites  against one another undermines that authenticity, just as it demeans the  motivations of the people who created them. But more importantly, it  seems to me impossible to judge and unfair to do so. Is one person's  life trauma a better read than another's thoughts on contemporary  politics? And should we really be delighted that some cod-celebrities  and old-tree hacks are setting themselves up to be the judges of our  communities? I'll be voting with my feet and boycotting the contest.To: Tom CoatesSent by: Simon WaldmanTom,Your description of what makes weblogs so valuable shows the sort of eloquence and intelligence and I would expect from someone who has already won several awards for his weblogging activities (we'll come to them in a minute). But, I think your reaction against our competition lacks some of your usual clarity of thought.Yes, "pitting different types of weblog against each other" isn't easy - any more than comparing comedies and thrillers in the Oscars, or classical music and drum and bass in the Mercury prize - but it isn't impossible, and it certainly doesn't undermine blogging. After all, it has been done before - remember?You are the proud owner of the title "European Blogger of the Year" according to the Bloggies. This award similarly pitted different blogs against each other - right across the continent. So are you saying it is all right to do this all the way across Europe, but not across Britain? Or would you like to hand your awards back as a matter of principle?This competition is the result of our respect for the movement, not an attempt to appropriate it. We would no more try and appropriate blogging than we'd try to herd cats, juggle jelly and push water uphill at the same time.We have almost 180 years' history as a radical newspaper. Representing and promoting diverse and minority voices is something we have done for decades, regardless of the medium.  This is why we - including many of those you dismiss as "dead-tree editors" - find weblogging so exciting, and why we are looking and will continue to look for ways to support and promote it.We've had hundreds of entries. Shame you're not among them, but we'll survive.To: Simon WaldmanSent by: Tom CoatesOf course you'll survive - a well established newspaper like the  Guardian isn't going to be affected by the groans of motley,  partly washed web enthusiasts. Unfortunately, the weblogging world  doesn't have 180 years of history behind it - and as such is much more  vulnerable.Your two points - that prizes like this are common in other media, and  that my protests are hypocritical - reflect (I think) a misunderstanding  about the nature of personal publishing. The things that make weblogs  special and different to other media are exactly the things that make  large-scale media awards for them redundant.Weblogs are not (just) written to entertain audiences, but are also  spaces where people can talk openly about their lives. Asking people to  compete in self-revelation, to play up to the cameras, seems wrong to me!Webloggers aren't prostituting themselves for cash. In fact one  important aspect is to have a place for yourself, somewhere personally  important. Asking people to expose themselves for cash seems wrong to me!Most webloggers form friendships with both readers and other webloggers.  An external body encouraging competition between friends also seems wrong to me.And the Bloggies? They're incomparable. It's a tiny event that no one  takes seriously, with negligable prizes, and which has little interest  to anyone outside weblogging. But most importantly, it's an award in  which every participant, every judge and every voter is  a weblogger or  weblog reader (and an equal) rather than an inexpert "real-life big  name", whose qualifications and ability to judge remain totally suspect.To: Tom CoatesSent by: Simon WaldmanTom,I'm not going into a judge-by-judge defence of our panel, but we wouldn't have chosen them if we didn't think they were perfect for the task. They are all keen webloggers or readers. Most have been involved with the net for the best part of a decade. They are all very able and, thankfully, willing to judge. Your suspicions are ill-founded.I respect the personal nature of personal publishing. This is why we are not forcing anyone to enter, nor are we allowing people to be nominated against their will. If some people see their weblog as something for themselves, or a small group of friends, they have nothing to fear from this competition.However, what is wrong with people wanting to raise the profile of their blogs, and have the chance of earning some money at the same time?We just want to promote and reward the best British bloggers, if, and only if, they want to be promoted and rewarded.  And, judging from the number of entries we have had, it seems there are plenty who do.Moreover, our assessment of "best" includes all the values that you hold dear - particularly authenticity. "Playing up to the camera" will not be appreciated.This is hardly a  large-scale media award. We have put in place a decent (but still reasonably modest) cash prize, not because we want people to prostitute themselves, but because we think anything less would seem mean. We think it is a perfectly fair reward for the amount of effort that anyone has to go into to keep up a decent blog.I can see what you're afraid of. I just don't think that we're it. When News International discovers weblogs, don't worry, I'll be there fighting it with you.To: Simon WaldmanSent by: Tom CoatesI think at this point I should make clear that I don't believe that the  Guardian is intentionally exploiting weblogs or that they are  consciously aware of the potential damage this could do to a community  in its infancy. I have total confidence in Lloyd Shepherd, the  Guardian's chief producer at Guardian Unlimited when he said recently:  "It's all good clean fun. We didn't do &#91;the competition&#93; to wind anyone  up - we were trying to raise the profile of British blogs as well as our  site. It's supposed to be a win-win situation".But despite this I think you're being disingenuous when you say that you  want "to promote and reward the best British blogs, if and only if, they  want to be promoted and rewarded". Your prize is called "The Best  British Blog" award - and declares itself to be an attempt to find that  mythical beast - even though many British weblogs are boycotting it on  principle and even though the criterion of "the best" actually means the  personal feelings of a very limited and unrepresentative group of people.Perhaps with a less outrageously presumptuous name - "The Guardian  Weblog of the Year" maybe - it would seem less arrogant. Perhaps with  prizes that appealed to people who were in love with the medium  (creative software or training or even an experience worth writing  about) it would seem less out of touch.Instead, the Guardian has declared itself an arbiter of weblogs - it has  moved from being a paper that delights in participation in a community  to one that feels it has the right to be the judge of it.It's time for the Guardian to stop promoting weblogs from the outside,  and instead start actively helping the community from within. There are  many ways it could be constructive - from sponsoring a real-life British  weblogging event to providing new ways for weblogs to interact with each  other or with the Guardian's site. Can't we put this ludicrous contest  behind us and do something more useful with our time?To: Tom CoatesSent by: Simon WaldmanTom,One of  the prime reasons we embarked on the competition was to help start the debate about how a traditional media owner such as ourselves can engage with a movement that is in many ways the very antithesis of traditional media. So, your suggestions on how we might improve the competition in future years, or get further involved with the weblogging community, are very welcome. The start, I hope, of an ongoing dialogue.If changing the name from "Best British Blog" to "Guardian Unlimited Weblog of the Year", or something similar, would help win you and others over, then we're happy to consider it (it's not quite as snappy, but it'll do).We did consider different prizes, but in the end, we decided to stick with cash as we felt it was better to let people decide what to spend it on themselves, rather than trying to second guess people's needs and wants. Our favourite idea was a "Supermarket Sweep" at PC World, which we thought would be good fun, but a little pricey - (and yes, we did debate whether webloggers would really want to buy from PC World).At the end of this flurry of emails, I hope you can see that our intentions were good, even if you disagree with our actions.  The cash we have put up, the senior executives we have put forward as judges, the space we have given to it both in print and online are a sign of respect for the weblogging community, not an attempt to lord over it.I think we both agree on what makes weblogging so wonderful. I like to think that over the next year - long after this competition is over and the winner has blown his or her winnings -  we will embark on a number of initiatives that might help it stay that way.All the best,Simon
We've been made aBlogger.comblog of note! Hello to those arriving from that link... hope y'all enjoy your stay...
The robot flyis being developed at Berkeley and naturally the military is keen on the using such a device for surveillance -- as a spy fly, in fact.
ZDNet reckons Sun and Apple plan to offer a version ofStar Office for Apple's OS 10(or X) operating system. It should in theory be easy because OS 10 is based on BSD Unix (via NeXT's NextStep), and because one of the ideas behind Star Office is that it provides the same interface whatever the operating system. However, that is unlikely to make much headway with Mac users, who will want it to use the new user interface introduced with OS 10. The attraction for Sun is the idea of damaging Microsoft's software business. Sun, like Apple and IBM, makes the bulk of its money from hardware, so it suits them to give away software that makes their high-priced hardware more attractive.
The computer scientist John Cocke, who has died aged 77, developed the ideas exploited in the microchips people use every day in a video games console, an electronic organiser or a mobile phone. His approach seemed counter-intuitive - he made computers more powerful by making them less powerful - but it has been a huge success.In the 1970s, the trend was to give computers the ability to handle more and more complex instructions, each of which did more work. But the extra instructions made the computer more complicated, and many were rarely used. Cocke's idea was to use fewer instructions, but design chips that performed simple instructions very quickly. The result was somewhat like the change from propeller-driven to jet-engined aircraft.Programmers would not lose out because specially-optimised programs, called compilers, would convert their high-level code into the simple instructions required. Later, this approach became known as reduced instruction set computing (Risc), and was adopted by most major manufacturers, including Sun Microsystems, Hewlett-Packard and Apple. In the UK, Cocke's approach was used by Acorn Computers for the Archimedes, the world's first mass-market Risc computer. Its ARM (Acorn risc machine) microprocessor was then spun off into the ARM (advanced risc machine) company, and is now used in handheld computers such as Compaq's iPaq and many mobile phones.Cocke was born in Charlotte, North Carolina, and studied at Duke University, where his father - who was president of the Duke power company - served on the board of trustees. He himself joined IBM in 1956, after completing his PhD in mathematics, and worked at the company's TJ Watson research centre, New York, for 37 years.To begin with, Cooke joined the stretch project: IBM's attempt to build a super-computer competitive with machines designed by Seymour Cray at Control Data. IBM announced four different   versions without delivering one, and was sued by Control Data for abusing its monopoly market power. IBM eventually settled out of court, paying CDC's costs and virtually giving it a whole division.In 1974, IBM and Ericsson were discussing a joint project to develop a controller for a telephone exchange that could handle 300 calls per second, and this is where the Risc approach emerged. Cocke and his team started to design the computer controller, which became the 801 minicomputer, named after the building where they worked. The project fell through, but the 801 led eventually to the Risc-based IBM PC RT, in 1985.Unfortunately, by the time IBM got its product out, rivals, such as Sun, had pioneered the workstation market and the RT flopped. As Cocke told Forbes magazine, "&#91;IBM&#93; likes to have projects going, but to actually build something is difficult to get done. It's very frustrating for people like me."However, success was finally achieved with the Power architecture, from Performance optimised with enhanced Risc. This was used in IBM's RS/6000 range of minicomputers, and a microprocessor version powers today's Apple Macintoshes and Nintendo GameCube games machines.Cocke was something of an eccentric, and reportedly could forget to cash his pay cheques or change his clothes. He also managed to overlook the idea of getting married until 1989, when he was three years from retirement. As he told Forbes in 1998: "I guess I was relatively absent-minded but, you know, there are people more interested in science than in normal ways of life."This was hardly conventional in a company driven by smart-suited salesmen and a company songbook but, in 1972, Cocke had been made an IBM fellow for "sustained outstanding contributions" in developing algorithms and compilers. This allowed him to do things that interested him, he said, without trying to make himself "effective".But his research led to more than 20 patents and a string of awards, including the Turing award and both of America's highest scientific awards: the national medal of technology, presented by President Clinton in 1991, and the national medal of science, in 1994.Cocke died in hospital in Valhalla, New York, following a series of strokes. He is survived by his wife Anne, three nephews and a niece.John Cocke, computer scientist, born May 30 1925; died July 16 2002
Sports Interactive, the company behind the Championship Manager football game, is to publish anice hockey managementtitle for users want to outdo the incomparableScotty Bowman. SI's game will be based on a current shareware program,Eastside Hockey Manager.
Reuters reports on EU efforts to stop the smuggling offake goods, with Nokia mobile phones and Nintendo games consoles being runaway favourites in the trade.
Graceis a Graduate Robot Attending Conference, and autonomous. "Other robots will be attending -- some clad in tuxedos and serving hors d'oeuvres -- in an attempt to show off the latest, albeit cumbersome, machines that can move safely and naturally among people," reports AP.
"Hello, I'm Andrea and I'm here to help you with your housing benefit inquiries." The face on the screen looks uncannily like a cartoon TV newsreader. In fact Andrea is an "avatar", a computer-generated talking head.But unlike those other skinny 20-something hairdos that increasingly fill up our screens, Andrea listens as well as talks. And, if her appearance doesn't do anything for you, she'll change it to something more acceptable.Andrea speaks your own language (or at least a passable impression of it). This autumn, she'll start work as an "intelligent personal assistant" at Lewisham borough council, helping digitally excluded residents use e-government services.In a project called Avanti, partly funded by the European commission, Lewisham and three other cities across Europe are testing the value of friendly faces like Andrea to help connect electronically with citizens.Among the digital outsiders she aims to reach are people with low literacy and people afraid of interacting either with people or with machines."We set out with the aim of doing something about the digital divide. The aim is "to remove the fear and give confidence," says Antoinette Moussalli, head of Lewisham council's European and international affairs unit."People like talking to people, not to machines," says Chris Stokes, a consultant with Fujitsu, one of the IT firms taking part in Avanti. (The other is Microsoft.)People who have tested the Lewisham avatar have so far divided equally between those who prefer the Andrea image or a bland cartoon hominid. The project team plans to provide other figures, to suit the user's cultural preferences.Andrea's first job will be to help residents handle two online council services, housing benefits and the e-democracy forum "Lewisham Listens".In the first version, to go live in October 2002, users will type their questions into a dialogue box on screen. The software is supposed to recognise ordinary phrases, not officialese (or web-speak).The question: "How do I start a claim?" gets the spoken response "Would you like to check whether it's worthwhile?"This leads into a string of questions about eligibility, starting with: "Have you savings or capital worth more than £16,000?"Housing benefit is notorious for its ability to create complexity (and to tempt fraudsters).  The "quick eligibility" test alone has more than 20 questions.Then there are processes for appeal and change of circumstances. Hence the special need for friendly computerised assistance.The other service, e-consultation, offers Lewisham residents their chance to have a say in opinion polls ("Should the council subsidise homes for teachers and nurses?), surveys about local issues and to read the results of previous consultations.To avoid the danger of Lewisham politics being hijacked by internet trolls from Tallahassee, Andrea asks anyone logging in for their name and mother's maiden name.This "low-security authentication" is acceptable for opinion polls, says Moussalli. Real e-voting will need tighter security, possibly identifying voters by fingerprint or other "biometrics". The team also plans to test voice-recognition and handwriting.Avanti will run for two years. It is a fifth framework project funded by the European commission with a total budget of six million euros.  The partners - four city governments in the UK, Sweden and Latvia, plus IT companies Fujitsu and Microsoft - put up half of the budget.Lewisham has already built a reputation as a leader in putting services online. A scheme called Leap, funded by central government under the invest to save budget, has identified and converted 400 council processes to electronic delivery.But like other e-government schemes, the users tend to be computer literate. The biggest consumers of social services, and those whose voices are rarely heard in public consultations, tend to be the digitally excluded.The phase one pilot begins at the end of October. It'll initially be available on a kiosk at the housing benefits office and perhaps at public libraries.Future phases will improve the conversation-handling software, integrate with the council's departmental databases to provide "joined up" services and tackle the security issues.This will probably mean issuing local smartcards containing some biometric data to prove that the card is being used by its owner.  Like other local authorities looking into the problem, Lewisham is anxiously awaiting a decision on the national "entitlement  card" scheme.Other plans include putting Andrea on other channels such as digital TV or mobile phones. The team will also test voice-recognition and services in other languages, probably starting with French and Spanish.Andrea may look like a dummy, but she'll be no bimbo.
Litigious Apple Computer has sent"cease and desist"letters to Mac-supporting Web sites publishing unofficial information, reports eWeek.
There are probably now more Windows XP users than Mac users, but it is hard to say because there don't seem to be any reliable figures. Microsoft has now shipped 46 million copies of Windows XP, and if "product activation" works, this should be about the right number. (If not, the installed base could be 90 million or whatever.) But how many Mac users are there? As far as I can discover, Apple has been pretty quiet since 1997, when it claimed an installed base of21.8 million. Given the decline in Apple's sales since then, it doesn't seem too ungenerous to imagine that it could have doubled its installed base. If so, it's already behind. If not, it may take another month or two....
"Copyright owners would be able tolegally hack into peer-to-peer networks, according to a bill introduced in the House of Representatives" yesterday, reports CNet. However, the American Civil Liberties Union also filed a lawsuit to try tooverturnkey portions of the controversial Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
If you have ever thought you could do better than the Guardian's headline-writing subs (don't we all?) then now's your chance. SiliconValley.com, home of the San Jose Mercury News, wants heds for a story that starts "University of Delaware researchers have developeda computer processor made from chicken feathers." That's why I'm egging you on to hunt and peck some corny yolks and wing ithere. Trivia note: there really was a company called Kentucky Fried Computer, but it changed its name toNorthstar. If only they'd known.....
Out of spaceMy hard disk was down to 155MB of space. When I ran Scandisk, it asked if it could make copies of some files for easier access and my free disk space went down to 75MB. I cannot find the second copies of these files.JamesJack Schofield replies:Scandisk was probably telling you that your hard drive had cross-linked files. A file is saved in a string of disk sectors, linked together. Scandisk flags an error when more than one file seems to be using the same area of disk, or a file is using sectors not marked for its use. This can be caused by viruses that hide by attaching themselves to other files, or by system crashes, if the operating system loses track of which file is using a particular sector. When Scandisk rescues parts of files it usually saves them using names such as FILE0001.CHK, FILE0002.CHK and so on, so see if you have any of these. Sometimes they contain useful data. If not, delete them. If Scandisk did create duplicate files, the only practical way to find them is to use a program designed for the job, such as Duplic8. You can download a trial copy fromwww.kewlit.com/duplic8.However, it may be dangerous to delete "duplicates" of system files. For example, your PC may have more than one copy of software components such as MFC42.DLL because some applications depend on earlier versions of the same code. Other duplicates may be backups. But just getting back to 155MB of free space is not enough: aim for twice that. While working, Windows    saves things in a sort of scratchpad on the hard drive: the WIN386.SWP file. This can be larger than 155MB, and as Windows runs out of space, it slows down and eventually falls over. You could try to get some space back by following a clean up routinedescribed last year, but some of the techniques do not apply to Windows 2000/XP.Port 139The Blackcode online scanner that you mentioned -www.blackcode.com/scan- warned me that Port 139 was open. How do I close it?Ben CowellJS:Port 139 is one of the ports used by NetBIOS (Windows networking) for file sharing. It is scanned by a worm program often known as Note.com, Trojan/ Notepad, Qaz.Trojan, QAZ. worm, or W32.HLLW.Qaz.A. To be on the safe side, search your hard drive to see if you have a program called Note.com and a new Notepad.exe file that is 120,320 bytes long. (Every copy of Windows has a smaller copy of Notepad.exe with the same date as other system files: do not delete it.) These show your PC has the virus. For further information, see the Cert Vulnerability NoteVN-2000-03and the Alt.hacking FAQ:What is port 139/How do I exploit it?.Microsoft Security Bulletins MS00-091 and MS00-047 provide patches.  Next, run the Control Panel's Network applet, select Properties and then your TCP/IP connection. Click Properties again and look through the tabs for a checkbox that says something like "Disable NetBIOS over TCP/IP" or "I want to enable NetBIOS over TCP/IP". Otherwise, use a free firewall such asZone Alarmto block open ports and alert you if any program tries to use them.To the maxCan I get Intenet Explorer to open new windows (right-click on link etc.) maximised? It is annoying to have to maximise a window or drag it to a more acceptable size.John BuryJS:I only know how to make all IE windows start maximised. The trick is to do it using the IE icon in the quick-launch box on the left hand side of the Task Bar, not the one on the desktop. Right-click the icon, select Proper  ties, and go to the pull-down arrow for the Run box. Select Maximized and click OK. However, there are at least two much better ways to maximise a window. The first is to hit F11, which toggles IE's full screen view. (This is the same as selecting View|Full Screen.) Alternatively you should be able to maximise any window in any application, not just IE, by pressing Alt-Spacebar then X.To the minWhen I run Microsoft Word, the Opening Word 97 screen appears for a few seconds then disappears, leaving a minimised logo at the bottom of the screen. Clicking on it has no effect.Ina KitchenJS:Move the logo to the centre of the screen and position the mouse pointer over the bottom right corner. When it changes to a diagonal two-headed arrow, press the left mouse button and drag away: it will open up as a proper box. Other programs can also open in ultra-minimised mode, and it can be very confusing when it happens.Backchat&#183;Following Alasdair Beal's overheating problem (July 18), Adam Williamson points out that if a PC crashes when    the processor is running under full load, it has an overheating problem: "That's an error on the maker's part and they should be ashamed," says Adam. "For his desktop system, Alasdair should look at improving the heatsink on his CPU and installing case fans. As a satisfied customer, I'd recommend products available fromwww.theoverclockingstore.co.uk". A PC that runs cooler should be more reliable and last longer.&#183;Richard Atkinson was thinking of building his own PC. Sandy Macpherson reckons a book is likely to be a much handier guide than a website: "Morris Rosenthal's Build Your Own PC covers everything you need to know, and took me from a state of complete ignorance to the finished product in a very short time." He says he built a higher-specification machine for less than Dell's price, and "the parts I used were neither the cheapest nor "inferior": they had all received good or satisfactory independent reviews. Plus there's always the satisfaction of switching it on and seeing it work for the first time."
On a fine July afternoon, the road to Glen Trool is a breathtakingly beautiful, deeply moving paean to the glories of nature's grand plan. On a typically Scottish summer's day like today, however, it's a rain-lashed highway of the damned. More than that, it's a reminder of the fact that no matter how fast the technology wagon gallops, sometimes you've no choice but to rely on old technologies: relics from the science of yesteryear like the internal combustion engine, the railways, or your legs.At this time of year, when the sight of the season's first sodden swallow ignites a desire for the open road in half of the population, some people even do it for fun. Fortunately for you, the technology industry has responded by releasing a raft of gadgets to assist hardy summer travellers during their seasonal ramblings. Unfortunately for your correspondent, the Guardian decided it would be a good idea to test these products by dispatching him into the wilds, where apart from creation's failure to provide us with room temperature moorlands, there is no broadband and damn few power points.Reaching this point, a spot of blasted heath in the Borders some 90 kilometres from the comforts of Glasgow, was accomplished relatively easily with the help of Trafficmaster's new Smartnav system, a satellite navigation system that incorporates real-time traffic information and booking services. At the push of a button the driver is put through to a Smartnav personal assistant, who knows exactly where the vehicle is,    and will ask where they want to go.The route is downloaded to the car and subsequently provides step-by-step instructions, including the road numbers, as the journey progresses. Live information from Trafficmaster's network sensors is taken into account by the system, which will automatically reroute the driver if it receives news of a major accident or roadworks-generated traffic jam.If the vehicle breaks down or crashes one button press will summon the relevant emergency service to its precise location, while a database of over 90,000 places of interest can provide you with anything from details of local attractions to the nearest cashpoint. At &#163;499 for the basic unit and &#163;120 a year for an unlimited use subscription, the Trafficmaster system isn't    cheap.It is surprisingly simple to use, however, and with research suggesting that access to live traffic information can save a regular driver over five days a year in wasted time, may well be an investment worth making. If you step outside your car, you'll need something more portable. Garmin has just launched the eTrail, a CD-Rom containing 200 UK walking routes that you can download into one of the company's handheld GPS units before hiking across hill and glen. Want to make sure you're on course, it asks? Simply switch the gizmo on and yomp in the direction that the digital arrow is pointing.As this is the Guardian, I chose a moderate route up Merrick, the highest hill in the Southern Uplands and part of a range known as The Awful Hand. Starting from a    car park close to Loch Trool, the combination of a printout of the CD's detailed walk description and the on-screen map took us over what proved to be an easily comprehended nine-mile circuit, during which we at no point felt even slightly lost. It didn't mention the aching legs or the distinctly carnivorous glint in the eyes of the local sheep, but you can't have everything.Also packed in my survival kit was the Handspring Treo 270, a combined PDA and phone onto which I had downloaded several sets of maps and directions. At around &#163;255 a pop, it's very reasonably priced, particularly considering the colour screen. The fact that it also works as a mobile should amplify your pitiful whimpering enough to reach help should it be needed. Ericsson's PR recom  mended that I also take the company's new T68i (&#163;349.99), a triband mobile with wireless Bluetooth capabilities and a full-colour screen, not to mention a built-in modem, Wap and infrared port.They suggested that I could combine this with the Communicam accessory - a small lightweight camera attachment - to take pictures of the location and email them to the rescue services should the worst happen. It is a grand idea, but one that only works if you're in an area with a strong network signal. Out on the hillsides, where reception blackspots lurk behind every bend, your sodden correspondent found himself frequently unable to do the Wap thing, and quickly gave up trying.A call to the Scottish Mountain Rescue Service confirmed that the tech revo  lution has had little impact on their work. Some people - like the woman who demanded a helicopter because her feet hurt - use mobiles to make distress calls, but those who take GPS devices with them are generally well prepared to cope with difficult conditions. Should he or she make it off the moor, the outbound urbanite still has to make it back home, and for this purpose it's worth downloading the travel planner from journeyplan.co.uk to your PDA or laptop.A searchable database of railway timetables designed to get you from A to B by the fastest route possible, at just under seven quid it's an excellent buy. None of these will do you any good if you run out of juice, which is why this summer's coolest buy has to be the Wind-up, a clockwork battery charger from ComCom.  Priced at just &#163;9.99, a few minutes spent winding the pocket-sized unit provides enough oomph to keep the average mobile alive for 120 minutes of standby time or 10 minutes of panicked conversation.Equally handy is the Belkin AC Anywhere (&#163;49.95), an adaptor that plugs into a car's lighter socket to turn it into a bona fide three-pin supply.  None of these technologies would be necessary if someone could just get on and invent some form of teleportation device, of course, but in these frivolous times it appears that nobody has time for the grimly practical.&#183;Iain S Bruce is online editor at the Sunday Herald
GT ConceptPS2 £29.99 Sony ***Tomb RaiderCompaq iPaq £29.99 Eidos **Do you dream about spoilers,     exhausts and that shiny limited-edition hubcap? Perhaps you also own a PlayStation 2? Then it's inevitable you'll     have played Gran Turismo 3. The peerless driving simulator that lets you win money to tinker with your car, making     it go faster and win more races, is an arduous, but addictive undertaking.Unfortunately, Concept - a new     side-project for the GT development team - removes the GT mode, effectively ripping the heart from the game by     allowing beginners to play with most of the best cars straight away. The impeccably modelled cars and picturesque     backdrops retain their effect, but the tracks are dull retreads from older games. Then there are the opponent cars     and their lack of artificial intelligence.Sticking to the same perfect racing line, they barely seem to notice you; in     fact, if they weren't driving such flashy cars you could imagine them hunched over the wheel, holding up Sunday     traffic. Petrol-heads will appreciate the inclusion of several concept cars, whose warped designs add flavour, while     the basic arcade racing is enjoyable.Nevertheless, Concept is a short-lived thrill: racing fans are better off with     GT3. Another big name re-appearing this week is Lara Croft. While the next proper instalment of Tomb Raider is not     out until November, owners of Compaq's iPaq can install a version. It is graphically marvellous, but marred by     clumsy controls and the need to hold it sideways to play. This makes a surreptitious go in dull meetings practically     impossible, surely negating the point of any PDA game. (GH)Sid Meier's Sim GolfPC £29.99 Firaxis/Maxis/EA ****Apparently, Sid Meier, God-game guru and creator of the
   Civilization franchise, and Will Wright, the man behind The Sims and Sim City are not only pals, but also avid golfing
   partners. Which explains the existence of this bizarre but charming game in which you take a piece of land, build a
   golf course and attempt to make as much money as you can out of it. This may sound dull but, in practice, it turns
   out to be absorbing, even if, like me, you loathe and despise golf.This is no dry, intellectual sim. It oozes
   personality and is well structured, setting you simple targets at first (such as building a par-five hole), then
   increasing in complexity as your membership rises. What sets it apart is the ability to descend from your God-like
   isolation and play your own course. Not, it must be said, from the traditional first-person golf game view, but from
   an isometric perspective, where you can control your resident pro as he takes up challenges from visiting pros, or
   enters full-blown tournaments in search of prize money.Aficionados of The Sims will be glad to note that you can
   also import your Sims into Sim Golf, and watch them bond or throw tantrums along with other punters. Sid Meier's
   Sim Golf is a rarity: a game that appears deeply unpromising but turns out to be gently amusing, addictive and more
   responsive than the average sim. (SP)ZoocubeGameCube £34.99 Puzzle Kings/Nintendo ***Puzzle games have always been Nintendo's bag, and credit
   to them for keeping the genre alive. Nevertheless, following Tetris and Mario Party is no easy trick, and it takes an
   ingenious idea to take off. So is this it? Zoocube was invented by 30-something whizzkid Nalin Sharma, who has
   apparently staked a promising career in the City on the success of this 3D puzzle-fest. The idea is simple.Each
   cube has six sides, on which various animal shapes are displayed. Rotate the cubes (using the analogue pads) until
   you have matching shapes, whereupon the animal is released in a charming animation, usually dropping a bonus item
   to help you as the game continues. Naturally, things get more complicated and time limits more challenging as you
   progress, forcing you to use smart bombs and the accelerator button to reach the required number of freed
   animals before the clock counts down.Like all puzzle games, it's a lot easier to play than describe. And yes, with
   more than 40 animal shapes to match, a variety of different bombs, hidden bonuses and two play modes, there is
   plenty here to keep you occupied. It almost has that magic appeal of everlasting gameplay, but not quite as, after a
   while it all becomes a little too hectic. Also, you get the feeling that pseudo 3D has less to offer puzzle games than
   most other genres, although the graphics are colourful enough. Still, with Nintendo in its traditional quandary of not
   having enough quality software to support a promising format, every quality new title is to be welcomed and this is
   certainly one of them. (MA)
The Archos Multimedia Jukebox is that rare object designed to set technophile pulses racing: the ultimate supergadget. The sleek-looking unit is a souped-up hard drive, with 20GB. But just clip on the camera module and it's transformed into a digital camcorder capable of shooting up to 20 hours of MPeg4 video, or a 1.3 megapixel stills camera. Compact flash and Smart Media    modules allow the digital photographer to upload and store 260,000 standard images. And later this year, Archos will release a module that can record straight from the TV, transforming the tiny unit into a mini TiVo.Of course, the danger is that this jack of all formats will be the master of none. But thanks to a powerful 500 mips processor, sound playback is crisp and video effortlessly smooth, while the built-in colour LCD screen, though little bigger than a commemorative postage stamp, has a fine resolution. If you want to use it as an external hard drive, the jukebox supports high-speed USB 2.0 and firewire. With a &#163;349.99 price tag for the media module version, and &#163;399.99 with the camera, the cost is much less    than the sum of its individual incarnations. And there is the added advantage of infinite expandability. What will the R&amp;D people at Archos will dream up next? (JO)Tate modemIn the future, everyone will carry a pocket computer that will tell them where they are, what they are looking at and what it might mean. And at the Tate Modern in London, the future is now on trial. Tate Modern has just started a three-month pilot scheme using wireless-connected Compaq iPaqs to provide a multimedia guide to part of its collection, Still Life/Object/Real Life. There are 15 model 3850s in red ruggedised cases with Wi-Fi (802.11b) cards and stereo headphones available on loan. The tour covers only nine art works in 14 galleries, supported by seven wireless hubs in the gallery walls. All the content is delivered from a central server, which knows    where you are.Push the presentation icon on the iPaq's screen and it tells you about the selected exhibit using sound, still images and streaming video. You can call up a map that helps you find your way around, and request more information by email. The multimedia tour has been developed by a London company, Antenna Audio, which says it is the only one of its kind in the world. "It's an exciting project because we're discovering there are so many things you can do with it," says Antenna's Rob McGlynn. It would be a major task to develop a multimedia tour for a gallery or museum, but the material could be shared with exhibition catalogues, TV programmes, CD-Roms and educational resources.  (JS)
Last Christmas, mobile phones belonging to 70 employees of Entranet, a financial services e-commerce provider, bleeped. A text message told them they no longer had a job."Bad news," read the text. "GAP pulled funding 2nite. We have to cease trading as of now. Will call all ASAP."  Entranet's American backer, General Atlantic Part  ners (GAP), had pulled the plug on a company that rode the hi-tech wave only to be washed up with all the other dotcom flotsam and jetsam.Gordon Bull, acting chief executive, who sent the message, said it might have appeared harsh but claimed it was the best mechanism to get an official message to a large number of people.But Entranet's abrupt end is where this story begins. Founded in 1997, the company may have borne out Dun &amp; Bradstreet's gloomy statistic that 50% of start-ups fail in the first four years, but what the figure doesn't show is where all that creativity and entrepreneurial energy goes. Does it shine brightly merely to be swallowed up by some black hole of a job centre?What happened to many ex-Entranet employees would suggest the answer is a resounding no. Since the nail-in-the-coffin text message    and the three rounds of redundancies that preceded it, at least 12 new companies have risen from the ashes.  Being part of what was a highly creative company that could boast a number of pioneering e-commerce projects, including the first transactional insurance site for Eagle Star, has inspired many to do their own thing.Despite being made redundant by SMS, many ex-employees are not    bitter, viewing the experience as a reminder that the new economy moves fast and only those who can adapt to change will survive."I have a giant-sized printed copy of that text message on my office wall," says Gary Ling, former Entranet strategy director. "It underlines the mentality you must have: security is having an alternative."Ling's alternative took off this month with the launch of an online credit checking business, checkSURE, set up with ex-Entranet colleague Neil Jones.  In classic entrepreneurial style, both men staked their homes on the venture."We've put &#163;500,000 of our money in the business by remortgaging both houses and getting a credit line. I feel like I did when I was a platoon commander in Northern Ireland. Back then I was responsible for 30 men. Now I'm responsible for my wife and two children having somewhere to live."Susanna Khavul, assistant professor of entrepreneurship at the London Business School, believes that having witnessed failure first hand, post-Entranet start-ups have a better chance of survival."They have gone through a learning experience and will do things differently," she says. "When a company disbands in a dynamic sector, the people who leave are not stigmatised as having failed. They have gained experience and skills they can recycle.""I'd be surprised if 80% of the people who left Entranet didn't have a business idea," agrees Anthony Fernandes, co-founder of NetBroker Solutions, a developer of online financial services products, which, after five months, is expecting a &#163;750,000 turnover by the end of the year.Fernandes sums up what many ex-Entranet entrepreneurs feel: "I can't blow money on Versace suits, but being in control of your own destiny and knowing the buck stops with me is a great position to be in."However, as Professor Khavul points out: "Every new opportunity is filled with new traps. I have spoken to successful entrepreneurs who said their business is thriving only because the last five were tremendous failures. Staying alive in an innovative environment depends on making sure you're on the cutting edge of innovation and remaining outwardly focused."Dave Wallace is determined his fledgling company, HeathWallace, an online agency for the financial services industry, set up with ex-Entranet colleague Matthew Heath, will not make the same mistakes he saw made during his time as chief new media officer at Entranet.  After the initial shock, he saw the redundancy as an    opportunity to do things differently - his way."When I received the text I was gobsmacked. I considered different scenarios - applying for a new job, travelling the world. But then I saw I had a golden opportunity to build a business focused on what the market was crying out for - helping financial services websites improve online user experience."With clients such as Abbey National and Charles Schwab online, Heath Wallace now has five ex-Entranet staff and hit profitability in the first five months.  Wallace believes that Entranet became unstuck when it lost its client focus and shifted its eye towards the venture capitalists and pursuing the prospect of an initial public offering."By the end of 2000, money was being thrown at Entranet by venture capitalists. I felt we had no control. New people were coming in because you couldn't just stick the money in a high-interest account. You had to spend it."The experience taught Wallace not to seek backing from big boys waving big bucks: "We looked at the venture capitalist market but they didn't understand sums of less than &#163;1m and asked what we would do with &#163;5m. I said: 'Live in the Bahamas'."Instead, the company turned to a business angel, who stumped up &#163;70,000 in return for equity.  "We launched in recession    and are focused on costs. Quality and relationship are key. In four years' time there will be no more than 20 people. Beyond that stage people feel disenfranchised and the business becomes more of a management problem."Wallace was not the only one to feel Entranet was losing its way. "I could see the writing on the wall and decided to leave," says Charlie Bell, a senior software engineer who left in 2001 to form a multimedia design company, Bang New Media."When we were doing well, it was down to the management. When we did badly, it was down to the economy collapsing."But Bell also has fond memories, describing the good times as heady."There was such a concentration of talent. I worked with a core group who believed anything was possible. We have stayed in touch through the grapevine."That grapevine has proved fruitful in providing contacts and generating new business."I'm a big believer in networking," says Dharmesh Mistry, one time Entranet chief technology officer. "You may have to kiss a few frogs on the way but the princess is worth it." Mistry left Entranet to set up the financial services software specialist company Edge IPK, when he saw the market moving from services to products. Despite launching three days after September 11, the company has already made two acquisitions.One Entranet refugee who personifies this networking ethos is Andy Daws. The former Entranet IT manager, he was the last one to switch off the light - and the network.  "There was a sense of disbelief when I got the call from Gordon. I was on the bus to see Handel's Messiah. I had to disable all the infrastructure and liquidise all the assets. It didn't hit me until the last day when I had no desk." Initially, Daws tried to find a new job, but found his age was against him: "I'm 24 and although I've been doing IT management jobs for the past six years, I was considered too young. Recruitment companies now want grey hairs."  Rejection spurred Dawes to set up his own company, Clearview Consulting, and he has found a steady stream of work, helping several of the ex-Entranet start-ups with IT infrastructure."I did a lot of it free to help get them on their feet, but now I'm earning as much as I did at Entranet and enjoying working for myself," he says.  The you-scratch-my-back approach has also benefited Lee Shalit Blake's company, Verno - Latin for grow. The former Entranet finance director took voluntary redundancy and has worked for many of the new companies dealing with the tricky legal and financial aspects of setting up a new company."Accountants and solicitors commonly charge &#163;250 per hour. Start-ups need their   services but can't afford huge amounts. I keep costs as low as possible because I like working with these people. They've got energy and creativity and what they're doing is exciting." With many of the companies competing in the same financial services space, the fraternity may eventually feel the strain. "There is a certain amount of competition," agrees James Kent, who "jumped from Entranet before I was thrown" to set up the London Design Collective with two ex-colleagues."Working collectively is the way forward. We have teamed with Bang New Media on projects. There's plenty of work for smaller companies as they try harder and pay more attention to detail. A lot of Entranet people thrown out in the cold are doing really well."Unfortunately, the same can't be said for those who chose the salaried "safe" option. Some went to work for AIT, the financial services customer relationship management company. The company suspended trading in its shares in June. But not everyone who came out of Entranet is a budding entrepreneur. Gordon Bull, who declined to be interviewed, is working for Vodafone.Young turksMindhouse:Describing itself as a "young and aggressive interactive TV company," Mindhouse proves there is life for ex-Entranet entrepreneurs beyond the financial services sector. The former interactive channels team at Entranet, led by Steve Scott, took voluntary redundancy in 2001."We negotiated with management to buy the equipment. Our package gave us enough to live on for a couple of months and set up on our own," says managing director Scott. "If we'd stayed where we were, we would have lost an opportunity, as the interactive TV part of the business was not huge."Today, Mindhouse deals with broadcasters including Channel 4 and BBC Prime, developing interactive applications across all channels - web, mobile and iTV."We get television audiences more involved," says Scott. "Viewers can access related information, catch up with the plot, read articles about their favourite personalities and check programming schedules. With 35 % of eviction votes for Big Brother 3 being cast via set-top boxes, the market is there for interactive services."iteration::twoThe wackiest, most idealistic business to come out of Entranet, the consultancy specialises in building software for online commerce projects using an approach called extreme programming (XP)."When people first hear about XP they make jokes about programming while snowboarding off piste," says founder Steve Webster. "But the extreme is about taking best practice in software development - keeping design as simple as possible, testing from day one and keeping the customer involved. The result is extreme quality and speed."Webster, who lost his job as a technical architect when Entranet's Scottish office closed in 2001, has recruited several converts from more traditional software development. "XP is almost an underground movement. Once developers have used XP, it's heart-breaking to go back because they see how fatally flawed the usual approach is."Although Webster says, "it's not just about money but doing the job properly," he admits he is "doing no worse than I did at Entranet".
When AOL bought Time Warner, the New York Times asked me to write a comment piece. "What does it all mean?" my assigning editor asked.What I wrote was that AOL's purchase of Time Warner heralded the end of the dotcom bubble. AOL was cashing in its casino chips. And just like the gambler who trades in his coloured plastic disks for real cash, AOL's Steve Case understood that his run was over and that it was time to trade in his stock certificates for those of a company that had genuine assets.The New York Times refused to run the piece. They told me I was misreading the landscape to such an extent that for them to publish such a view would be irresponsible. See, all the experts - at least all the experts the Times was listening to - believed that the AOL purchase of Time Warner indicated "new" media's domination of "old" media. Interactivity would take over. Time Warner's only hope of getting in the game was to be absorbed by a new media company.Of course, what was really happening was that Time Warner, after having failed in its many efforts to establish a   profitable foothold on the internet, decided they had to get "interactive" by any means necessary. Meanwhile, its share price had been driven down, at least in comparison with all those Nasdaq tech stocks, by Wall Street's focus on the dotcom universe.Meanwhile, AOL, a company with few tangible assets other than a subscriber base whose growth had already begun to slow down, understood that the pyramid   scheme on which its fortunes were made had run its course. (A recent Washington Post report suggests revenue-enhancing deals.) They needed to use their absurdly and temporarily inflated stock price to buy something real. No - they didn't go buy another fake internet company. They bought a company with real, calculable assets such as a cable network, a film library, a host of magazines, and television stations.Once it had completed the deal, what did AOL do? It let go of the best staff members at their magazines (print publishing? obsolete medium!), and changed the corporate culture at Time Warner to such an extent that former chairman Gerald Levin left in what can only be interpreted as a sickened disgust. (In his farewell speech, he quoted a Bible passage about the need to maintain an ethical template.)Finally, AOL management admits that its lofty predictions of the "synergy" dividend were vastly inflated. The board has put old Time Warner execs back in charge of the company, and is hoping that AOL Time Warner may, some day, become as good and real a conglomerate as Time Warner was in the first place.And - once again in sad ignorance of what the internet is and could be - the financial gurus are telling us that AOL's failure means that   old media is once again conquering new media. Order has been restored.What they don't get, and what real internet enthusiasts have been saying since AOL took off in the early 1990s, is that a company like AOL never had a future. AOL was a training ground: an introduction to the internet for people who didn't know how to deal with FTP. None of us thought it could last, because once the technological barriers to entry for the internet had been lowered, no one would need AOL's simplistic interface or it's child-safe, digital content wading pools. People would want to get on the "real" internet, using real browsers and email programs.AOL's demise may represent the power of old media - movies and magazines are a much more sustaining and profitable form of content than anything to be found online. But it also represents the power of new media: the internet is a living culture, not a shopping mall, and any effort to make it safer, easier, or more predictably mainstream is not only shortsighted, but unnecessary.
TheNew York Times(registration required) runs an interesting piece about how Google's power makes it very easy to find out stuff about people. "These days," writes Jennifer 8. Lee (I jest not), "people are seeing their privacy punctured in intimate ways as their personal, professional and online identities become transparent to one another. Twenty-somethings are going to search engines to check out people they meet at parties. Neighbors are profiling neighbors. Amateur genealogists are researching distant family members. Workers are screening co-workers. In other words, it is becoming more difficult to keep one's past hidden, or even to reinvent oneself in the American tradition."Unless you change your name, of course. But it got me thinking: surely if we publish something on our home pages, like family snaps, personal information or our online diaries, we expect others to be able to find it? And if we contribute to online discussions, then we're saying things in public. It's like standing up at Speakers' Corner.Of course, there's lots of stuff out there that I'm now slightly embarrassed at, and you can find out a lot about me just by doing a Google search. Does this infringe my privacy, though? No, it doesn't, although I reserve the right to think you're a little odd if you decide to go and start digging around.
It's been quite a year for BT. The company has gone from being the basket case of the telecoms industry, with huge debts and failed ambitions of being a global player, to one of the few former state-owned monopolies showing any growth in a turbulent market.To get to that position, BT has dumped its board, sold off a collection of businesses at knockdown prices and launched the largest rescue refinancing in British corporate history. It's new strategy places high-speed internet access or broadband at the heart of the business.Now the fight is to transform the culture of the business: to change BT from the civil service-like operation it became after privatisation in the early 1980s into a business for the 21st century. The market is still waiting to see the fruits of BT's labours and today, with the announcement of the group's first quarter figures, City analysts will be looking for signs that "New BT" is delivering."People want to see evidence before fully buying into the story," says Steve Trowbridge, analyst at SG Securities. Seeing tangible evidence of BT's change is appreciated by the chairman, Sir Christopher Bland. The former BBC chairman and his new chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, have been the main drivers behind the transformation."We are both convinced that the transformation of BT is under way but is by no means complete," he says.A year ago, BT was in a financial hole after spending billions on licences to operate the next generation of wireless services and a spending spree across the globe which gave the company small stakes in telecoms businesses but no management control. Almost &#163;35bn in the red, it was clear the company would have to call on shareholders for a handout and those holdings would have to go.To sweeten the bitter pill of a &#163;5.9bn rights issue last May, the firm promised to hand shareholders its wireless business BTCellnet - renamed mmO2- in a demerger, and dump its chair man Sir Iain Vallance, a stalwart of the old-style BT. Then chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield followed his mentor out of the door. Sir Peter's replacement, Mr Verwaayen soon launched BT on a new tack. Forget international expansion, broadband would be the next big thing.Earlier this year, the Dutchman promised to have five million British customers connected to the internet at 10 times the speed of traditional household modems in three years and cut the price of the service in half.Sir Christopher was taken aback by the fervour of his colleague though he could see the logic."I arrived here and was convinced as a telecoms novice that we did not have a broadband strategy. We were thinking about putting the price up not down," he says. To meet the five million target, one which Sir Christopher admits was "ambitious", all parts of the business have to start working together, something which BT's management has failed to achieve in the past.BT has traditionally been run as a series of fiefdoms. Initially this was because the telecoms regulator, Oftel, and the company's rivals wanted the business broken up. As the stockmarket took off in the late 1990s, the division between the various parts of the company became set in stone as its divisional heads focused on independence rather than cooperation. "That caused some disruptive patterns of behaviour," Sir Christopher admits.First thing he did was to rule out any further restructuring of the business. He then placed the heads of the group's three main businesses - retail, wholesale and the international networks business, Ignite - on the board. That way they would all be responsible for the rollout of broadband."It has had quite a unifying effect," he says.While some in the City are sceptical about the depth of the cultural change, everyone seems to agree that BT has a window of opportunity. Part of the reason is the chaos in much of the rest of the telecoms industry. Witness the restructuring at Energis - and the cable companies.Perhaps most important is the apparent softening of Oftel's attitude towards the business. The new catchphrase is "soft touch regulation". Instead of calling for BT to be broken up, Oftel has clamped down on the prices that BT can charge other operators to use its network. In return, the regulator is allowing the company more freedom in how it charges customers and the range of services."Ben and I have tried to reduce the adversarial relationship with the regulator," says Sir Christopher. " We have conflicting interests sometimes, but they are open to argument and persuasion."As an example, in September BT will launch a no-frills broadband product for consumers that breaks many of the old regulatory rules and would never have been allowed a year ago. Despite howls of protest from rivals, it already has clearance from Oftel.David Brundish reckons making broadband access a driver of revenue growth is a challenge. "But it can become a growth driver if you can then sell the products over that platform," he says.Today the City will be quizzing BT on exactly how it intends to do this. Sir Christopher is in no doubt what the endgame is. "If you do the right things; get the profits back on track, get the cash coming in, reduce the debt and so forth, then the share price should respond," he says. At least, that is what he hopes.
Wired Newsreports that IT professionals in the States overwhelmingly believe their companies are unprepared for cyber terrorism. The terrorism angle is just a new way of reporting on an old problem, of course: businesses have been vulnerable to cyber attack for a long time. And, having just finished some research in the area, I'd say that counts just as much for the UK as it does the US. More on this subject to follow in the weeks ahead...
It being a Thursday, Online isonline, as is our monthly supplement covering business technology,Business Solutions. Get it while it's hot.
When the time comes to buy a car, kicking the tyres online - rather than trailing round used car lots and dealer showrooms - can save an awful lot of time. I should know, having tried it both ways.Had the internet not been around to make life easier, I'd be pedalling off on my holidays on a bicycle. I didn't go the whole hog and buy the car over the web: most of us decide this item's ticket is a little large to casually One-Click order it in an ad break. This is rather more than buying a book, after all. But doing your research online makes great sense.A few months ago, with a deadline to replace our existing wheels looming, my wife and I elected to start visiting dealerships, testing the lie of the land. It was a waste of time: the local Ford salesmen would sooner amputate an arm than give you a catalogue without a lengthy sales pitch and questionnaire, while a Renault garage, rather lacking in the advertised va-va-voom, had no sales literature at all. Taking to the web, goes the    theory, should allow you to compare features - and prices - and make a decision in the calm of your living room, without bad coffee, cheesy sales pitches and all that driving between showrooms.In the US, always the leader in such things, two-thirds of new car buyers go online to research their purchase, according to a recent JD Power survey. Alas, even then, things don't quite work that way. Car-makers' sites are, too often, perfect examples of the very worst in over-fussy, hard-to-use web design:the Ford siteis so bogged down in flashy bits it fails to work in some browsers, while others hid the vital (price) information away, if it was there at all.Instead of gazing at the slow-loading online brochures of the car makers, it makes much more sense to visit an independent site. A favourite is Whatcar.com, a neatly designed, plain-speaking place that has lots of car reviews and enough statistics to keep even the biggest anorak rustling contentedly. Happily, it loads quickly enough to encourage browsing: you do not have to know    exactly which car you want before visiting.The same cannot be said of the Topgear site atbeeb.com, which used to be worth a look. The Trabant-paced loading times of its pages make browsing its content a chore.Carpricecheckalso offers a speedy way to check on prices for both new and used cars in your area. In fact, with its clean interface and apparently large database, it would be an excellent resource - if it wasn't for one thing.The most useful content, like the location of a car you're interested in, or the garage offering the great deal, only arrives after you have handed over your contact details. For many surfers - especially the casual ones, or those of us fearful of the car trade's hard-sell tactics - that might be too much of a barrier, especially as there is no privacy policy visible on the site. In the end, frustrated by the official dealerships and scared off by the high new prices, we decided on a used car.To start our hunt, we turned toAutoTrader(the Guardian Media Group owns part of Trader Media Group). Here, it really does help to know what kind of car you are after. Luckily, we did: a dispiriting trawl round a vast used car warehouse in South Wales was brightened only by the discovery of a rather tatty Fiat Coupe. Despite the condition, we fell for the    looks: now all we had to do was find an example in better condition. With AutoTrader, you tell it what you're after and enter your postcode. It returns the full details of cars that fit your description within a given radius, along with a map fromMultimap.However, it does appear to slow to an unusable crawl at certain times of the week. Details entered, we set off on a tour of garages in our neighbouring counties. We armed ourselves with a little knowledge of what to look out for, supplied byHonest Johnof the Daily Telegraph, and the pricing bibleParkers, which also has useful reviews of popular used cars.Parkers even has a PocketPC version you can download to your handheld for &#163;6. So, with all this internet-generated knowledge in our hands, did we get what we were after? Yes - straight away, as it happened, although we did not realise it at the time. The first car we saw was the one we eventually plumped for, but fear of this used car game had us visiting the others in our price range before returning to say yes.  The transaction was concluded at a small, off- the-beaten track garage in deepest Oxfordshire a week later. Without the internet, we would never have been able to find our new car: the net as matchmaker had struck again.
Introducing electronic trading into local government was never going to be a straightforward task. But many councils did not anticipate that it would be such an uphill struggle to get small and medium-sized businesses on board.Catherine Gleadow, business liaison officer for Huntingdonshire district council, says: "The big boys are already technically aware. The trick is getting to the SME market. But a lot of them don't understand the issues of what electronic trading is about and they don't understand what it means from a council's perspective."At the moment Huntingdonshire is piloting an electronic marketplace with six suppliers. Three of them are SMEs and the rest are large, national suppliers. The companies have created basic electronic catalogues so the council can email them to order such items as stationery, computer equipment, office furniture and training packages.This pilot is just one of the government's pathfinder schemes designed to accelerate the adoption of e-government across the UK. It finished in June and now the council intends to embark upon a major roll-out.But Gleadow is worried that SMEs are not taking the new developments seriously enough. The council has 5,000 suppliers, and a large number of the smaller ones are not showing any desire or ability to trade electronically. "We spend £15,000 a year on chairs with one chap, and he uses a pencil and paper. He does not have anything electronic. He does not do his accounts electronically."In a move to create an SME culture which is more responsive to the adoption of electronic trading, Huntingdonshire is teaming up with government-backed e-business development agencies including UK Online to organise subsidised training programmes. The training will cover anything from basic IT awareness to designing a website."What worries me is the people I have not got to," says Gleadow. "They have to be bothered. They are putting their heads in the sand. It's like pens replacing quills. This is the next evolvement of the system. It's coming; it's just a matter of time."Local borough councils in London are also growing frustrated by the poor response they have received from SMEs to new electronic trading initiatives.   As part of another e-government pathfinder project, the councils of Newham, Tower Hamlets, Redbridge, Lewisham and Barnet have clubbed together to create a joint online marketplace to buy goods and services electronically from their suppliers.At the moment there are about 22 electronic catalogues on the system and they are from the mainly larger companies who are computer-literate. However the councils are keen to assist any SMEs who lack electronic trading know-how."If we are trading with them, we are doing that for a reason," says Martin Scarfe, financial adviser for Newham borough council. "Either they give us a good local service or they give us a good price. We would not want to lose that trade just because we want to implement an electronic solution."The five London boroughs are offering to create basic electronic catalogues for free for a limited period in order to incentivise SMEs to come forward."The selling proposition is they will at least maintain their current levels of business. The spin-off is that there are five London boroughs rather than one. There is the potential to increase your business five-fold, but that means the other four councils have to decide whether or not you are a good supplier and cost-efficient," Scarfe explains.The e-procurement systems that the councils are introducing are designed to drive down costs and make it easier for councils to control their expenditure. The theory is that logging on and placing orders electronically with an approved supplier in an online marketplace is simpler to manage than a paper-based system which can generate mistakes.Erland Sanderson, managing director of Limetree Marketing, which sells computer and office supplies, has signed up to Huntingdonshire council's electronic trading initiative. The Cambridge-based company, which has a staff of nine, already sells computer supplies to the council and is hoping that the possibilities of electronic trading will mean that it can also provide other services.Sanderson says: "We have always tried to be forward-thinking and we have never turned away anyone who wanted to do business with us." He says he fails to understand why SMEs would not want to link up electronically with their local councils. "It seems sensible to me that if someone offers you a carrot then you should follow it through. I cannot understand anyone turning down local government business."He adds that providing information in a suitable format for the council was relatively straightforward and not too disruptive. Most of the councils who have embarked on electronic trading projects are deliberately staggering their approaches to make it as simple as possible to implement. In fact Gleadow says that Huntingdonshire is keen to overcome the notion that electronic trading is hugely complex."Electronic catalogues are very simple. All it is for us is an Excel spreadsheet and we load it into our accounts system. All the configuration is done at our end."Unlike the private sector, local government has an obligation to support the businesses in its area and it is quite possible that small companies could take advantage of the current climate to acquire new and valuable electronic trading capabilities before everyone rushes in and the level of assistance becomes less accessible."Local councils want to support SMEs to grow their businesses and make their local areas a success. For some SMEs in the technology business this will be a no-brainer. But waste-management companies or builders, for example, who are not technology-enabled, will have great difficulties in trying to meet the requirements of local councils," says James Eaton, a senior manager for Impower, an e-government consultancy.Aside from the London boroughs, there is talk of local councils clubbing together in the north-east and the north-west of England to form joint marketplaces for their suppliers. So what are the risks if SMEs choose to ignore these new electronic trading initiatives?"The risks are that SMEs could lose their local authority business," Scarfe says. He adds that it is not inconceivable that those companies that remain outside of the electronic domain could in the future find themselves being charged for persisting with traditional paper-based trading practices. It appears that the virtual writing is on the wall.Links:lgolpathfinder.gov.uk,huntingdonshire.gov.uk/Pathfinder,epilon.org.ukE-procurement: why?&#183;Once e-procurement was the preserve of large companies that could afford the large systems needed to make it work.&#183;Today, internet-based e-procurement has lowered barriers to entry for all businesses.&#183;The systems reduce transaction costs and make purchasing easier - and faster - for end users, but still allow for a far higher degree of control over spending.
E-confusion?David Walker (E-democracy's eleventh hour, Online, July 18) seems confused. One minute he blames MPs for not putting up websites, but asserts that e-democracy would only work if MPs had more work to do. Then he grumbles that Robin Cook and the e-envoy are over-confident. Poor Robin Cook! He has the humility and courtesy to ask us our views, but David Walker clobbers him anyway. And the headline says: "Government enthusiasm to bring democracy online is faltering", whereas, in fact, the government and MPs are taking the first tentative steps to understand and implement e-democracy.Richard Sarsonrsarson@blueyonder.netImmobile thiefJoia Shillingford's article Daylight Robbery (Mobile matters, July 18) successfully demonstrated many ways of stopping the stolen mobile market. Unfortunately, she didn't refer to www.stolenmobile.co.uk, Mobile &amp; Wireless Ltd's site for mobile users to register their details, so if a phone is stolen, their details will be forwarded to their network operators, blocking use of that phone. This will eventually eliminate the re-sale value of stolen mobiles.David Mossd.moss@mesms.comLight of lifeMatthew Genge's article (Fishing for aliens, July 18) bases the idea of life on the Jovian moon Europa on the model of life around deep oceanic vents, where sunlight is absent. This is surely an error. Life around these vents depends on the sun just as all life does, because it needs oxygen, and the only source of molecular oxygen on the Earth is green plant (and cyanobacterial) photosynthesis. Oxygen from the sunlit zone diffuses down to the    depths. Even bacteria that use alternative oxidants such as sulphate or nitrate still require other bacteria to manufacture these materials - using molecular oxygen. However, the recent discovery of bacteria deep in the ice in Antarctica shows that light can penetrate to a surprising depth. We might expect to find such photosynthetic systems on Europa, but growing more slowly, due to the low intensity of the distant sun.Richard Gregoryrichard.gregory@which.netXerox copyWhile Paul Bradforth mentioned how Windows was released as a poor imitation of the Mac GUI, I would like to mention that it would never have existed if Steve Jobs had not seen the first computer with a GUI (made by Xerox).Richard Sheffieldrichard@buggy.uklinux.netPoor serviceAdd my name to the list of people unhappy with BT Openworld's service. Last Saturday, their outgoing mail (SMTP) server was    down and their "service status" line didn't acknowledge it, while there is no avenue to report problems other than the 50p/min technical support line or a web form for "technical enquiries". I tried my luck with the web form. On Sunday morning (by which time the problem had been fixed for several hours), I received a less than helpful reply saying that there were "no reported service problems", to email them for more help (difficult when you can't send email), and that I'd need to provide more specific information about my configuration for them to figure out the problem (pointless, as the problem was at their end). I still have no reasonable contact avenue for similar issues in the future.Finlay Dobbiefinlay@dobbie.netSearch meWith regard to the useful article on search engines (When size does matter), why no mention of the fast and efficient Copernic (www.copernic.com/desktop)? It outdoes all others.Margaret Marksmmb.marks@ntlworld.com
Was your trip almost free of technical hitches?I went with the logic that my laptop had worked fine for more than a year and wouldn't necessarily give me grief just because it was hot or dusty. The G3 never crashed. DVD-Ram had just come out when we started, so that gave us 5GB of storage. I'd save each day's work then FedEx it to London the next day. Jamie's (Catto) sister sent us a DVD of The Matrix, which we watched in a little hotel up a mountain in Sikkim!Still using the G3?The Titanium 667MHz Powerbook is lovely. It has a gigabyte of memory so I've got rid of all the racks of extra hardware I had to carry. I'm now running a variety of virtual synths via Logic. I love how everything's becoming more converged. Some of the modelled virtual synths and pianos sound amazing. Apple's new Xserve  processor is great. It's rack-mountable with Firewire, digital video feeds and everything you could need!Are USB and Firewire opening up the laptop for music?Absolutely - it's just a shame that Firewire  isn't standard on PC as it means most people are going for USB  and Midi interfaces. USB is much slower than Firewire.Wireless?Bluetooth sounds great. No cables, no tapes! The less connecting one device to another, the better. I can't wait until my video camera has a hard disk!Will the desktop disappear?Things are always getting smaller. The new iMac is a screen with the smallest box they could get away with. You still need the Qwerty keyboard but big boxes will eventually be a thing of the past. I can see the computer being built into the screen with an interface that everyone can perhaps use more easily than the current keyboard. PDAs and mobiles are coming up to computers but computers don't seem to be moving down towards them.Broadband?I have ADSL from BT Openworld and am impressed. A friend who operates two studios, one in Spain and one in Staines, has a satellite connection, which he says is amazing. He tells me that to send a file from Spain to England is just like saving to your hard disk! It's still prohibitively expensive but it's only a matter of time until it gets cheaper.Favourite gadgets?I just bought the Korg PXR4, a 4-track recorder the size of a CD! It's got USB, everything records on to SmartMedia cards and it runs off two AA batteries! My10GB iPod also blows me away.Favourite sites?www.emagic.de and www.apple.com for software updates. I don't surf much - I'd rather read a book!
