Sony's long-awaited game machine cannot run some software titles from earlier versions, but the company took the first steps to fix the problem even as the machine went on sale, a spokesman said today."It is true that there are some PlayStation (PS1) and PlayStation 2 (PS2) games that are not playing properly on PlayStation 3 (PS3)," spokesman Satoshi Fukuoka said. "But, our first software update was also timed to coincide with the launch."PS3 was released November 11, and potential buyers were alerted to the need to download additional software in a message posted in Japanese on the Sony Computer Entertainment website on November 9. Other software dates will follow at a date yet to be decided Fukuoka said.The additional software comes free of charge, he added.The affair may have been blown out of proportion as Japanese and international media seized on a report in the Sankei Shimbun on Tuesday saying about 200 PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 1 titles are likely to have problems.Mr Fukuoka declined to say how many games were affected, but noted compatibility issues tend to arise when software designed for one set of hardware is played on another. He pointed to a similar situation with PS2 and PS1 when the second version of the PlayStation console was released."Anyone who understands the game business knows this happens," he said. "Whether the media chooses to make a fuss over this or not, our job is to accurately relay information to our users."The original PS3 launch was delayed eight months as Sony took longer than expected to finalizing copyright-protection specifications in the Blu-ray standard, which is the underlying high-definition DVD format for PlayStation 3.Sony had hoped to release the new machine simultaneously in the US, Europe and Japan. The US release is now slated for November 17, and the European launch for March 2007 - too late for Christmas shopping.PS and PS2 have sold more than 200m units worldwide since the series was introduced in 1994, and are the two highest-selling game machines.&#183;Emailbusiness.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Daily Tech providesa look inside the box. It concludes:All in all, the PlayStation 3 is one of the most takeapart-ready consoles we've ever seen, an enormous departure from the Xbox 360 mentality. We've already completed our first hack by attaching a 320GB hard drive to the console, and the system hasn't even launched in the US yet. The PlayStation 2 was one of the most difficult consoles to disassemble and hack, yet we're not even out the door yet and things seem to bode well for the brave hacker and the PlayStation 3.
"You'll have to get up when this little baby starts, because it takes off and flies round the room, making a really annoying noise like a mosquito, so you'll have to find it first, before you can turn it off," saysboysstuff.co.uk.
The hyperactive home console "fanboi" army has caused the lockdown of a number of sites on the free-to-access-and-edit online resourceWikipedia, according toGamespot. Gamers partial to one or another next generation machine have been knowingly undermining links and information on the others' pages, demonstrating some of the issues of impartiality levied against the virtual encyclopaedia.According to the article:Users have been hijacking the site's entries to add what Wikipedia refers to as "funny" edits. Top of the list is the Nintendo Wii--a name that pranksters seem to find especially entertaining.Last week the complete Nintendo company page was replaced with the phrase "Nintendo Sucks!!!!!!!!!" briefly before the Web site reloaded the original entry.Wikipedia intends to open up editing rights in a few weeks, after the pranksters lose interest.
This 300 word hands-on piece was supposed to go in the paper last Saturday but got pulled due to space issues. Thanks to the wonder that is Gamesblog it won't have to remain unread. Actually, it doesn't really say anything that regular readers here won't already know, but It essentially sums up my PS3 impressions so far, ie good build quality, average games, decent media playback. Anyway, here it is.Blu-Ray, Cell Processor, High Definition 1080p - the days when games consoles were for children have long gone. The PS3 which has just launched in Japan - March in Europe - is as much about high-end technology as it is Grand Theft Auto. But is it any good?I've had one for a couple of weeks now and there is no doubt the PS3 is an impressive bit of kit - weighty, substantial and very masculine. The shiny case and chrome trim - in sharp contrast to the Wii and Xbox 360's Apple influenced minimalism -is perfect for the bachelor pad. But best of all is how quiet the thing runs, making it perfect for watching those Blu-Ray films. And you'll want to watch them too - the detail and warm vivid colour is enough to make film buffs weep. Sadly so will the price of the HD telly to watch it on, with sets capable of displaying the highest quality setting - 1080p - costing over £2000. Owners of normal HD TVs will be more than satisfied with how the PS3 looks though.The games? A mixed bag, with the redneck racing game Motorstorm and inventive shooter Resistance: Fall of Man the main highlights. Overall the PS3 launch games compare favourably to the Xbox 360's. But while the graphics are impressive they are currently no better than those seen on the 360. The tilt mechanism on the new joypad feels gimmicky too.The online elements are equally mixed, with the gaming side lacking many of the features - cross game messaging, achievement points - of the Xbox Live Service. However the inclusion of a browser and, in particular, the download store go some way to making up for the gaming deficiencies. The store is a massive leap over the Xbox Live equivalent, allowing easy access to the trailers, casual games and PS1 titles. A nifty remote play option allows you to access these retro games, and other content stored on your PS3, on your handheld PSP.Photo, music and video playback all work intuitively and there is a lot to like on the PS3. The games may be currently lacking but as an entertainment hub the PS3 is looking promising, assuming Blu-Ray wins the format wars of course.
For those interested in the guts of malware and who have a bit of expertise reading Perl code (it's much like PHP, really),Websense's Alex Rice has done a walkthroughof the source code - which he's somehow acquired - to a script called Web Attacker.It's used - a lot - to try to install Trojans onto anyone visiting malicious sites. You've probably, without knowing it, visited a site that used it.While reading our previous posts, you may have noticed quite a few references to something called the Web-Attacker toolkit. The reason we have mentioned Web-Attacker so frequently is that nearly one-third of the malicious websites we discover are using it to infect their victims; it is incredibly popular.And there follows an examination of the program, which (in the most prosaic code; it's not, as Rice points out, elegantly or even in some places correctly written, and nicks some modules from public sources - goodness me) notes who's been visiting, where from, when, with what browser, and whether the site succeeded in dropping your nasty bit of malware on them.After which, presumably, you can watch them log into their online bank, or eBay, or their IM service, all the while using their machine to store illicit files and send spam.Rice concludes:The code certainly is not what you would call "elegant," and it honestly is not incredibly advanced. However, it is amazingly easy to use, has plenty of features, is frequently updated, and just gets the job done. Apparently those four things are the recipe for a wildly successful exploit toolkit.
As hinted in an Edge Magazine feature last month and then reportedelsewhere, Nintendowillbe releasing a new edition of Wii next year complete with DVD playback. Technology companySonic Solutionshasrevealedthat the console manufacturer has chosen it to deliver a software-based DVD solution for 'a future version' of Wii due for release in the latter half of 2007. While previous reports indicated that this updated Wii would only be available in Japan, Sonic's press release makes no mention of any territorial restrictions (Update:areporton kotaku.com confirms the update will at least get a US launch - thanks to HiddenAway for spotting that).This would seem to confirm theories that Nintendo is persuing a different business model with Wii, eschewing the standard industry practise of sticking with a console for at least three or four years before introducing updates or enhancements. The company might well see the machine's lower price point as chance to develop an iPod-style approach - updating the basic hardware every year with improved generations.Pundits, however, are already questioning the value of a DVD playback feature - many pointing out that the average living room is already filled with kit that can play DVDs. DVD players, for example. However, there's always the possibility that a DVD feature won't be theonlynew function in these 'future versions' of Wii.Also - and this is a longshot, but bear with me - many households may be thinking about removing traditional DVD players from their crowded home entertainment set ups by the latter half of 2007. With hard-drive recorders and personal video systems like Sky+ on the rise and high-definition DVD still an untried and expensive medium, it could be that more of us seek alternative means of playing our DVD movies. Wii may just be the answer. Erm, that or PS3, which will play Blu-ray as well as current gen DVDs... Hmmm.
There seems to have been a Chatterbox meltdown with Wednesday's version arriving two days early. Rather than just deleting it and losing your chat thread I've changed the title to Monday and kept it where it is. Your statutory chatting rights are unaffected.
Some young whippersnappers may not remember but, at one time, Sun's Java was going to take over the world by becoming the standard programming language for all applications on all operating systems, thus rendering Windows obsolete at a stroke. (This was before reality kicked in: just mention Javagator to any former Netscape programmers.) But one of the things that held it back was the perception that Java wasn't really open, and Sun is finally solving that problem, albeit a decade late.AsEd Burnette blogs at ZD Net:After months of speculation, Sun has officially announced it is releasing its implementations of Java technology as free software under the GNU General Public License. Richard Stallman, creator of the GPL and founder of the Free Software Foundation, will endorse the move by video at a press conference Monday morning.Well done Sun! This should lead to the ubiquitous bundling of Java with Linux.Enthusiasts and masochists can watch a webcast of the eventhere(requires RealPlayer 10 or higher).
Sony has completed the first part of its truncated PS3 roll-out with a chaotic Japanese launch on Saturday. With barely 100,000 units making it onto the shelves (80,000 if you believe most reports), the phrase 'onto the shelves' is something of a misnomer: most machines were pre-ordered months ago, the rest sliding straight into the sweaty hands of gamers who'd queued all night for the privilege.UK videogame magazinePSM3sent reporter Joel Snape to stand in line at theAsoBitstore in Akihabara and blog on the experience. Apparently, there was a friendly and ordered atmosphere - some gamers bought food for their fellow queue inhabitants - home-baked cookies were being passed round at two in the morning. Joel tells me he even felt safe enough to grab half an hour's sleep - with £800 in his pocket and his respectable second place in the queue up for grabs.Elsewhere, scuffles were reported outside some shops - especially where people in the queue were unsure of whether they'd been allocated a 20 or 60GB package. According to a Business Weekarticle, several stores were unsure of how many machines would actually turn up in Sony's delivery trucks, heightening the tension yet further. Meanwhile, the BBCreportson how a few less committed gamers were paying homeless people to queue for them. Although Joel saw this happening in his queue he was unsure about how successful the tactic was - "they were all gone in the morning, I think maybe the shop staff moved them on..."In the end, apparently only five launch titles were available: Resistance: Fall of Man, Ridge Racer 7, Sega Golf Club, Gundam: Target in Sight and Genji: Days of the Blade. While native gamers were favouring Gundam, the many western gamers in the queues were snapping up copies of Ridge and Resistance.Almost immediately, units began appearing back inshop windowsand on auction sites at vastly inflated price points. If you're thinking of cashing in at the forthcoming US launch, queues have already started forming so you'd best book your flight sharpish...Joel's PS3 blog, together with photos and video, can be viewed on the PSM3 website.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The goal of many computer scientists is now "to add a layer of meaning on top of the existing Web that would make it less of a catalog and more of a guide -- and even provide the foundation for systems that can reason in a human fashion," claims the front page ofThe New York Times.Referred to as Web 3.0, the effort is in its infancy, and the very idea has given rise to skeptics who have called it an unobtainable vision. But the underlying technologies are rapidly gaining adherents, at big companies like I.B.M. and Google as well as small ones. Their projects often center on simple, practical uses, from producing vacation recommendations to predicting the next hit song.And later:"I call it the World Wide Database," said Nova Spivack, the founder of a start-up firm whose technology detects relationships between nuggets of information by mining the World Wide Web. "We are going from a Web of connected documents to a Web of connected data."This does, however, bear a strong resemblance (more or less approaching identity) to ideas from a previous century, particularly Sir Tim Berners-Lee's "semantic web", not to mention Microsoft's network programming paradigm, Microsoft.net, from June 2000. At least one of the ideas in the article, collaborative filtering, is even older than that, asDave Winer has pointed out.Nick Carr makes some interesting points about the idea in hisWelcome Web 3.0!post, and notes: "One last thing: I'm claiming the trademarks on Web 3.0 Conference, Web 3.0 Summit, Web 3.0 Camp, Web 3.0 Uncamp, and Web 3.0 Olde Tyme Hoedown."What, you mean Web 3.0, Web 4.0, Web 5.0 etc haven't already been taken?
Within a decade, then, the notion of separate game worlds will probably seem like a quaint artifact of the frontier days of virtual reality. You'll still be able to engage in radically different experiences - from slaying orcs to cybersex - but they'll occur within a common architecture.So saidStevenJohnsonin May in an article he wrote forWired. But when will thisSnow Crash-fuelled fantasy become a reality? When will we be able tobridge our online identities, from our virtual world personas to our XboxLive monikers, under one meta-identity, so we can visit new places with our existing selves?Community content practices are undoubtedly becoming an increasingly important part of game development. Current and future home consoles encourage mass personalisation on a networked scale - the carefully constructed "who I am" in my game library (and how good/rubbish I am at each) is broadcast to anyone who cares to listen, and just like the positive remarks from complete strangers I occasionally get on Flickr for my published photos, I can now expect to make new friends via the networks that the platform holders are integrating into their hardwares. But I can't take 'em with me. I have to start afresh every time I start something new.There are options, of course, and they don't have to be limited to online virtual worlds. Sure, you could check out theSecond Life of Warcraftwiki, which is hoping to build a window between the two spaces (baby steps, people). You could build/become part of a metaverse inMultiverse, a platform of the kind Johnson suggested. But maybe someone could hack Nintendo's forthcoming Mii channel together with Xbox Live's community facility to form a kind ofMiispace/Xbook.If this seems implausible, you can still broadcast where you are in the (online) universe(s) with a third party tool likeonxiam.
On our Gamesblog, Greg Howson reports on thePlayStation 3 as a multimedia home hub. (He likes it.)
For generations campaigners have trooped to Downing Street to deliver petitions urging the government to take action on a host of causes - now they will be able to send a message to the prime minister at the click of a mouse.A newe-petitionsservice allows citizens, charities and campaign groups to set up and sign petitions, direct on thePM's website.A Downing Street spokesman explained: "The new service is essentially the same as the traditional paper petitions that have been collected and delivered by post or hand to 10 Downing Street for generations, but online. This gives petitioners the ability to spread their petitions in new ways, and potentially reach much larger or more widely spread audiences. It also makes it much more economically feasible for the PM or the government to respond to signers of petitions than it was when each reply required separate postage and envelopes."Number 10 stressed the online service did not replace paper petitions but was simply another channel. "We do, however, ask petitioners to make sure that their signers are aware that signing an identical paper and electronic petition will not count twice."The petition site was built as an open source project for Number 10 bymySociety, an organisation that is strictly neutral on party political issues.The most recent petitions on the e-petitions site urge Tony Blair to:&#183;champion the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, by not replacing the Trident nuclear weapons system;&#183;create a new exception to copyright law that gives individuals the right to create a private copy of copyrighted materials for their own personal use, including back-ups, archiving and shifting format; and&#183;levy a tax on energy inefficient light bulbs so that their long term financial and environmental cost is visible in their retail price.
So I've had a test PS3 for about two weeks now and while the games are still slightly underwhelming - though I am warming to Motorstorm - the multimedia facilities, not included in my test machine, remained a mystery. So last week I had a chat with Sony'sPhil Harrisonand a look around the non-gaming elements of the PS3.First up was music. The PS3 can playback all the standard music files from CDs memory sticks, USB drives etc. All straightforward and exactly what you'd expect from any self respecting media hub. Things will get sexier in the future when you can buy tracks form the online store - almost certainly an option within a year or two.Importing pictures was, as you'd expect, very easy. USB device, camera, SD card, memory stick - they all worked. The PS3 sorts your images accordingly but the most impressive feature was the ability to look through pictures as if they were physical photos strewn across a table. This sexy graphical effect may be a bit gimmicky but will certainly impress anyone watching.Equally impressive were the video playback facilities. Like music and pictures the PS3 will import most formats and is easy to use. The ability to create your own thumbnails - for example to bypass the credits at the start of a movie - is another gimmicky but impressive feature. Seeing numerous video thumbs playing at the same time is a classy touch and does actually help when flicking through a lot of content.Of course, one of the main - and there are many - reasons for the PS3's delay has been the lack of Blu-ray hardware for the console. And with the importance placed on the format by Sony it was something of a revelation to actually see my first Blu-ray movie. Harrison showed Swordfish on a 1080p TV and it looked predictably lovely, all sharp and vivid. Picture quality appeared slightly better than the demo I saw of the 360 HD-DVD add-on though it is too early to say which format is best. And as mentioned before the PS3 runs very quietly, obviously essential for movie playback.Remote access looked rather neat too, with the PSP easily able to access content on the PS3. And while watching the hi-def Bond trailer on the PSP lacked the impact of a HD telly the potential is clearly there for gaming. An RPG that lets you develop your character on the train and on the PS3? Yes please. Future updates will allow you to access this content online, much like the Slingbox or Sony's LocationFree.The browser worked exactly as you'd expect - like many things PS3, PSP owners will feel right at home. It includes all the features of a standard browser - flash, multiple windows etc - and you can easily connect a keyboard to replace the rather fiddly text entry system. And let's face it - surfing on an HD telly is far more enjoyable than previous web TV efforts on standard definition.The only real disappointment of the demo was the online gaming functions, where the PS3 still lags behind the 360. Things that Live owners take for granted - i.e. the ability to send messages cross game - are still lacking. When I questioned Harrison about the lack of community features such as achievement points he unconvincingly argued that the inclusion of browser would offer all the community features a player would need.So what to make of it all then? Well certainly the gaming side is still lacking. Yes there is a good argument that PlayStation is a more mainstream brand than Xbox and so will have a lower percentage of owners going online. But with Live proving so successful you have to question that strategy. Of course this is very early days and Harrison did say that user feedback will be crucial for future updates to the system. Like the PSP you can expect regular updates to the PS3. However the multimedia side of the PS3 is hugely impressive. Intuitive and comprehensive the PS3 sits more comfortably as a home entertainment hub than the 360, especially when you consider the movie playback and quieter hardware.
Honda Civic HybridPrice&pound;16,265Miles per gallon:61.4Seats:5Good for:Polar capsBad for:Petrol capsStrange, isn't it, the things people do to get into the record books. Suresh Joachim, for instance, stood for 76 hours on one foot; Paddy Doyle did 1,500,230 press-ups in 12 months; Matthew Henshaw dangled a 44lb bag of spuds from the handle of a 40cm sword he'd swallowed and, earlier this year, John and Helen Taylor set off to drive round the world using as little fuel as possible. They started from Waterloo Place in London and ended, 78 days and 18,000 miles later, at Southbank - a few hundred yards further down the road. (If only they'd turned right instead of left.) During that time they filled their tank 25 times, managing an astonishing 60 miles to the gallon. They did this not in a swanky-pants space-age vehicle, but by driving their standard-issue VW Golf 'conservatively'.No boy-racer stunts, no hard braking and no speeding. In a word, they drove gently.By coincidence, I have spent the past week driving Honda's new hybrid Civic, which also does 60mpg. I couldn't help but think that if the Taylors could get 60 out of a Golf, what could they have done with this ultra-efficient hybrid Honda? I only managed a shameful 37mpg - clearly, I need a gentler touch.The Civic is the latest incarnation of Honda's IMA hybrid technology. IMA stands for Integrated Motor Assist and has been around for a decade now. In essence, the car has two engines - a standard petrol one and an electric one to help share the load. Putting two engines into a car which only needs one may smack of over-specification, but in fact it is the pinnacle of green motoring.The heat energy generated by braking is stored in the car's massive batteries and then harvested by the IMA system to power the car. This reduces emissions and petrol consumption. The new twist to the IMA for this model is that the engine also cuts out completely when you idle at the lights or find yourself coasting with your foot off the gas - it restarts as soon as you depress the throttle. For anyone, like me, who has spent years grimly revving suspect engines to stop them from stalling, the eerie quiet which descends every time you stop is quite unnerving.This energy-saving system is so effective that the Honda has been named World Green Car for 2006 - an oxymoron if ever there was one. But it is the cheapest hybrid available in Britain, priced at just under &pound;16,300 and, like all hybrids, is exempt from the London Congestion charge.Honda have made sure their clever car doesn't wear its eco-credentials too proudly on its sleeve - believing that customers are put off by the fact that 'other environmentally friendly cars look like deflated rugby balls'. So this Civic is an ordinary-looking 'I'm not trying to save the planet' saloon. Which is a shame, really, as its ground-breaking technology deserves to be showcased in something more, well, ground-breaking.And, in terms of records, it might interest you that the first land-speed record (a nippy 39.3mph) was set in 1898 by Count Gaston de Chasseloup-Laudat - in an electric car.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The FLX-Tech blog bought a Zune from Best Buy, though stores are not supposed to sell them until Tuesday. There followsan interesting unboxing, which ends abrupty (above).The standard excuse is on the lines of "it won't install because the servers are not turned on" which may be true, though Microsoft staff and some reviewers already have access to a working system.Comment: Does Best Buy give refunds on products that haven't been launched?
You can tell Bill Gates is a man used to counting in billions. Asked about Microsoft's new multi-million-dollar deal with Universal Music for downloads to play on its new MP3 player, the company founder and chairman looks blank, then says: 'I have to admit I don't know our deal with Universal at all. It wasn't even in the newspapers I read.'Someone gently intervenes: 'It was in the New York Times this morning and you're paying Universal more than one dollar per Zune [Microsoft's MP3 player set to take on the mighty iPod].'Gates, as one might expect of the world's wealthiest man, is unruffled. 'We must have got some great exclusive rights for that,' he half-jokes. 'I sure hope so.'The multi-billionaire, computer visionary, philanthropist and most influential new media player in the world is in Brussels to oversee Microsoft's 'Innovations Day' show of the latest technological fireworks from its labs.In person he is significantly more charismatic than many of his critics allow - even his ignorance of the Universal deal is made to seem like a peripheral matter unworthy of a brain the size of his. But he is less surefooted when it comes to the sensitive subject of Microsoft's operations in China.At the recent Internet Governance Forum in Athens his senior policy counsel, Fred Tipson, admitted that China's persecution of bloggers was worsening, and there might come a time when Microsoft would no longer be able to comply with government censorship.Quizzed about this statement, Gates said: 'I don't know what thing you're referring to. We don't set those rules. We're not involved in that. We follow the law - that's what we do.'But should companies collude with laws that infringe human rights? 'Well, is the internet creating more information availability in the country or not? Go to the country and judge and go talk to the people there about what are their issues. There's a tendency to bring Western priorities to other countries. Are they enthused about the extra information availability coming on the internet? We announced our principles for where we stand and what we do several years ago. There's nothing new about that.'It is not a response to convince Amnesty International, whose joint campaign with The Observer,Irrepressible.info, calls for freedom of speech online and has already earned the support of 50,000 people around the world.Gates was a college drop-out in Seattle when he and Paul Allen founded Microsoft more than 30 years ago. At 51 he belongs to the generation of web entrepreneurs' parents, and he is unimpressed by terms such as 'Web 2.0', generally taken to mean the recent wave of websites, such as YouTube, MySpace and Wikipedia, which thrive on content generated by the users themselves. 'All these terms have a little bit of a faddish arbitrariness to them,' he said. 'What's Web 1.0, what's Web 2.0, what's Web 3.0? You know, there's a hundred YouTube-type sites out there.'For Gates, the next revolution is not in the content of websites but the way we physically interact with computers, with keyboard and mouse giving way to speech, touch and mobility.'The pace of innovation over these next 10 years will be much faster than what we have seen in the past,' he said. Innovations on display at the grandly named Brussels Microsoft Executive Briefing Centre include a mirror which can remember and display people who have looked in it, computers capable of examining and telling the difference between objects, and a smart surface on which documents, maps and videos can be manipulated by hand gestures.'I'm just sitting here, pulling up the information, showing it to people, and there's no paperwork, there's no old information,' enthused Gates. 'I'm able to access all that information just through these hand gestures. Every desk, every meeting room table, will have that technology in it, you'll just take it for granted.' Time is up and Gates, who two years from now will step down from his day-to-day role at Microsoft to concentrate on charity, is whisked to his next engagement. Money is never a problem, but time? That's something else.&#183;For the latest on The Amnesty/Observer campaign go toIrrepressible.info.William Henry Gates IIIBornSeattle, Washington, 28 October 1955, son of a lawyer and company director.PositionsChairman of Microsoft.Co-chair of the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation.Best of timesSigned a deal in 1980 that allowed Microsoft to license its computer operating software to various manufacturers, ensuring that the growth of the personal computer industry would make him mega-rich.Worst of timesGrilled by lawyers in 1998 when Microsoft grew so big that the government brought an anti-trust suit to peg back its monopolistic power. He was splatted with custard pies by Belgian pranksters in the same year.Gates advice'Be nice to nerds. Chances are you'll end up working for one.'
I've been using Canon since 1997, and this particular model for over a year, and we've developed a cosy relationship - think night in with a DVD rather than going out to a new bar. So when I was asked to trial five new cameras, I was slightly nervous - especially because I'd be doing it at the Labour Party Conference.I was relieved to see a Canon among them. At least I'd have a familiar user experience - the buttons would be in the same place, the menus similar. The others were Nikons - the D80 and D50, the Sony A100 and the Fuji S6500fd.Now, I look for certain things when I pick up a camera. The Labour Party Conference sadly doesn't take place on Brighton beach, preferring a dull conference venue, so I need good low-light sensitivity. This is a grey landscape - grey suits, anonymous spaces - so any colours really need to be noticed. We're talking about contrast: the hues of ties and staging can make all the difference to a shot. I also need to take pictures in quick succession, so a fast response time from my camera is a must: I don't want a big delay between each snap.The cheaper cameras I would be trialling - the Nikon D50 and Fuji S6500fd - wouldn't suit me professionally. Both cost less than &pound;400, including a lens, and are designed with the novice in mind. However, I'm often asked which SLR would suit someone looking to upgrade from their compact camera, so I was keen to try them out.The Fuji is a halfway house between a compact and a grown-up SLR. Zooming is done by twisting the barrel (very grown up) rather than using a rocker button, typical of a compact. But you can't change lenses as you would with a full SLR. The menu is difficult to use, so it's not the most suitable for beginners. It is also slow to respond, which I found frustrating. Finally, there was the issue of the battery door swinging open at inopportune moments and depositing the batteries on to the floor. Not very professional.The Nikon D50 is a strong contender as a budget camera. Despite being the weakest when it comes to faithfully representing colour in strong daylight, it has the ease of use a beginner would want. The D50 also doesn't limit you to only one lens, so it has the potential to grow as your confidence does.This brings me to a common mistake made by people searching out their next camera. Too often they are lured by the number of megapixels, largely due to marketing by the manufacturers. Instead they should look at features that will make a real difference. For example, the speed of response, its performance in low light, and how faithfully it reproduces colour - always buy from a specialist camera shop where you can grill the sales assistant. Six megapixels is more than adequate for most shots, unless there is a genuine need to print enormous pictures. Anything else is just window dressing.Next up, is the Sony A100. Sony is new to the digital SLR market, although it did inherit Konica Minolta's technology when it brought out the latter. So the camera can use Konica Minolta lenses. And being Sony, it comes with more bells and whistles than the others. Prize for best feature undoubtedly goes to this camera for the "eye start", which has the camera focusing from the moment you look into the lens.As much as I enjoyed using this camera, I found it couldn't compete against the final two.But it would be suitable for semi-professional use.The two cameras I was really interested in pitching against each other were the Nikon D80 and the Canon EOS 400D. With bothI was producing remarkably similar shots, although the 400D does have the slight edge in low light. I also really liked the Canon's "integrated cleaning system", which used a combination of vibrations, anti-static coating and some clever software to keep the dust off. It costs me &pound;50 every time I want my camera cleaned of dust, so the value of this should not be underestimated.The Nikon D80 has a better lens, so it will give you sharper shots, as well as having a better overall physical feel. It seems sturdier in your hands. The viewfinder is also the best of the lot, making it easier to frame shots correctly. Despite my Canon allegiance, I also found that the menu on the D80 was more intuitive. A great one for those who hate reading instruction manuals.But when it came to the acid test - Blair's keynote speech - I found myself reaching for the EOS 400D. The combination of fast response time, low-light sensitivity and my special relationship with the brand won it a place at the highlight of the conference agenda. And Tony's tie was captured in all its glory.Dan tested:&#183;Canon EOS 400D, &#163;719.99, from Canon (0870 514 3723,canon.co.uk&#183;Sony A100, &#163;949, from Sony (020-7365 2947,sony.co.uk&#183;Fuji S6500fd, &#163;379.99, from Fuji (0870 084 1310,fujifilm.co.uk)&#183;Nikon D50, &#163;397, from Jessops (0800 083 3113,jessops.co.uk&#183;Nikon D80, &#163;750, from Jessops (details as before)
The lady from Motorola is keento stress that the Moto Razr Maxxwith which I have been furnished ismerely a prototype. Not all of this 3Gphone's dazzling array of functions- including 2.0 megapixel camera,Enhanced Data For Global Evolutiontechnology, the disturbing-soundingHigh-Speed Downlink Packet Access,two-way video calling, broadbandinternet and email access, dual-fuelself-cleaning oven etc - might work.I tell her it doesn't really matter.I am interested only in its abilitiesas a music player. In the post-iPodworld, miniaturisation is clearly theway forward. Here is an item thatrelieves the necessity of carryingboth a mobile phone and, say, aniPod Shuffl e around: this is a hugeboon for anyone who fi nds thecombined weight of mobile phoneand iPod Shuffl e a physical burden.It is Mac-incompatible, so I can'tupload any music from iTunes.Motorola instead supplies me witha phone pre-loaded with a selectionof music. This proves somethingof a mixed blessing. On the onehand, there's The Raconteurs andThe Avalanches albums in full,an intriguing acoustic version ofDepeche Mode's Personal Jesus andthe guilty pleasure of Duran Duran'sA View To A Kill. On the other, aphone call to Amnesty Internationalconfi rms my suspicion that theplaylist subjects you to moreJamiroquai than is strictly legalunder human-rights laws.Despite the best eff orts of the ladyfrom Motorola, I can't seem to makethe standard earbud headphoneswork. This leaves me with twooptions. The fi rst is a pair of browntinted,Oakley-designed wraparoundsunglasses of the kind favoured bybraying City boys on stag weekends- Gareth-from-The-Offi ce types whowish to signify their allegiance toextreme sports and thus a hint ofmacho danger behind the Burtonsuit - and marathon-running,Atlantic-conquering TV hooray BenFogle. Even if the arms on theseglasses were not adorned with anarray of buttons, USB connectors andheadphones on retractable plasticlegs, you would think twice aboutwearing them in polite society lestyou be mistaken for one of the berkslisted above. With the addition ofthe electronics and the headphoneson plastic legs, they seem less likea technological advance than an openincitement to violence against yourperson. It would take more guts thanI possess to wear them in public."At least you wouldn't be able tohear people calling you an arseholeif you did," suggests the Guardian'sphotographer phlegmatically.The second option involves whatthe lady from Motorola describesas "DJ headphones". She laudstheir sound quality, which is indeedfantastic: crisp and richly detailed,with far more bass than youmight expect from an MP3 player.But alas, aesthetic considerationsagain rear their head. These arenot headphones in the personalstereosense of the word. They arevast. They look like the kind ofheadphones George Michael andPhil Collins wore in the video for DoThey Know It's Christmas?, exceptthat the headphones George Michaeland Phil Collins wore in the videofor Do They Know It's Christmas?did not, as far as I recall, glow withan eerie blue light while turned on.Once again, cowardice prevents mefrom wearing them in public.Housebound and looking like I'mabout to inform the world that therewon't be snow in Africa thisChristmas-time, I have plenty oftime to consider the merits of theMotoRazr Maxx. The phone worksfi ne: its ringtone cuts through themusic, so you don't miss a call. Thecamera has a dizzying array offunctions, including a mode thatallows you to take photos that looklike negatives. I would undoubtedlyconsider the High-Speed DownlinkPacket Access indispensable if I hadany idea what High-Speed DownlinkPacket Access actually was. Thedesign of the phone is nifty - youmiss the scroll-wheel that is theiPod's masterstroke, but the touchsensitiveplay, pause and fast-forwardkeys on the front of the phone are anice replacement. The sound is great.But I also start to feel some familiardoubts springing up in my mind.Looking at the Moto Razr, I felta prickle of ideological objectiononce more. It's convenient almostto a fault. With the Moto Razr,music isn't a life-affi rming thingof transcendent wonder andfathomless joy, merely one of amultitude of functions on a mobilephone. It reduces art to the level ofthe text message, or indeed, to thatof High-Speed Downlink PacketAccess. That may be what peoplewant, but it still seems a fairlyrough deal for something I've spentmy entire adult life writing about.Feeling horribly old, I take the DJheadphones off for good.MotoRazr Maxx: the lowdownThis is one of the new breed of phonesdelivering light ning-quick downloads- think the diff erence between dialupinternet and broadband. How? It'sbecause of that High-Speed DownlinkPacket Access (HSDPA), which is thesuccessor technology to 3G. Thismeans that video calls are smoothand music downloads are practicallyinstant. The technology is graduallybeing introduced with other newphones, but the Moto Razr Maxx hasjust been launched and is one of thethinnest and most attractive around.It's also got Bluetooth, so you canlisten to your music wirelessly, and aMicroSD slot for expanding the 50MBmemory. Price: free with contractfrom &#163;30 a month, from MotorolaShop (08000 151151, motorolashop.co.uk).Susi Weaser
Sony has a lot riding on the PlayStation 3, to the extent that a Japanese analyst, Masashi Morita from Okasan Securities in Tokyo, says: "Sony needs PlayStation 3 to save the company," according toThe New York Times. The paper says:But before it can rescue Sony, PlayStation has to recoup its own development costs. The games division lost $369 million in the most recent quarter, which ended in September, because of the new console's development costs and marketing preparations, the company said.Sony will not disclose the total cost of creating the PlayStation 3, which has been in development for six years. But analysts say the sum reaches into the billions of dollars. Sony has revealed that it spent $2 billion on one major component alone, the high-speed Cell microprocessor, co-developed with I.B.M. and Toshiba.With such vast investments, analysts estimate Sony will have to sell 30 million to 50 million units just to break even. To be the sort of mega-hit that Sony needs, analysts say the new game console will at the minimum have to outdo its predecessor, PlayStation 2, which has sold 106 million units since 2000.That could be tough when the Xbox 360 has a year's start (or more -- the March 2007 date is not guaranteed for the European launch) and the Nintendo Wii seems to have wide appeal. The NYT article concludes:Natsuki Inoue, 27, said she thought only young male game fanatics would go for the new PlayStation. "This is a toy for men," she said, as a screen flashed an image of a woman in an iron bikini cleaving a dragon's head. "It's hard to imagine women or children wanting this. It's just too much."The Associated Press's Tokyo-based Yuri Kageyamahas also covered the launch.
Sony has finally shipped the PS3 in Japan today, albeit it only had 100,000 consoles to cater to a potential market of around 20 million units. BBC Technology hasPlayStation 3 sells out at launch. The Kotaku games blog hasmore than a dozen postson the queues as its reporter Brian Ashcraft picked up his pre-order: "59,800 yen later, the clerk hands me a blue bag with a PLAYSTATION 3 packaged up inside. My first impression? It's heavy."With Sony making a loss of around $400 per console, that's a $40 million hit for the first day.Meanwhile theBBC Technology pageis having a vote on the comnpetition, where the Nintendo Wii is at the moment beating both next-generation consoles.Which would you choose?Xbox 360 -- 39.25% PlayStation 3 -- 20.49% Wii 40.-- 25%12801 Votes CastResults are indicative and may not reflect public opinion
"If you were looking to learn something new, this week's Web 2.0 Summit was not the place to be. However, if you were planning to catch up, make contacts and swap business cards, then the Palace Hotel's grandiose hallways were where all the action was. It was rare to chat up anyone at Web 2.0 who had anything positive to say about the official content or news. The consensus seemed to be same old, same old; the reason to break out the checkbook and skip out on real work was to mingle," according toLiz Gannes at GigaOM."Much more so than last year, the event seemed like a get-together for a homogenous group of friends. The few outliers were treated as cultural exhibits."
Confession: I worship pixels. Ever since I can remember, I've been fascinated by video games. When I was a child, we'd go swimming each week at a nearby leisure centre, and I looked forward to these visits not because I loved swimming (which involved far too much chlorinated water burning your nostrils out for my liking) but because the pool was overlooked by a small gallery area housing a couple of arcade machines.By today's standards they were absurdly primitive, of course: hulking great boxes farting out atonal beeps while monochrome blobs representing everything from a Wild West shoot-out to a full-scale alien invasion fl ickered across their goldfi sh-bowl screens.Still, no matter how crude the audio visual representation, my imagination filled in the gaps. Computer games struck me as the most exciting things imaginable. Perhaps it stemmed from some megalomaniacal desire to stare at a TV set and control whatever action it depicted. Or perhaps I just liked blowing stuff up. Either way, I was hooked, and I've stayed hooked ever since.Early aff airs with Battlezone and Pacman led to a pubescent fi xation with the ZX Spectrum, which in turn begat the Amiga, then on to the Megadrive, the SNES, the PC Engine, the Neo Geo, the 3DO, the Jaguar, the... you get the picture. The moment any new bit of gaming kit launches, my wallet fl aps open. When people ask me which console they should buy, I always answer: "All of them." Why the hell not? After all, speaking in my guise as a so-called TV critic, I can confi dently state that games are markedly better than television. They're more immersive. Consistently more spectacular and surprising. The storylines and scripts are almost always utter rubbish, but that's part of their charm.Furthermore, as a medium, TV encourages you to switch off your brain and slowly coagulate on thesofa. Video games force you to stay alert. Furthermore, you control them. They start and stop when you like. There's no continuity announcer jabbering over the credits. Your intelligence is rarely insulted, but regularly challenged. There's more invention (and sheer joy) in a single level of any Super Mario platformer you care to mention than most TV series manage in their entire lifespan. PC shooter Half-Life 2 is a sci-fi action thriller; it's 10 times more exciting than the best episode of 24 (which I love). With increased connectivity, games are becoming less isolated, too. Many current titles offer seamless integration with an online world. Test Drive Unlimited, for instance, is an X box 360 driving game that simulates an entire Hawaiian island. It takes over halfan- hour to drive from one side to the other in real time; other players, zipping alongside you in traffic, can challenge you to an instant race just by fl ashing their headlights at you. It's a futuristic communal sandpit, and piddling about on its roads for an hour or so is far more social than slumping in an armchair watching Top Gear on your own.Still, it's not always fun being a 35- year-old games addict. Sometimes I'll be banging on to some disinterested party about how great, say, Dead Rising is (and it IS great: a George Romero zombie movie realised in hilarious detail) - when I suddenly realise they're regarding me with genuine pity.Apparently it's OK to be a sports buff , a movie buff , or a food buff ... but being a games buff still somehow offends society. People prepared to conduct tedious 15-hour analytical conversations about football or Kieslowski or the best place to find balsamic vinegar will have the audacity to call you a nerd for mentioning anything more obscure than Grand Theft Auto. Well, fuck your snobbery. Games are brilliant. Still, since I'm pre-programmed to buy almost every new release - I just have to - even I am sometimes embarrassed when approaching the counter. In a recent deeply pathetic incident, I found myself trying to pretend to a shop assistant that the copy of vomitously cute puppysimulator Nintendogs I was buying wasn't for me but for a fi ctional nine-year-old child. I could do without the recent spate of violent bling-'em-ups, too; embarrassing gangsta epics targeted at excitable adolescent boys (it's particularly frustrating when the gameplay itself is appealing; like trying to watch an entire OC box set because you admire the editing).Overall though, video games, like ridicule, are nothing to be scared of. Anyone who isn't hopelessly addicted should be regarded with suspicion. Don't like pixels? Think games are shallow? Shut up and learn to love the joypad.Gaming: the lowdownAt home, three new consoles vie for
your attention. TheSony PS3(out in
March) andMicrosoft Xbox 360offer
near-Pixar levels of visual fidelity,
broadband gaming and macho action
games (though the Xbox has better
games ). TheNintendo Wii(out in
December) ditches graphics perfection
for a controller that can be jabbed like
a sword, swung like a tennis racket or
steered like handlebars. If you want to
command armies or play a fantasy
hero in an online world surrounded by
thousands of players, PC computers
are perfect. Videogaming can continue
when you step out side : download 80s
retro arcade games to your Apple iPod
or play simplistic games on a mobile
phone . If you're serious, though , there
are only two options: the Sony PSP ,
essentially a handheld PlayStation 2 ,
or - for some original games - the
Nintendo DS Lite .Si Munk
There were around 30 posts on the blog this week, and you can read all of them on one page by clickinghere. For Bobbie Johnson's reports from the Web 2.0 conference, clickhereinstead. Otherwise, highlights include:Blogging is great, says Sir Tim(on Sunday)Tim Berners-Lee: setting the record straight(on Tuesday)Google will sell adverts in US newspapersMicrosoft will offer TV and movie downloads for Xbox 360Like.com is a cool way to do image searchWindows Vista Released to Manufacturing(andhere)Microsoft's Zune Challenges iPodYou've got four seconds....
Vodafone has set out its plans to expand into the highly competitive consumer broadband market. The mobile phone company's UK arm said yesterday it will offer broadband for &pound;25 a month from January 8 to Vodafone mobile phone customers. The "Vodafone at Home" package includes line rental, unlimited broadband access, landline calls within Britain and 25% off calls to mobiles.The launch marks a move into a cut-throat broadband market where Vodafone's mobile phone rivals Carphone-Warehouse, Orange and satellite television operator BSKyB have been battling for subscribers with high-speed internet giveaways.Its announcement follows news this week of falling new broadband customer numbers for BT and NTL. But analysts have long stressed that Vodafone needs to move into broadband to entangle customers the way its competitors are doing with multiplay packages.The Newbury-based group seems to be aiming to set itself apart from rivals with more reliable customer service, offering 24-hour free technical support."The way we are packaging and delivering Vodafone at Home ensures our customers get the best experience when they buy broadband," said Vodafone UK's Tim Yates. "With our managed roll-out and commitment to customer service we are confident that we will be able to manage demand."A carefully thought out launch will be important if Vodafone does not want to suffer the same public relations damage as done to Carphone's TalkTalk offer when overwhelming demand made it slow to connect new customers.Price comparison service USwitch said Vodafone's focus on customer experience highlighted lessons learnt from "free" broadband. "Vodafone has given a clear signal that it does not intend to follow in the footsteps of the 'free' broadband providers who have used price as a differentiator to acquire as many customers as possible in a very short time frame," said Steve Weller, USwitch's head of communications services.
MondayMore LiveTHQ goes massively multi-platformGamesblog tour hits BradfordTuesdayPSP yawnPS3 gorges on powerBeuna Vista - is creatve fragmentation the future?WednesdayCordially invitedGizmondo exec goes downXbox Live catches WormsThursdayPC gets its next generationE3 rises againPS3 and opiumBurning Crusade release date confirmedFridayPS2 does 40 mil in Europe
Canis Canem EditPS2After trading premature blows with tabloid hacks and the odd American nutter, Canis Canem Edit, the game formerly known as Bully, makes its British debut. You play Jimmy Hopkins, expelled from every school you ever attended and now confined to the authoritarian Bullworth Academy to be made into a respectable young pillar of the community. That translates as keeping the school's various factions in line, from the Preppies to the Greasers (it's unclear in which decade the game is set) while finding time to attend class and exchange saliva with girls and the occasional boy. Non-coincidentally, Canis Canem Edit looks and plays a lot like Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series, which means stealing pushbikes to explore the landscape of Bullworth town and discovering an array of distractions. Skool Daze: The Next Generation?&#183;Rockstar, &pound;40Need For Speed: CarbonPS2, Xbox, Xbox 360, PCFeaturing a wearyingly familiar blend of racing challenges, police chases and progressive car pimping, Need For Speed: Carbon is a game designed to forego any possible element of surprise in favour of delivering what pub staff refer to as the "usual". In line with fellow EA franchise FIFA Soccer, it's all highly competent, and apart from cut scenes that mix live action and computer-generated backgrounds, evoking uncomfortable memories of the original 1970s Lord Of The Rings film, this is everything you'd expect from a Need For Speed game, including ludicrous cheating from police and other street racers who will keep pace with you no matter how well or badly you drive. Better driving games include Test Drive: Unlimited; Project Gotham Racing 3; the Gran Turismo series and Super Mario Kart, and while longtime fans might find this instalment a slightly retrograde step from Need For Speed: Most Wanted, there are plenty of worse driving games out there.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;30-&pound;50Pilot AcademyPSPFlight simulator fans bereft of anything useful to do on long journeys (or at least journeys of three hours or less without a PSP battery charger) now have the chance to pretend to fly aeroplanes while using public transport. Unlike the soft-centred Pilot Wings, this is very much a stripped down simulator with the emphasis on caution and nuance of control rather than cartoon aerobatics. That means realistic flight physics, with the wages of reckless manoeuvres paid out in mission failure, which can be extremely irritating if the recklessness occurs at the end of an otherwise perfect 15-minute flight. Hampered by the PSP's unsubtle analogue joystick and play mechanics more suitable for a game you sit and play for hours, Pilot Academy will still appeal strongly to those in touch with their inner aeronaut, whether that be one that flies fighters, crop dusters or 747s.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;35
Mercedes GL 420 CDIPrice&#163;63,075Top speed142mphAcceleration0-62 in 7.6 secondsConsumption23.9mpg (combined)Eco rating0/10At the wheelPeter AndreTop gadgetBack-seat reclinersIn a wordInflammatoryWith its bulging bodywork and thigh-high tyres, the new Mercedes GL-Class sits just shy of the point where family cars end and monster trucks begin. It gives every appearance of having been built to patrol trouble spots under the flag of the United Nations, but, given that it is a seven-seat "luxury off-roader", it's a pretty safe bet that it will be pressed into service mostly to ferry the children of bonus-flushed bankers to and from the prep schools of Surrey.What an extraordinary moment to whip the covers off a bungalow-sized, up-tempo Land Cruiser with a grizzly, greedy engine (even the diesel version is about as frugal as Roman Abramovich) and town-bothering dimensions all round. Just when some sort of political consensus is building regarding the general wisdom, or otherwise, of sports utility vehicles and the sociability of their use in cities, Mercedes appears to have thought, "I know - let's wind everyone up by landing a really big one on them."As a result, one scratches one's head to think of a more deliberately obnoxious car. On the road, and even in places where SUVs are rife, it appears comically out of scale - a Corgi to everyone else's Matchbox. It flags up its indifference with a rare, nose-thumbing glee.Being an SUV, the GL offers its driver the traditional, contradictory amalgamation of lofty views and A-pillar blind spots in which you could practically conceal entire towns. And being a Mercedes SUV in particular, it has the usual prestige suspension - caramel-smooth at pace, but bouncy as a Kiddie Castle on speed bumps, pitching and yawing like a ferry in a choppy channel.Yet, above all, what one feels is expensively protected. Aloft in your leather cabin, and working the steering wheel like a novice bus driver, it certainly eases the mind to believe that your little ones would be spared not just the effects of an unfortunate suburban side impact but also the worst of a ground-to-air missile attack.At the same time, the chrome Mercedes badge on the GL's grille is frying pan-sized and, cutely, right at the height where the head would generally be on a standing four-year-old, so you'll have to square that with your conscience as best you can.Remember, also, that if Mayor Livingstone has his way, you won't be able to drive a car like this in the centre of London without someone running ahead of you, ringing a bell. And fair enough, really. In the wide open spaces of Montana, perhaps, I probably wouldn't want for anything smaller. Or even in areas of Britain where it might occasionally be necessary to clear a crouching sheep. In the rat runs of south London, though, I wanted to shrivel into my multi-adaptable electronic seat with embarrassment.No amount of high-end German cladding will prevent you from feeling, as it radiates in through the windows, the heat of resentment from your fellow road users. I toyed with hoisting a banner from my mean black GL's rooftop - "Just Testing". Those in the back were all right - saved from shaming exposure by tinted "privacy" glass which, I now see, has its uses.
The man who is taking over Bill Gates' day-to-day role at Microsoft admitted that it was taking him a long time to build authority inside the company.Ray Ozzie, who assumed the title of chief software architect this summer, said that the deference shown to Mr Gates had both helped and hindered him."There's a certain mythology around any leader, particularly Bill, who's a really talented guy," said Mr Ozzie. "He will always have an amazing level of soft power, and people want to follow him. The organisation reveres him and wants to do what he wants.""I've got to earn that followership and that takes some time."But Mr Ozzie said that his mission to reinvigorate the gigantic computer firm, which is being attacked by many competitors in different markets, was beginning to take hold.Last year a leaked memo from Mr Ozzie pointed out many of the company's failings, and he underlined the need to embrace the next generation of online services to successfully take Microsoft into the future.The memo caused uproar inside the software giant, but Mr Ozzie said the dust was beginning to settle."I could see that some people really got it with respect to the shift that the industry is in right now, and some people were heads down working on whatever they had," he told the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco. "I really felt the need to get a broader message across."He also talked of the reaction inside Microsoft to this summer's news that Bill Gates would step down in two years and hand over many strategic responsibilities."It more or less caused a bunch of people to go back and re-read the memo," he said. "I'm fortunate that Bill's given two years for this transition because people can see us together."Mr Ozzie, who has previously worked for IBM and has a history of building collaborative business software, took over as Microsoft's chief technical officer in 2005. This summer it was announced that he was advancing - a role previously held by Mr Gates - as the founder of Microsoft scaled back his involvement with the company.He was speaking to the Web 2.0 Summit, where delegates from some of the internet's biggest and brightest companies are gathered to discuss the future of the medium.&#183;Emailbusiness.editor@guardianunlimited.co.uk
"The Segway Personal Transporter (PT) x2 Golf is fun, easy to maneuver, and much smaller than a standard golf car. Special low-pressure tires barely disturb the turf and provide a smooth ride over a variety of terrain," saysthe Segway site. It comes with a Golf Bag Carrier Attachment and a Scorecard Holder.
"It looks like four seconds is considered the average cut-off mark now for getting something readable on the screen of your visitors, before they stop waiting and move on," saysBlogging Pro.The post has been prompted bya press release from Akami, based on a survey of retial sites by Jupiter Research. Blogging Por quotes as follows:Based on the feedback of 1,058 online shoppers that were surveyed during the first half of 2006, JupiterResearch offers the following analysis:* The consequences for an online retailer whose site underperforms include diminished goodwill, negative brand perception, and, most important, significant loss in overall sales.* Online shopper loyalty is contingent upon quick page loading, especially for high-spending shoppers and those with greater tenure.Of course, speed isn't the only thing that matters: it helps if your Web designer isn't an idiot, like whoever created the Akamai Web site. This siterequiresusers to have Flash installed in order to read a simple press release, which is the sort of thing the Web could well do without.Comment: Most of the sites I use seem to come up in four seconds or less nowadays, with high-speed broadband, but I reckon I allow at least 10 seconds. How about you?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sony announced yesterday that 40 million PS2s have now been sold to gamers throughout Europe, establishing the machine as the most popular console in European history. PSone managed a mere 39 million. Loser.The Sony press machine also produced another interesting statistic - PlayStation 2 now has over 2000 games available in Europe (and another 50 are due for release prior to Christmas). 2000?! Let's get some statistical feedback on that figure. Just answer the following questions:1. How many PS2 games do you own? 2. How many have you utterly and completely finished? 3. How many do you look at on your shelves and think 'why on earth did I buy that'? (feel free to name and shame) 4. How many have you hawked on Ebay, and what was the highest bid you've attracted? 5. How many - and which ones - do you think you'll keep so that you can show your grandchildren in fifty years time?
The Wall Street Journal's Walt Mossberg hasreviewed Microsoft's Zune, which appears on Tuesday. As you'd expect from a first generation device, it doesn't match the iPod, but Mossberg has plenty of good things to say. For example:On the plus side, I really liked the interface on the Zune. In some modes, it allows you to do things with fewer clicks than the iPod does. For instance, if you are browsing through music, you don't have to go back a step to switch from, say, a list of artists to a list of albums. Those choices are arrayed at the top of the screen and can be selected with a sideways push of the navigation pad.Also, the entire interface is more colorful and visually satisfying than the iPod's. Lists of albums are accompanied by thumbnails of their covers. Menus zoom in and out, and some are translucent. You can also select your own photo as the wallpaper or background for the device. But, unlike on the iPod, you can't customize the main menu or go to "Now Playing," or shuffle all songs with one click.Other negatives include the bulk of the device and limited battery life.Of course, Zune doesn't really challenge the iPod: it's just a way of establishing a presence in the market, particularly among Xbox users. And whereas Mossberg complains about having to pony up for $5 worth of Microsoft Points currency to buy your first 99c song, I expect that many early buyers will be spending Microsoft Points they already have in their Xbox Live accounts.Which is not to say that Microsoft isn't planning to challenge iPod in the long term, but it's not rational to think that what's taken Apple five years to build is going to be overturned in five minutes, or even five months. At the moment, Microsoft isn't playing to win, it's playing to find out if it's worth playing again.
An interesting afternoon of sessions here in San Francisco, featuringDigg, the news website,Marissa Meyerof Google and a discussion on the future of music. I'll round up briefly.Kevin Rosefrom Digg.com came on to tell everyone a little bit about what he's learned over the past couple of years. Things are fast; things are open; people try to game the site.One story - Donald Rumsfeld's resignation - went from hitting the front of Associated Press to the front page of Digg in seven minutes. Of course, however fast it got to the front of Digg, it still hit the AP first.They are opening the API to people so they can create flash skins for following the stream of stories and they're looking at ways of the "prescient users" (some might call them "editors") in order to improve the service.Google's woman with words,Marissa Meyercame on to tell us "a secret that Google's learned". She starts by explaining that a test which increased the number of search results threefold on Google's homepage - ie to 30 results - resulted in a 20% drop in searches.She says the lesson - which Google is now implementing across lots of other services - is that speed counts. Serving 30 results took twice as long, a whopping 0.9 seconds. People learn through iteration, and speed allows more iterations.I wondered if they couldn't take away a different message (though the data isn't there to confirm it, maybe if Marissa hangs around I can buttonhole her and find out more) - does it just mean that the search can be solved more easily by showing more results? Are they just finding what they want and notneedingto iterate? Of course Google doesn't like losing 20% of searches, but maybe if users are finding the answer to what they want more easily that's why they're searching less - not speed.Finally, a longer discussion between EMI'sDavid Munnsand the masher-upper of A Night At The Hip-Hopera,Eric Kleptone.The subject, really, is how do record labels and artists deal with mash-ups and remixes - which are happening increasingly online. Record labels want to control it but can't, some artists like them while some don't.The subject turns, in a roundabout way, to Creative Commons. I'm no lover of the worst excesses of the music industry, But there's something I've never quite heard a satisfactory answer to (and which I've asked before on this blog). If I choose a CC license which allows people to remix for non-commercial purposes - or even commercial purposes - that's great. But surely that also gives me the right to have my creation NOT remixed (all rights reserved, which is one of the CC options).In the case of Dangermouse and his famous Beatles-Jay-Z mashup The Grey Album, the Beatles said they reserved the right to stop the remix. They probably wouldn't change that even if Creative Commons was enshrined in law... so why does everyone always have a sharp intake of breath?Anyway, the ultimate response - and Munns looks a bit uncomfortable - is that the record industry needs to come up with ways to licence content so that rights holders can be compensated. But nobody quite knows how to do it - a subscription database of mashable content? Lines in every artists' contract? Let's see.Oooh, I'm in a cynical mood this afternoon.
It turns out rumours of a delay were greatly exaggerated. Blizzard has announced that World of Warcraft add-on,The Burning Crusade, will be released on January 16. It's no wonder Vivendi Games is keen to get it out there - the company has justannouncedits third quarter earnings, recording revenues of Euro182 million. That's 15.2 percent up on the previous year - mostly thanks to WoW.Fans will be able to opt for the standard release or a limited edition, which includes (deep breath):"...the Art of the Burning Crusade coffee table book, an exclusive in-game pet, a behind-the-scenes DVD, two World of Warcraft Trading Card Game starter decks and three exclusive cards, a map of Outland mouse pad and the official soundtrack CD."Exclusive in-game pet? Are there going to be night elves wandering the Blasted Lands accompanied by loveable labrador puppies? I really hope so.The company has also revealed that the subscriber base has now hit 7.5 million players worldwide, which means Azeroth now has a larger population than Switzerland.
You may haveseen thisin today's paper but Pat Kane - older readers may remember from him 80s croonsters Hue and Cry - writes an interesting, if overly negative, view of the games industry. While rightly criticising the militaristic content so prevalent in many games - dammit though if Call of Duty 3 isn't a blast on Xbox Live - he falls into the classic trap of assuming gaming can only be enjoyed to the exclusion of everything else. Accusing games of "interpassivity", Kane argues, "we surrender our personal adventurousness to these virtual proxies on screen." Interesting stuff though and proof that if gaming hasn't fully matured yet - Gears of War's stunning graphics/laughable characterisation is a case in point - the debate around them has.
It's the final day of the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco, but I've got some catching up to do.Last nightRay Ozzie, chief software architect at Microsoft and the man who is being handed the keys to the kingdom by Bill Gates spoke about the past, present and future of the Seattle giant.John Battelle kicked off the talk by asking Ozzie about the famousleaked memoin which he explained what Microsoft had to understand about the web if it was going to change. How's that change going?"It's going well," he replies, unsurprisingly. "It's a large organisation and there are many products." The response to his proposals was mixed; some got it, some were just working on their own products and didn't care. Funnily enough, he says, whenBill Gatesannounced his intention to step down and give Ozzie his seat at the table, people suddenly sat up and took notice."That more or less caused a bunch of people to go back and re-read the memo," says Ray. "The first time they said 'interesting'. The second time, they said 'hmmmmm'."Has that produced a significant cultural change at Microsoft? Don't ask me, he responds, ask the people who work there. You can't mandate change and it's not one person who makes it happen.But one thing Ozzie admits he has to contend with is theCult of Bill- the deference and respect shown to Gates."There's a certain mythology around any leader, particularly Bill, who's a really talented guy - he's very broad and very deep.""But the way Microsoft works, it's very rare that Bill gave an order and said 'go do this'," says Ozzie. However, "He will always have an amazing level ofsoft power... the organisation reveres him and wants to do what he wants."Ozzie says he's got to earn respect and authority, but that the fact Gates is going to take two years to make the transition will help."Will the organisation miss Bill? Absolutely."It was announced yesterday that Windows Vista was "released to manufacturing" - and he explained what that means. "When it goes out it won't be perfect, and it will be updated. There will still be missing drivers, but it's feeling really good. Is it perfect? No. It's software and it will have flaws."But the crucial thing, he says, is that the whole OS has been built with security in mind.And finally comes the G word. What does Microsoft think ofGoogle- and what does Ozzie, in particular, think of them? He starts off with a slight dig and then edges around the elephant in the room."They've taken what was pioneered by Overture and users have rewarded them," he says. "They're a force to be reckoned with for many people in the industry. There's immense opportunity in the core space they are in, in search: I'm surprised we haven't branched into it with different ways of doing search."He does say, however, that user focus is something that has served them well, and that he believes in it too.But they stayed focused on the user and this is something I very much believe in. However, he doesn't believe the web services model is going to work for everything, and points out that Microsoft can leverage existing customers if it does it right: "I don't have to go out and buy companies to acquire new audience," he says. "All I have to show them is that we get it."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
For David Hart, monitoring spam is a matter of atonement. The technician, formerly a consultant for a spammer, reformed a couple of years ago and started his own DNS blackhole list - a list of internet addresses that have been identified as spam senders. Volunteers at TQM3, including Hart, watch email traffic for likely spammers and constantly update the list, which is then available to systems administrators across the internet."There's a certain amount of guilt," says Hart. "I was wrong, and this is part of making amends for a profound misjudgment on my part."Recently he's been getting plenty of opportunities to redeem himself, thanks to the "tail" - a screen on his email server that shows all the IP addresses on the internet that are being added to his spam list. Normally, the tail twitches along at a steady rate, but lately, activity has exploded. "It's been scrolling so fast that it's been hard to keep up with it," says Hart. "Since the early summer we have seen a significant increase, and it has been reported elsewhere."The growth in spam is also showing up at companies such as Postini, which analyses internet traffic using its filtering system before delivering it to clients. "We're seeing growth in overall spam in terms of volume and relative percentage," says Postini founder Scott Petry. The company monitored nearly 70bn emails in September and October, and spam levels soared by 59% during that period. The company says that 91% of emails are now spam.Why? There is no single cause, say experts, but rather a confluence of unfortunate events. One of the biggest problems is that the main vehicle for spam - vast networks of home computers infected with malware, known as "botnets" - have been growing in size.These botnets have existed for about five years. They are created when worms or Trojan horse programs are used to infect a PC, taking control of it and forcing it to accept commands sent by a central controller. The commands, traditionally sent via a real-time online chat protocol called Internet Relay Chat (IRC), were initially used to force large numbers of bots to attack a target web site, flooding it with traffic in a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.Money-motivated operatorsDDoS attacks still happen, but bots are increasingly used to send spam emails, in effect acting as their own mail servers. In the 1990s, spam was mostly channelled via unprotected email servers online, used to send thousands of unsolicited emails anonymously. But then network administrators began locking them down.Now, spammers send email directly from home machines thanks to botnet operators who program them to become email servers and then sell their processing power and bandwidth. These money-motivated operators are honing their product, warns David Watson, who works on the UK Honeynet project (ukhoneynet.org), a non-profit research effort to track spammers' activities."Because of the high risk/reward ratio, the major perpetrators are upping their game and producing more professional and more effective cyber-scams on an almost daily basis," he says.Today's bots are infected with modular, kit-based software that can easily be upgraded and reconfigured to take advantage of new vulnerabilities discovered in Windows; botnets are almost exclusively targeted at Windows PCs."There are changes in command and control capabilities and a move to shorter-lived botnets that deliver their spam very quickly," warns Watson. "And the adoption of peer-to-peer communication will also make it harder for system defenders to keep on top." Marvel for a moment: botnet operators are people who have worked out how to upgrade the software on thousands of machines almost simultaneously without their owners' knowledge. It would be impressive if the effects weren't so deleterious.Botnet operators have in the past controlled infected machines from a single point. Today, advanced malware such as the Sinit worm (technewsworld.com/story/32602.html) uses the same techniques as peer-to-peer file distribution networks such as Kazaa, with infected machines forwarding instructions and software updates to each other. This makes botnets even harder to take down. And now that some botnets use encrypted communications, it's even harder for experts to monitor their controllers.Botnet operators are becoming smarter too about how they use the infected machines, explains Simon Heron, a director at security company Network Box. "In the old days, a compromised machine would start cranking out thousands of emails per hour." That would slow the PC down. "It became very easy to realise that you'd been violated," he says. But nowadays, operators send out smaller flurries of email from each machine, keeping them below the ISPs' (and users') radar. "Now that they're doing it in a more subtle fashion, it's difficult to realise that they've been violated," notes Heron.Rise of the botnetsHow can botnet operators maintain the overall volume of email while reducing the number of emails per bot? By increasing the number on the network. According to Dean Turner, senior manager of Symantec's Security Response team in the US, the company saw almost 4.7m new active bot network machines in the first half of this year. And Johannes Ullrich, chief research officer at the SANS internet Storm Center, which monitors online threats, saw the number of attacking client machines rocket from 770,000 on October 15 to 1,845,000 six days later.But why are botnets expanding so much now? One reason could be Stration (http://noc.net.umd.edu/cgi-bin/netmgr/whoami), one of the most aggressively distributed pieces of malware that Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at anti-virus company Sophos, has seen. The worm, which persuades users to install it by claiming to be a system patch, accounted for half of all malware seen online on some days, accoording to Sophos."It's constantly being refined to get past antivirus products," Cluley says, adding that there have been over a hundred new versions of the worm created in a single day. It mostly targets English-language speakers, Cluley says. "So, we're not seeing as many bots created in non-English-speaking parts of the world as we used to."But TQMCube's Hart is. According to his figures, large numbers of new bots are coming from Poland. "The spammers have really focused in on these developing technology countries that have a sudden burst of broadband," he says.Countries just beginning to roll out broadband often have large numbers of computers with older, unpatched operating systems ripe for infection. Take China, which is the largest source of botnet machines after the US. Research group Ovum says that broadband penetration in China has been growing at 79% a year for the past three years. Within the next 12 months it will become a bigger broadband market than the US, says Ovum.The types of spam being sent are also changing, warns Network Box's Heron. In particular, spam mail promoting cheap, penny stocks in obscure companies have grown in volume. Called "pump and dump" spams (It's the name on everyone's screen, Guardian Money, November 4), they work by sending false or outdated "inside information" to large numbers of people urging them to buy the stock, promising a leap in price. The spammers, who have bought the stock cheap, dump it on the market and pocket the difference.'Pump and dump' spam often uses embedded images, rather than text or HTML links, making it harder to spot, says Cluley, who believes many are being sent from Stration-infected computers."We've begun to see that overtaking the traditional spams" that sell performance-enhancement drugs, Heron says. "It must be giving a better return to the spammers." It is also a bad deal for victims, as the site spamstocktracker.com illustrates.Hart wishes that ISPs would simply block all unauthorised traffic on port 25, which computers use to send email.He argues that any port 25 traffic not destined for an ISP's own mail server and accompanied with an authorised user name and password should be rejected. However, neither of the UK's most popular ISPs, BT Retail and NTL, block this port, although they do scan for bot-like activities on their own network.But if botnet operators continue to send fewer mails from each bot, scanning for telltale activities may become more difficult - and experts worry that the mails could become more effective."Lower-volume target attacks are on the rise," says Watson. "Just like in the legitimate world, better market demographics and more targeted sales techniques can sometimes yield better results, and cybercriminals understand this."Building a database of more targeted information about an individual, such as where they work, and sending mail specifically to them will enable spammers to increase their per-spam yield.The trade-off for more focused spam will be the effort involved in gathering information about their targets, explains Heron. But just as legitimate markets evolve, so do illegitimate ones, concludes Watson. "One of the common opinions in the botnet tracking community is that in this particular arms race, the black hats currently have the upper hand."&#183; Stop the bots: how to keep a clean machineYou can check whether your machine has been listed on the internet's blacklists as a possible source of spam. First, find your present IP address athttp://noc.net.umd.edu/cgi-bin/netmgr/whoamithen try the set of four "triples" (eg 192.168.0.1) that yields at blacklist sites such as spamhaus.org/xbl/ or robtex.com/rbls.html.Another check for outgoing spam, if you have a router with a built-in firewall, is to turn on its log and set it temporarily to block outgoing traffic on port 25. Don't try to send ordinary email (though webmail and Gmail will still work, as they use different outgoing ports). If the router's log shows multiple attempts to send, you know something's amiss. If you suspect your machine has been infected by a virus or worm and is being used to send spam (or, as can also happen, to store stolen or illicit files or even to host phishing websites), the only surefire way to get rid of it is to wipe your machine clean and start again from your original system disks and most recent data backup. Try to get the latest system updates on CD and install them before you go online again; an unprotected PC can be re-infected before it has time to download the update files.Antivirus software isn't enough; the variety of bots and their rapid evolution means no single piece of software can root them out if you let them on your machine. That's why Windows users, especially those on broadband, should at the very least have a firewall, install Windows XP's Service Pack 2 and turn on Automatic Updates in Windows. Microsoft also offers the free Malicious Software Removal Tool (http://www.microsoft.com/security/malwareremove/default.mspx). Millions of people have benefited; will you join them?Charles Arthur&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Every week we get far more letters for publication and blog mentions than we can put in print. So here's the selection from which we chose...TANGLED WEB OF GOVERNMENTHaving worked on user experience projects for online government transactions I am not surprised with Michael Cross's conclusion that the e-national project has added a 'digital interface to that mess' (The tangled web of government, November 2). Ambitious targets for e-enabling transactions make great headlines but do not guarantee that the public would jump on the e-wagon and never look back. The key to successful e-government services is to ensure that the way the transactions are e-realised is aligned with users' needs and requirements. Simply providing an electronic version of a badly designed form does not make the process simpler or more bearable. An IT-centred process is not the solution to what clearly demands a user-centred approach. Throwing the latest IT solutions at the problem and making sure all the 'relevant offices [are] connected electronically' is certainly a challenge but one that still misses the point: it is the users' experience that all e-government solutions need to support and improve. This is the only way we can ensure that IT does not operate for the benefit of the institution but that of the citizen. Nikos Karaoulanis, Amberlight Partners, London&gt;&gt; I think Cross is missing something in his analysis: while Britons CAN do all these things it doesn't mean that they ARE all doing them. Last week we posted on the digital divide becoming more entrenched. Less than half of Britons have home access to the internet. E-government policy needs to address these issues instead of just improving the technology. They are starting to do this with the NHS electronic care records program road show but as we wrote last week it seems to be too little, too late. I'm not convinced that the citizens believe in the governments e-government program and more should be done on the engagement front.http://www.informationpolitics.com/archives/the-history-of-uk-e-government-policy/REVIVING THE DOCTORTerrific article but I'm amazed Guy Clapperton , a Who fan I'm sure , got the date wrong. The story was transmitted in 1968 ( November &amp; December ) not 1969. Michael McNamee, BBCThat was a nicely informative piece about restoring old TV programmes (Regenerating an original Doctor Who, The Guardian, 2 November) but the transmission year given for The Invasion was, sadly, wrong. It was actually shown in 1968 (2 November - 21 December, to be precise). Anorakly yours, John Bowman, Portsmouth[Indeed, it was 1968 - Technology Ed]POSTCODESFor users of Google Earth, there is a free network overlay available, that dynamically marks nearby postcodes for anywhere in the UK down to the fist character of the second group (e.g. SK8 6). Download it fromhttp://www.nearby.org.uk/google.html#7Jean Rosenfeld, Bryn-y-BaalGOOGLE'S OPEN SOURCE MANThanks for the interview with Google's Chris DiBona. It was so refreshing to see a substantial mention of open source and Linux! A few years ago I would wait impatiently for Thursday and IT items in The Guardian. Unfortunately this stopped a while ago now. It was approximately since I have been using only Linux on my various PCs at home. Ironically, this week I did not even bother to read the T section, so uninteresting has it become. For my interests that is. There is lot happening with Linux etc and my guess is that many of your T readers would find the 'open' landscape interesting, if not to their future advantage. Alan Cocks, Bracknell, Berkshire&gt;&gt; It looks like Google has joined the chorus of commercial open source developers with serious concerns about the current draft of the GPL Version 3.http://www.theactblog.org/article/63/google-joins-the-anti-gplv3-chorusNOTHING's IMPOSSIBLE, EXCEPT JOINING A WINDOWS NETWORK&gt;&gt; I never knew this stuff existed, but it looks like just the solution for networking up Tosh Towers which - despite its jauntily sloping walls and floors - appears to be solidly-enough built not to allow wifi waves to pass through happily from one end to the other.http://www.completetosh.com/weblog/2006/11/a_home_networki.htmlTECHNOBILE (BEING THE IT BOD)Brought back many memories of when I too was the de facto first-line PC support guy for most of my friends and family. As time went on, I realised that my time or expertise did not appear to be valued particularly highly amongst my associates. My accountant was notorious for calling me up with all sorts or IT-related problems that he felt that HE was too busy to be bothered with. Although I was expected to provide my expertise for free, there was no way that he would have reciprocated with a few hours of complimentary accountancy. Another friend who is an interior decorator was another regular 'customer'. God forbid that I would ever dared to have asked him to paint a door for me for free. Once I had seen the light, I let it be known that my services would be strictly provided on a barter system. The calls have all but dried up and I like to think that I've done my bit to empower my formerly computer-illiterate social circle. Kevin Barry, no post town givenFor years I have taught beginners' IT classes for trade unionists. At the end of week one, I ask every student to find out the hardware, software and personware they use. Personware? That's the person they go to when things go wrong. Everybody has to have one. Michael Pollitt (Technobile, 2 November 2006) knows this. It's interesting that, more often than not, Personware is not the person people aree told to go to, either at work or at home. Another illustration of how mad the world we live in is. Geoff Brown, Prestwich&gt;&gt; I don't work in IT, but I know my way around a computer. After just had my Firkin Friday lunch spoilt by my Mum asking me how open a word file without Microsoft Office (it was own fault, I told her to download NeoOffice - she hasn't installed an app in her life. She doesn't even know what the 'desktop' is!)http://macbore.blogspot.com/2006/11/i-dont-work-in-it-but-i-know-my-way.htmlLETTERS AND BLOGS (RECURSIVELY)OctOpus (Letters &amp; Blogs, Nov 2) is the sad get - he/she may like to eat MacDonald's, drink instant coffee and read Dan Brown alongside "most people" who "couldn't care less about the quality" of what they consume, but the minority who are passionate about quality should not be fobbed off with low standards of broadcast sound on DAB just because "the majority" aren't bothered, and Jack Schofield is absolutely right to make an issue of it. Martyn Cornell, Teddington&gt;&gt; Bizarrely, the first paragraph of my most recent rant about audio quality has appeared on the letters page of the Technology Guardian. Obviously a blog track-back as I didn't send it to them or anything. But hey - that makes me a tech blogger... ho hum.http://0ct0pus.livejournal.com/71616.html
Gamers around the world wept and gnashed their teeth when it was announced that the Electronics Entertainment Expo (E3) was to be sacrificed to the game event gods, leaving a gaping hole in Los Angeles' interactive calendar. Personally,I wasn't that bothered, but I know plenty of journos who were.Well, prepare to sing praises on high 'cause a new annual event is going to descend in Los Angeles from October 2007. From the makers of E3 comes GamePro Expo (working title), a conference for consumers by consumers. So a bit likeGame Stars Live, then.FromMCV:IDG has signed an exclusive deal with the ESA to run a consumer-oriented video games trade show. It will take place in Los Angeles in October '07Notably, this is going to be aconsumershow, which shifts the focus towards test-drives of forthcoming products, just before the biggest selling season of the year. Call me a cynic, but it's unlikely that there will be any news and/or exclusives at this new event. Those will probably be reserved for the other event replacing E3 held in Spring 2007, which is invite-only.[UPDATE: According tonext-gen.biz, punters who wish to attend the event will pay $100 for a 3-day pass, and will be able to buy software on the show floor. ViaMCV, again.]
I've been looking at the ultra-small, sleek desktop machines called Shuttle XPCs. A machine of this physical size, halfway between a midi tower and a laptop, would suit my needs admirably. My PC technician is very suspicious, citing possible issues arising from inadequate cooling leading to things such as premature component failure. Derek BanksShuttle has been making the XPC line since 2002, and several other companies including MSI and Asus make small "barebones" computers. Most of these are based on the Mini-ITX and microATX formats. Your technician is correct in pointing out that small cases can overheat and this can lead to erratic operation and component failure -- which applies to portable PCs as well as desktops. However, the problems are well known and smallform factor designs should generally avoid them. Shuttle, for example, typically uses heatpipes as well as fans.The main drawbacks of small-form designs are a possible lack of expansion space, depending on your needs, and the use of more specialised parts. For example, you are unlikely to get more than one 3.5in and one or two 5.25in external drive bays, and cheap standard desktop PC parts may not fit the case. However, parts suppliers are now making smaller components with greater capabilities, and external expansion is a realistic option (eg external hard drives), so it could be argued that large desktop cases are no longer required. Certainly the trend is towards small, stylish machines, particularly for use as Media Center and home theatre PCs, and they also have industrial and commercial uses. They are not quite mainstream yet, but I expect their popularity to keep growing.Backchat: Lewis Graham, Ken Baxter and others wrote in to say they were happy with their Shuttle PCs. Ken Baxter says: "It has made a major difference in the space available in my small study and doesn't need to sit on the floor sucking in dust."
Is there any Skype software for my Treo 600 phone, please? Clare NesbittThere is an 18-month-old petition asking Skype to support Palm devices at www.petitionspot.com, but there's no sign that it will. You could use EQO for Skype software (www.eqo.com), which connects a mobile to Skype but, as far as I can see, only via a PC. Also check out the iSkoot beta (www.iskoot.com). However, there may be better options. MobiVoIP (mobivoip.net) claims to have the first VoIP software for PalmOS, while UK-based Hampton Software offers Articulation (www.hamptonsoftware.co.uk).Backchat: Dave Beck says: "I have and use [iSkoot] successfully in the UK on my Treo 650. It has the signifi cant advantage over the two VoIP implementations you mentioned, Articulation and MobiVoIP, in that it only uses the data path (GPRS) to setup the destination of the call and uses normal 'local minutes' to carry the voice, no matter where the destination. Clare should ignore that the UK in not listed in the supported countries: my calls route via an 0208 number, automatically set when you configure the application. She can also look at Mino and Jajah."
Lithuania vs Azerbaijan has to be one of the least likely conflicts imaginable. But as attendees at the UN-backed Internet Governance Forum in Greece learned last week, never underestimate the internet's ability to throw up novel problems."First of all, in the name of all the Lithuanian delegation, I want to thank the Greek government for the hospitality of the Internet Governance Forum." So began the government of Lithuania's request last Thursday that it be allowed to host a meeting of the newly founded forum in 2010.It was with some amusement that just a few minutes later, the attendees at the packed conference heard Ilyas Naibov-Aylisli, representing Azerbaijan, say: "Mr Chairman, distinguished participants, the government of Azerbaijan officially offers to hold the Internet Governance Forum in the year 2010 in Baku."What made their tussle over hosting rights all the more ironic was that just 24 hours earlier not even the organisers were sure that the forum would last beyond the end of the week.Such has been the turnaround of an international conference that was both heralded by United Nations secretary-general Kofi Annan as a fundamental shift in global policymaking, and dismissed as "no more than a talking shop" by commentators. In the end, word came down that it was "an outstanding success".It could all have been very different. When guests arrived at the coastal resort of Vougliameni, 10 miles south of Athens, many confessed they had turned up only to see what would happen.The forum was largely experimental: instead of giving governments the last word, it put everyone together in the same room, gave them equal status and hoped that common interests would be enough to patch over cultural differences. Most controversially, the forum would not make decisions, so people would feel able to speak freely rather than have to defend pre-decided positions. This made it toothless and a waste of time, critics argued.It didn't help that the forum was born from bad-tempered negotiations at the World Summit in Tunis last year, when a number of countries insisted that the US hand over control of the internet's underlying domain name system. It refused.Ironically, the first major problem arose when twice as many people turned up at the main hall for the opening ceremony than security staff had expected; numbers had been capped at 800, a figure the organisers originally thought they were unlikely to achieve.The event was also hampered by the collapse of the venue's wireless network for the first two days, a lack of food and government officials who didn't take kindly to some of the robust questioning that came their way, including the Chinese - tackled for their content-blocking - and the Greek hosts, who were embarrassed by the arrest of a local blogger.By the last day, however, everyone had decided that the forum had come up trumps. A number of issues remain, but the fact that people were complaining after the event that they hadn't been asked to be panellists was seen as a huge vote of confidence.There were also some practical advances, despite fears that nothing of real value would come out of the four days. A determined effort by the OECD to create an international coalition to fight spam finally took off, a year after it had produced the most comprehensive report yet into the problem of unsolicited email. Another "dynamic coalition" of business (Sun), academia (Yale), standards bodies (W3C) and governments (Brazil) was formed to push open standards to governments across the world.A third coalition promised to look at gender issues; a fourth determined to set up an "Internet Bill of Rights" to be applied across the online world. Another was set up to raise funds for developing countries. Yet another promised to push access to knowledge and to protect freedom of expression online.In an online poll carried out during the conference, 57% said the event had been better or much better than they had imagined, with just 14% saying it was worse. Nitin Desai, the UN official who headed the conference, warned that the forum still had some way to go, and added: "In my country we have arranged marriages, and usually the first meeting between the boy and the girl, they are scoping each other out, so the conversation tends to cover everything."And at the second and the third meeting they start talking about more specific things. And it is some time before they actually start holding hands. So let's just treat this as a first meeting where people have just gotten to know one another and maybe it will lead to marriage."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: What brought you to Cambridge?Doug Richard:I was stuck in Texas, I'd sold a company and was wondering what to do next and my wife is Spanish and had studied in Cambridge, so it was there or Barcelona - Cambridge won. It's a great city and we love it there, although I'd have happily lived in Barcelona. When I got to Cambridge I looked to join the local business angels [seedcorn investors] group and there wasn't one, or at least there wasn't one like I was used to in America. So I formed Cambridge Angels.TG: How did you get involved in the BBC's Dragons' Den?DR:It was through Cambridge Angels. It's got some very high-profile talented Britons who were all approached but they were terribly British and thought they wouldn't want to do it. They approached me, and being American, I just said, "Me on TV, free publicity. Great, bring it on!"After two series, though, I was too busy with a company and I'd taken up the chair of the Conservative party's small business taskforce.TG: What's the atmosphere like within the Den? Don't well-meaning inventors get a hard time?DR:It's great fun to do, there's a lot of rivalry in that room because we're all competing for deals. Some of the entrepreneurs get a grilling if they're under-prepared, but what you never see is that the dragons can be given a hard time too.I don't expect people to feel sorry for the dragons, but several times they've done deals and then the person's had a better offer and so not taken the dragon's deal.I made two deals. One company folded, the other is still a "wait and see". The one I kick myself over is the guy who found a new way of growing truffles. It's the one deal I wish I could have got out of my chair and chased the guy down the street afterwards, but we're contractually obliged not to contact people outside the Den.TG: What do you think you'd have made of some of the big dotcoms that have sold for millions but didn't have a penny in profit to show for it?DR:If you mean someone like a YouTube, they'd have been snapped up. I'd have loved to have invested in them. It's not all about showing a potential investor you have money - it's showing them that you have something they'd want to invest in.Look at MySpace or YouTube and they had the one thing everyone wants - attention. We only have so much attention to give and if someone's getting a big slice of that, then they've got something very valuable for advertisers. What people forget with YouTube is that Google's stock shot up by more than the value of the YouTube purchase as soon as it was announced, so they can afford it. And it's a great site that's only going to get better.TG: You left the Dragons' Den to co-found Hotxt, which launched this spring. How did you get involved?DR:A friend I'd worked with in the past, David Whitewood, had the idea that social networking was going to go mobile. Young people love their mobile phones, they're always texting, and they love social networks and IM, but why should you be tied to the computer for some types of interaction - why shouldn't you be able to communicate from your mobile phone?TG: So Hotxt is a mobile extension to a social network?DR:It's many things and it's going to be many things more. We've just released the latest version and it allows groups of people to text one another as individuals or in groups from mobile to mobile or PC to mobile. You get unlimited texts between members for &pound;1 per week.We're about to go live with the social network People Party to allow its users to text people from the site and then from between mobiles.TG: Do people who chat on social network sites want to chat on mobiles too? If so, could they not just text one another, or use IM on a mobile?DR:We did some research recently and found nearly a third of social network users communicate with people they've met online through their mobile phone. The thing is, that's using their mobile phone number. We give people a nickname, just like Skype, so they can give that out and then block or accept other people without ever having to give out their mobile phone number.People could use IM but then you're paying the data charge for the connection and you could end up paying for the use of IM each month as well.TG: If Hotxt proves popular, is this not something the mobile networks could do?DR:Well, when I set up a company I never worry about what the giants may or may not do. The networks launch services but they're slow to offer interoperability because they don't want to share their audience with third parties.The thing the networks have to cope with is that nowadays they're just a pipe. Just as the telcos have found out with broadband, once something's popular it just becomes commoditised, it ends up like just another utility. People don't buy a Vodafone phone, they buy a Nokia or a Motorola handset they really like. They don't buy the network, it's just a pipe.TG: So you believe that Web 2.0 services will move to the mobile?DR:Yes, because it's what people use to communicate and it's always in your pocket. Telcos have seen revenue from fixed-line dialling plummet and the same will happen with mobile calls and data. Everything is gravitating to the mobile at the same time as control is moving away from the operators.Just look at digital cameras: they're going to be pretty much dead soon and replaced by mobile phone cameras. You've got to feel sorry for those guys in digital cameras, because how long did that industry last?TG: What are your plans for the rest of the year and next year? Selling Hotxt to a telco? Or should that be a "pipe"?DR:I'm not going to speculate on any exit strategy, though I'm sure we'd all enjoy a chat with a Microsoft or a MySpace or whoever.I'm going to be concentrating not just on Hotxt, but also on rolling out Library House in Europe. It's the company I set up which researches every privately backed company in the UK and we're going to do the same in Europe with it, which is going to be a huge task.&#183; Curriculum vitaeAge48EducationBA in psychology from the University of California at Berkeley and Juris Doctor, School of Law, University of California at Los AngelesCareer1986founded ITAL Computers1991founded Visual Software1996president and CEO Micrografx2000sold Micrografx to Corel2001moved to UK and set up investment group Cambridge Angels, and research company Library House2006co-founded Hotxt2006Honorary recipient of Queen's Award for enterprise promotionFamilymarried, with children&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Just in case the Microsoft media juggernaut has not already reversed its bulk into your headspace, the company has finally confirmed that Vista will be available to buy as a standalone or pre-installed product from January 30. Go the theofficial Vista websitefor all the details and a wistful picture of a woman in a chunky jumper looking out of a hillside - surely the personification of Vista's technology for everyone message.Why does this matter to Gamesblog?Well, as lots of PC game releases are now either Vista-exclusive (Halo 2, Alan Wake and theforthcomingPC MMORPG project from the Final Fantasy XI development team) or enhanced for Vista systems, it's important. Also, in some ways, Microsoft is treating this as a console launch, announcing several 'spotlight' titles - the likes of Hellgate: London, Shadowrun and Crysis - that will be released to coincide with Vista's arrival. The company has also developed a converter peripheral which will allow Xbox 360 controllers and other accessories to work on PC. Plus, we already now that Xbox 360 is a media extender, capable of accessing Media Center PC files via wired or Wi-Fi networks.Elsewhere, but entirely relevant, NVIDIA has launched its powerful GeForce 8800 graphics technology, the first to exploit the new features of Microsoft's DirectX 10 API. "The raw performance and visual effects of the new GeForce 8800 GTX is just going to knock your socks off," promises Pat Gelsinger of Intel, though I hope not literally as there may be public safety issues with such a feature. You can read more hyperbole in NVIDIA'spress release.So how will the performance of a Core 2 Duo Vista PC with a GeForce 8800 card stack up against a PS3? Frankly it is too early in the morning to contemplate. I'll come back to you later.
