"It's an idea that was popularized by Princess Leia's plea for help in Star Wars: sending a 3-D hologram. Now, two Japanese scientists have developed technology they hope will one day turn the humble telephone booth into a high-tech chamber for beaming holographic images,"APreports from Tokyo."At a Tokyo University laboratory, a woman stands inside a booth where a 360-degree digital camera surrounding her face sends data to a cylindrical tube. Soon, she appears to be staring out from the tube. Viewed from the side, only the side of her head is visible. Go round to the back, and only her hair can be seen."
"A survey of CEOs by the Financial Times and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) found Bill Gates still topped the list of most respected business leaders - and he's joined in the top 10 by fellow tech bigwigs Michael Dell at five, Carly Fiorina at eight and Steve Jobs at nine. It's the third year that the Microsoft founder has headed the chart," reportsZD Net.
While we haven't yet seen a Kiev-style demonstration outside the Guardian offices, the response to our Games of the Year 2004 poll has been fantastic. And now we have the big one - Console Game of 2004. Check out the nominations below, and let us know what you think. If we missed anything out, or included anything we shouldn't, then let us know. We'll then get the full list ready for voting to begin later this week. Also, don't forget to vote on thebest PC game of 2004and thebest handheld/mobile game of 2004The results of all three polls will be announced inOnlineon December 9.So check out our initial nomination list below for Best Console Game of 2004, and let us know your thoughts.Deus Ex: Invisible War(Xbox)Halo 2(Xbox)GTA: San Andreas(PS2)Pro Evolution Soccer 4(PS2/Xbox)Star Wars Battlefront(Xbox)Ratchet &amp; Clank 3(PS2)Fable(Xbox)Full Spectrum Warrior(Xbox)Donkey Konga(Gamecube)Chronicles of Riddick(Xbox)So go on, tell us what you think. Have we missed out your favourite console game of 2004? We'll take your comments on board and draw up the full nomination list later this week.
Among the many possible Christmas gifts available on eBay this year, lovers of fine food may want to bid for blocks of lard.Colette Forth, a 58-year-old mother of three from Warrington, Cheshire, is trying to cash in on the pre-Christmas shortage which has seen supermarket shelves emptying of lard as people panic buy the solid animal fat.Mrs Forth has bought as much lard as possible and is auctioning it on eBay.Lard is regarded by many as an essential ingredient for mince pies and roast potatoes. "I know it is not healthy," said Mrs Forth yesterday. "But it will make our Christmas roast potatoes taste better. I would have had to make pies with just vegetable fat."A national shortage of lard has been caused by demand in eastern Europe for the cheap   cuts of pork which are rendered to make lard.Since the enlargement of the European Union in May, countries such as Hungary and Poland have started buying meat from within the union to avoid paying charges on imports from other countries.The effect has been a lard shortage and prices are expected to increase. The Meat and Livestock Commission said the shortfalls could be traced to Poland and Russia.But a spokesman for Tesco said that although there was less lard available, it was working with suppliers to ensure customers were not affected.Sainsbury's said it was experiencing a lard shortage, although there were still deliveries and stocks in store. People were buying more lard than they would otherwise.None of the lard on eBay had attracted any bids last night.
Say it ain't so. I'm just back from a few days holiday and have got five messages from friends moaning about the online element to Pro Evo 4 on Xbox. Apparently people are quitting games if they are losing, so as not to upset their ranking score. If this is true than Konami have seriously messed up. FIFA 2005 awards a 3-0 defeat to players who quit out of games before the match is finished and this system seems to deter the cheats. I'm getting a copy of the game early next week, but in the meantime post here if you've had any good or bad experiences of Pro Evo on Xbox Live.
MyTravel, the country's biggest tour operator, has been fined by the Financial Services Authority for breaching City rules in 2002, during a period when it issued two profit warnings and found a black hole in its accounts.The company, which is fighting with bondholders over a restructuring plan, is appealing against the fine and refuting the FSA allegations.The result of the FSA investigation into the events between July and October 2002 were revealed in a trading statement issued by MyTravel yesterday.The company was informed of the fine for "contraventions of the listing rules" on November 4 and is now preparing to refer the decision to the Financial Services and Markets Tribunal, which hears appeals against regulatory decisions.The FSA would not reveal the details of the investigation yesterday, while MyTravel would not elaborate either.However, the period covered by the FSA investigation was a turbulent time for MyTravel, formerly known as Airtours.The FSA is thought to have concluded that the company misled the market about its true financial position after its first profit warning of the year was issued in May 2002.Tim Byrne, the chief executive, lost his job in early October 2002, two weeks before the company revealed it had found a black hole of &#163;50m in its accounts. Two years on, the company's financial position is still precarious. This week the high court backed its plan to restructure, only for the bondholders to warn that they would be appealing.The Civil Aviation Authority is threatening to take away its operating licence unless the company puts its finances in order by the end of the year. In yesterday's trading statement MyTravel said it had a "good prospect" of implementing its business plan if the restructuring could be approved.The company said its trading for the 2004-2005 winter season was "encouraging" and Britain was "improving". It intends to cut the number of aircraft in its UK fleet to 24 from 33.The details were issued yesterday ahead of an extraordinary meeting to be held on December 20 to ratify the restructuring, under which shareholders would retain 4% of the share capital while bondholders would get 2%.
A Tory frontbencher and a leftwing trade union leader yesterday called for a review of government IT contracts after the Department for Work and Pensions computer fiasco.David Willetts, shadow secretary for the ministry, said problems were "more serious" than the government admitted after this week's collapse of 80,000 desktop machines and delays to amending and processing new claims."They have been very reluctant to tell us what happened. They said the problems were intermittent but they were more serious than that," said Mr Willetts.Mark Serwotka, general secretary of the Public and Commercial Services (PCS), the biggest civil service union, said: "We would urge the government to think again and   will be calling for a full inquiry into what is becoming yet another IT disaster."Downing Street insisted the system was virtually back to normal after engineers worked round the clock all week to correct a blunder that left screens blank and forced staff to write some giros by hand.A No 10 spokeswoman said the incident had been "blown out of all proportion" but one computer expert insisted it was a "pretty spectacular failure". PCS called it Whitehall's biggest ever computer crisis.The DWP alone spent &#163;412.5m on computer consultants and equipment in the last year and the government's electronic revolution has been marred by a series of disasters including an expensive system in the Child Support Agency that contributed to only one-in-eight lone parents receiving the correct awards.Alexis Cleveland, a senior DWP civil servant, said some benefit claims would be delayed."We had a problem with an upgrade across the network of computers that have been put on people's desktops," she told BBC radio. "A small change went wrong and this meant that about 80% of our network was not able to link to the benefits system."Support for union calls to halt 104,000 civil service job cuts until new computer networks have been thoroughly tested and proved reliable received the unexpected support of a body of experts who advise ministers.In its recent annual report, the Social Services Advisory Committee recommended a stay of execution for thousands of threatened staff. "In our view, it would be much less risky to have any reduction in staff numbers following a successful roll-out of new systems and processes," the group said."From what we have seen from our visits, there is currently little slack in the system, and a fair number of pressure points, especially within the   more complex areas of benefit decision-making and assessments."Ministers are poised to embark on a number of hugely expensive systems including the &#163;3.1bn biometric identity card scheme advocated by the home secretary, David BlunkettThe cost of a &#163;6bn NHS project to allow patients to book hospital appointments in doctor's surgeries could soar to as high as &#163;18.6bn, according to one estimate.Mr Serwotka said: "If this had happened two years down the line once the government had axed jobs we would be looking at a very dire situation.""What people have got to remember is that this isn't a case of a catalogue order you have placed going wrong because of a computer failure, but important things that people rely on such as pensions, benefits and getting into work."We would urge the government to think again and will be calling for a full inquiry into what is becoming yet another IT disaster."
QXL Ricardo, the internet auction site, ended its extraordinary five-year run on the London Stock Exchange with a recommended offer worth &#163;12m, compared with its value of &#163;2.5bn at the height of the dotcom boom.The deal is a management buy-out led by the chief executive, Mark Zaleski, and the finance director, Robert Dighero. At 700p, it is more than double the 320p price prevailing two weeks ago, immediately before the company said it was in takeover talks.Mr Zaleski said he did not know why there was such a premium on the share price.The funding is being provided by Great Hill Partners, a Boston-based private equity firm which invests in smaller companies.The chairman, Jonathan Bulkeley, and his business associate Robert Montgomery are also backing the bid.The management hold around 1.5% of the company, although their stake will increase if it is taken private.Directors deemed as independent, including the former chief executive Jim Rose and Tom Power, recommended the bid to shareholders. However   the share price only rose to 675.25p, well below the offer.QXL has been loss-making since its inception in 1997 when Tim Jackson, a journalist, set up the business. At its last set of results, it had less than &#163;1m left.Mr Zaleski said QXL was not in desperate need of cash, but it would be easier to raise funds if the company came off the stock market. "We are a fledgling company that is trying to grow and in order to grow we need capital and that costs a lot," said Mr Zaleski.QXL was valued at around &#163;220m when it floated at the end of 1999 on the stock market as the internet bubble was just about to expand at an extraordinary rate.In 2000 it bought Ricardo, a German rival, for more than &#163;600m. It still has operations in France, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium, although there is a dispute over the ownership of its Polish subsidiary.Mr Zaleski said that there were no closures planned after the company is taken private, although the only profitable parts of the business are Scandinavia and Switzerland, where the company has a market-leading position. Elsewhere, eBay leads the pack.
Something strange is going on at car dealerships. The price of cars has fallen steadily, while the cost of servicing them has risen rapidly.It's now not uncommon to be quoted labour rates in excess of &#163;100 an hour and one BMW garage in central London was recently exposed for demanding more than &#163;150 per hour - the same price charged by some Harley Street medical specialists.Many new car buyers worry (incorrectly) that their warranty will be invalidated if they use a non-franchised dealer, or that the service will be sub-standard. So Jobs &amp; Money hunted down the alternatives.Non-franchised garages:Since October 2003, there has been nothing to stop   buyers using non-franchised garages to service a new car. Provided the service is carried out to the same standard offered by the dealer, the manufacturer is required to honour the warranty.However, a recent Trade &amp; Industry select committee investigation into car retailing concluded that few motorists have actually done it. It also found some manufacturers asking garages to invest in &#163;30,000 worth of equipment before they would give them "authorised repairer status".So what are the options? If your car is still within its warranty period, you can use an independent garage, but you may face a protracted row to get the manufacturer to pay up should you need to make a claim.If you can't face the hassle and you choose to stay with main dealer servicing, it's worth noting that servicing costs vary hugely around the country. Scotland enjoys the UK's lowest servicing bills - 60% cheaper than in the south-east of England - so if you're visiting the glens, get it done while you are there.Main dealer servicing prices vary even within the same county or city, so shopping around is always worthwhile. And there is nothing to stop you servicing your car in France while you are on holiday - particularly if it is French - and you'll pay just 40%-50% of the UK price.Once the car is out of warranty, there's little point in continuing to pay main dealer rates. The Office of Fair Trading recently concluded that the average price of main dealer servicing is &#163;199, while independents charge &#163;116 "but with no apparent difference in the quality of service received". The   obvious answer is to find a trusted independent. The best are passed on by word of mouth and usually have long waiting lists, but what if there isn't one in your area?Management schemes:For the payment of an annual membership fee of &#163;24, a new company will negotiate and control all your servicing and other repairs. Car Doctor claims it can cut motorists' costs by up to 40%, and it "removes the need to deal with a garage ever again".Once signed up, the customer calls the company to stipulate the work they want down, including MOTs, and Car Doctor will quote a price they will stand by. A member of staff then collects the car and takes it to the nearest garage in the Shell National Service Network, which carries out the work. The car is also cleaned before it's returned to the customer.Car Doctor says it can save the money because it knows exactly how long each job takes, and the true cost of parts. It says it uses the same computer programmes developed by managers looking to control the servicing cost of company car fleets."We are seeking to remove that lottery, take away the inconvenience and add in guarantees in terms of service and quality," says chairman Keith Merrett.To test the company we asked it to quote to service   an Alfa Romeo 156 estate &#91;for no other reason than the editor drives one&#93;. After being passed through three different departments of Car Doctor we were eventually told that it couldn't give a quote for any work until we became a member.Undeterred, we asked Kevin Finn, the National Service Network's MD to quote us the cost of a full service and MOT. He came back with a price of &#163;187. The &#163;24 membership would be extra.We then rang the nearest Alfa main dealer, which was certainly a test of resolve. It quoted a total of &#163;312. A well-regarded Alfa independent specialist quoted &#163;217 for the service alone - MOTs are around &#163;40 in London.By the time you have added the joining fee, the Car Doctor price was only slightly cheaper than the specialist, and it is a concern that consumers can't (currently) get a quote before they sign up.Virgin Cars offers a similar, negotiation-only service which is free to those buying its cars - although given its recent poor publicity on TV consumer programme Watchdog, that may not be enough of an incentive to buy a car from the firm.Another (insurance) company called Motoreasy offers a one-stop-shop including a mechanical warranty, servicing, an annual MOT and   breakdown cover - including in Europe. It starts at &#163;29.99 a month (no interest is applied) or &#163;360 a year for the smallest car, doing the fewest number of miles each year.In keeping with the other servicing plans, its staff arrange for the service to be carried out at one of its 600 garages around the country. In our survey it wanted &#163;460 a year to cover our three-year-old Alfa which travels just 6,000 miles a year.Having looked at its terms and conditions, most drivers will be better off buying these services individually - there is no shortage of warranty get-out clauses, and the company will only cover cars up to 10 years old or with fewer than 110,000 miles on the clock.Shoddy work revealedThe consumer body Which? recently went undercover in the nation's garages and discovered that three-quarters didn't do a good job. Its researchers found garages carrying out unnecessary work, missing basic faults and shoddy workmanship.It reported that a quarter of   garages tested tried to charge for work that wasn't required.It should be noted that the survey looked at all garages - main dealers as well as independents - it certainly highlights the problem that consumers with little mechanical expertise face.
Metroid Prime 2: EchoesGamecubeBefore poor old forgotten Lara Croft and pumped-up floozy Blood Rayne who made a peculiar recent appearance in Playboy) there was Nintendo's Samus; a female star without disproportionately large breasts, whose body armour fully covered her modesty. As well as standing alone against selected patronising stereotypes, the Metroid series in which Samus stars deserves recognition for its dedication to quality control. Echoes is the second 3D instalment and comes with the same dizzyingly vast maps, intricately layered terrain and bestiary replete with life forms that can be scanned using your armour's special visor for details of how to snuff them out more efficiently. With less emphasis on backtracking than previous outings, this also adds a four-player mode and some tasty new weapons. Epic space adventure without the pitiful simulated cleavage shots. What a relief.&#183;Nintendo, £40Legend Of Zelda: The Minish CapGame Boy AdvanceZelda games love presenting you with a world within a world - The Minish Cap lets you shrink to the size of the tiny yet legendary species, the Picori. Naturally there's also a selection of multi-purpose items to find and experiment with. Puzzles are once again demanding but logical, leading to a typically magical and memorable quest to restore good to the land of Hyrule and rescue Princess Peach, rather inconveniently turned to stone at the beginning. From the myriad little distractions to the subtlety of its pacing, this could only be substantially improved by being a bit longer.&#183;Nintendo, £30Demon StonePS2, XBOXEternal battles, dark forces, sinister elves and the voice of Star Trek's Captain Picard - with a name like Demon Stone you know what you're signing up for. Playing as Rannek the fighter, Illius the wizard or Zhai the rogue, your job is to clean up screen after screen of feckless enemies in a series of numbingly dull encounters. Even the plot (written by bestselling author RA Salvatore it says) is so hackneyed you'll scarcely be bothered to listen to the dialogue that bookends each scene of tedious slaughter. With fights taking monotonously similar paths, having to play as anyone other than Rannek is futile. If you like killing ogres, EA's Lord Of The Rings series does it all a lot better.&#183;Atari, £40
Shamelessly stealing the idea from Roger Avary's Rules Of Attraction, 2003 (www.tomatopatch.com/2003) shrinks one man's entire year of kebabs, sex and travel down to two minutes and 37 seconds. Small ideas like this wouldn't work on TV but on the internet they're great.Fellowship 9/11 (www.fellowship911.com) which spoofs Lord Of The Rings and Fahrenheit 9/11 and features Michael Moore discovering a conspiracy theory in middle earth, is another online hit and evidence of the amateur short film boom. Among the portals where these movies are shownwww.ifilm.comleads the way, followed bywww.filmwatcher.comandwww.reelmind.com.There are also hundreds of great shorts atatomfilms.shockwave.com- we recommend a search for In God We Trust, Larry and Lunch - the story of a man who enjoys eating edible underwear in his staff canteen.
Is it really Friday again? Hoorah! Time to dig in to another digest of gamesblog delectables. If you missed the games-related taste sensations at any point this week, crunch on these:MondayJFK murder "game"JFK game attracts controversy. But is this the future of news reporting?One third of gamers prefer retro consolesTuesdayThey thought of Stars - gaming looks inward for celebrity appealWednesdayTop ten "most violent" undermines the good games can doThe world is Sensible againThursdayNintendo DS first impressionsMobile and handheld games of 2004 competition!FridayNintendo goes onlineIt may be blog-light, but these morsels are worth the crumbs.
Gamesindustry.bizreports that, as anticipated, Nintendo has plans to go online over the next three years, with the handheld Nintendo DS "leading the way".In an interview with Japanese gaming magazine Famitsu, Shigeru Miyamoto, the Director and General Manager of Nintendo Entertainment, Analysis, and Development (as well as creator of Mario, Zelda and Donkey Kong), alluded to an online gaming future with the help of Final Fantasy creators Square-Enix.The information about online capabilities are limited at present to the handheld, with no information about Nintendo's next generation home console, provisionally titled Revolution.This announcement has been expected for some time, with rumours flying before the DS' US release about its wireless capabilities. However, will this games-only machine be able to compete with the total entertainment promised with Sony's PSP or the communication components of forthcoming mobile phones? Do wereallyneed everything in one, or is play enough?
"An Indian funeral house plans to bring people separated by distances in life closer in death, via the Internet. The century-old crematorium, run by local authorities in the western city of Baroda, is creating a Web site to webcast funerals live to relatives and friends of the dead who are too busy or too far off to make it in time," reports theIndian Express."The Web site, tentatively called www.mokshadham.org -- the Sanskrit name means abode of salvation -- is expected to be operational by June next year, said Jagdish Thakkar, an official at the local Rotary Club which is helping build the site."
"Japan's dominant wireless operator, NTT DoCoMo, has reached a basic agreement to offer its popular i-mode mobile internet technology to mmO2 , a source close to the matter says."With its i-mode services already offered in such countries as Germany, France, Italy and Spain, Britain has been the last major European market where i-mode has no presence,"Reutersreports from Tokyo.
The huge popularity of online music downloads could save the ailing singles market, the music industry claimed today as it revealed digital tracks would be added to the traditional top 40 early next year.Sales of singles have collapsed in recent years as the charts, once considered the true measure of success in the pop world, have been devalued by heavily hyped one-hit wonders, advance radio play, high prices and the impact of online piracy.The latest quarterly figures from the British Phonographic Industry, released today, showed sales of singles were down again in the third quarter of the year, falling 12% on the previous quarter.Compared with a year ago, the value of the singles market has fallen by nearly a fifth to £12.4m.But the BPI said the market for legal downloads had rocketed during the same period, fuelled by the popularity of digital players such as the iPod and the launch of user-friendly online stores from the likes of Apple, Napster, Tesco and MyCokeMusic.Around 1.75 million download tracks were purchased during the quarter, compared with 7.3 million singles. And download sales, currently running at around 250,000 a week, are expected to accelerate around Christmas time as thousands of digital players are received as gifts.Had digital sales been added to the overall total, the market would have shown a 9% increase on the previous quarter rather than a 12% decline."The level of legitimate downloading in the UK clearly demonstrates that consumer demand for music on a track by track basis remains strong," said Chris Green, the BPI's research director.Record labels will also point to the fact that the increasing range of music on offer online is leading to 40,000 different tracks being downloaded each week.The hope is that the popularity of online sales, and their broader customer base, will lead to a more diverse range of music in the charts and an end to the phenomenon of tracks entering the upper echelons of the charts one week before dropping out altogether the next."With the industry continuing to invest in new British talent whilst embracing the opportunities provided by new technology there are strong indicators that the market vitality will only get better," said the BPI chairman, Peter Jamieson.Among the biggest selling CDs of the quarter were Keane's Hopes and Fears, the Scissor Sisters' eponymous debut album and A Grand Don't Come For Free by The Streets.The BPI said download sales, currently recorded in their own chart, would be integrated into the top 40 by "early next year".As well as the popularity of the new format, the singles chart is also being helped by the revival of the humble seven-inch single.Helped by the popularity of guitar bands such as the Libertines, Razorlight and Babyshambles, the seven-inch recorded its eleventh consecutive quarterly increase in sales, with annual sales of the format topping 1 million for the first time since 1998.Mr Jamieson said the figures, which show an increase of 2.7% in the year to the end of September 2004 compared with the previous year, were positive for the music industry as it battles back against online piracy.CD album sales were down slightly on the corresponding quarter in 2003 but remained up 2.7% in the 12 months to the end of September, compared with the previous year. The release of new albums from big selling acts such as U2, Eminem and Westlife are expected to boost sales figures to record levels in the final quarter.The overall music market in the UK was worth £244m in the quarter to the end of September, compared with £248m a year earlier. But annualised figures show an increase of 2.7%, up from £1.187bn a year ago to £1.218bn.The figures also show the impact of the increased popularity of DVD music videos, with those from Oasis, Elvis Presley and the Stone Roses among the big sellers during the quarter. Music DVD sales were up 41% on the corresponding quarter last year to £9.1m.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A European Union judge said he will continue to take into account testimony from former complainants in the EU's antitrust case against Microsoft, even though they had withdrawn support for the case.Judge Bo Vesterdorf said he would give a decision on whether to suspend the EU   order for Microsoft to change its business practices and pay a &euro;497m (&#163;320m) fine by Christmas.Computer firm Novell and a Washington-based trade group, the Computer and Communications Industry Association, pulled out after reaching deals with Microsoft on November 8. All sides agreed yesterday their testimony would stand.Microsoft said the strategic changes by the two companies should not affect the case as such. "Existing testimony cannot be struck from the record," said Microsoft spokesman Tom Brookes. He said Microsoft had never approached the companies with that in mind.
Fixed addressI have been very happy with my broadband provider but I am going to need a fixed IP address, which I don't have. Where can I find one?Carolyn GeorgeJack Schofield replies:Almost all broadband ISPs can provide fixed IP (Internet Protocol) addresses, if they want. However, it generally has not been an advantage unless you want to run a server, and historically, some ISPs have tended to regard that as a "professional" requirement or otherwise beyond the scope of a home user contract. There is a list of British ISPs atwww.solwise.co.uk/isp_list.htm, which often mentions whether or not a fixed or static IP address is supplied or available. Either way, you should discuss your needs with your ISP, which suggests you might well be better off with one of the smaller, friendlier operators such as Merula (www.merula.net), Wizards (www.wizards.co.uk) or Zen ADSL (www.zenadsl.com). All of these supply fixed IP addresses.Parental supportI have just discovered LogMeIn (https://secure.logmein.com). This free software allows me to remotely view, access and control my parents' PC, so I can provide online support without having to make a two-hour trip up the M1. Does this tool compromise my mum's PC (Windows XP SP2) in any way?Dave JonesJS:LogMeIn uses SSL encryption and password protection so it seems to be    as safe or safer than most of the alternatives, and well worth the minimal risk. The limited free version is attractive compared to GoToMyPC or LapLink Everywhere, and there is also a version for Pocket PC handhelds. Of course, Windows XP already includes a remote assistance feature: go to Start|Programs and select Remote Assistance. The catch is that Windows XP Home can only work as a client, whereas XP Pro can be a client or a server. For details of how to use XP's remote assistance feature, seewww.wown.com/j_helmig/wxprmass.htm. If your mum is running XP Pro, you can use Microsoft's Remote Desktop Connection client to maintain it from any version of Windows from Windows 95 on.Firefox cacheI installed Mozilla Firefox last week after reading Online, and I am generally very impressed. However, I cannot find the browser cache on my hard drive.Jamie GrahamJS:Look under C:\Documents and Settings\&#91;username&#93;\Application Data\Mozilla\Firefox\Profiles\.Laptop upgradeI would like to replace the 20GB hard drive in my two-year-old Fujitsu-Siemens E7010, but when I asked FS support, it gave me a list of pretty old and crap drives that are certified.Giuseppe VeltriJS:Companies rarely want to spend money testing and certifying new drives for obsolete notebooks, so if you want to install a bigger, faster hard disk, it is a venture into the unknown. Logically, a new drive should work, though perhaps not at its optimum performance. Before you buy, however, check the size of the new drive (particularly the thickness), where the screw holes are, the power requirements and the notebook's Bios support. You should be able to re-use the caddy and interface    adapter, if any, from the old drive. As you appreciate, even if it works, there is a risk of overheating, so a modest upgrade is probably safer than a dramatic one. There are lots of good links on repairing and upgrading notebooks attuxmobil.org/ disassembly_laptop.html.Flash gameI tried to download BBC's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy game, mentioned in Web Watch. However, I only got an empty frame with a box that held a small red square, a blue triangle and a green circle.John MitchellJS:The BBC's Hitchhiker game (www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/hitchhikers/game.shtml) has been written for Macromedia's Shockwave Flash player. You can download the latest version 7 player from the Macromedia site atmasl.to/?V6BB2226.Backchat&#183;Last week, Simon Booth mentioned a Novatech Barebones system. Ian McRobert says he bought one in June, and found it "very bare: it doesn't even include a case fan. Second, the case front sockets (USB, Line In, headphones) were not connected to the motherboard and I was only able to connect the USB socket myself. Third, their customer service sucks. Novatech's prices are tempting but sometimes you only get what you pay for..."&#183;In the same item, I mentioned that cheap PCs, eg Dells, also included a copy of Windows XP in the price. Peter Sommer adds: "If you buy a bare bones unit, you'll almost certainly qualify for an original equipment manufacturer (OEM), as opposed to an end user, licence for the operating system - &#163;64 inc VAT as opposed to &#163;180 for XP Home SP2. You'll ... get a full version of XP and not just a 'recovery' disc."
Sun Microsystems announced last week it was going to offer its new Solaris 10 version of Unix free next year, and will also make it open source. These moves, says Sun, will make it directly comparable with Linux. It will also launch a Linux Application Environment (LAE), so you can still run your Linux programs on Solaris.Solaris should then win because it is technically superior to Linux, more innovative and because, as Sun UK's software director Arlene Adams says, "we'll be able to prove that Solaris is cheaper to run than Linux".These are dramatic moves on Sun's part, but the company is under attack. About 15 years ago, "open systems" Unix running on new Risc (Reduced instruction set   computer) chips was the hot ticket in corporate IT. The combination offered a cheaper and faster way of processing data than proprietary minicomputers from IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Wang, Prime, Data General, Digital Equipment Corp (DEC) and many others.Today, however, some companies are keen to get rid of them. First, they reckon Risc/Unix systems are more expensive to buy and maintain than clusters of cheap Intel servers running Microsoft Windows or Linux. Second, they failed to deliver much of the promised freedom. Companies did benefit from not being locked in to proprietary minis, but came to feel they had been locked in to proprietary versions of Unix. Now they want out.Windows is still expanding its share of the server market, and Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief   executive, now has programmers working on ways to make it easier to move from Unix to Windows. However, since Linux is basically a clone of Unix, switching from Unix to Linux is a much simpler proposition, and enables technical staff to re-use their Unix skills.Ease of switching has made Sun's customer base a prime feeding ground for companies selling Linux. This is particularly true for Red Hat, which offers the leading version of Linux for serious corporate use. Sun is simply fighting back, but it still looks exposed.There used to be four major Risc/Unix server vendors: Sun, IBM, HP and DEC. This has shaken down to two giants, IBM and HP (incorporating both DEC and Compaq), and one much smaller company, Sun.Further, IBM and HP already have huge businesses selling   Windows on Intel boxes, and have spent years building up their Linux businesses. If a customer wants Risc/Unix, Linux, Windows or even a proprietary system, IBM and HP can still do the deal. Sun can't.Sun is trying to extend its range by putting some weight behind its marketing of cheap Intel-compatible servers, particularly 64-bit Solaris running on 64-bit AMD chips. But its faith in its technical superiority may be misplaced. Technical merit didn't help the FreeBSD and OpenBSD versions of Unix (which have the same roots as Sun's version) stave off the growth of Linux over the past decade. Linux has momentum: they don't.In the end, I suspect Sun will probably lose, because Linux is fashionable. Solaris isn't.
Claims that Ed Black, one of Microsoft's most vociferous opponents, has pocketed millions of dollars in a settlement with the software giant will be greeted with fury by the company's opponents.A $20m (£14m) payment to Black's employer - the Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA) - was made public earlier this month. The CCIA has been one of the fiercest critics of the company's behaviour during the lengthy series of legal challenges it has faced, so the settlement was met with some surprise.Surprise turned to disbelief yesterday when it was alleged that Black was then given some of this money (estimates range from $2m to $10m), with the approval of the CCIA's board, although without the knowledge of Microsoft itself. Black has yet to deny the claims.It is a remarkable turn of events after years of often-acrimonious struggle between the CCIA and Microsoft. Black has been a figurehead for resistance against Microsoft, calling the company "a rapacious monopoly", repeatedly accusing it of illegal behaviour and anti-competitive tactics, and as recently as spring of this year talking of using a European commission investigation to restore "consumer choice and innovation in multiple markets subject to the stranglehold of a monopolist".Most industry observers felt the only outcome Black, and the CCIA, would accept would be the complete break-up of Microsoft.Yesterday, Black insisted the CCIA had not been silenced by the money, and said the organization had not changed its position. "We have no obligation to stop our lobbying or our public relations efforts on areas outside the litigation," he said.But mobile phone company Nokia - one of the IT giants now in Microsoft's sights as it attempts to break into the mobile phone arena - quit from the CCIA in protest at the deal, saying it was "inappropriate".And, quickly, Black's lobbying appeared to take on a rather different tone to before. "Life is a constant reordering of priorities," he said when the Microsoft settlement was first announced. "For important and pragmatic reasons, we are choosing to move on with regard to this matter."As Black discovers Zen-like calm over Microsoft's behaviour, does this mean the company's long-running, globe-spanning war against anti-trust laws is over? Not quite. A hearing today will examine why the CCIA and Novell - which also got $536m in settlement this month - have withdrawn their support for the European commission's stance on Microsoft.The commission imposed a £350m fine on Microsoft earlier this year - a move welcomed by Black at the time as something that would help prevent Microsoft using its monopoly hold on the operating system market to also control the delivery of digital media such as video and audio.The CCIA warned such control would hand enormous power to Microsoft, forcing "developers and consumers alike to bow to whatever demands or taxes Microsoft wishes to place on digital content".Today, Real Networks, makers of the Real audio and video software, continues that fight alone, and the commission maintains its hearings - due to start in 2006 - should still go ahead. But the enormous timescales - those hearings could last years - and Microsoft's enormous cash wealth make further settlements likely.Indeed, the slow pace of the legal process has acted in Microsoft's favour all along. By the time it settled Netscape's claim against it with a $750m payment in 2003, Netscape was all but dead and had been bought by AOL/Time Warner. Microsoft's Internet Explorer had overwhelmed its pioneering rival.It didn't matter that the tactics Microsoft used to gain victory were anti-competitive and illegal. As if to underline the scale of Netscape's defeat, the same settlement saw AOL agree a seven-year deal to use Internet Explorer for its own online services.Even in the newer world of digital media, Real Networks is already struggling against the might of Microsoft. In digital media, claims Real, Microsoft is doing exactly as it did with Netscape years ago - doing as much as it can to force its media player on Windows users, and making life as difficult as possible for Real by hampering its technical and marketing efforts.Microsoft undoubtedly wields enormous power because of its monopoly in operating system software, and the company is not afraid to use it to defend and promote other parts of its business. That, allied to mistakes by Real over product quality and strategic direction, make Microsoft a likely winner in this digital media battle, no matter what the courts say. Only Apple, thanks to the remarkable success of the iPod and its iTunes music store and software, is likely to offer real resistance in the longer term.Not all is rosy in the garden for Microsoft. Away from the corporate big hitters and the courtrooms, danger is brewing for Bill Gates and Co. in the shape of small-scale innovation and the open source community.Google now dominates search, and so far Microsoft's response - theMSN Searchis a poor imitation. Worse for Microsoft, Google may be interested in a whole range of web services, as implied by its new Gmail service and its acquisition of Blogger.com - the easy-to-use web publishing tool that has helped spark a vibrant new class of website.Meanwhile, the open source movement continues to trouble the company. The Apache web server, for instance, provides around 70% of the web pages you read (including these). And now the best web browser you can get is open source too, after version 1.0 ofFirefoxwas released recently to huge acclaim.Firefox is technically superior to a stagnating Internet Explorer, which Microsoft has paid little attention to since it won its monopoly grasp of the browser market. And the upstart rival doesn't rely on revenue streams to keep it alive - it's being given away free by a group of volunteer programmers. Here's one product Microsoft can't undercut.Microsoft, its head turned by legal troubles, may also start to find its hugely profitable monopolies are like a ball and chain. AsJohn Naughtonrecently explained in the Observer, Microsoft's very success might leave it trapped, unwilling to move because innovation may chip away at the Windows, Office and Internet Explorer monopolies that have served it so well until now.For those left unhappy by Microsoft's tactics in the computer marketplace over the last decade, the march of progress might yet offer the greatest hope of cutting Microsoft down to size. Even this mighty company might find its billions in the bank are as nothing compared to its rivals' determination to take back pieces of the PC pie through innovation and hard work.
The computer market is tipping towards notebooks, with prices roughly half what you would have paid last Christmas. Not that the manufacturers want you to spend less. Rather, you can now spend twice what you can afford, and buy something that is almost what you would really like.The growth of the notebook market has been accompanied by an explosion in the number of different types available, and the number of brands. If you are a "road warrior" or top executive, for example, you might want a very small, light machine: small is not cheap. If you are a home user, you might prefer a heavy desktop replacement with a big screen for watching DVDs. There are countless machines between these two extremes.Over the past year, there has also been a noticeable growth in the number of notebook PCs aimed at games players. Examples include the Alienware Area-51m, the Voodoo Envy and MV Ixius. Buyers look for the latest graphics technologies, such as the new Nvidia GeForce GO 6800 chip set.It doesn't make any sense to rank these different kinds of system: you might as well compare a single-seater sports car with an SUV. However, you can figure out which type you would prefer, based on the specification, price and pose value.I like small, light machines I can carry everywhere - and the slickest is the Sony Vaio X505VP, which probably stands for "very pricey". It is incredibly thin - it tapers between 11mm and 21mm - and weighs only 835g, not counting the external DVD. The pose value is fantastic: nobody can keep their hands off it.However, the Sony's size has drawbacks. The keyboard is so shallow that it is not very responsive, the text is too small when you have a resolution of 1,024 x 768 pixels on a 10.4in screen, and the ultra-low voltage 1.1GHz Pentium M chip is far from being the snappiest performer. There's also the problem that at around &#163;1,999, I can't afford one.What I would have instead is an IBM ThinkPad X40 ultraportable, if I hadn't already bought an X31. The X40 is small, sleek, light (1.24kg), beautifully finished and not too outrageous at &#163;1,400 without CD/DVD. The quality of the keyboard and screen makes it one of the nicest notebooks I have used, narrowly ahead of the 1.1kg Toshiba Portege R100 (&#163;1,644).At the other extreme are notebooks that could double as boat anchors. These often have the same processors as desktop machines, instead of special mobile versions, large cases to prevent overheating, and 15in or 17in screens. But they are handy at home, and reasonably cheap.A good example for this Christmas is the 1.5GHz Toshiba Tecra A2. The specification is limited - it has only 256MB of memory, a 40GB hard drive and a 15in screen (1024 x 768 pixels). However, it does have a DVD/CD-RW drive, Windows XP Pro and 802.11g wireless and costs around &#163;687 from PC World.This is a market where Dell does well, with the top-end Dell Inspiron 9100 offering a 3.06GHz or better Pentium 4 with 512MB of memory and a 15.4in widescreen (1240 x 800 pixels) for under &#163;1,000, including delivery and VAT. Sony also has a notebook with almost the same specification and a little more style - the Sony Vaio PCG-K315S -for &#163;1,099 or less.For those with a bit more to spend on a notebook with a 17in screen, the contenders include the Dell Inspiron 9200, the Sony Vaio VGN-A217AS and the Apple PowerBook, which was the first range to offer an LCD this size. The Dell is also "arctic" silver and white, which is the new beige. It is much thicker and a bit heavier (3.5kg against 3.1kg) than the Mac, but much cheaper: Inspiron 9200 prices start at &#163;921 including delivery and VAT, or &#163;1,080 with 80GB hard drive and DVD writer. The 17in PowerBook starts at &#163;1,949, though there are, of course, much cheaper portable Macs.If home entertainment is the aim, you could also consider the Toshiba Qosmio E10 - or Quasimodo, as everyone calls it (www.qosmio.co.uk). The Qosmio combines a PC, a TV and a DVD player with remote control in a notebook running Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center operating system. It also has separate software that plays DVDs without booting Windows. The Qosmio works but looks pretty clunky.As mentioned, games players can now buy really fast notebook PCs from firms such as Alienware and Voodoo. As with Dell, you write your own ticket online. A stylish silver Alienware Area-51m starts at &#163;1,424 plus delivery, for example, but upgrades can bulk that up to &#163;1,839 - or just go for the Extreme version.The most powerful Voodoo Envy m:790 starts at around &euro;3,500 with 17in screen (1,680 x 1,050 pixels) and you can upgrade to 4GB of memory and dual hard drives. It is available in seven colours. The weight of this monster is given as "roughly nine pounds - 13 pounds loaded". At the opposite extreme from the Sony X505, it's fast, but with all the style of a Mack truck. It is not for everyone, but it is nice to have plenty of choices.Top 10 notebooks1. Sony Vaio X505VP2. IBM ThinkPad X403. Toshiba Tecra A24. Dell Inspiron 91005. Sony Vaio PCG-K315S6. Dell Inspiron 92007. Apple PowerBook G48. Toshiba Qosmio9. Alienware Area-51m10. Voodoo Envy m:790
What is the game of the year? We are running a series of polls on ourGamesblog, and you can now debate the merits of varioushandheld and mobile gamesand votehere.The first round of the competition covered the best PC games, and you can still vote on thosehere.If you need further encouragement to take part, you could win a fabulous 64-bit AMD-basedAlienware AuroraPC worth around £1,600 (incl delivery to somewhere in the EU).
"Advanced users who for years collectively looked down their noses atWebTVwill be surprised at how capable MSN TV 2 is and how well it works in home networks," reports AP (hereorthere) in a product review."In geekspeak, it's a media adapter, a category of home networking gear that can stream such content as pictures, music and video from networked PCs to the television."MSN TV 2 does much more than your average media adapter. It also puts content on your tube including news, the weather and the entire Web. And, like a PC, it can be expanded by plugging devices such as memory card readers and printers into its two USB ports."According to theReutersstory, it is "aimed at the more senior end of the market"."Our average user is 57 years old," said Andy Sheldon, senior director of product marketing for MSN TV. "These people are getting to the age where they don't want to deal with complicated ways of connecting to the Web."
"A Java plug-in vulnerability could allow viruses to spread through both Windows and Linux systems through browsers such as IE and Firefox," reportsCNet."A flaw in Sun's plug-in for running Java on a variety of browsers and operating systems could allow a virus to spread through Microsoft Windows and Linux PCs."The vulnerability, found by Finnish security researcher Jouko Pynnonen in June, was patched last month by Sun, but its details were not made public until Tuesday. Security information provider Secunia posted information about the flaw in an advisory that rated it a 'highly critical' threat."What about Macs?"The advisories from Sun, Secunia and Pynnonen do not address whether the problem could affect Apple's Mac OS X operating system, which is based on a Unix-like core of code, similar to Linux. The Sun representative said that the Mac issue is being investigated."
Better late than never dept: Google bought satellite mapping companyKeyhole, which offers "the ultimte interface to the planet", last month. Its website says:Fly from space to your home town. Visit exotic locales such as Maui, Tokyo, Rome and Paris. Satellite imagery makes it real. Explore restaurants, hotels, parks and schools. Think magic carpet ride!This also works if you live in London, Gatwick or Silverstone.Google says: "We do not have any announced plans regarding how this technology will integrate with our current products and services."The company was originally funded by Sony Broadband.There's a Reuters storyhere.
People can spend a lot of money on their technology and not use it. It's the old 80/20 rule; you use only 20% of the IT you actually buy. The result is that a lot of small businesses, who rarely have the time to address their computer installation in depth, end up using hundreds of pounds' worth of equipment as a posh type-writer or calculator. Understandably, they're not always all that pleased.This is a shame, because many managers have , stuck in those systems, lots of useful information that could help them manage their business. It's just that they don't know how to get at it all. And there is always a helpful consultant or software seller on hand to tell them how it can be done if they just place their hand in their pocket and indulge in a little open-wallet surgery.Often they end up using some sort of compromise; at a seminar for small businesses a few years ago, the speaker asked whether people used databases to track their businesses, and everyone put Software their hand up. The speaker then asked whether they actually meant they used a spreadsheet to manage their contacts, and most of the hands sheepishly went down.And yet a spreadsheet can be versatile and will accept and search for letters just as well as numbers, so why not use it?Craig Brawley, now a regional sales manager for a pharmaceuticals company but a lifelong salesperson, has always eschewed dedicated customer relationship management (CRM) devices as he's found other ways of working. "I'm an absolute new software junkie. I will try absolutely anything," he says. "It was many years ago that I first tried a product called Maximiser, which sounded a marvellous thing." He admits that his experience early on won't replicate today's add-on software packages that look after customers, but it was enough to make a negative impression that's lasted."It had a rather half-arsed word processor and a halfarsed spreadsheet that went along with it. I was rather used to Mr Gates's products." Those issues have been addressed many times over but they weren't the main problem."The main bind with it was all the work needed just to keep the thing up-to-date when merely having a good memory and Outlook does me fine. I have a policy of doing everything as soon as I can, and that tends to get things off my desk pretty quickly."Brawley concedes that he doesn't need to work collaboratively with colleagues much, so many of the advantages of a networked CRM suite would be lost on him even were he to use one.Alan Parker, sales and marketing director of database specialist Temtec, suggests that people using Outlook or Excel for corporate rather than personal applications can get unstuck as their company grows. "Spreadsheets &#91;and Outlook&#93; make great personal productivity tools but they're much over-used corporate tools. That's not what they were designed for. People use Excel because they've had it and they think they have some familiarity with it. They try to squeeze everything into that spreadsheet world but very quickly end up with problems; duplication of data, for example: you have two copies of a spreadsheet and you can almost guarantee it's going to end up choosing its own direction in terms of data."The whole thing becomes unmanageable, he claims, when people start working with spreadsheets in their own way and nobody can take over from them in their absence. "Scalability comes into it as well. It probably affects the medium-sized business more than the very small organisation."Parker remains an advocate of purpose-built systems such as, unsurprisingly, his own company's database. Others have tried but, almost inevitably, as small businesses they fall foul of time constraints.Mike Griffiths, managing director of Chertsey-based printer FourPoint Printing, has a print shop to run and hasn't investigated CRM as a result. "It sounds like a good idea but I don't have the time to research it properly and we've got a sort of system working." This was a piece of software the company developed in house. It works on the FoxPro database, the same as the rest of the business. "So, every time I thought I could do with a bit more information on that, I wrote another bit of the program."Griffiths stumbled into programming in 1984 after a Adding a little package he commissioned failed to perform adequately. "It turned out to be so bad I actually learned dBase 2, and from there I thought of tweaking this, could do with that, and put in customer records, history of work and you can look various things up because it's a database."He's considered looking into the more easily available commercial packages, but has a degree of cynicism. "You hear their package is absolutely bloody brilliant, you must buy it, then you find there's a two-week learning curve, you need to know everything about computers to work it, you need whichever add-on, and it doesn't work in this situation or that situation..."Cynicism is easy of course, and there's little reason to expect Griffiths and others to fix systems that are basically working. But adding a little software to an existing system can make life a lot easier for smaller companies.Pocket This, a company that allows people looking at websites to get details of what they're looking at sent to their mobiles, had huge interest from numerous site owners. At any time they had 60 or so potential customers wanting to put a "send to my mobile" link on their sites.In order to track the sales and gain any realistic benefit, the company felt it had to install something designed to handle large numbers of customers and this needed to go beyond a contact manager like Outlook. The company opted for Goldmine and was able to mail 90 companies instantly; 12 of them bought the product within a few days.In addition, the press team could have a look at which deals were on the way so they could prepare press materials, and the company was able to get at marketing information on its success in certain sectors. Full-blown CRM, in other words, works in the right situation. Meanwhile, no matter what the other manufacturers tell you, the smaller companies can and do get by perfectly well without much finessing of software, depending on how many customers they have. In certain cases, a spreadsheet with customer details and a notebook will suffice.As successive versions of Microsoft Outlook come out they include more elements of customer relationship; select a contact, for example, and you already have a tab that will take you to every email you've ever sent that person and a history of every appointment you've had with them. Reminders are easy to set and the calendar can be shared.Of course as you grow you may want more functions, and it's always useful if the sales staff can see whether someone is on credit stop before they start pitching. It's reassuring that although that costs money, it's not a large amount.
"Quarterly sales of servers running the Linux operating system topped $1 billion for the first time during the third quarter of 2004, analyst company IDC reported Wednesday. With year-over-year revenue from Linux server sales up 42.6 percent, Linux accounted for more than 9 percent of the $11.5 billion in servers sold worldwide during the quarter, which ended September 30, the research firm says."According to the IDC figures reportedhereby IDG News Service, IBM is still on top:"When measured by revenue, IBM remained the No. 1 server vendor with $3.66 billion in revenue, or 31.7 percent of the server market. Hewlett-Packard was second with $3.09 billion in revenue."Dell was the fastest-growing server vendor, with revenue jumping 14.1 percent from its year-earlier figures. The company finished the quarter with $1.17 billion in server sales, only slightly less than No. 3 server vendor, Sun Microsystems, whose revenue for the quarter was $1.18 billion, up 0.1 percent from year-earlier figures."
Britons are more confident about the security of online banking now compared with three years ago - despite recent website scams and loopholes, according to research published today.The study, conducted by the market information specialist TNS, in the wake of recent high profile internet banking security scams and loopholes discovered in providers' websites, shows that almost half of those adults surveyed (47%) were aware of these issues in the media.Yet, despite this, more than one in five (22%) adults surveyed were either likely to start using or planned to increase their use of online banking in the future. And those aged 16-24 are the most confident users.A further 11% used internet banking services and had no plans to change their usage, while just 4% planned to decrease their use of internet banking.Rosemary Bayman, managing consultant at TNS said: "Over the past few years, as internet access has increased, it has become more convenient for many people to pay their bills and manage their finances online.She said that in a society where there are greater constraints on people's time, online banking offered customers greater flexibility, making it easier for them to run financial affairs."However, internet banking is not the right solution for everyone: banks must continue to offer their customers choice in how they manage their finances," she added.The research showed there was still a relatively high proportion of people who had no plans to use online banking (24%) or were very unlikely to consider doing so (26%).Ms Bayman added: "In light of the recent 'phishing' scams, banks with online facilities have doubled their efforts to improve security and remove any weaknesses from their systems."Companies have responded quickly to recent threats to prevent any financial loss to customers   by, for example, putting new third party payments and standing orders on hold, if and when a threat to a site occurs."The good news is that in the initial aftermath following the security scandals there has been a lesser impact on customers' use of online banking - and also on their attitudes to security - than some industry observers may have envisaged."However, while consumers are currently being fully reimbursed for any financial loss resulting from phishing, in the future this may not be the case if customers had access to safety information and failed to act on it."If this move towards placing greater responsibility on the customer goes ahead, it will be interesting to see how this impacts on the number of new users making the transition to online banking in the future."TNS questioned 1,000 adults in the UK earlier this month.
The man charged with preventing government IT fiascos last week refused to answer two questions before a parliamentary committee. John Oughton, chief executive of the Office of Government Commerce (OGC), is not now languishing in a cell under Big Ben. His refusals were in line with conventions that allow civil servants to keep secret from parliament, and thus the taxpayer, how government is run.That secrecy is now under attack. Especially over IT projects. Oughton was appearing on the day that the head of the Child Support Agency, Doug Smith, resigned following revelations about the shortcomings in its new &#163;456m IT system. In the wake of the disaster, MPs are calling on government to blow away the "smokescreen" over IT contracts.Secrecy surrounding IT projects will also face new challenges when freedom of information laws come into force, in just over five weeks.In the meantime, the government shows few signs of opening up. Quizzing Oughton last week, the House of Commons public accounts committee ran into a brick wall on two occasions.One concerned IT projects that the government classifies as "mission critical". There are half a dozen in this category, presumably including multibillion-pound efforts to computerise the NHS and the criminal justice system. Conservative MP Richard Bacon asked Oughton to identify them all. Oughton refused, saying that such information would constitute "advice to the prime minister". As such advice is the mandarin's equivalent to a sacred text, his refusal went unchallenged.The government can expect a rougher ride over the other refusal. Bacon asked Oughton to list eight IT projects that have received two consecutive "red lights" in his agency's Gateway review process. Gateways involve subjecting large and risky projects to independent scrutiny at key stages in their life- cycle. They are conducted in secrecy, with only two copies of each report printed.Again, Oughton refused. Although his agency conducts the reviews, the results are owned by the heads of projects. "I couldn't possibly answer for those individuals."Oughton defended Gateway secrecy as creating a "safe space" for frank discussion. Bacon wasn't im pressed. "Far from being a safe space, there's a cosy space," he said, alleging that government departments had colluded with suppliers to keep failures quiet. The committee's report is likely to call for at least some Gateway reviews to be made public.Whatever the government's reaction, public scrutiny of its massive IT programme will receive another boost next month when the Freedom of Information Act comes into force. The act gives citizens a chance to challenge the doctrine of "commercial confidentiality" under which details of IT projects are kept secret.Ironically, the OGC is itself hampered by such secrecy. It complained last month that an attempt to publish the costs and benefits of open source software had been hindered by "the desire of trial sites to maintain confidentiality of financial details".The IT programmes likely to receive the most requests under freedom of information are the national identity card and the NHS National Programme for IT.Richard Allan MP, the Liberal Democrat spokesman on IT, said last week that secrecy is hampering the debate on identity cards, with parliament and the public having to rely on "vacuous" statements about technologies such as biometrics.The NHS national programme faces similar charges. Its head, Richard Granger, argues that in comparison with other government programmes, it has been open. At a conference in September, he cited his decision to post on the web the speci fication of the new NHS care records service. This example was poorly chosen: the NHS repeatedly claimed the document would remain "in confidence" until the Guardian obtained a copy and published details last year.A glance at the national programme's website,www.npfit.nhs.uk, also casts doubt on the commitment to openness. It lists several documents, including a "comprehensive overview" of the programme as "available only to users with an NHSnet connection".NHSnet is a secure intranet created to safeguard sensitive clinical information. Its use to control access to documents of wide public interest is questionable, especially as the Department of Health communications to the NHS are supposed to be available under a "freedom of information publication scheme" agreed with the information commissioner.Heather Brooke, author of Your Right to Know, a new guide to extracting information from government, says the NHS can expect a rough ride. Apart from the Freedom of Information Act, citizens will also be armed with the new Environmental Information Regulations, which come into force at the same time. These regulations, designed to uncover the extent of environmental pollution, allow fewer exemptions than the Freedom of Information Act.Anyone interested in better government should welcome the change, says Brooke. "The whole idea that secrecy leads to a candid flow of ideas has been proven to be untrue. It's madness."
Accessibility - making websites usable by people with disabilities - has been one of this year's hot topics. The government's much-vaunted Disability Discrimination Act was intended to force provision of access for users of commercial websites, but that is no longer a sticking point for most companies. Now the usability of websites is under scrutiny. Compliance with technical standards is generally recognised as a good thing, but it does not always ensure that websites are easy to use."Accessibility and usability are two sides of the same coin," says Stephen Beesley, senior web and software developer at the Disability Rights Commission (DRC). "People tend to concentrate on the technical guidelines for accessibility, but real life is much messier than that. You have to take the human element into account."This means that while companies are beginning to move their sites towards the accepted technical standards, they are not necessarily improving elements of web design, such as navigation and content."It is one more thing to learn," says Beesley, "but it pays dividends. You have to make accessibility and usability part of the culture of designing and building websites".Earlier this year, the DRC conducted a survey, which found that 81% of all websites are classified as inaccessible. There were an average of eight barriers to disabled people on each of the 1,000 sites scrutinised, but most issues fell into asmall number of categories.The heart of the problem is that people simply do not realise they are doing anything wrong. "The single most common mistake is failing to put alternative text on images," says Michael Cooper, of Watchfire, a provider of accessibility solutions. "Often they're called 'image' or 'corporate logo'. That doesn't tell a visually impaired user anything.""The problem is that most testing is done by techies, when they should be testing them on ordinary users. Anybody who is building software tests it on the users and the customers: it should be the same for websites. Tools for accessibility testing can't provide a value judgment. They can say 'there is no alt&#91;ernative&#93; text here', but they can't tell you if the navigation is rubbish."Educating web developers is a fundamental part of the solution. Cutting-edge designers are famous for breaking the rules, but those rules are now law."Government has a big role to play here," says Bert Massie, the DRC's chairman. "The government should encourage a web design qualification that will raise skills and understandings in web access."The Disability Discrimination Act was enacted five years ago, but widespread confusion over its terms meant many people thought it did not affect websites until this October. In fact, web accessibility has been part of the law all along. To date, however, there have not been any legal challenges to force the issue into public debate, though some cases have settled out of court.The terms of the law are clear. "The Disability Discrimination Act makes   it unlawful for a service provider to discriminate against a disabled person by refusing to provide any service which it provides to members of the public the range of auxiliary aids or services which it might be reasonable to provide to ensure that services are accessible might include accessible websites."So how can companies ensure they are reaching out to disabled customers on the web? The standard for accessibility is generally accepted to be that of the World Wide Web Consortium (www.w3.org), which puts forward a selection of requirements and a code of practice. Many designers, however, feel that complying with W3C guidelines ruins the look and feel of their sites. Campaigners argue that it does not have to be the case.Some of the suggestions for improvement are incredibly simple. Apart from making sure images have usable alt tags, other common mistakes include a lack of scalable fonts (which let visually impaired users increase the size of text) and choosing colours that do not contrast properly, or look the same to users who are colour blind. Businesses that use Macromedia Flash and other technologies are also reminded to provide alternatives for the screen readers used by visually impaired surfers.Many businesses have begun changing their opinions on what accessibility really means. "It's percolating into people's agendas," says Beesley. "We did think there might be a kind of 'Slashdot mentality', where people disregarded the rules because they wanted to have the most cutting-edge site, but actually it has been better than that."The moral imperative may now be a legal compulsion, but many businesses are beginning to understand accessibility issues in a way that is more familiar to them: money. There are an estimated 9m people in Britain suffering from some form of disability, and such figures get the attention of marketing men and bean counters. No company can afford to alienate or exclude an audience of that magnitude.There is also the financial cost of any potential litigation. Most observers believe it is only a matter of time before a company ends up in court over its failure to provide internet accessibility - attracting both bad publicity and legal expenses.But that doesn't mean the struggle is over. "I would say it is going to take several years before things change," says Watchfire's Michael Cooper. "That's because most people don't realise what the issues are. We are probably talking about a four to five-year range. Even then, it will continue to be an issue, but it will be there in the background."
Shares in Lastminute.com fell sharply this morning after the travel company admitted annual results had  fallen short of expectations.Lastminute, which became synonymous with the dotcom boom and bust, saw its share price fall by 18% in early trading this morning after annual underlying pre-tax profits came in at £4.6m, well up on last year's £224,000 but lower than analysts' forecasts of £7.9m.At the bottom line Lastminute went further into the red, with losses increasing to £77.2m - against a deficit of £47.7m last time - following a string of acquisitions."While demonstrating continued improvements in most key metrics, our financial performance has fallen short of expectations. Our acquisition strategy has given us the necessary scale to compete across our core European market but this has come at the expense of a higher cost base," said the co-founder and chief executive, Brent Hoberman.The company, which sells everything from luxury holidays to short hop flights and concert tickets, has bought a string of rival travel businesses at home and in continental Europe over the last two years, using its cash reserves in an attempt to build scale.Outgoing chairman Allan Leighton, the Post Office chief who announced last month he would step down as part of an attempt to prune his wide-ranging portfolio of jobs, insisted the group was still well placed to cash in on the growing demand for online travel."Lastminute.com continues to be well positioned to take advantage of current lifestyle and technology trends. I hand over the chairmanship to Brian Collie at the end of quarter one with confidence that Lastminute.com will remain a leading player in the online travel and leisure marketplace in Europe," he said.The Lastminute finance director, David Howell, today announced he would leave the company, following in the footsteps of Mr Leighton and co-founder Martha Lane-Fox, who stepped down as managing director earlier this year.The group has been on the acquisition trail in recent months and aims to make these businesses more efficient through consolidating its existing 25 European officesLastminute said it was  focused on implementing the business review announced earlier this year, when it also warned that results would fall below expectations. The review will reduce the number of offices by 12 and cut at least 355 jobs.Mr Hoberman said he remained confident despite a series of profit warnings that have hit the company's share price.He said that demand for Lastminute's "self packaging" product, which allows customers to mix and match flights and holidays, was strong and sales continued to rise.In the current quarter - seasonally its weakest - it said it would attract between £245m and £255m-worth of transactions, more than 70% higher than the same period last year.The company provides travel and leisure offers directly in 13 European countries and has three international joint ventures. It  employs around 2,400 people.During the year the total value of sales increased to £992.3m from £552.4m and the number of customers hit a record 2.9 million.By 10am the company's shares stood at 104p, down 13% on the opening price.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A European judge has called for a closed-door meeting today to discuss the peace deals hammered out earlier this month between Microsoft and two of its biggest critics, the Computer and Communications Industry Association and the software firm, Novell.The talks could be coloured by reports of the $20m (&#163;10.6m) settlement with the CCIA, some of which allegedly went directly to the industry group's president, Ed Black.Nokia, the Finnish phone maker, confirmed that it had quit the CCIA in protest at the deal. It had left last month because it felt the "process and content of the settlement" was "inappropriate". It declined to comment further.Today's hearing on the appeal against interim remedies imposed on Microsoft will be overseen by Bo Vesterdorf, president of the court of first instance in Luxembourg. It aims to discover why the CCIA and Novell withdrew support for the European commission, which imposed a record &euro;497m (&#163;350m) anti-trust fine on Microsoft earlier this year.Sources in Brussels said the judge wanted to know how to treat evidence from parties that had since dropped out of the action. The hearing could lead to a negotiated settlement.Mr Black had been one of the most vocal critics of Microsoft before the rapprochement. He once called Microsoft a "rapacious monopoly that should be broken up", describing its conduct as "consistently illegal".The trade body had been the only remaining interested party trying to force a US supreme court review of Microsoft's landmark settlement with the justice department. In Brussels, Microsoft has now settled with the CCIA, Novell, Time Warner and Sun Microsystems, leaving only RealNetworks as its remaining big corporate opponent.As part of the settlement,   Microsoft has become a member of the industry group.Industry sources in Brussels suggested that Mr Black had received about $2m when the CCIA board reconvened after Nokia quit the trade body.The software company said: "Microsoft agreed to make a payment to CCIA as an organisation as reimbursement for certain legal and related expenditure that it had incurred."It was, of course, up to the CCIA board to decide how to use the money it received from us and we had no involvement at all in that process."Mr Black declined to comment in detail yesterday, saying: "We have an obligation not to talk about the terms of the settlement." He said the CCIA had not been bought off with the settlement. "We withdrew from specific litigation proceedings. We have no obligation to stop our lobbying or our public relations efforts on areas outside the litigation."He added: "We have withdrawn from very expensive litigation without recanting or retracting a single statement. We have maintained our position. We're not changing sides."Microsoft said it reached settlements with CCIA and Novell to try to resolve conflicts in the industry - and avoid future litigation - without regulators' intervention. It still wants a negotiated deal with the EU. "Our intent all along has been to resolve the conflicts of the past to build more constructive relationships in the industry," said a spokesman.Judge Vesterdorf is soon due to issue a ruling on Microsoft's appeal for the suspension of the commission's "remedies", including forcing it to issue a version of its Windows operating system without its Mediaplayer application.The commission has insisted that the withdrawal of some of its former backers is no reason to drop the case, which is likely to be heard in full in 2006 and last up to two years.What Ed Black said'The facts of this case ... have focused on Microsoft's anti-competitive behaviour and illegal tactics, which they have used to steamroller companies, and force unwanted business deals on most, crushing the few who would not bend to their will.'On the original US judgment, November 5 1999'Microsoft is an adjudicated monopolist who continues to deliver anti-competitive, illegal products into the marketplace. Their products hurt innovation, unfairly impede competition and, in the end, harm consumers.'August 10 2001'Only vigorous government enforcement and judicially imposed restraints will have any real chance to restrain Microsoft's ongoing unlawful conduct.'On Microsoft's $750m payment to Netscape to settle legal action, May 29 2003'The anti-competitive behaviour of Microsoft addressed by this case and this decision is just the tip of the iceberg.'On the collapse of talks between the European commission and Microsoft, March 18 2004'We are pleased with this agreement and expect our relationship with Microsoft and others will enable us to address important issues impacting millions of people and the future of our industry. While there may be times when we and Microsoft will not agree on every issue, we are looking forward to developing a stronger relationship.'On deal with Microsoft, November 8 2004
The response – both in controversy and participation – to our PC Games of the Year 2004 competition has been tremendous. If you still have a thought or two about what should be the bestPC game of the year, keep votinghere!(Please note, this is different from the mobile and handheld voting link)However, it's time to introduce the next series of contenders. Let's shake the rafters again.This week you get to decide which handheld or mobile game holds pole position. Fancy yourself a Sim-freak on your N-Gage? Dig Micro Machines on your mobile? Got lost for days in Zelda's incredible shrinking Minish Cap on your Gameboy Advance SP? What have been yourfavourite games of 2004? Tell us by voting in ourgames of the year poll! Have your say in the results.Check out the shortlist below, debate why we picked one game or missed out another and thengo and vote.Next week is our final run for the money – the console games. Fierce competition looms. The results of all three polls will be announced inOnlineon December 9.You'vealreadybeen shouting out for your favourite mobile or handheld title, but that was just practice. Now it counts. The Online team have taken your views and mixed them up with our prejudices to produce the list of 10 below. It's not up to us anymore. Which one deserves the gold star?Legend of Zelda: Minish Cap(GBA)Metroid: Zero Mission(GBA)Pokemon Fire Red/Leaf Green(GBA)Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow(mobile)Rainbow Six(mobile)Might and Magic(mobile)The Sims Bustin' Out(N-Gage)Fatal Force(mobile)Micro Machines(mobile)Pocket Kingdom(N-Gage)So go on, tell us what you think. Have we missed something out or thrown in a turkey? Bring it on. And when you've vented or celebrated,vote!
So I left my comfort zone last night to try my dab hand at a return to the gaming "party scene", and I was duly rewarded with an enormous silver handheld - one of the firstNintendo DS' in the country. It made up for the terrifying prospect of interacting with my fellow games journalists again after a long year and a half of self-enforced seclusion. I left the glitzy soiree early to get back into my Zone, and to crack on with some game playing on one of the most eagerly-anticipated products of the next year. Ignoring the threat of a mugging, I whipped it out on the Tube and kicked intoSuper Mario 64 DSall the way home.First and foremost, I couldn't believe how big the thing was. Think GameBoy Advance SP with wings. It's huge and weighty and looks remarkably like a makeup case. It has space for GameBoy Advance cartridges and the newfangled DS mini-karts (which look an awful lot like sim cards), and a well-camouflaged stylus. With two screens, shoulder buttons and the traditional controls, you can imagine what kind of beast we're talking about here.Opening the seemingly delicate top screen (although I'm sure it's only a facade and actually it's as sturdy as a laptop) and making the thing go "on", I blared an amazing array of digital sound effects into the silent Underground carriage. Oops.Nintendo have introduced a Health and Safety warning (or, rather a direction to go read the health and safety warning) into the opening titles, but a simple tap with your finger or the stylus on the bottom screen gets you to the personalisation set-up. Typically Nintendo, you give your name and usual suspects, plus birthdate. Awww. I'm hoping I don't get spammed from theKlingon Language Institutelike I did when I put my info into the World Wide Birthday Web back in 1992.First detraction of the experience was that the machine must be manually shut down and restarted every time a player wishes to go from network interaction (with other players in a chat-like system, or when downloading content) to game cartridge. As a PC user, I fear this kind of hassle as much as I fear the "blue screen of death". They equal the same thing: a waste of time. Admittedly, there's not a lot of loading, but turning the machine off and on does take away from its immediate accessibility.I hit the Super Mario 64 DS Rec Room first to see what kind of mini-games the masters of quick fun had in store, and was bemused by some of the little ditties on offer. They're all stylus controlled and are ridiculously silly. A particular favourite was the bouncy-Mario which reminded me of a combination of an old Game and Watch title and Breakout on the Atari. The graphics wowed me the most. I am suitably impressed by the machine's brain.So on to the main event. For veterans of the breakthroughNintendo 64 titleof the same name, Super Mario 64 DS is an almost exact replica, with 10 extra star-goals to earn and multiplayer options. You start out as Yoshi, slow-moving and rather incapable, in search of the other members of the gang who've been trapped inside the paintings in Princess Peach's castle by the evil Bowser. Standard Nintendo fare, ultimately. Once each character is unlocked he is playable. Mario is the dude who counts the most, and getting him is the primary purpose.The levels appear to have been kept very true to the original, and the graphical capabilities of this silver handheld behemoth are truly a sight to behold. It's amazing to see how far technology has come in such a short time. This is no Tetris on the GameBoy. This is the daddy.The bottom screen controls the camera, as the original controller did, which is a generous addition to the game. Others have failed on camera control, so it's pleasing to see that Nintendo have taken that into account in the design of at least one of the DS titles.Unfortunately, my thumbs have become accustomed to the analog joystick feature on contemporary controllers, and Super Mario 64 really needs that kind of fluidity of movement. Obviously the design of the machine limits that, but it makes for an occasionally frustrating experienece as you try to get through the levels you've completed in the past with ease, with a very rigid directional pad.But sour grapes aren't appropriate at this juncture. I won't come close to suggesting that the DS is rubbish because I've only fooled around with one game for a few short hours. First impressions? This machine moves like silk, sounds like a symphony and is an incredible step in the current trajectory of technology. I'm looking forward to exploring all of the things it has to offer, from multiplayer to network, to communication applications, as long as I don't break it first.You can get your mitts on it sometime early next year.
Paris. A few weeks ago, Andr&#233; Santini was in his office at 2.15 on a Saturday morning when an email came in. It was a complaint to the mayor about trucks tipping gravel in the middle of the night. Six hours later, Santini knocked on the writer's door. "I'm the mayor. I hear you have a problem?"The story - told by Santini - is believable because it is the sort of gesture you expect from the flamboyant leader of Issy-les-Moulineaux, the Cannes of electronic government.Of course, this western Parisian suburb isn't much like Cannes. Few visit for the climate or the beautiful people. However, they do go for the international e-democracy conference the city hosts every year, and to see other   aspects of e-society in action.Issy - slogan "Issy the audacious" - claims several national e-firsts. These include an internet election, a virtual citizen's panel, a cyber creche and a web TV channel. There is also an annual street festival of digital art. It is all part of a plan to raise the town's profile and attract hi-tech companies. Santini, who is also an MP and author of a book called "These idiots who govern us", is good at it. His current scheme is to lure the French foreign ministry, now occupying 11 palaces across Paris's posher arrondissements, to relocate to a single hi-tech headquarters - at Issy.City officials admit to plundering ideas from all over the world. An e-democracy scheme was borrowed from Brazil. The idea of paying parking tickets by mobile phone came from Sweden. For the latest, and perhaps most risky, customer-centric e-service, the inspiration is Britain. Don't laugh.Because most of us deal with only one government at a time, we tend to assume our bureaucracy is the worst. Not so. Among international connoisseurs, Britain's best local authorities are building up a reputation for innovation in organising services around citizens rather than government agencies. The contrast with France, with its multiple tiers of local government, is striking. French public agencies are gadget mad - this was the land of state-supplied Minitels - but highly cautious about using IT to change the way their functionaries work.About half of England's local authorities are trying to organise services around citizens' needs   with customer relationship management (CRM) systems. In France, Issy will be one of the first. As a result, it is implementing "project Iris" with caution. The technology, from Coheris, a local firm, is not a problem, officials say. But council staff need to be assured the CRM and knowledge-management system won't downgrade their jobs. The city is also waiting for the go-ahead from the national data protection office, the Commission National de l'informatique et des Libert&#233;s, to share data across departments.While Santini radiates confidence, any attempt to reform France's bureaucracy with IT is politically risky. There is a real chance that Issy's latest piece of audacity will go poire-shaped. Britain has a bit of experience with that, too.
With Christmas looming, you may have to head off down the high street. But the best way to ensure a few Saturdays free of crowds is to shop online. It might not have the socks and hankies covered, but for gadgets or consumer electronics products, here are the best places.www.firebox.comOne of the best and longest-established gadget sites, it mixes MP3 players and digital cameras with ridiculous gizmos and stupid games.Grab it:The &#163;150 Shinco Portable DVD player. Strong product with a quality 5in screen. The &#163;9.95 USB Xmas Tree lights up when you plug it into your PC or Mac.Bin it:The &#163;24.95 MP3 Alarm Clock. Sounds great until you realise it can only hold 50 seconds of your favourite tune.www.boysstuff.co.ukAnother veteran gadget retailer, this has loads of cool gaming products, wacky robots and mini personal video players. If the testosterone levels get too high, check outwww.girlsstuff.co.ukGrab it:The &#163;100 X-Arcade controller plugs into your PC or PlayStation, adding 100 classic 70/80s games. For robots, try the &#163;79 Robosapien, or the even cooler &#163;19.95 inflatable Blo-Bot.Bin it:The desktop George Bush. A &#163;12.95 plastic version of everyone's favourite president that recites 25 classic Dubya quotes.www.iwantoneofthose.comThis site has some of the silliest products as well as unique MP3 players and digital cameras.Grab it:Oregon's &#163;100 waterproof MP3 player is great for serious swimmers, while we were charmed by the retro 60s-styling of the &#163;199 Minox Leica M3 digital camera.Bin it:The &#163;69.99 Audio Backpack, a multipocketed bag with built-in speakers and mini amplifier.www.gadgets.co.ukNewer gadget site that follows the template of its high-profile rivals.Grab it:Disc-O, the smallest MP3 player (for this week anyway), hangs around your neck. It costs &#163;39.99 for the 64MB version.Bin it:The Lav-nav Night Light shines green when the toilet seat is down and red when the seat is up. Surely it should be the other way round?Other placeswww.unbeatable.co.ukwww.empiredirect.co.ukwww.expansys.co.ukwww.peripheralcorner.co.ukwww.gadgetshop.comwww.dynamism.comwww.amazon.co.ukwww.johnlewis.comwww.gizmos-uk.comwww.efx.co.uk
MasterpieceHalf-Life 2PC, &#163;39.99 Valve/Vivendi, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;PC gamers have suffered a six-year wait for the new Half-Life game. But boy, was it worth it. The original Half-Life revolutionised first person shooter games with its plot, style and AI. In the years since, there have been graphical improvements, but nothing has captured the feeling of involvement that Half-Life did. Until now.Half-Life 2 is a masterpiece that will make you adjust your expectations of what a computer game can offer. From the start, it is clear this is something special. Dropped off at a huge train station, complete with eastern European architecture and futuristic Fascistic soldiers, it takes a few minutes for it all to sink in.The evocative power continues as you walk on to the street and glance up at the tower blocks. Talk to fellow passengers and the other big advance becomes clear. Characters respond in an amazingly realistic way. Their eyes and gestures, plus decent voice acting, are convincing, making you feel part of the game, rather than an outsider.The main element of Half-Life 2 is combat. Weapons are punchy and innovative, enemies are smart and varied, but the environment is probably the biggest success. The realistic physics mean that everything reacts as you would expect. As you progress, there are moments that take your breath away, from the excellent gravity gun to the enemy tripods.The flaws are mainly technical, particularly the Steam system, which means every copy of the game has to be authenticated and activated online. This inconvenience is matched by regular and intrusive loading times that break up the action. But Half-Life 2 is too strong to be put off by these issues. It is the finest PC action game around. Along with Halo 2 and GTA: San Andreas, it completes what has been the best year for videogaming.Greg HowsonWorlds collideMetroid Prime 2: EchoesGameCube, &#163;39.99 Retro Studios/Nintendo &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It is too easy to dismiss the GameCube as a white elephant: Nintendo's cuboid console has received scant support from external publishers in recent years. But while the list of developers committed to the GameCube may be small, it is mainly composed of companies with high-quality reputations. Metroid Prime 2: Echoes is the GameCube's biggest release this Christmas, and it picks up impressively from its award-winning predecessor.The Metroid series started as a succession of 2D side-scrolling shoot-'em-ups, and is one of the few games franchises to make a convincing leap to 3D. As ever, you control Samus, the female bounty hunter, who is equipped with hi-tech suits that have all sorts of powers, including the ability to transform into a ball that can be manipulated like a giant marble.Samus lands on a planet on which a Federation ship has crashed and its complement wiped out. As she progresses through the planet, blasting the weird creatures that live there, solving puzzles and accumulating information via her suit's scanners, she discovers an alternate "dark" version of the planet, which initially proves to be a hostile, energy-sucking environment. This plot device has a big impact on gameplay, introducing dark weaponry to go with the standard light beams, and puzzles that can only be solved by dimension-hopping. It also gives Echoes' designers a chance to endow it with visualsthat are even more surreal and bizarre than those of the original.Despite that, there is nothing to make it unsuitable for teenagers. MP2 looks glorious and is absorbing. It is difficult to play as it progresses but it feels inventive and original, and is a must-buy for anyone who remains committed to their GameCube.Steve BoxerDirty businessMedieval LordsPC, &#163;29.99 Digital Jesters/Monte Cristo,&#42;&#42;The medieval era has provided a popular setting for many strategy games. Although the game's tagline: "Build, Defend, Expand" may suggest that Medieval Lords is about traditional real time strategy (RTS) action, it falls far more into the city-building genre. Like Sim City, but with dirt.That is no bad thing, but unfortunately, not only does the 3D Medieval Lords fail to provide notable innovations in gameplay, it also manages to paint a dull portrait of medieval life.The idea is to build and develop your own settlement, fulfilling the whims of your townsfolk along the way. Keeping the peons happy is the key to the game, even when it comes to combat, as your soldiers will be recruited from your population. Combat, however, is one of the least interesting aspects, and units are limited and hampered by dumb AI.Medieval Lords would have done better if it had come out before we were treated to the compelling, bustling beauty of Stronghold and the epic 3D battles of Warrior Kings.Rhianna PratchettTop 5 games&#183;All formats1.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas2. Need For Speed: Underground 23. Half-Life 24. Halo 25. WWE SmackDown! Vs. RAWSix of the best&#183;2012 OlympicsLondon 2012www.london2012.org/enMadrid 2012www.madrid2012.esMoscow 2012www.m2012.ru/en/NYC 2012www.nyc2012.comParis 2012www.parisjo2012.fr/en/Bidding businesswww.gamesbids.com/english/bids/2012.shtml&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Who would have thought a budget-priced robot vacuum cleaner would become one of the hottest consumer electronics of the decade? Yet the Roomba, the brainchild of a team at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is a huge hit in the US.The original Roomba had a few flaws: it took 12 hours to recharge and if you didn't watch it, it had a nasty habit of falling downstairs.Fortunately, the manufacturer, iRobot, has addressed these issues with the new Roomba, which has just arrived in the UK. Charge time is a more respectable three hours and the Roomba comes with a virtual wall, which means you can prevent it taking a tumble.The new model is effective at sucking up dirt and can detect when it is stuck and initiate an escape. It also goes under beds and sofas and will mesmerise you and your pets. It doesn't vacuum stairs but, given its very competitive price of around &#163;199, the Roomba has become more than a luxury item for gadget obsessives - honest.www.vipdomotec.co.uk
Taking the school register is just the latest tradition to fall to technology. This term, at my old school, Loughborough grammar, they have swapped roll calls and ticked boxes for fingerprint scanners and a computer system.With a twice daily registration required by law, form classes had to meet with tutors for a few minutes after lunch, before going on to subject classes. This was an enormous waste of time. The process in the morning took up so much time it eliminated much of the time available for pastoral care that a form tutor is meant to give. Furthermore, it was hard work collating the registers and tracking down the parents of missing children to discover the reason for absence.So two years ago, Mark McMorran and Dave Carrington, two Old Boys of the school, formed Cyclone Industries to design and build a registration system that uses fingerprint scanners to take attendance. Three trials later, the Live Register system is fully operational with scanners in seven locations around the school. Twice a day, boys scan themselves in on their way to lessons, and the school knows immediately who is present.The system requires every pupil to be scanned as they join the school - and perhaps later when their hands have grown - so McMorran and his team took advantage of the day of the annual school photographs to get everyone into the system. It has proven so successful they are looking into allowing scanners to control door locks. Although security was not the intention for the system, it has solved some disciplinary disputes: pupils claiming to have been else where have been caught by the register recording their presence at a certain sensor at a certain time.Loughborough grammar is not the only school to turn to biometrics. Others around the world are finding the technology useful. The Kvarnby school, in Stockholm, Sweden, has installed fingerprint scanners in its computer lab. They had found that up to half of a 40-minute lesson was taken up with logging into the system. Young children forget their passwords, while older ones might use others' and visit unapproved websites. The installation of fingerprint scanners solved both problems. As part of their upgrading to computerised systems, school libraries are turning to fingerprint scanners, replacing library tickets that are easily lost.This technology is also being used for school lunches. Loughborough grammar is also about to do this. It is most popular in the US, where school cafeterias are based on the students carrying cash, or buying daily tickets. Fingerprint systems have been used for this since 2000: they free students from the need to carry money, and allow parents to receive an itemised bill. Furthermore, poorer students can receive subsidised or free meals without the stigma of a special pass. In many US states, the law decrees that there should not be overt discrimination, so the technology kills many birds with its one touch-sensitive stone.Fingerprints are not the only way to track pupils. Schools in the US have started issuing smart cards with Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) chips. RFID technology, which is used in the London Transport Oystercard, for example, is growing massively. RFID chips are, in essence, tiny transmitters, about the size of a grain of rice, that will transmit their serial numbers when placed near a sensor. They don't need batteries as the sensor has a large loop of wire, through which a current flows, inducing another charge inside the chip. They cost only a few pence, and are mostly used for tracking packages. But they are also perfect for tracking children. Students only need to wave their card over a scanner to register themselves or, if the sensor is powerful enough, just walk near one.The Enterprise Charter school in the US city of Buffalo has placed RFID chips inside student identity cards, and placed sensors by the school's front door. The register is taken automatically as the children walk in with the card in their pockets. However, this doesn't solve all the problems that the fingerprint system does, as students are liable to forget their card. Nor does it prevent students covering for each other, and carrying their friends' cards.Such identification systems are not restricted to school premises. The Spring Independent School District, just outside Houston, is building readers into the doors of school buses, to track some 28,000 students. The school, and parents, can see live data on when and where a student got on and off the bus. The system was installed as a safeguard against child kidnapping. The most important thing about a kidnap, the police say, is to know the child's last definite location. This system is able to state exactly where the student got off.There is, of course, a gulf between the level of electronic surveillance needed to take a register, and that needed to protect students from violence or kidnap. In the US, where schools are on average much bigger, school surveillance, rather than just taking attendance, is a growth area. Many schools have cameras in hallways to deter violence, graffiti and drug dealing. These camera installations are expensive and require monitoring by dedicated staff, which adds to the cost. Fingerprint scanners are not so bad: McMorran quotes an installation cost of around &#163;12,000 for a 1,000- student school, and this is seen as a good investment by head teachers.Apart from the additional time available to care for students, the system has considerably reduced teachers' workload and the administration needed to trace absent students. It could be reduced even further: Bromcom, the UK's leading supplier of information systems for schools has a product that allows parents to query the register system by using an automated telephone line. Call it up, enter your Pin, and it will confirm that your child is where they are supposed to be. If they are sick, you can call the number and confirm to the system that your child will not be coming to school that day.As with cameras, however, the use of fingerprints has disturbed privacy campaigners. Indeed, three boys at Loughborough have opted out of the scheme and use a Pin code instead. However, the manufacturers of the equipment say this is a misunderstanding.These fingerprint scanners work in a totally different way from the classic detective story fingerprints: biometric scanners do not take a picture of the finger, or try to scan all of the whorls and then compare them with a photograph. That would be too demanding. Instead, a biometric scanner notes the position of 20 or so individual points on the person's finger, and records them as a code.While you can identify existing fingerprints with the code, you can not reverse the process and create a picture of the fingerprint. If you committed a crime and left fingerprints, it might be able to identify you, but you could not be framed for something by the data inside the system.Simon Davies, the director of Privacy International, a London-based organisation, has long campaigned against the use of biometrics in schools. "The use of such systems will de-sensitise people to more comprehensive privacy invasion - such as ID cards and DNA testing."In one case, a school introduced a fingerprint system in its library. When a parent complained that their child had been fingerprinted without permission, Privacy International lodged a complaint that such systems were in breach of the Data Protection and the Human Rights Acts."The law states that privacy invasion must be proportionate to the threat. A few lost library cards do not warrant mass fingerprinting," Davies said at the time.But while biometric systems are proving to be technically very accurate, they are not without flaws. In 2002, Tsutomu Matsumoto, a Japanese researcher from Yokohama National University, showed they are vulnerable to hacking with confectionary. He made a mold of a finger using modelling clay available in a craft shop. Then, using a supermarket packet of gelatin, he made a thin layer of jelly with the mold's fingerprint etched on the surface.Wrapping it around his finger, he fooled scanners from 11 manufacturers on average 80% of the time. One student at Loughborough Grammar reportedly tried this, but couldn't get it to work. That wouldn't have happened in my days at the school.&#183;Links:www.biometrictracking.com
Stroke tales"Had a stroke? Make this your first click," says The Stroke Association, which has just launched a new-look website developed by Torchbox. It aims to be "the definitive website for anyone affected by a stroke," which is around 130,000 people a year in England and Wales. A third of these die within the first 10 days, while another third are likely to be left disabled and needing rehabilitation, says the association.www.stroke.org.ukMusical fantasyThe popularity of fantasy football games has prompted lots of similar efforts, and Fantasy Music League is a new one that will start on January 1, with $25,000 in cash and other prizes. The game lets you run an international record label, where you sign 10 acts and make profits based on real-world chart successes. The drawback for UK players is that this is a US-based game and uses US stars and genres. You are not going to do well unless you can make reasonable picks in, for example, the country music field. And if you are serious, you will want to start now in the   beta-test pre-season Indie League.www.FantasyMusicLeague.comReading LinusMultiple Nobel prizewinner Linus Pauling kept hundreds of notebooks to document his various researches on micronutrients and health, thoughts on scientific topics, and the odd press clipping. Now the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University has digitised some of these notebooks and put them online. This will no doubt appeal to scientists working in similar areas, though the notebooks are hard going for the casual browser who might only associate Pauling with taking vitamin C to fight the common cold. Fortunately the Selected Highlights link offers a potted tour.masl.to/?D24C527D9For scholarsGoogle has launched a beta test version of a new feature it calls Scholar, because it is designed to find academic and scientific research papers and theses. It introduces at least one new search modifier, the author: command. If you just want papers written by someone called Pauling, for example, you can put author:Pauling in the search box. (Unfortunately this doesn't work in ordinary Google.) We don't know how Google decides what is scholarly, but it almost certainly includes the number of citations, since this number is given next to the result. In fact, many hits are only citations, and Google Scholar cannot find the original paper.masl.to/?I2DB427D9Search blogsIt is all action on the search front nowadays, but how do you keep track of what is going on? One answer is to read the blogs published by the leading search contenders, Google, Yahoo and MSN Search. For example, that is how I found out that MSN Search will solve the equation 1+3x+6x 2=56, but Google won't. The other key blogs are Danny Sullivan's Search Engine Watch, and Gary Price's Resource Shelf, which is quite scholarly enough for me.blogs.msdn.com/msnsearchwww.ysearchblog.comwww.google.com/googleblog/blog.searchenginewatch.com/blog/www.resourceshelf.com
After almost every hearing involving Microsoft in the past five years, a small white-haired man was to be found surrounded by reporters.With his white beard and knack for a soundbite, Ed Black was the closest thing to Christmas for anyone wanting a voice to express an anti-Microsoft sentiment. So yesterday's allegations that the president of trade association CCIA had personally received cash as part of the settlement with   Microsoft, shocked an entire industry.Bill Kovacic, professor of law at George Washington university, said: "It's unbelievable. A bit like saying the sun is going to come up in the south." For most, the surprise was because of the vehemence with which Mr Black usually spoke of his former bete noire. Mr Kovacic said: "If you had taken what he had been saying &#91;about Microsoft&#93; for the past five years you would have thought that the only acceptable outcome was to break up the company."Several academics and analysts questioned the notion of a trade body employee receiving part of a settlement fee. Prof Kovacic said: "&#91;Trade bodies&#93; act basically as agents for membership with benefits to be distributed to the membership."Another member of a trade association said: "I can understand changing a position because members have changed their minds, but not because money has   changed hands." Mr Black, who has been president and chief executive officer of the CCIA for almost 10 years, is in his late 50s and has spent his career in Washington, either working for trade associations or the government. In the mid-1970s, he worked in congressional liaison for Henry Kissinger.According to the Financial Times, the CCIA board this month agreed a three-year contract with a $500,000-a-year salary for Mr Black.
PatronisedThank you for patronising me (On the crest of a wave, November 18). I am a "young-old" who has been using the internet since Jim McClellan was very "young-young" - about nappy age, I suspect. I feel no need to log on to Saga. I did not need a daughter to teach me. I am regularly asked by the "old-young" at work how to do things with computers. I am amazed that so many "youngsters" accept what hardware and software sellers give them without exploring what is out there. I haven't come across one "young-young" or "old-young" person who has any idea what NNTP (Network News Transfer Protocol) is.Ian McRobertPeterboroughHelpless help desksIt is impossible to abandon Microsoft when large institutions such as Halifax/Bank of Scotland have sites that are only compatible with Internet Explorer and the standard version of Netscape. When their help desks says they don't support Opera and have never heard of Mozilla, what chance do Firefox users have? Yet these open source browsers are more standards-compliant than Internet Explorer.Martin BurnellEdinburghToken browsersMy friend from Sweden had a "token device" four years ago (Phishing phobia, November 18). When is the UK going to catch up? Natwest will not even accept Opera or FireFox as a browser. If any UK banks provide   these facilities, can you publish details? Similarly, how about highlighting banks that push you towards out-of-date and insecure browsers?Stephen MorrisWendoverSound adviceFollowing Jack Schofield's advice (Ask Jack, July 8) I started using Firefox and am pleased with its speed, ease of use, ability to open up tabs (similar to Opera) and pop-up blocking ability. It also picks up favicons that IE6 no longer does. This makes the bookmark area easier to navigate through and is another plus.Colin HallDundeeEducating usersI hope Mac users are considered in the development of "tokens". I had to change banks because the bank did not keep up with Mac use. I can only access my personal and business accounts from my old Mac running System 9 rather than from my normal Mac, which runs OS X. This means I can't use the same level of firewall.So 4% of customers would send account details in reply to an email if they thought it came from their bank. Surely it would be straightforward for banks to find out which 4%. Send a "fake" phishing email to all their customers, then lock online access to accounts of any who replied, or send them an email stressing their account could have been emptied. Banks could quickly educate their most vulnerable customers.Such an exercise would need to be planned but costs would be tiny in comparison to the possible savings.Brendan O'DonovanLondonAhead of the gameI have a Dutch ABN-AMRO account and moved to online banking earlier this year. I received a variable password device - an e.dentifier, which generates a new Pin at each log-in. It is used for all transactions. I can also   send money to any account with an international bank account number - without charge. UK banking could adopt e.dentifier technology and cross-border payments with ease.Colin StoneOxfordNo compulsionMary Branscombe's article (Fair and share, November 18), although better than many, misses the same fundamental point - nobody is "forced" to share proprietary code. If someone chooses to base a product on General Public Licence code, they must abide by the terms. If trade secrets are so important, stop using the GPL code and either get code from another source or write their own.If they violate the licence terms, the copyright holder is within his rights to seek redress. The GPL is no different from any other software licence agreement in this respect. If you took Microsoft code and used it contrary to the terms of the licence, you would get sued, too."Your customers can therefore take your code, base their own product on it, and create a competitor," writes Branscombe, which is exactly what "you" did when you based your product on someone else's GPL code. Is this the message? "It's OK for me to profit from the hard work of others but not for others to profit from the bits I added?" Don't journalists spot the hypocrisy built in to articles?If you don't like the terms of the licence, don't use the software. Nobody is holding a gun to your head.Simon BrownChelmsfordService reductionCahoot has "improved" its website. Font size is reduced to illegibility. Talk about small print - "conditions" are in microprint. The Royal Mail site is also quite illegible. Are companies trying to destroy online services?Bernard KeeffeLondon
Size matters, of  course. But not as  much as you might  think. When it  comes to exploiting  knowledge, it doesn't  necessarily pay to be the  biggest.Earlier this month, the city of  Amsterdam hosted an event  (www.kmeurope.com) billed as  "Europe's largest conference"  on knowledge management  (KM). It was stuffed with the  usual corporate types - from  law firms, oil companies,  pharmaceuticals and banks -  along with civil servants from  across the continent.But is it true that knowledge  can actually be managed? Many  of these blue chips believe it  can, and have appointed chief  knowledge officers or directors  of intellectual capital in  order to ensure it is. These  individuals are often senior  managers from within the  business and their role is  usually associated with  delivering value from  previously underperforming  "knowledge assets" - turning  underexploited knowledge,  capability or information into  pounds, euros, dollars or yen.In some cases, the task is  relatively straightforward. BT,  for example, has been highly  successful in unearthing and  exploiting forgotten patents  filed by its research facility over  many years. For others, such as  pharmaceutical companies  facing the expiry of their  monopoly rights to top-selling  drugs, it's a multifaceted  struggle for survival -  innovate or watch the business  shrivel up and die.And it's not just in big  business where KM can  have a life or death impact.  The September 11 report  highlighted a web of classic  knowledge management  failings, including the break  down of information sharing  and interpretation, plus  information overload and problems with collaboration  among the agencies responsible  for US security.KM emerged as a discipline  in the mid-1990s, initially in  response to business process  re-engineering (BPR), espoused  by management gurus in the  late 1980s. BPR sought to  break down almost everything  in business to reducible,  replicable steps. It brought  some benefits, but was  dismissive and destructive both  of the knowledge in people's  heads that they'd gathered over  their years of experience, and  of the informal networks and  unwritten rules of thumb that  enable organisations to  function smoothly. In many  cases, BPR projects destroyed  more value than they created.Early KM practitioners -  influenced by the potential  of the world wide web - set  out to put some of that value  back. This was to be achieved  by throwing technology at  the problem - an effort to  write everything down for  publication and future reuse.But recently a more holistic  approach has evolved. Running  across a swathe of disciplines, it  has expanded the earlier focus  from intellectual capital to  human capital - motivating  people and fostering skills,  learning, creativity and  collaboration - as well as  exploiting new technologies  to improve information  sharing, access to knowledge,  information analysis and  measurement. Recent forms  of KM also focus on "knowledge  ecology" - social networks and  knowledge-friendly working  practices.All well and good for the likes  of BP, Siemens and the rest. But  should smaller organisations  be embracing KM - and if they  do, what sort of benefits should  they expect? The good news is  that SMEs can expect exactly  the same benefits from KM as  any larger organisation: better  value from what their people  know, improved access to  expertise, more innovation and a degree of protection  from the risk of loss of vital  knowledge out of the business.But few so far have embraced  KM thinking. Smaller  companies typically succeed  and grow by focusing on those  things that are absolutely  tangible - cashflow, market  share, carefully delineated  products and services - and it can be hard for firms that have  grown through tight control to  see the benefit in KM concepts,  which are driven more by trust,  shared learning and group  dynamics.However, there is a lot of  evidence that it's just that sort  of step change that is needed  if SMEs are to make the leap  into the big time. Indeed, it is in this early growth phase that  KM approaches might be most  beneficial to a business.The potential for small  companies to move fast -  to respond to market changes  or integrate new ideas -  suggests that KM might  actually deliver greater benefit  to them than their larger  competitors. We are all knowledge workers now -  and the organisations that  manage with this in mind  almost certainly have a better  future than those that don't.&#183;Tom Knight is a consultant for  Fujitsu Services and the author  of Knowledge Management:  a blueprint for implementation  (Butterworth-Heinemann)
When Marcus Reoch, then working for a merchant bank, went on holiday to Japan, he found a new sort of confectionery - a flat, soluble mint film that you put on your tongue. He decided, with the aid of colleagues Nick Jacob and Tom Kuhn, to form a company to import them into the UK and then to manufacture them under license. Recently the company, Flatmints, has attracted attention from major customers.GC:Tell me about your company.NJ:We started it in May 2001. Marcus saw the product and thought there was a great opportunity to sell it in the UK and Europe. We started by importing it from Japan and eventually one of Tom's thoughts was that the way to really be in this business was to do the manufacturing, so over three years we've built up to the stage where we work with a partner in Uckfield where we own a lot of the machinery. This enables us to offer bespoke packaging for edible film strips.GC:You take orders in your Battersea office. How do you communicate with the people in Sussex?NJ:There's very good paper trails in everything we do. We rely quite heavily on Microsoft Excel because a lot of the things are not overly complicated but we really need to have an effective audit of what's been sent. So if a customer calls in, we would put the information in our Excel-based systems then put an e-mail across and a production order to the factory.GC:What did you do to source your IT when you set up?NJ:We all had our initial laptops. The main thing was having a small office and needing to network all the computers together, and we've moved onto a wireless network now. It's been a mix of learning how to do these things and leaning on reliable sources - one of the guys who supports the IT in the office is an acquaintance of Marcus, for example.MR:With any small company setting up, they need their network of friends with skills in desired areas. We've had a lot of help from external people with our IT; one of my close friends recommended a system to help us on the sales side called Intranets. That's a web-based database, which allows us to input all our sales data. You can access it from   anywhere in the world via the web. More importantly, if our data was to go down, it's backed up on a remote server in the US. So for a relatively cheap $45 a month, this gives us efficiency, management and access to our data from anywhere. I heard about it from a company called UK Minds, based up in Edinburgh, which is run by a mate of mine.NJ:Not only is Intranets a database with details of customers and clients, but we can actually build databases on there, so we use it for a number of our reporting systems, tracking systems, expense systems, etc. Everything comes off that, and it has the external server, so if the office were to burn down, you know you could walk into an internet cafe and have access to everything.MR:I'm a PDA lover, and if I'm abroad, I can hook up to Intranets and Nick and Tom can see what I've been up to.GC:You've had a major change in the business recently, since Cadbury asked you to make its Hollywood Bang flavoured strips. How did that business come about?TK:It was very much through a company we worked with before called Gumlink. We'd done the Tesco launch in partnership with them on the chewing gum side, and they happened to be part-owned by Cadbury in Europe, and also supplier and producer of all of Cadbury France's chewing gum product. We mentioned to them after the Tesco launch that if they knew of any other customers who would be interested in us, then let us know. About a month later, I got a contract from someone in Cadbury. Development took about a year and the product launched this month. The launch involved coordinating all of the materials and artwork and the systems for the supply chain.GC:What effect did that have on your IT structure? You mentioned supply chain - IT suppliers' eyes always light up when you say that.TK:Well, we had the potential to go down two routes. One was to design the systems ourselves, and one was to look at commissioning some sort of systems developer to do the supply chain systems. We found the costs were absolutely exorbitant and decided that for what we actually wanted to do, running it ourselves was a much better option and one that we felt that with a few basic spreadsheets we could run as effectively as we wanted.GC:That goes against the received wisdom from the IT community a bit! How long did it take you to set these systems up?TK:It was the system we'd been using before. It was really just a question of making it a little more involved, so really it's the same as we'd been using, but with larger numbers. You'd have the input for the order, it would reference through and show all the materials you'd need for that order, in which amounts, and would forecast going forward.GC:And were you pressured by any outside bodies to upgrade your systems to cope with a larger supplier?NJ:A lot of the big IT suppliers will tell you that you really need the latest IT system at all times, but our view was that we have really good communication channels between everyone at Flatmints and between the factory and ourselves. So the systems we have are always supported by that communication, so there was never really the necessity to upgrade all our systems because of this order. Now, as a result of this order, we've had an outside consultant in at the factory to develop a pretty complex Access system for us, which gives us an increased insight into the results of orders going through and stock levels.GC:And how much did that cost you?NJ:About &#163;3,000.GC:Will payback be quick on that?NJ:It's a risk-reward thing. We'll have full traceability of when we're low on stock, it'll take out all the man hours of going through the spreadsheets and checking everything's OK.GC:But in terms of order processing, you've stuck with Excel. Do you plan to keep running with this minimalist IT infrastructure?TK:We don't consider the systems to be that minimalist, because what we've done is to look at the systems we need for what we're doing, and to ensure they're reliable and transparent. By designing them ourselves, we're confident we know what limitations if any they do have, and what the issues are. Our time in our previous jobs at Morgan Stanley helped. Most of my time was spent doing nothing but working with Excel spreadsheet models and Powerpoint presentations. So it wasn't that difficult to transition from putting in figures and forecasts to tracking processes.GC:If you were advising another company that was thinking about expanding their IT drastically because of a major new contract, what would your advice be?TK:They should take a look at and work out what you can do with the Microsoft Office suite and other programs before jumping in and hiring a huge consultancy to come in and design large systems.
Paul Muller is the  director of the  Salmon Shop in  West Grinstead,  a fishmonger and  delicatessen that imports fish,  coconut milk, fruit juice and  arts and crafts from Thailand.    Three years ago it established  offices in Thailand to be staffed  by David Wilson, a shareholder  in the business. But staying in  touch has led to steep call  bills. Even discount telecoms  services charge 18p a minute  to call Thailand, meaning a  half-hour call exceeds £5.So the Salmon Shop is  moving these calls to voice  over internet protocol (VoIP).  This means using an internet  connection as a virtual phone  line. Your speech is converted  into a digital signal, sent across  the net, turned back into sound  by the recipient's computer  and reproduced through  speakers or headphones.The main advantage of  setting up VoIP is the reduced  cost of calls. "In as much as  you're not paying for it, you  can carry on a full social  conversation, rather than  watching the minutes tick  by," says Muller. "You're  not in a hurry. It gives you  the whole picture, which  establishes a relationship,  rather than things going  wrong and exploding."The Salmon Shop started  by using Microsoft's free  Messenger software to connect  its calls, along with standard  personal computers with  headsets. Wilson says this was  problematic.    "There's definitely a timelag,  although it depends when  you're on," he says. Busier  times of day slow Microsoft's  systems, although time-lag is  standard problem with VoIP.To lessen the delays, Wilson  is planning to purchase  routers costing around  £200. These will connect the  company's internet  connections directly through their internet protocol (IP)  addresses.Beyond the charge for the  routers there will be no  additional cost because the  business needs broadband  internet services anyway.  "Comparing a £9.99 dial-up  account to £25 broadband one  with all these extras is a nobrainer,"  says Wilson. "We  have to have it. You can run  a business the old way, but  you're not competitive."  Although it is possible to run  VoIP through a dial-up  internet connection, it works  far better at broadband speeds.There are other factors in  choosing an internet service  over which to run VoIP, Wilson  says. He is planning to leave  BT's standard broadband  service as, like many ISPs, it is  introducing caps on monthly  usage. As well as unlimited  usage, he wants an ISP that  provides static IP addresses:  many allocate customers a  different address each time  they go online, meaning the  routers would need to be  redirected each time the  connection was made - not  difficult, but slightly timeconsuming.  Some ISPs, such  as Demon Internet, give  customers the same IP  address each time.There are several ways to try  VoIP cheaply or for free, if you  already have an internetconnected  computer and a  headset, or speakers and a  microphone. Time-lag and  reliability may be inferior to  standard telecoms networks;  the sound quality can be  better or worse, depending on  connection speeds.  There is software designed  specifically for VoIP, such as  Skype (www.skype.com). In  July it opened a prepay service  called SkypeOut. Calls to  landlines in 22 countries  including Germany, France  and the USA cost ¤0.02 (1.3p)  a minute. Skype reported  difficulties on the opening  days of the service, but it says  these have been resolved.
Many businesses ask what  technology can actually  do for them. Here are a few  examples of programs and  gadgets with their intended  use and their subsidiary,  perhaps unintended, uses.Spreadsheets:intended as  number-crunchers but often  used to manage contacts  and even projects. Filtering  information allows you to  sort it in several different  ways according to the  category in a particular  column. Most modern  spreadsheets will offer as  much data capacity as an  old-style "flat file" database,  but if you want to manipulate serious amounts of data  among serious amounts of  users, you'll come unstuck  fairly quickly.Outlook/other contact  systems:offer a history of  contact that's been made by  email automatically, and as long  as the user remembers to enter  the details, it will also offer a trail  of telephone and other meeting  points. Networks are efficient.  Benefits from additions such  as LookOut (a search utility  now bought by Microsoft itself)  to speed up looking through  the old messages. The systems  are limited in that they sort  things by contact, but not  by subject or other criteria.MP3 players:their primary  focus is, of course, music  consumers, but increasing  numbers of sole traders are  using them as voice recorders  where they have a microphone  and for data back-up.Accounting systems:numerous accounting  systems have become  increasingly sophisticated  over the years and will track  not only what a customer  bought, but how they heard  about your company. This  means that you get valuable  marketing information about  which promotions are  working and what sort of  turnover they produced.
William Poel owns and  manages USP networks,  an internet company in  Chelmsford. He has a history  of working in the IT industry  and has seen numerous trends  come into vogue and pop out  again - which may explain a  certain cynicism about  customer relationship  management products as  such. And this is why,  presumably, he made one.Poel's disillusionment is withthe standard packages available  from dealers and even the basic  stuff from the retailers. "The need  these days is for everything to be  available wirelessly and remotely,  and the last time I struggled with  the standard packages, they  were still frantically trying to  carry the baggage of 44 previous  editions annually upgraded to  get a fee," he says.    "They hadn't really got into  the open access plot &#91;Poel gets  at his data through his Treo  600 smartphone when he's  on the road since it has a web  interface&#93;, and it was actually  cheaper to hire a bunch of  Russians to write our own  system for the purpose we  actually wanted than to pay  the annual upgrade."Claims made by CRM  manufacturers, including full  integration with Microsoft Office  applications, can be worth less  than they might at first appear,  Poel says. "Our system  integrates with Microsoft  Access and SQL Server," he  says, since MS has publishedthe data enabling anyone  to do so. "If you're worrying  about integrating with Access,  you're probably competent  enough to get a custom-built  thing from one of the zillions  of very smart programmers  out there."The rub, presumably, comes  if you're not competent enough  to specify and commission a  system at all, but want to focus  on what your business actually  does rather than the software  nuts and bolts of how it works.Poel's vision of having a  system that does exactly  what he wants it to rather than  adopting the one-size-fits-all  approach is dependent on  having the right expertise.  "I'm not sure how many people  would want to do it this way, but  all the people who've seen what  we've done have said, 'oh gosh,  why don't you sell it?' But then  you're in the same pool as the  CRM vendors with an installed  user base and the baggage of  dragging that where you want  to go," he says.
Britain's businesses have delivered the verdict on how they feel their banks are treating them - for better and worse - with the publication of results from a wide-ranging survey.Private Businesses and their Banks 2004, the ninth report from the Forum of Private Business (FPB), asked 5,000 SMEs about their relationship with their bank. Respondents to the survey, the biggest and longest running of its type, were drawn from the forum's membership and participating banks. The results make for mixed reading.On the one hand, the quality of banking businesses said they received has remained stable over the last two years. On the other, the report found little evidence to suggest that key Office of Fair Trading recommendations designed to make switching banks easier had had the desired effect.In the FPB's 2000 survey, 68.1% of businesses said they were not thinking of switching banks. By this year's survey, that figure had dropped to 61.7%, suggesting a decline in the notion of loyalty to one's bank. Yet the number of businesses switching remains virtually unchanged.Confusion seems to be the main reason for this. The report found that businesses gave a resounding "not sure" when asked how their bank had performed in implementing another OFT recommendation, that banks should pay interest on current accounts in credit if customers paid charges, or drop the charges if interest wasn't paid.Many customers seemed to be as confused about what they were being offered as they were before the OFT report, and if you're not exactly sure what charges and interest are running on your account, you're less likely to realise you would be better off somewhere else. The report did, however, praise Lloyds TSB for its clarity in this area.FPB chief executive Nick Goulding said: "There has been a serious variation between the major banks with regard to the OFT recommendations. There is confusion and lack of clarity with respect to bank charges and interest on current accounts. This suggests that businesses, banks and policy-makers must review and clarify the actual terms and conditions being provided."A performance league table compiled from the report, which was co-authored by Nottingham university business school, showed that smaller banks continue to outgun the big names.   Overall, Allied Irish (AIB) topped the table for the sixth report running, a position it has now held for a decade. It was followed by the Yorkshire and Clydesdale banks. Of the bigger banks, HSBC fared best, while Barclays, Lloyds TSB and NatWest brought up the rear. Factors taken into account when compiling the table include competitiveness of interest rate and charges, knowledge of industry, efficiency and reliability.The FPB awarded prizes based on the survey's findings. Those rewarded included AIB (best bank), HSBC (best clearing banks for small business), Clydesdale (most improved bank) and Lloyds TSB (best communications, for its implementation of the OFT recommendations).Goulding praised AIB for its "remarkable" consistency and HSBC for being the best of the big banks. According to the FPB, the key factors that made HSBC outperform its big-name competitors included its ability to build closer relationships with its customers, make quicker decisions and generate fewer complaints.John Rendall, head of business banking at HSBC, said: "We already know that more businesses rate our service as 'excellent' than any other bank. The managers in our new commercial centres are committed to spending three days out of five on the road visiting businesses, and senior managers will typically   spend four years in the role - no other bank is doing more to support the UK's SMEs. We've already helped over 80,000 businesses get started this year and we are the only net gainer in the switcher market over the last two years."One surprising finding in the report was that take-up of internet banking among business customers has apparently fizzled out. Overall, there has only been a 3% increase in online banking usage since 2002, compared with a 13% increase between 2000 and 2002. NatWest, Lloyds TSB and RBS have all seen a reduction in the number of small business clients using net banking.The slowdown can be partly explained by the fact that online business banking only really started to take off after 2000, so initial growth was always likely to be vigorous. However, security remains a big issue. According to the FPB, fear of fraud will be heightened by recent reports that banks will no longer honour the debts of victims of online scams automatically.Goulding added: "The fact that uptake appears to have stalled suggests inconsistency in the successful marketing and delivery of services by individual banks. The Bank of Scotland's impressive achievement in attracting 56% of its customers online compares favourably with the likes of Lloyds TSB, which only attracted 37% online."Another key issue highlighted was the need to reopen the Small Firms Domestic Division of the Bank of England. The FPB described the closure of the division by the bank's governor, Mervyn King, as "ill-judged". It said it believed that small businesses needed the full clout of the Bank of England behind them to ensure that banks played fair and delivered consistent   levels of good service, and that the government prioritised issues affecting small businesses.As for funding, the report found a worrying increase in the number of limited liability companies having to put up personal assets such as the family home to guarantee overdrafts with banks. The FPB said this unhappy situation could increase further if the new Small Firms Loans Guarantee (SFLG) was only made available to businesses less than five years old, as has been proposed by the Graham Review into the scheme. The forum backed the SFLG, but suggested that the threshold be dropped before it is accepted by the treasury.Goulding said: "Firms older than five years are still very much in need of this scheme. It is ridiculous that owners of limited liability companies should have to put their homes on the line to secure money from the bank."
One serious  challenge growing  companies face is  making the smooth  transition from  an intimate office culture to an  inevitably less personal  working environment where  the business's owner struggles  to remember everyone's name.At this point staff  management skills become  critical. The success of any  business depends  fundamentally on the quality  and performance of its people.  If these prize "assets" are  neglected they may lose  motivation, turn in sloppy  results or even leave the  company in search of a new  challenge. This means valuable  experience and customer  relationships are lost, and an  expensive recruitment and  training drive then become  necessary.To avoid these risks, and to  successfully steer a business  through these early challenges,  organisations need to take  proactive measures. If the  business owners have no people  skills, it is time to hire  managers that do - or send existing managers out to train.One of the skills a company  will need to acquire is the art  monitoring and recognising all  staff, regardless of their role in  the company. Usually sales staff  do a good job of making  themselves heard within an  organisation. But what about  quieter employees - those with  administrative functions, for  example, or those who support  the front-line staff? They too  may have accumulated vital  experience that they use to the  company's direct or indirect  benefit every day, but are they  being recognised, rewarded  and developed alongside more  prominent team members? If  not, watch out."Britain still lags behind  other countries when it comes  to employee productivity," notes  Ruth Spellman, chief executive  of Investors in People, which  recently conducted research  into this subject. "Although  three quarters of senior  managers made the link  between effective employee  development and increased  productivity, they often fail to  convert this understanding into  action. It seems that senior  managers still see productivity  as someone else's problem."  
Overcoming such apathy is  no small feat. Yet, for Dominic  Monkhouse, MD of Middlesexbased  web hosting company Rackspace Managed Hosting,  having a comprehensive, open  approach to staff management  is the only way to secure the  long-term success of a business.Since Monkhouse joined the  firm (a UK subsidiary of a US  company), the company has  grown from four to 57  employees, and now has a turnover of more than £10m.It is growing at a rate of  three to four people a month,  so staff recruitment and  retention is a critical area of  focus for the business. "Our  aim is to be the TNT or First  Direct of our marketplace,"  Monkhouse says, noting that  these companies are the  leaders in their field for  customer service.That means recruiting people  who like helping customers  and are passionate by nature.  When candidates are being  interviewed, they are dismissed  if they cannot show examples  of passion in their life outside  the office. If they don't have  this quality already, they won't  be able to transfer it to their  work, Monkhouse notes.His concern with making  sure he has the best people  working for him starts the  moment they join the  company. Once the right  people have been hired,  regardless of the role they will  be fulfilling, he takes time out  to give each new staff member  the welcome speech - the  history of the company, its aims and what will be expected  of them in their work there.In addition to monthly,  quarterly and yearly goalsetting,  Monkhouse and his  managers conduct quarterly  appraisals with every member  of staff. Until this became  impractical, he sat in on each  of these himself. He still meets  each member of staff at least  once a year.There are also regular  opportunities for exceptional  performance to be recognised  more publicly and for staff to  nominate colleagues for going  the extra mile in their jobs. The  firm's accountant was recently  recognised in this way, for  saving Rackspace thousands  of pounds in over-payments of  VAT and bank charges."Every new employee is given  a black book in which they  record their comments about  how we operate," Monkhouse  says."Once a month for the first  six months we then have a new  employee lunch, where they get  the chance to give me their  comments. They are then  given the go-ahead to change  whatever it is they'd like to do  differently. We have a policy in  the company that if you spot  a problem you must take  ownership for the solution. No  one is allowed to pass over the  responsibility in the hope that  someone else will sort it out."In one case, this meant  a member of staff taking up  spam problems with the  internal IT team. In another,  someone took charge of  organising a monthly company  massage day, subsidised by the  company. Also being  considered are nursery  voucher schemes and medical  care for all staff, as well as free  gym membership.Staff have a chance to shine  in other ways, too. For  example, Rackspace has a  charity committee to ensure  the company has a positive  local impact. This includes providing "e-mentoring" to  children at local schools, and  doing white-knuckle sports  in support of cystic fibrosis  research. "This provides an  opportunity for those who  don't otherwise have a  chance to be leaders at work,"  Monkhouse says.As a result of all of this,  Monkhouse hasn't lost a single  employee he didn't want to lose  since he joined the company.London-based brand  marketing and IT consultancy  Large Design attributes its own  high growth levels to a similar  strategy. The company,  which has 12 staff, believes  in distributing responsibility  evenly throughout the  company, so each member of  staff feels equally involved and  respected. Recently this meant  a quiet, behind-the-scenes  designer from Namibia was  awarded responsibility for the  company's prestigious Agent  Provocateur account - with  excellent results - and another  designer bringing in new  business from the BBC without  any incentive.Rather than encouraging  such results via financial  drivers, the company's cofounder  and creative director,  Lars Jorgensen, prefers to give  staff individual recognition,  whether it's by naming them  the press or introducing highperforming  behind-the-scenes  staff to clients for direct  recognition. "The feeling of  pride they get from having  their achievements publicly  acknowledged is much more  valuable and enduring than  any £500 bonus," he says.What the experts saySaville Consulting provides  business psychology  consultancy and solutions.  Director Steve O'Dell offers  these pointers to managers  of growing businesses on  how to keep track of key staff:&#183;The tendency to be  influenced by employees  who shout about their  achievements is great, but  if you have a performance  management system in  place you will be able to  assess the relative merits of  all staff equally.&#183;Set measurable objectives  at performance reviews and  track how well each employee  matches them, as well as  the manner in which they go  about achieving them in the  context of the wider business  process, eg how effectively  a marketing executive  supports the sales team.&#183;Quantify wherever  possible. This is the best way  to make HR management an  objective science rather than  a "gut feel" discipline. Backroom  staff performance can  be difficult to measure. But  you should be able to find  key "measurables", eg  assessing response speeds  and satisfaction surveys for  customer services staff.
Technology is designed to help  businesses. Even the most  cynical purchaser - who  thinks software companies  simply want to extract upgrade  fees periodically for their share  price - will understand that  companies make their money  by satisfying customers. But  there are ways of scuppering  the most carefully planned IT  installation so it fails to deliver.&#183;Have a non-networked  system - or several. Countless cases of wasted time occur when  a salesperson is chasing an  account that's actually on credit  stop, or trying to sell something  that's out of stock. The cause is  usually the sort of "information  silo" that crops up when  systems don't talk to each  other, so the sales rep has no  idea that they shouldn't be  pursuing this particular sale.&#183;Likewise, information silos  can lead to the "multiple version"  syndrome: one person updates a customer's address in their  database or makes a note that  the customer no longer wants  to be called, and this doesn't  transfer across the company.  Before you know it, everyone  has a slightly different copy  of the contact database. This  can now be overcome easily  by most customer relationship  management systems,  which will also feed into  the accounts database so  everyone will have the same  picture of a customer in  front of them.&#183;Staff buy-in is vital.  When electronic diaries  were introduced, one  corporate company found  the networked version  wasn't working. This had  nothing to do with the  technology, and more to  do with the MD who refused  to use it. He found this was  the best way to get people  through his door and talking  to him - but it made the  networked appointments  system a waste of time.
