At the stroke of midnight on Wednesday, March 29, a potential revolution started. From that moment you could download, free, a new way not only of surfing the internet, but also news, emails and all your   documents at the same time. This isKenjin.The new tool comes from Autonomy, the Cambridge based internet company headed by the UK's first   internet billionaire. CEO Mike Lynch may have been keeping his company's profile low since the days he borrowed £2,000 from a pop promoter in a pub to start it, but the release of Kenjin will change that.Named after the Japanese for wise man, it uses a version of Autonomy's powerful technology, previously  available only to big businesses, to "understand" what you write. It then puts a variety of related resources at your fingertips. So does this spell the death of the search engine? This is the Online road test.The journey begins atwww.kenjin.com. After the download link you find your way through several web pages asking various technical questions. The final link begins the actual downloading process. That takes a pleasant one half to four minutes. As long as you have a PC (it doesn't work on Macs at the moment), or a  firewall,  it should be painless.  The download process leaves an icon on the   desktop. Activating this brings up the installation wizard which leads you   logically through the set-up process, step by step.   Consecutive screens ask you for registration information and destinations to place files.More importantly, if you wish to use the Kenjin to search your hard drive, you must activate the personal Kenjin box. The actual act of installation takes as little as 10 seconds. Your path to the Kenjin is now finished and a new world of information seeking has just begun.  The Kenjin starts automatically upon installation, and, if you have accurately followed the instructions, what you should see is a  grey tool bar sitting across the bottom of your screen. What makes it so remarkable and equally at times frustrating, is its simplicity.To the left are four selection icons that determine what kind of information source the Kenjin is going to search through. If you select the news and world wide web icons, it searches the net for you. The local icon searches your own hard drive and the fourth allows you to search for relevant people's emails. Thankfully, for civil liberties issues, the function to contact others (and them to contact you) is optional and can be switched off. Once installed and activated, the Kenjin works continuously, searching your text - no fumbling with search engines or key words here.To the right of the tool bar are four further icons that initiate the search. So, to make your first step into the world of Kenjin, first open a document as if you were working on it. Make sure your internet connection is up, then pick up the circular wheel-like icon, and simply throw it into your text. The Kenjin now understands everything.Well, this is what   Autonomy would have you believe, but further inspection reveals that it merely analyses using pattern recognition algorithms. These word patterns are compared with whatever source you have selected, usually, and most importantly, the net. The results are displayed in the centre of the toolbar.  Given a text on cricket,  Kenjin didn't find links about insects, but five sporting pages. By comparison,www.google.compresented 10 cricket pages, the top two of which were the same. But one advantage of Google remains the ability to go back. Once the Kenjin takes you to a new page, it finds new links. If you then wanted to see another of the originally presented links, the operation has to be performed again and it   doesn't always present the same results given the same page. Kenjin also finds relevant books - although it noticeably only found results on Amazon.com.Using the search web news function proved very effective. Given the terms "Rover Birmingham", after the recent crisis there, Google found nine out of 10 links relevant to the car manufacturer, but none about news. Kenjin found five Yahoo and BBC news reports.  The most difficult and least clear process is installation of the personal Kenjin. Right clicking the tool bar gives the option to go to "My Computer"; once there, the relevant directories for personal Kenjin to search must be first selected and then indexed. This process takes more time the more files you have (in my case over 15 minutes).Given key words, Kenjin seemed to find emails in preference to texts on the hard drive. Nonetheless, if properly installed, the Kenjin could mean the end of folders within an inbox.  A second icon on the right hand side, a light bulb, glows brightly on occasions. It can be used to find stock prices but when there was a postcode in the text, the bulb (inconsistently) glowed and, once activated, a web page opened.When you use themultimap.comsite, a map will appear, encircling the location to an accuracy of, say, within a few homes. Big brother knows where you live.  Other features on the toolbar ensure default screening of adult content and variable thresholds of accuracy of links. These options are accessed via another of the icons to the right. For the confused, there is a useful FAQ page located at the Kenjin homepage.  Does Kenjin amount to a revolution in an easy to download format?The answer is probably yes. Not because Kenjin is vastly superior to search engines, although it certainly expands and redefines what can be done with one, but because of what it represents.  With attention previously focused on improving simplistic interactive search engine methods, this represents a radical shift in approach to dealing with the sprawling web. Using such powerful underlying technology, and giving it away free, Kenjin might just prove to be the wise man after all.
Like the many who've installed the program, I, too, became addicted toNapster. At least for a moment. Very basically, here's how it works. The audio information on the CDs that I play on my stereo can be stored very efficiently on my computer in a file format known as MP3. Each song is a separate file, that I can choose to play right on my computer, or on a portable MP3 device - something much like a Walkman, but with no cassette.Now, thanks to Napster, everyone on the internet can effortlessly share their MP3 files with one another. Once I install the program, I can search through and copy the MP3 files on anyone else's computer also running Napster, and they can search through and copy mine. Estimates of the number of Napster users ranges from the hundreds of thousands into the millions.Most of the debate about the Napster program, as well as the scores of other "file sharing" programs that are sure to emerge, are about   copyright violation. Is it legal, or even fair, for consumers to give away perfect copies of music and cut the artist and record label out of their share of the profits? (Incidentally, as someone whose books are frequently photocopied for use by thousands of university students worldwide, I can honestly say it doesn't bother me in the least. But I'm sure it bothers my publishers.)The people suing Napster have claimed that the moment a person "uploads" a copyrighted song to the internet, that user has broken the law. But Napster users do not upload songs to the internet. They simply make the files on their hard drives in their own computers available to other people. It would be as if I let you enter my home library with a portable photocopier.Napster's advocates claim that it democratises the music industry, giving lesser-known bands a way to distribute their music in a marketplace dominated by monopolistic major labels. University students, in particular, who do not have enough money to   feed their appetites for new music, have found a way to rotate their diet of tunes on a daily basis. Besides, many users sample new music online then go out and buy the artist's CD's, anyway.Still, I'm convinced that the popularity of Napster, and the behaviour of its users, has less to do with the love of music than it does with hatred of the recording industry. It's a consumer revolt. And, like anything to do with consumers, it's about getting stuff for the very sake of getting it.The music business created the very monsters it is trying to sue out of existence. When it moved from vinyl albums to less-expensively manufactured CDs, the price of albums did not go down, but up. The extra profit was not passed on to the artists, but to the distributors. Meanwhile, the recording industry's promotional arms have whetted an appetite for more music than it can produce, no matter how rapidly it churns out five-boy vocal bands with funny haircuts.Like any computer hack against a government or corporation, a consumer hack is based in the same sense of frustration and anger. Sure, I got an overwhelming thrill the first time I realised just how much music was available to me through Napster. I downloaded more than 50   songs the first night, then ran out of artists to search for and began using random names like "John" and "love" to find songs I may have forgotten about. But this zeal had less to do with appreciation for the music itself than with the fact that I was getting it for free. (Most of the music one finds in the Napster libraries is the same pap available on top 40 radio, anyway.) Since that first week, I haven't used the program at all.Deep down, Napster appeals to those of us who can't imagine why a line of people would stretch around the corner unless someone were giving something away on the other end. These days, thanks to an endless succession of pitches designed to make us think of ourselves as consumers, this means most of us. Sometimes I worry that the liberation promised by the internet has reduced itself to an acceleration of this tendency alone.Internet enthusiasts - likeMTVInteractive'sCEO Nicholas Butterworth who I   heard at a conference last month - are quick to point out that the web allows consumers to get to the music they want without all the boring research or asking their friends what's good.I certainly hope not. For I don't believe that music, or recordings of music for that matter, are ends in themselves. I think they're an excuse to have the very kinds of interactions that people like Butterworth see as obstacles to effortless consumption. The music is the reason we go over to each other's houses, and hang out playing records. I went into three different Napster "community chat rooms" but couldn't get anyone to chat with me, even though thousands of people were online. I kept typing "hello?" into the chat window, until someone finally responded "WHAT DO YOU WANT!?!" Everyone was too busy voraciously snarfing up music from each other's hard drives to do anything else. We might call it "the zipless download."The object of the game should not simply be to accumulate more music on our hard drives. That's a goal befitting only a mindless music consumer, well-trained by the recording industry whether he's buying his music or stealing it. In this sense, the Napster addict is no more a rebel than a victim.
Right now one of the most interesting places on the planet is Casio's watch R&amp;D department. The company, once noted for its dull but rather useful digital watches, has been producing a series of extremely desirable wearable gadgets.At the end of last year it released an innovative GPS (global positioning satellite) watch that displayed on its screen exactly where in the world the user was.   In early summer the GPS watch will be joined by a digital camera watch that takes black and white images which are then transferred to a PC via its infrared link. Due around the same time is the first ever watch to boast an MP3 player. The company is known to have developed a phone watch, and has acknowledged that it is working on watches that interact with PCs.Last week Casio treated Japanese journalists to its vision of the future, showing  four concept products that display how watches will look in 10 years time.  Technologically each one is amazing and Casio admits that there is a long way to go before any reach the stores. But they do provide a few clues as to what Casio will be unveiling in the next couple of years.Simultaneous video conferencing watchCasio's dream Forget phone watches - even though you can't actually buy them yet! Don't bother either with the third generation (UMTS) video phones that we'll be seeing in a couple of years. What you really want is this watch that sports four tiny LCD screens enabling you will to speak to and see a group of people simultaneously.   If you don't fancy seeing the person you are talking to then you can use it as a standard voice phone. It'll probably feature voice activated dialling, but if you have tiny fingers you can also use the number dials beneath the screen.What we thinkDon't hold your breath! Do you really want a watch that interrupts your snooze on the train with a video-conferenced sales meeting? Besides unless there's a major breakthrough in battery technology the meeting probably won't make it past "apologies for absence" before the screen goes blank.Visual navigation watchCasio's dream Casio is half way there with a GPS watch that displays longitude and latitude. It can even graphically show the direction and the distance of your destination. This concept adds a colour monitor that displays video images of where in the world you are. It can also give you weather reports, hopefully via a virtual Michael Fish. Using its two-way antenna you can transmit your exact location to the emergency services so they know where to send the team of St Bernards.What we thinkThis watch will be a real winner with the emergency services who will probably insist that everyone who as much as takes a hike up Primrose Hill should take one with them. Outdoor types should find it incredibly useful too. We reckon that this one will be in the stores first.Fingerprint recognition watchCasio's dream On a big night out all you will take with you is this fingerprint recognition watch. You'll use it to lock the door of your house, gain access to the Tube, take money out of the bank, and indulge in a spot of on-line shopping on the way home. It works using an infrared system activated by a fingerprint sensor that responds to only your digits.What we thinkImagine if you lost the watch. No keys, no money and, worst of all, no access to Amazon.co.uk. Technically, this watch could be available in a few years. But it's too scary to contemplate.Digital TV/music entertainment watchCasio's dream Thanks to the watch's digital TV tuner you'll never have to worry about missing a game of football ever again. The watch's record button will also archive TV programmes on to its mini hard disk - making it excellent for instant re-runs of missed England penalties. The watch will download and play back MP3 files and play video games.What we thinkThere's no doubt that the TV watch is the Holy Grail of timepieces. And given that Casio is a world leader in both watches and mini TVs you'd expect the company to be hot favourites to bring one to market. Although the company denies it, we reckon an analogue TV watch will be on sale in time for the 2002 football World Cup from Japan/Korea. Casio already has an MP3 watch and a prototype of a phone watch, so a model that downloads and plays back MP3 isn't an enormous leap. This particular watch is probably at least half a decade away - but put me down for one.
Cue for a rethink of this formatJimmy White's 2: CueballSony PlayStation      £34  Awesome/VirginArcher Maclean and his team at Awesome Developments in Banbury have been producing Jimmy White snooker and pool games since 1991, and they've sold on virtually every machine from the Commodore Amiga to the Sega Dreamcast. Cueball - which offers snooker and both UK and US versions of pool - has become something of a classic. But if you're planning to buy it, try not to get this belated PlayStation conversion.The graphics are OK by PlayStation standards, but the control icons are not clear and the text messages can be hard to read, whereas the Dreamcast graphics are gorgeous. The PC version not only looks better, it's more playable: the game design is much more suited to a keyboard/mouse interface than a control pad.   The novel part of 2: Cueball is the use of a pair of disembodied hands to represent your opponent and the referee. The white-gloved hands were "motion captured" using high precision cyber-gloves.Otherwise it's much the same as usual.   If you get bored with snooker and the numerous varieties of pool, 2: Cueball also includes games of darts and draughts and a one-armed bandit. If you'd really prefer an arcade blast, Maclean has also thrown in Dropzone, a Defender-style game that was a hit on the Atari 800 and Commodore 64 in the 1980s.   Maybe 3: Cueball, if there is one, will include Maclean's wonderful International Karate Plus (IK+), which was one of the best games ever to grace the C64, because it's difficult to see what else can be done with snooker and pool.   The early Jimmy White games were impressive when 3-D graphics and "real physics" were a novelty, and snooker was far easier to implement than something like basketball. But the "law of diminishing returns" set in a long time ago.  (JS)May the forces be with youStar Wars:   Force CommanderPC CD-Rom	£34.99  LucasArtsThe original Star Wars trilogy has inspired many a good game.  From X-Wing to Jedi Knight, Han, Luke and Vader have been involved in some excellent titles, although recent games based on the new films have jarred rather more.   Thankfully then, Force Commander takes its cue from the classic films and throws you straight into the familiar environs of Tatooine, right at the start of Star Wars. This is a 3D real time strategy game (RTS), with the emphasis on combat rather than resource management.Strategy is still vital, with command points earned on the battlefield used to upgrade your forces, but your main concern is warfare. The mission-based levels allow you to commandeer more than 40 vehicles and units (both Empire and Rebellion) with the undoubted highlight being the lumbering AT-ATs.  There are plenty of other familiar planets to play in and, while encyclopaedic knowledge of Mos Eisley and Yavin4 is not essential, a general appreciation of George Lucas's creations is recommended for full enjoyment.Impressive. But Force Commander is not quite the success it should be. Especially annoying for a 3D game, the camera is temperamental, with many early missions marred by unnecessary views of the cliffside.    Also, the difficulty in supervising your widespread charges means that the zoom-out button is a necessity, rendering the decently drawn units to tiny dots. This thoroughly wastes the potential of a graphics engine that allows you to swoop right down to your stormtrooper's boots.   The invigorating Star Wars atmosphere, only partially spoiled by a rocked-up soundtrack remix, is the real winner while the well designed levels go a long way to compensate for some of the problems. As the first RTS based on the Star Wars universe, Force Commander is bound to be popular. Unlike recent titles this just about deserves to be. (GH)The return of grunting GabeSyphon Filter 2PlayStation £34.99   989 Studios/EideticHow heartening to see the art of sequel-naming isn't dead. In this case, it's darned appropriate: you're still deep-voiced, chisel-jawed grunt Gabe Logan; you're still trying to prevent a supervirus being unleashed on the world; and a flak jacket is still your best friend.  In the new incarnation of this action strategy title, however, you have a more proactive ally: Lian Xing, the infamous "voice of radio" from the original, is also a playable character in several of the 20 or so missions.  While the plot, look, and control system are all very familiar, the improved graphics are less likely to poke your eyes out.The missions are longer and broader in scope, with a little less outright carnage and a little more strategic thinking - not that there won't still be plenty of occasions when you just want to throw your arms over your head and wish the bad guys away.  Needless to say, there are some fun new toys  - notably the crossbow - and a real bonus in the two-player option, which, while it can never hope to match the experience of GoldenEye on the N64, is among the better pal-on-pal splatfests available on PlayStation.  The most noticeable difference is the difficulty. Many boasted of romping through SF1 in a shade under 20 hours; the boast this time round may well be: "I completed it!"   You need to have played the original to stand a chance of finishing the first level of SF2.When a developer has to reconcile the hardened gamer's appetite for challenge with the newcomer's inexperience, my radical new idea comes in: at the start, a menu option allows you to make the game harder or easier, according to your level of competence.  But if you can book a course of private combat lessons with your local SAS veteran, Syphon Filter 2 is an engrossing, enjoyably harmful way of passing several rainy weekends. (AB)
So sue you Yahoo!Sega, Nintendo, and Electronic Arts are suing Yahoo!, the web portal, for allegedly allowing the sale of pirated games on its auction site. Nintendo's lawyer, Richard Flamm, said: "We have advised Yahoo! many times that easily identifiable counterfeit, unpublished and illegal goods are being sold on its site, and we have asked them to implement effective controls to prevent the posting of illegal goods. Yet while it has the responsibility and capability, it has refused to do this."Cheques and balancesSony is going into the online banking business with its new PlayStation2 game console. Sony will offer the service in Japan in conjunction with Sakura Bank Ltd and US-based investment bank, JP Morgan and Co. Sony is contributing $284m or 80% of the bank's $356m start-up capital. Last week, Sakura Bank also announced plans for online banking services accessible via mobile phones supplied by Japan's biggest mobile phone company, NTT DoCoMo.Lara puts Posh in the shadeTomb Raider heroine Lara Croft has beaten Posh Spice and Andrea Corr to win the Female Sunglasses Wearer of the Year competition. The award was collected by the current official Lara lookalike, American model Lara Weller, and the event will be featured in Hello! magazine, which sponsored the competition.Lord British moves on"Lord British", otherwise known as Richard Garriott, has left Origin, the games company he co-founded with his brother about 15 years ago. It's not clear why he left, but Origin has just "adjusted" its workforce by getting rid of 20 staff, and Origin's latest and greatest product, Ultima IX: Ascension, has had problems. Gameswatch's reviewer couldn't even get it to run. Origin became famous for its Wing Commander and Ultima series, and was taken over by the largest independent games company, Electronic Arts. Ultima Online has about 165,000 subscribers.AllegianceMicrosoft has announced the start of a "server spawn" programme for Allegiance, its next multiplayer space combat game. Usually publishers sell or give away the client (PC) versions of multiplayer games and may charge users to access their servers. However, Microsoft is giving a server version away with the retail game for users who don't want to pay up to $10 a month to use theMSN Gaming Zone. Free-play servers will also be listed automatically on Microsoft's Allegiance site.Infogrames upThe claimed slowdown in the games business hasn't hurt France's Infogrames too badly. In the second half of 1999, it increased its turnover by 65% to Euro 276.8m (£167m), and its profits by 81% to Euro 18.1m (£11m).My other car   is a CorgiElectronic Arts says it has signed a unique cross promotion deal with film company Buena Vista International, a Disney subsidiary. The forthcoming BVI blockbuster Gone In 60 Seconds (Nick Cage, Vinnie Jones) will promote EA's Need for Speed: Porsche 2000 game, while the game will promote the film. This is especially good news for the Porsche 911 GT3, which gets promoted by both. Unfortunately, the average game player probably isn't old enough to drive one, and couldn't afford the insurance if he was.
Microsoft and the US government yesterday agreed to wrap up the landmark anti-monopolies case.Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson wants to conclude the trial by ruling within 60 days on an appropriate punishment for Microsoft's illegal behaviour. He called for a "genuine fast track" after ruling that Microsoft had broken US anti-trust laws.Lawyers for Microsoft and the US justice department met yesterday with the judge to discuss penalties the company could face.This could mean that the outcome could be announced as soon as June. This "fast track" approach - which the justice department has agreed to - could include the unusual step of any appeal going straight to the supreme court, bypassing one stage of the appeals process, with a final decision by the end of the year.Judge Jackson told both sides: "My objective is to get this thing before an appellate tribunal quickly."The judgment against Microsoft for bundling its internet browser with its dominant Windows software contradicts an earlier appeals court ruling.Companies such as Sun Microsystems and hundreds of individuals are also keen to see a swift conclusion to a case that could form the basis of their own lawsuits against Microsoft.Yesterday's meeting between the company, the justice department and representatives of the 19 US states that brought the complaint was their second in two days. Legal expects said yesterday that the judge's desire for a speedy resolution of this phase of the trial suggests that he is unlikely to call for the break-up of Microsoft.Bill Kovacic, a professor at George Washington University Law School, said: "If you're going to ask for restructuring of the company, you don't want to do that on the run."The judge is understood to have asked both sides to make their final proposals in the settlement talks a starting point for discussions over remedies.These proposals were understood to have been based on remedies that fell short of a break-up.Talks broke down when the sides could not agree on an adequate alternative, Microsoft blaming the states.Kevin O'Connor for the state of Wisconsin, said: "We're going to work very closely with the department of justice to the extent we can to try to get on the same page in remedies."&#149; Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, was one of several high-profile guests at a White House conference held yesterday to discuss how new technology is transforming the economy. He was expected to meet senior politicians in a renewed lobbying effort.
Tesco, the supermarket group, yesterday dampened speculation that it was planning to float off its internet retailing arm TescoDirect from the rest of its operation.Its shares had been buoyed on Monday by growing expectations that it would announce at its results meeting next Tuesday an intention to create a new stock market listing.But chief executive Terry Leahy yesterday said e-commerce was at the heart of retailing and could not be separated from Tesco's core business. He told the annual meeting of the British Chambers of Commerce: "Every company has a long queue of banks outside their door suggesting they should go out and float their businesses. You have to decide whether your businesses on the internet are an interesting sidelines or whether they are the future of your company."But he did not comment on predictions that he would split off TescoDirect and build up a separate management team to help it expand.Tesco has stolen a march on competitors by building up its online grocery operation by using its existing stores to source deliveries. Others have been building depots especially to service Net orders.But Tesco management is frustrated about the low stock market valuation of the company which makes it difficult to expand as fast as it would like.Tesco shares closed up 4p at 219.5p.
This has been a great few weeks in which to be a technophobe; first all those dot.com fortunes going down the chute, then Bill Gates getting the benefit of a good, newly opened can of whup-ass from the US government. And now, apparently, the mobile phones which - sometimes it feels uniquely, in the media - I have never had any time for, have been revealed by Which? magazine to be death-traps, even when accompanied by hands-free kits and phone shields.On the contrary, these attachments can channel three times the normal dose of radiation into your poor old brain. Such exposure causes the temperature to rise, making the heart work harder and leading to headaches, sickness and dizziness. Hang on in there and brain tumours, heart and kidney problems, multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's could be yours. Said Which? editor, Graeme Jacobs: "If you are worried about radiation, you shouldn't rely on a hands-free set. And if you are thinking of buying a shield, don't   waste your money." The phone industry, currently enjoying a boom beyond its wildest dreams 20 years ago, expressed "surprise" on Monday night and ask for more time to consider the results; adding, rather callously, that hands-free kits had been marketed as aids to convenience rather than protection from health hazards.I've never understood why people want mobile phones; as with quiz shows and the internet, it seems that the less we actually understand, the more determined we are to trumpet it. Sometimes it seems that the only thing people are really scared of these days is the sound of silence, because only then, free of all distraction, might we begin to question exactly where are going - which, so far as I can see, is the Tower of Babel on an awayday family ticket, not transferable, no refunds. Only then, when we are all immersed in sound and fury, signifying nothing, will our politicians finally feel safe, their own hollow utterances finally indistinguishable from the rest of the clamour.I thought it particularly appropriate last week when it was revealed   that Tony "Decent Family Values" Blair has chosen to head his next election campaign the very same man who dreamed up the notorious fcuk campaign for French Connection - to the distress of many decent, decorous British people. But when all that matters is how loud you shout, not what you say, who cares if your chief cheerleader has a mouth like a sewer?I'm lucky; I don't have a mobile phone for the same reason I'm not "online" - that is, that I like my life a great deal as it is, I am never lonely and am very keen on preserving both my privacy and the right to do what I want, when I want. I do not want to be at someone's beck and call 24 hours a day, be they employer or friend; it would be like being a child again, like not belonging fully to   yourself. Get a mobile phone and your life's not your own any more; the habit of giving them to children makes even less sense, as the parent loses their freedom and the child loses the ability to fend for itself. My friend recently bought a mobile phone for her very bright 12-year-old son, and I can't recall the number of times I've hear her speak to him crossly for interrupting our lunches and shopping trips. He's never called her in trouble, usually it's to say that he's been at his friend's house, but now he's bored, so will she come and collect him? As I say, he's very clever; if the mobile phone call was not an option, he'd get on and make himself unbored. But mobile phones make chauffeurs and clients out of all of us.Unless you're a doctor, a taxi driver or a mountaineer, you simply don't need a mobile phone. All you're doing is, in most cases, buoying up a fragile sense of self-esteem, and trying to feel indispensable. But frankly, we are none of us irreplaceable, and that's one of the great and cheerful things about life. Only someone with severe self-worth issues would find anything frightening about this. I have never had a Filofax, either, even when I was living la vida 80s; I was always very struck that the ultimate boy-about-town of the time, Robert Elms, made a point of not having one either, but wrote things down in a little dinky Letts diary. Robert always said that the bigger the Filofax, the more not quite the thing the person wielding it was; people with very little tangible in the way of real talent or ability, with only the house of cards that make up a full deck of "contacts" to boast about.Some 24m Britons, including 300,000 children, now have mobiles. Imminent technological advances about to bring email, internet access, video screens and computer games to them have led analysts to believe that a full half of the population will be touting them around before the year is through, while British and multi-national companies are currently fighting a multi-billion bidding war over the next round of franchises.Many scientists are now beginning to feel that the Government has once again sidelined health issues in a bid to shake every last piece of spare change out of the pockets of business. But frightening as these new claims are, there seems to be a perfect poetic justice in them; so many of the things which we have been told by New Labour "empower" us actually weaken and enslave us.I'm not surprised Tony Blair wants every household to be on the internet; what better way to spread your black-hearted propaganda to the weak and vulnerable? What better way to turn workers into 24-hour consumers, buying goods they neither want nor need to fill up the yawning hole in their soul where socialism used to be? And now mobile phones will turn your brain to mush and rob you of your memory; all the better to become one of Mr Tony's castrated creatures. Once again, it looks like the medium really was the message.
There is something poetic in the birth today of a company called the 451.com - a business-to-business internet resource for those interested in the way the convergence of technology adds up to a new industrial revolution.The name is derived from Ray Bradbury's 1953 classic, Fahrenheit 451, a peek forward into a world where books are burned by order of the special police. The company of the book, so to speak, is playing at a screen near you just as the markets have hit that temperature where paper wealth   spontaneously combusts. Just before last night's close in New York, the Nasdaq composite index was showing a 27% fall from its high three weeks ago.Our own, new-fangled Techmark 100 is down 35% across a shorter period, while in Paris and Frankfurt those hipper-than-thou indicators Le Nouveau March&eacute; and the Neuer Markt have fallen by 40% and 32%, respectively.It might have taken two or three weeks, but in raw (and old fashioned) stock market terms this is not a correction, it is a "crash." Huge amounts of wealth have been destroyed.Yet yesterday's events were not being discussed in seismic terms. Instead, there were simple, matter of fact references to rockets and sticks and the inevitability that the super-thick layer of froth which had built up on a surprisingly small number of quoted companies over the past five months would be blown away at some stage.Things had become just too silly, reality has begun to encroach once more, and lots and lots of individual speculators who have been playing the markets on borrowed money will be looking like chumps over the coming days.Over the past five months, hundreds of thousands of ordinary Britons have been gripped by a child-like fascination with the stock market, kidding themselves they were somehow sophisticated "momentum investors", buying shares simply because they were going up. Now many will find that while it is easy to buy shares in small, illiquid companies when prices are rising, it is all but impossible to sell them when prices are falling.So is the new economy yesterday's stuff? No. In fact, now is probably the time at least to consider laying a bet on the opposite being the case. The divergence in the  real economy between   those companies which apply technology to increase their productivity and those that just hope the so-called internet bubble has burst will continue to grow.Cause to pauseOn the face of it, the febrile state of the world's post-Microsoft stock markets makes life even more complicated for the Bank of England's monetary policy committee as it starts its two-day monthly meeting today. This was always going to be a tough call - perhaps the toughest decision the MPC has had in its brief life - and financial turmoil merely adds to the mass of conflicting signals.The reality is, however, that the events of the past two days have made a rate rise in the UK slightly less probable and might just have tipped the balance in   favour of no change this month. It is far too early, of course, to say that dot.com has turned into dot.bomb, but the Bank will probably want the dust to settle before it takes actions it might regret later. That would certainly be the wisest course of action.All the signs of anxiety were there when Eddie George broke the customary pre-MPC purdah to speak to the annual meeting of the British Chambers of Commerce. Noting that the pressures on some manufacturers as a result of the strong pound were "excessive", the governor said that there was not an awful lot he and the other eight members of the MPC could do about it.Mr George frankly admitted that were he a farmer, a steelmaker, a motor manufacturer or even a hotel owner he would be sorely tempted to be calling for lower interest rates, in the hope that the result would be a cheaper currency. However, Mr George is not an indust  rialist and never has been. He is a career central banker who believes that cutting borrowing costs now would merely stoke inflationary pressure in the already over-strong domestic economy, leading to greater pain all round. House prices are rising at 15% a year, earnings growth is 5.9%, consumer demand is expanding by 4.5% a year. Mr George remembers where this all ended in 1988 and has no desire to sit through a repeat.However, the combination of the four previous increases in interest rates and the strength of the pound means that monetary policy has already been tightened considerably since the autumn. At a time when Britain has the lowest inflation rate in Europe and BMW has just pulled the plug on Rover, the Bank may be looking for a reason to put off what would be a politically explosive decision for a month. The shenanigans on Wall Street last night suggest it need look no further.
Karl Marx always said capitalism contained the seeds of its own destruction - but perhaps it contains the seeds of its own salvation, too. Is that too optimistic a reading of Monday night's US court ruling against the computer behemoth Microsoft? Maybe. But it is a tempting one.For in the most capitalist nation in the world, a judge nominated by the most conservative president in living memory has plunged an arrow into the corporate beast. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, a free-marketeer appointed to the United States District Court by Ronald Reagan in the go-go 1980s, has achieved in an instant what leftwing activists have dreamed of for years. He has branded one of global capital's biggest players a corporate lawbreaker, a bully which abused its monopoly power to stifle creativity and innovation in an industry which relies on those qualities for its survival. He lambasted Microsoft for keeping "an oppressive thumb" on the computer software market, forcefeeding consumers Microsoft's operating system, Windows, and then its internet browser, Explorer. These were not the words of some crunchy, eco-warrior shaking his fist at the big boys of Seattle: this was the measured judgment of an American judge, administering American law.It could not be more important - or more heartening. For what Judge Jackson has done is place a limit on corporate power. He has drawn a line and told mega-capitalism, "This far and no further." That counts as a blow not just against boardroom greed - but against the twin diseases of our globalised era, fatalism and passivity. By his ruling, the judge has reaffirmed the power of consumers and citizens. He has reminded us that, even in a world dominated by economics and market forces, politics - and the law - still matter.It could not have come at a better time. Defeatism in the face of the market is rife just now, especially in Britain. We watch the 50,000 workers of the west Midlands facing redundancy thanks to BMW's sell-off of Rover, and we feel powerless. People want the government to do something, but few know what. Most of the current demands amount to requests to soften the blow.We see Barclays close up to 4,000 bank branches, thereby stranding rural communities across Britain, and we feel just as impotent. Chris Mullin, a junior minister, gamely suggests a boycott. It's a good idea - but few of us are convinced it will make much difference. Whether it's Barclays or BMW, we feel the market has an iron logic and it would be quixotic, Scargillite madness to buck it.Not now. Judge Jackson, with the help of the US statute book, has proved capitalism need not run wild: it can be tamed. He has not had to craft some new, interventionist ideal from the bench. Instead he has simply enforced America's anti-trust (or anti-monopoly) laws. These are the same rules which in 1911 took one look at John D Rockefeller's Standard Oil - which by then had gobbled up 90% of the American petroleum industry - and demanded the company break up. In 1984 it was AT&amp;T's domination of the telephone market which fell on the wrong side of the anti-trust rules. "You're getting too big," said the law. "It's time to break up." If Judge Jackson's ruling is not   overturned on appeal, he may well end up prescribing the same medicine to Bill Gates.Is it just America that boasts this protection against excessive capitalism? Does it work like a vaccine, so that a nation where capitalism coarses through the collective bloodstream is somehow uniquely protected against its ill effects? Not necessarily. The European Union cannot claim the scalps won by America's anti-trust laws, but Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty of Rome are darts that can be fired at corporate bullies who try to choke competition. In 1997 Brussels struck out at Boeing whose $14bn merger with McDonnell Douglas would have handed them a virtual monopoly in the world market for aircraft. The merger went ahead, but only after Europe had attached some useful strings. The continent's arsenal may not be as mighty as America's antitrust law, but it does exist.Britain's own defence against the big boys is a work in progress. For years Britain seemed like a place where mega-business could do what it liked: witness the green light repeatedly shown to Rupert Murdoch as he gobbled up more and more of our national media. Now there is an effort to tighten the rules. Starting last month, the Office of Fair Trading has been given tougher powers to root out the Microsofts of British industry. It can now demand documents, launch dawn raids on recalcitrant firms and even slap instant fines on companies deemed to be playing with loaded dice.We are still some way from Judge Jackson, but Labour might be heading in that direction. Last year Yvette Cooper, the impeccably modernising junior minister, published an essay on competition, wondering whether the government would "pass the Microsoft   test". Would it be willing, she mused, to take on a flagship national company if such a firm were getting too big for its boots? Gordon Brown's chums say he's already passed that test: threatening last month to eat in to BT's monopoly on local calls. Monday's ruling might help him stand firm.The logic of all this is not anti-capitalism. On the contrary, America invented this vaccine to protect enterprise, not to kill it. The authors of the antitrust laws understood that a truly free market requires competition; without it monopolies expand, before growing slow and flabby. The true capitalist is on the side of the new, cheeky Davids buzzing around the ankles of the corporate Goliaths. That, as Judge Jackson understood, is why the friend of business has occasionally to take an axe to this or that company. To promote the US software industry, Microsoft may have to tear itself apart. Eventually BT might have to shrink - not to satisfy old Labour spite, but to keep Britain a dynamic, competitive place for capitalism.This is not exactly socialism, but for those anxious to tame the corporations who increasingly shape our world it may be the next best thing. It certainly beats giving up. The global campaign against Monsanto and its genetically-modified food had already showed that consumer action can work: in December the company bowed to pressure, spun off the GM wing of its business and quietly folded itself into another drugs firm. Now Judge Jackson has proved that the law can make a difference, too. And lest we give up on electoral politics we ought to note this: Republican George W Bush has hinted that, if he becomes president in November, he will do his best to halt the war on Microsoft. Al Gore takes the opposite view. The vice president may not want the endorsement - but you can guess who old man Marx would vote for.
The easy bit has been done. The US district court judge, Thomas Jackson, has ruled that Microsoft abused its 90% hold on personal computer operating systems in violation of anti-trust laws. The difficulty now is deciding what to do about it. Judge Jackson must have hoped that Microsoft would accept the compromise solutions offered by the independent mediator appointed to help bring about a settlement; but the Seattle colossus would have none of it. Microsoft became macro hard and decided that corporate advantage lay with hoping that the more conservative appeal judges would be lenient or that the appeal might linger on into a more congenial political atmosphere if George W Bush won the presidency. And all the time Microsoft would retain the fruits of monopoly control in the shape of its juicy 41% net return on sales, a rate of profitability that most e-commerce companies, caught up in the deflationary pressures of the internet, can only dream about.What should be done? Some libertarian economists ask: why worry? Technological monopolies have short lives; upstart companies always undermine them (as Microsoft did with IBM). Even the revered guru Peter Drucker points out that no non-governmental monopoly in history has lasted longer than 15 years. But this ignores two points. First, why should companies be allowed to enjoy monopoly profits - ie money that should have gone to the consumer - even for 15 years? Second, companies like Microsoft, having done it themselves, are learning from the mistakes of the past. Nearly five years ago Microsoft saw a start-up called Netscape in its rear view mirror, which quickly captured an 80% share of the market for internet "browsers". It responded by bundling its own (bought-in) browser with its operating system - the main point at issue in this case - and all but snuffed Netscape out. Microsoft now has nearly 80% of the browser market.Judge Jackson has the difficult choice of either deconstructing Microsoft into smaller competing units or insisting on good behaviour. He should go for the tougher structural solution. Microsoft can't be relied on to change its ways. It deeply believes that it has done nothing wrong (monopolists are notoriously myopic) and has such a fierce business culture that to ask it to change would be like appealing to a tiger to behave like a pussy cat. The key is to try to preserve the one positive thing that has come out of the monopoly situation - a common world standard for computers - while shedding the bad effects of stifling competition and innovation. There is no intrinsic reason why a browser or a spreadsheet has to be bundled in with an operating system. Who would dare launch a new browser now to compete with the one Microsoft gives away "free" with its operating system (on which it earns monopoly profits)? Operating systems should be constructed to take all sorts of competing software, and if they can't then they should be regulated like a utility. Microsoft often boasts of its innovation but most of its strengths (including its Excel spreadsheet and the operating system itself) originated outside the company. If Microsoft were broken up into competing units it would not only be good for consumers and Microsoft - whose huge reservoir of skilled people could be unleashed on other activities - but also for the computer industry, whose creative energies have been held back by the long shadow of Microsoft's dominance. When AT&amp;T's telephone monopoly was broken in the 1980s, it led to the highly successful "Baby Bells". History can be repeated.
With Microsoft pronounced guilty and its share price falling fast, US analysts were looking fairly desperately for the good side of the story. If the judgment was bad for Microsoft, surely it must be good for somebody.Surely there must be companies whose shares would rise.  Candidates were hard to find. Ultimately, some thought that Red Hat, VA Linux and other suppliers of Linux operating systems would benefit, but in stock market terms these tiny companies are already more overvalued than the dot.coms.Even Linus Torvalds, the Finn who wrote Linux's small core, thinks the system is three years away from being competitive on desktop and, he reminds us, that is what he said three years ago.So if there is no realistic competition - as Judge Jackson found - why is Microsoft running scared? Why have some analysts and journalists been suggesting Microsoft is doomed, the PC industry is doomed, and that the tech world is going to be taken over by network computers, high-powered games consoles, television set-top boxes, mobile phones or whatever else happens to be flavour of the month?It is Microsoft's bad luck to be under attack just after it has beaten off one lot of competition and just before the next lot arrives.Although Microsoft's Windows won the battle for the PC operating systems market, this was no foregone conclusion. There were half a dozen proprietary suppliers supplying their own hardware bundled with their own   software, including the Acorn Archimedes, Apple Macintosh, Atari ST, Commodore Amiga, the NeXT cube and the Sinclair QL.This is the sort of competition the US justice department seems to want, with lots of pointless duplication of effort and users getting locked in to single suppliers instead of being free to change between hardware brands.There have also been many alternatives to Windows on PCs, including Digital Research's GEM (Graphical Environment Manager), Quarterdeck's DesQview and Be's BeOS.The market had lots of choice, it made its choice and it is not the US government's job to try to roll back or rewrite history. It is especially not the US government's job to decide the course of software development by defining what belongs in an operating system, and what does not - unless it is also planning to throw out the copyright laws.But the question remains: what can be done to control Microsoft while it has a monopoly, and while it struggles for survival against whatever the next generation of technology throws its way.The US Department of Justice needs to think hard about that, because it seems to suppose that problems of conduct and pricing can be solved by making structural changes - to Microsoft or to the market or both.From the consumer's point of view, it would be better advised to apply the existing laws that would increase competition.For example, PC manufacturers and consumers would benefit from published standard prices for Windows, and Microsoft might even make more money out of it.What is more, if people resort to blackmail and other threats, why not throw  them  into jail?
Joel Klein takes no prisoners. The head of the US government's monopoly-busting anti-trust division fights hard and fights to win. But he is no bully either - he fights clean and he likes to pick on opponents who are bigger than him. And as Bill Gates is now discovering to his chagrin, he has a nasty habit of winning.When the verdict was handed down against Microsoft on Monday he spoke not like a civil servant who has done a commendable job, but with the zeal of an activist who has just won a campaign. "This landmark opinion - and in the history of anti-trust, this is indeed a landmark opinion - will set the ground rules for enforcement in the information age," he said. "It demonstrates once again that no company, no matter how big or how powerful, can refuse to play by the rules."The battle against Microsoft's monopoly has been portrayed as a straight showdown between government and commerce. It is a depiction that suits both sides well. Microsoft gets to play the aggrieved business struggling against an anti-entrepreneurial state. Meanwhile the government gets to look as though it is striking a populist blow against bad practice and monopoly.But it was in the end a fight   between one softly spoken, bald-headed man and big business. The 53-year-old son of a Brooklyn postman has been here before. Klein is the most successful entrepreneur in the US federal bureaucracy - the pen pusher who turned the justice department's anti-trust unit into an astonishing profit centre for the treasury by collecting more than $750m in fines over two years, mostly from European monopolists. This is the man who blocked the merger of two of the biggest names in the US defence industry, charged a group of the world's largest banks with running an illegal conspiracy to control the international credit card industry and then picked a fight with Microsoft within the space of six months. Now he has felled the wealthiest man in the world.Klein may not have the sex appeal of Erin Brockovich. But before the year is out the film rights to the legal war he waged against Microsoft will almost certainly be on its way to the big screen.His contribution was applauded by his boss, Janet Reno, the US attorney general, who described him as "the man who deserves so much of the credit" for bringing Microsoft to its knees. But the praise comes not just for completing the case successfully but for starting it in the first place.George Carey, a senior anti-trust lawyer in Washington, said yesterday: "Joel deserves a lot of the credit because he had the courage to actually pursue the case."Klein, who appeared during important parts of the 77-day court hearing against Microsoft, acted as a sort of field general in the campaign. David Boies, the chief prosecutor with a penchant for red meat and cheap suits, was his chief gladiator. Klein limited his appearances to a few post-victory salutes wearing his   trademark Cheshire Cat grin and navy blue suits.But unlike Boies, Klein made his name fighting for the impoverished, the mentally ill and people with learning difficulties. Growing up in public housing in the New York district of Queens, Klein was an unlikely candidate for the Washington in-crowd. When he was appointed chief trust-buster he was treated with the cold suspicion usually reserved for an outsider, because he was thought to be soft on big business.Some tried to block his appointment. "The only thing Justice would use its enforcement authority on is the merger of Jupiter with Neptune," said Lloyd Constantine, a former anti-trust official. In 1997 Klein was decried as a "weak" choice by the New York Times.Now that Judge Thomas Jackson has ruled against Microsoft, Klein's critics are concerned about his strength. They worry that he is overzealous and even an enemy of commerce. When asked whether Klein was still regarded as pro-business, Carey, who once worked with him, laughed. "I don't think there's anyone that thinks that any more," he said.But Klein rejects any claim that his battle against the commercial big guns is driven by ideology. He said he would not kowtow to the public demands for blood at the same time as refusing to bow down to big business. "The public notion of tackling giants, that's a mistake," he says. "You have to look at the particular facts of a case. I'm not here to tackle big corporations or get in the way of economic efficiencies."I don't have this overarching theoretical model I'm trying to lower on the economy," he says. "I'm trying to decide each case on its merits, one at a time, not on ideological grounds." He credits mainstream economic thinkers rather than legal or political ones as his great influences. "My thinking is mainstream economic thinking," he says.However, Klein does have a healthy mistrust of monopolies. At a gathering of computer industry leaders last October, a sensitive time in the case, Klein said simply: "Monopolies have to be held to a different standard because they have monopoly power."While his motivations may be eclectic, the vigour with which he   wages his battles is all his own. His friends, who describe him as both "scrappy" and "sophisticated", believe that his fighting methods highlight his defining characteristics: his immense intelligence and street-smart aggression. When talks broke down with Microsoft, the company's lawyers blamed the politicking local attorney generals rather than the justice department. Yet Klein is on the record as saying that he would rather go to trial than quietly negotiate financial penalties.Klein started his career by winning a scholarship to Columbia University, where he earned a degree in economics, and then went to Harvard University law school. He was awarded magna cum laude at both. After working with people with disabilities he went on to become a corporate lawyer before breaking off to start his own company. Like many Democrats in the Clinton era, his career took a new turn when he met the president. Klein and his wife, Patsy Davis, were regulars at the "renaissance weekends" hosted by the Clintons in the 80s. In 1993, he was asked to help shepherd a Clinton nomination through the supreme court.In the two years he worked at the White House he managed to gain a cameo role in the two greatest scandals of the Clinton presidency. During the Whitewater affair he argued that all White House documents implicated in the matter should be made public. It was this viewpoint that would earn him the wrath of the First Lady. And he was the man responsible for moving Linda Tripp, the woman who secretly taped Monica Lewinsky, from the White House, thus provoking her ire.The fact that he would become even slightly embroiled in both scandals tells us something about the desire of the man to be where the action is. The fact that he survived them both tells us something about his ability to outsmart his detractors.But his proximity to power, and hunger for it, has not left him without endearing human qualities. Lloyd Cutler, a friend and former colleague in the White House counsel's office, has said: "He's just about the   only lawyer my wife likes. He can communicate feelings and read other people's feelings."He went through a divorce at the start of the Microsoft proceedings almost two years ago. But his teenage daughter still lives with him when she is not away at school and he often says he wants to go home to spend "quantity time" with her when he leaves the office .His interests include tennis and reading biographies of famous jurists. The government safely proved that Microsoft was such a beast by simply pointing out that its Windows software is used on more than 90% of the world's computers. Robert Pitofsky, the federal trade commission chairman and an old friend of Klein, says: "He doesn't fit comfortably into any one camp in anti-trust. He takes his cases one at a time."But the case Klein chose to pursue, against the company credited with making more millionaires than any other in the history of corporate America, was also likely to get more coverage around the world than almost any other. Although Klein has allowed several huge mergers in the telecommunications industry, he is credited with helping the Clinton administration bring anti-trust issues to the front of the political agenda. Some campaigners believe Klein was simply in the right place at the right time. Ralph Nader, consumer activist and some time Green Party presidential contender, says: "He's picked a great time to be anti-trust chief because the level of merger activity is spectacular and that department has reached rock bottom in the past few years."Monopoly behaviour had largely been ignored during the Reagan years, and is likely to be so again if George W Bush becomes president later this year. Bush has already indicated his disapproval of the Microsoft suit. Klein has said little about what he will do after the November election, whether the Democrat presidential candidate Al Gore is successful or not.Some friends say Klein still harbours ambitions to be solicitor general, where his supreme court skills would come to the fore. Other analysts argue that he will be only too glad to give up his relatively tiny government salary, estimated at about $148,000 (&#163;90,000), for "10 times as much" as a corporate lawyer. He would also be keenly sought by corporations.But whatever this new "enemy of big business" decides to do next, he will always be remembered as the man who put Bill Gates in his place.The state v Gates:  Microsoft under siege1990:US federal trade commission begins investigating Microsoft's "tie-in" sales of applications and operating systems.1993:Justice department begins anti-trust inquiry into whether Windows has a monopoly in the PC market.1994:Microsoft agrees to stop punishing PC makers that use rival software.1995:Microsoft launches Windows 95, which features a free web browser, Internet Explorer. A US court order requires Microsoft to lift anti-competitive licensing terms that require PC makers to install Explorer.1996:Explorer begins to erode Netscape Navigator's market share, prompting allegations by Netscape that Microsoft is using unfair and anti-competitive practices.1997:Microsoft is sued for allegedly violating 1994 agreement by forcing manufacturers to promote Explorer. Judge Jackson issues preliminary injunction to stop bundling of Explorer with Windows. Overruled on appeal.1998:Department of justice and 20 US states sue for breach of anti-trust law. Trial begins on October 19. In November, America Online buys Netscape for $10bn (&#163;6.3bn).1999:Jackson's findings are sharply critical of Microsoft. He appoints an independent mediator.April 1 2000:Settlement talks fail.April 3:Jackson delivers verdict that Microsoft is guilty of violating anti-trust law by attempting to monopolise the internet browser market. Ruling on a penalty is expected in several months' time. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates vows to appeal.
Microsoft's founder, Bill Gates, who led the company's efforts to reach a settlement with the government in its anti-monopolies trial, returned to the attack yesterday.In comments made after Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled that the world's largest software company had broken anti-monopolies laws, Mr Gates said that the ruling would not lead to a break-up of the company."I don't think any kind of extreme remedy such as a break-up is at all consistent with what the court put forward," he said. "Common sense stands on our side."Mr Gates, who stood down from the day-to-day running of the business in January, has made few forthright comments on the case since the judge delivered his first negative ruling in November. But since settlement talks broke down over the weekend and the judge delivered his almost entirely negative verdict on Monday, Mr Gates has turned to criticising the government's position."The principle at the centre of this case is very important for the economy. The lack of &#91;government&#93; regulation of the software industry has been key to its success to date," he said.This argument flies in the face of the verdict handed out by Judge Jackson. In his historic decision, the judge found that Microsoft violated the law by using anti-competitive means to maintain its stranglehold on the personal computer industry and to prevent competition in the fledgling internet browser market.The European commission has stepped up its own investigation into Microsoft and the ruling has given sustenance to more than 100 private lawsuits already filed against the company in the US.Wall Street analysts, most of whom are still supportive of Microsoft, yesterday suggested that the uncertainty would continue to hit the group's share price.After falling 15% on Monday, the company's shares were down a further $2 yesterday at about $88 as the technology sector continued to be hit by falling confidence. The Seattle-based company has already said that it will appeal against the eventual remedy decreed by Judge Jackson.Even the expedited appeal asked for by the company is likely to take six to 12 months. During such time, the company expects the software market to change even more significantly.Brad Smith, a senior lawyer for the company, said after the ruling: "At bottom, this is a case about our decision to integrate the internet into Windows."He indicated that all software would soon include an ability to link to the internet.Andrew Roskill, industry analyst at Warburg Dillon Read, the investment bank, agrees with Microsoft. "The whole case has been ridiculously moot," he said. "The entire market has already changed."But the judge has ruled that Microsoft's bundling of its browser with Windows, which is used on more than 90% of the world's personal computers, broke laws designed to curb monopolistic power.In spite of this week's bravado, Microsoft executives do admit to having made mistakes. Mr Smith said on Monday night: "We have already learned a lot - about our responsibility as a corporate citizen, about our responsibility as a business partner."
There is no doubt that hands-free kits for mobile phones represent a major  breakthrough in something, but it may not be technology. It used to be that when  you saw someone talking to themselves as they walked down the street you thought  to yourself: "Mm, care in the community, a well-intentioned if poorly  implemented policy." Now any pedestrian muttering to him or herself is assumed  to be juggling an active social life and a successful career.Other than a mask for those who like to hold loud conversations with  themselves, however, the hands-free device has always seemed of limited utility - that awkward bobble microphone stotting against your chin, those wires snaking  into your jacket. Now the Consumer Association reports that the only other  remaining reason to acquire one, to protect your head from the microwave  radiation emitted by phones, is invalid."Radiation" is a scary word. It conjures up images of Hiroshima and Chernobyl.But there are many kinds of radiation. Sunlight is radiation, for instance. Just  as the lightning dose of radiation you get from an x-ray machine won't do you  the same damage as standing close to the site of a nuclear explosion, so there  is a world of difference between the potentially cancer-causing effect of  tanning in intense sunshine for months on end and a few hours on the beach for a  few days a year.So it is with mobiles. The tiny pulses of microwaves emitted by mobile phones  are of the same genre as the radiation used in microwave ovens to heat your  frozen meals. It does heat your brain slightly, but if you tried to use your  mobile to warm your cup of coffee, you'd be disappointed.  There's just not  enough power there, and the rise of temperature in the brain is less than you  would get from using a hairdryer or, again, sunbathing.Does that mean using mobiles is harmless? Not necessarily. Despite centuries  of research, the human brain is still a little understood, inaccessible organ.  There is no firm evidence, of the standards of proof that scientists demand,  that mobiles do damage the brain. Yet the mysterious, intricate and delicate  workings of our brain cells could be altered in ways we do not yet understand by  radiation which is presently considered harmless.If the uncertainty worries you, try thinking about other ways in which you  harm your brain. Alcohol, for instance, is known to damage it. There seems  little point in panicking about an occasional imperceptible buzz of microwaves  if you are subjecting your brain to regular pickling.There is another, simpler solution for people concerned about the dangers of  mobile phones: stop using them. Heresy? Well, there is a persuasive school of  thought among some senior managers in the US that people who use mobile phones  are simply failing to manage their time properly. Ten years ago, we did without  them. Perhaps we could again.
The internet is swiftly becoming an alternative to the classified pages for restless employees, with record numbers of job-seekers logging on to career sites in February.The number of people accessing online employment advertisements was 521,000, more than double the figure in January, according to internet audience measurement firm MMXI Europe.The most popular site was Stepstone.co.uk, visited by 3% of all who logged on to the net. Also heavily used were Topjobs.co.uk, Jobsite.co.uk and Monster.co.uk.Lucy Green, MMXI's marketing director, put the boom down to advertising: "There's been a general raising of awareness. Stepstone have been using billboards and there's been quite a lot of promotional activity generally."Job-seeking on the net is popular because it can be done outside working hours. "It's quite difficult to job-hunt in the office. You can get on the phone to a headhunter but   everyone in the room will suspect you're doing it. With the internet, you can look for a job any time of the day or night, completely privately."Many of the openings advertised are in the computer industry or clerical roles. However, MMXI expects to see an increase in employment sites catering for specific industries over the coming months.Mr Green said job seeking was going online in the same way as buying books or booking holidays: "In general, people understand it's a way of saving time and doing something more conveniently."Stepstone, the most successful jobs site, floated last month with a valuation of &#163;480m. The site is run by Giles Clarke, who made a fortune from the retail chains Majestic Wine and Pet City.Rivals for eyeballsSites	Reach Unique Visitors 	 (%)('000s)Stepstone.co.uk3.0	521Topjobs.co.uk1.8	157Jobsite.co.uk1.3	112Monster.co.uk1.0	88Source: MMXI
William Neukom, the head of Microsoft's legal team, put a brave face on the company's court-room woes yesterday. "This is an especially busy, especially stimulating time for us on the campus," he said. "These couldn't be more exciting times in terms of development."In calls to analysts and journalists, senior executives stressed that yesterday's judgment was just one more step in a long and painful legal road while the rest of the business was on the fast track to success. Company president Bill Gates urged investors to look to the spring conference in which the world's biggest software company intends to announce a new five-year plan to bring Windows, its dominant software programme, closer to the internet. "For us, the big thing is going to be Forum 2000," he said. By looking to the future, however, the company confirmed the impression that the next few months will not be very exciting at all.Investors were more than conscious of the fact that by the time Forum 2000 opens, possibly at the end of May, the company may be facing a legal decision that it should be broken up, on top of private lawsuits threatening to cost hundreds of billions dollars.Microsoft believes that the future shape of the software industry will make the bundling of its internet browser to Win dows look like old hat. Most of the excitement seen among campus techies by Mr Neukom is partly generated by them trying to add more services and functions to Windows, the software used on more than 90% of the world's computers.Government forces saw the use of the "software is different" argument as just an updated way for a company to abuse its stranglehold over a market. They see Microsoft's threats to computer manufacturers and rivals alike as the same as any other traditional company breaking anti-monopolies laws designed to protect consumers.In spite of this gulf between the two sides, they had worked on about 20 drafts of a possible consent decree. Yet they failed to agree on an effective remedy notwithstanding signs that the government was willing to accept something short of a break-up of the company.Microsoft blamed divisions between the justice department and the 19 US states party to the anti-Microsoft action for the failure to bring about an agreement. The states are widely believed to have pushed for a break-up.Mr Neukom said yesterday that such a remedy "makes no sense whatsoever as a way of dealing with the harm, even if you find that there is such a harm".Government lawyers are understood to have wanted an effective ban on tying new products as well as uniform pricing for Windows. They did not trust Micro  soft, which has previously broken consent decrees. Richard Blumenthal, one of the most vociferous attorneys general on the states' side, said yesterday that the government forces were united and that they would use yesterday's conclusions of law to guide their calls for an effective remedy."We have always said that remedies have to be fundamental and far-reaching in order to prevent this kind of behaviour happening again," he said.Joel Klein, head of the justice department's anti-trust division, has said that the courts rather than government agencies should define the law on monopolies.Such definitions take time, however. Yesterday's ruling will be followed by a decision on an effective punishment in the next couple of months, An appeal could take nine to 12 months, according to Mr Neukom. The company is to rest part of its case on an earlier court of appeals decision which upheld its ability to   tie its internet browser to Windows 95. It is to criticise Judge Jackson's handling of the case and use of inadmissible evidence, a position which has won the support of few legal experts.Several analysts, worried about the effect on share prices of continued legal shenanigans, yesterday followed Microsoft in advising investors to look to the future yesterday. Andrew Roskill, industry analyst at Warburg Dillon Read, believes that the changing nature of the software sector, with everyone supplying internet-dependent products, will make today's arguments about remedies look obsolete. "In another year, this whole case will seem even more ridiculously moot," he said.Analyst Henry Blodget, of Merill Lynch, said that a break-up would make the company more effective. He believes that Microsoft's consumer-oriented internet services should be separated from its corporate software group. A web-focused division could then merge with a pure internet company to create a competitor to America Online Time Warner. "They are fighting a war on two fronts," he said.1993 Justice Department begins anti-trust inquiry into whether Windows has monopoly in PC market.1994 Microsoft agrees to stop punishing PC makers using rival software.    1997 Microsoft launches  Internet Explorer  to compete with rivals such as  Netscape . It is sued for allegedly violating 1994 agreement by forcing manufacturers to promote Explorer. Judge Jackson issues preliminary injunction to stop bundling of Explorer with Windows. Overruled on appeal.1998 Department of Justice and 20 US states sue for breach of anti-trust law. Texas later drops out. Trial begins on October 19. In November America Online buys Netscape for $10bn.1999 Judge Jackson's findings of fact are sharply critical of Microsoft. He appoints an independent mediator.2000 Settlement talks fail on April 1.
In an attempt to defuse investors' mounting criticism, World Online, the pan-European internet service provider, yesterday released details of the controversial sale by chairwoman Nina Brink of more than 6% of the company's shares ahead of the flotation.In a statement yesterday Ms Brink said: "I would like to express my profound regret about the commotion in the market. My sale was made for entirely personal reasons to secure the financial future of my family."Ms Brink said she would make no further statements, but the Amsterdam bourse and bourse watchdog are investigating the IPO after heavy pressure from investors.World Online shares have lost around half their value since their March 17 listing amid controversy over sales by Ms Brink of some 15 million shares (6.35% of the firm) in late December.Ten million were sold to Baystar, a private US investment fund in which Ms Brink is an investor.The shares were sold at $6.04 (&#163;3.78) apiece, World Online said.But investors in the Dutch-based internet service provider drew little reassurance from the statement, sending the shares down &euro;4.10 (&#163;2.46) to &euro;19.25.SNS Securities analyst Bert Siebrand said: "The sheer stupidity of the whole thing is absolutely amazing. I can understand that back in August (when the sale was first agreed), we were facing a different market."I can understand that she wanted to cash in some shares. But she should have told us," Siebrand saidHe added that even the draft prospectus, which included fewer details on the share sale, was not widely available."Nobody saw it. Nobody got it."Responding to widespread allegations of a close relationship to Baystar, Ms Brink said yesterday she was a "passive investor" in the investment fund and that she had not become entitled to any profit-sharing proceeds from any World Online shares it sold.
Yes Television, the video-on-demand company gearing up for a &#163;600m flotation, yesterday threatened to abandon its partnership with British Telecom unless the former state-owned monopoly changed the technology being deployed to upgrade its network.The comments from Yes TV were made as BT was forced to defend itself against criticism that it had been dragging its feet over the introduction of its broadband network.BT said its roll-out was on target with 25% of the population connected to asymmetric digital subscriber lines, which turn an ordinary telephone copper wire into a high-speed connection for internet, broadcasting or video-on-demand services. BT expects its coverage to grow to 33% of the population by June, which would account for 50% of the UK's internet users.Yes TV was critical of the technology being deployed and said it was lobbying senior BT executives to introduce a different form of ADSL.BT has allied with Yes TV to pilot a scheme over the next three months in 440 homes. The equipment supplied by Fujitsu and Alcatel for the service does not have a multi-channel TV facility, leaving only internet access and the ability to download specific films or TV programmes."Our endgame is to use ADSL that supports multi-channel TV and if BT does not go down that route then we   will find another telecoms partner," said Yes technical director Huw Price-Stephens. "But we are confident BT will listen because they understand that is a threat to their business."Both sides later tried to play down any suggestion of a rift. BT's director of broadband, Chris Gibbs, said upgrading the ADSL network would be a simple matter. "We have been working on the strategy of building out high-speed internet access so far but are looking very closely at the needs of the broadcasters." He noted that the ban on broadcasting over BT's network would not be lifted until January 2001.Yes TV provides a video-on-demand service in the joint venture between Kingston Communications and BSkyB using ADSL in Hull.Kingston began its service in January over its local network carrying 60 TV channels, internet access and video on demand, using technology supplied by Newbridge Networks, recently bought by Alcatel.Paul Reynolds, BT's managing director of network and information services, estimated BT had spent "a couple of billion pounds" in the past two years upgrading its network to broadband. "There will be more of it in the coming year and I don't see it slackening.""What we have not done is take a catastrophic lurch into this. It's the fastest roll-out of DSL we've seen in the world."Yes TV yesterday published details of its flotation and set a price range of 225p-275p.
The Boston Globe"The right to innovate on behalf of customers, no matter how badly it hurts
Microsoft's competitors, has been the company's battle cry throughout this
antitrust case. Yesterday, Microsoft made it clear it will continue to make
that argument all the way to the US Supreme Court. And some industry experts
say that the company's chances aren't as bleak as they might at first appear."Chicago Tribune"High-tech companies had complained for years about Microsoft tactics they
considered ruthless and unfair. But because of the software Goliath's
stranglehold in the high-tech field, they believed they could do little to
counter the company. Many feared Microsoft would exact revenge if they
complained too loudly."Los Angeles Times"Even after the long-awaited judgment that Microsoft Corp. has violated
antitrust laws, only one outcome seems certain: The legal battle will rage
for years to come."Miami Herald"Microsoft has 'a strong case on appeal,' co-founder and Chairman Bill Gates
told reporters and employees. Those appeals, sure to be time-consuming,
undercut Attorney General Janet Reno's assertion that Jackson's 43-page
decision meant 'consumers who have been harmed can now look forward to
benefits'."New York Times"In failing to reach a settlement over the weekend, Microsoft is wagering
that either it will once again find a more sympathetic appeals court bench or
that advances in technology will make the case moot. Indeed, if the case
still takes several years to reach a conclusion, any remedy short of a
breakup of the company could prove largely irrelevant. The company may also
benefit from a change in the White House since Governor George W. Bush, the
expected Republican candidate for president, has suggested that antitrust
enforcement should be confined mainly to price-fixing cases."Washington Post"Microsoft's biggest enemies cheered Monday's ruling that the software giant
broke federal antitrust laws, but the only immediate impact on the industry
may be emboldened sales pitches from rivals. Observers on all sides of the
debate agreed that U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's decision
still doesn't resolve the uncertainty over how Microsoft might be punished or
whether its dominant Windows operating systems might lose market share any
time soon."
The court ruling in the Microsoft antitrust case sends out an important message to America's corporate titans: no matter how big or important you are to the US economy, you are not above the law.Microsoft contributed enormously to the popular acceptance of computers. Apple may have been the pioneer of the computer revolution with its Macintoshes, but it was Microsoft that brought computing to the masses through the Windows operating system. Microsoft's clout in the US economy can be gauged by the impact of judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's decision on the market. The Nasdaq, the market where many technology companies are listed, slumped 349 points, its fifth biggest percentage loss ever, as investors fretted about further lawsuits that will dog Microsoft.Bill Gates, the world's richest man, now faces the prospect that his mighty company will be broken up and consumers may have to deal with the devil they don't know instead of Windows, the devil they had come to accept grudgingly. But there is something admirable in the ruthlessness of the US economic system, where even a company as important as Microsoft can be taken down.Innovation and competition lie at the heart of America's economic success. They override the importance of consumer convenience, which was one of Microsoft's arguments. If convenience was the dominant factor, the US government would never have broken up AT&amp;T, the phone monopoly, in 1984. Customers grumbled at having to deal with the plethora of companies that resulted from Ma Bell's break-up. But AT&amp;T's dismemberment had important economic consequences.It allowed new companies such as MCI, the long distance phone company, to flourish. Phone charges in the US are among the lowest in the world because consumers can pick and choose from a sometimes bewildering array of telecommunications and cable companies. It may be inconvenient, but few Americans want a return to the monopolistic ways of Ma Bell and high phone charges.It will be argued that the US government is always a step or two behind in the fast-moving world of technology. Netscape, the pioneering internet browser company, which was at the heart of the Microsoft antitrust case, no longer exists, having been absorbed by America Online, the world's leading internet service provider. As Judge Jackson said in his historic ruling, Microsoft succeeded in preventing - for several years, and perhaps permanently - Netscape Navigator and Java, a programming language, from fulfilling their potential to open the market for PC operating systems to competition.Microsoft may have served consumers with a de facto standard for operating systems, although that is debatable. But Judge Jackson faulted Microsoft on two important counts: it did have monopoly power through its control of  95% of the market in operating systems and it abused that monopoly power by trying to stifle competition, not just from Netscape, but from Apple, Intel, RealNetworks and IBM. For an economic system whose lifeblood is innovation, Microsoft's tactics were unacceptable and detrimental to the US economy.The US government may have missed the boat in the browser market - Microsoft's Internet Explorer has won that battle - but its victory, subject to appeal, is an important reminder to US companies that they cannot flout America's antitrust laws with impunity. Consumers may be inconvenienced in the short-term, but they will ultimately benefit as new innovative companies flourish. If Microsoft is broken up, these "baby Microsofts" could also be beneficiaries from this landmark case.
Bill Gates:Good afternoon. I want to say a few words about today's
                   ruling and how we look at these issues going forward. Today's ruling
                   was not unexpected, given the Court's earlier findings. But there are
                   several steps ahead in this case. While we did everything that we could
                   to settle this case, and will continue to look for new opportunities to
                   resolve it, we believe that we have a strong case on appeal. The
                   Appeals Court has already affirmed Microsoft's right to build Internet
                   capabilities into the Windows operating system to benefit consumers.
                   This ruling turns on its head the reality that consumers know, that our
                   software has helped make PC's more accessible and affordable to
                   millions. We started with just a few simple ideas, and the results have
                   helped bring lower prices, improve productivity and enormous benefits
                   to consumers. As we look ahead to the appeals process, innovation will
                   continue to be the number one priority at Microsoft. Microsoft's past
                   success has been built on innovation and creativity, and our future
                   success depends on that ability to keep innovating in the fastest
                   changing market place on earth. We recognize we have a responsibility
                   to provide positive leadership on behalf of consumers and our industry.
                   We take this responsibility very seriously.The high tech industry that Microsoft has helped to create has
                   unleashed a wave of competition and innovation. We have constantly
                   seen more powerful products for consumers at lower prices than ever
                   before. This high tech explosion has dramatically increased business
                   productivity. And our industry is an engine of the American economy
                   and the global economy.It's important to note how much the high technology industry has
                   changed in just the two years since this case was filed. We are seeing
                   amazing new technologies that build on the power of the PC to offer
                   consumers everything from Web phones to smart kitchen appliances.
                   There are record-breaking mergers, reshaping the competitive
                   landscape. When you look at the incredible pace of technological
                   change, it's clear that Microsoft, and every other company must
                   compete and innovate in order to survive and prosper.Above all, as this process moves forward, we will continue to innovate
                   and deliver the best solutions for our customers. We are committed to
                   continue to hire great people, to listen to our customers, to invest in
                   the future and to create the next great generation of software. While
                   our legal team works to resolve the case, we will put our energy and
                   our focus on these new ideas, new innovations and new software that
                   will improve people's lives. Thank you.Steve Ballmer:Hello. When people ask me about this case, I tell them
                   three things. I tell them that the right of appeal is a fundamental tenet
                   of the American legal system and that until the appeal is over, nothing
                   is settled. We have learned that from experience.I tell them I couldn't be more proud of this great company, its incredible
                   employees and its breakthrough products, and I tell them that I believe
                   in this company more today than I ever have. I believe in our people,
                   our technology, and our vision. We need to stay very focused in on
                   that.It's important for us to all think about what today's ruling means and
                   about what it does not mean. The ruling does not change the
                   challenges and opportunities before us. Windows 2000 is the foundation
                   for a whole new generation of products and services that will make the
                   dream of Next Generation Window Services on the Internet a powerful
                   reality. The combined power of amazing software, the Internet, and
                   wireless technologies will free our products from the desktop and server
                   and take them into literally every corner and walk of life.If you take a look at devices like pocket PC's, smart kitchen appliances,
                   the MiPad that Bill had a chance to unveil last month, it's really quite
                   amazing. And the boundaries of innovation are really being expanded as
                   never before. And it's those incredible opportunities and challenges that
                   will shape the destiny of Microsoft and our industry. At the same time,
                   we do recognize that we have a special responsibility to set a positive
                   example in our industry.We spent the past 25 years thinking of ourselves as a small, aggressive
                   company playing catch-up to industry giants, even though at some
                   point along the way we became a large company. Our success has
                   really come from the opportunities that Microsoft and Windows have
                   created for consumers and for thousands and thousands of companies,
                   even while we competed with the few of those companies. We have
                   failed to adequately demonstrate all of that opportunity for consumers
                   and business alike.Our intense focus on moving forward has at times been threatening and
                   our passion for this has been misinterpreted. We can do better, but
                   that doesn't mean innovating any less or delivering any less value to
                   consumers. It does mean that values we hold dear -- opportunity for
                   everyone, integrity, innovation, customer focus and partnership -- have
                   been called into question today. We continue to cherish those values
                   as we always have.In the coming weeks, I intend to speak directly with many of our key
                   customers and partners to assure them that today's ruling will not
                   cause us to slow our efforts to provide them with the products and
                   services they need to run their businesses. I had an opportunity this
                   morning to talk to a wonderful software developer building on our
                   platform and the list and range of new things that they want to see in
                   the basic platform was daunting, but we are dedicated to delivering on
                   the kinds of things that folks like that want.As Bill said, the reality the consumers know is different than one might
                   think today. They see the wonders of what technology and competition
                   has done for their lives. Microsoft has been focused in on that and will
                   continue to be so. I thank you very much for this opportunity.
There is one sure outcome of the ruling that Microsoft violated antitrust 
laws by abusing its monopoly. The Seattle giant will never be the same again. Whether it is 
broken up into competing 'Baby Bills' or forced to open up its source code 
or whatever, Microsoft will never have the same overweening power that it 
has wielded in the recent past.This is partly because PC operating systems will become relatively less important as people increasingly use 
television and mobile phones to interact with the internet. In these areas, Microsoft is powerful but not the omnipotent force it is in the world of personal computers, where its market share exceeds 90% and it completely 
dominates key software such as spreadsheets (through Excel) and word 
processing (through Word). But the main reason it won't be the same is that 
it has been rumbled.It has been guilty of hubris. Microsoft was never prepared to admit it was a monopoly, 
let alone that it abused its position. Yet look at the facts. It loses money on 
Hotmail, which it is forced to give away free because of all the 
alternatives on offer, yet makes a mouth-watering 40% net return on sales on 
its overall business. If there had been a number of successful alternative 
operating systems then the price would have come tumbling down. It is even 
possible that manufacturers would have given them away free in order to 
attract a captive audience.
 
Of course, PC users benefit from having an operating system that is a 
world standard. But if you have such a dominant monopoly position you also 
have responsibilities. A monopoly operating system should be operated as a 
common carrier - allowing anyone that wants to sell products on to it at a 
'fair' price. That's the only way to stimulate the maximum competition. 
Instead you get the ludicrous position where a twentieth century version of 
Gresham's law operates - expensive software drives out cheap alternatives. 
Why else did I have to give up a cheap and cheerful spreadsheet and buy 
Microsoft's Excel, except because the rest of the world uses it because it comes as 
part of the Microsoft package. I'm still holding out with a word processing 
package that came free with my Macintosh, but I wonder for how much longer.Microsoft's armlock on operating systems is self-reinforcing because 
software firms write for Microsoft first and for Macs and other systems 
later on, if at all. The latest example is Autonomy of Cambridge whose 
intelligent search engine Kenjin - launched this week - will run on, surprise, surprise, Microsoft's operating system. When I tested one of the recent Mac operating systems I was surprised not only to find that 
Microsoft's browser was the default option but also that it would bounce 
back as the default in certain circumstances even when I had switched over 
to Netscape. Where's the competition in that?Most users of personal computers simply don't want the ever more 
complicated versions of Excel and Word that Microsoft produces to keep the 
profits engine turning. They want something that does simple tasks quickly 
and reliably. Competition is the key - and we will see more of it once 
Microsoft's anti-competitive practices have been curbed. If Microsoft is 
tamed or broken up, it will be good for the consumer and ultimately good for 
Microsoft. Think what those thousands of brilliant programmers in Seattle 
could do if their creative and entrepreneurial talents were unleashed.
More than &#163;49bn was wiped from the value of Microsoft in just a few hours yesterday as the world's biggest software company prepared for a harsh legal ruling in its landmark anti-monopoly battle with the US government.Its shares in fell by 15% soon after Wall Street opened, following the breakdown of settlement talks between the Seattle-based company and the justice department at the weekend.This failure opened the way for Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson to deliver his ruling on whether the company had broken US anti-trust laws designed to protect consumers.Even Microsoft's lawyers expected him to rule against the company after his preliminary findings last November that it had harmed consumers and abused its monopoly position. Judge Jackson's ruling is expected to fuel more than 100 individual lawsuits already filed against Microsoft.They allege that the company overcharged them in selling its Windows software, used on more than 90%of the world's computers. Damages from such lawsuits can be punitive and, amid continued uncertainty about future sanctions, terrified investors yesterday.Microsoft's plunge dragged down other hi-tech companies. The Nasdaq index, the world's leading benchmark for the technology sector, fell by 5% in a morning. At one stage, the effect was such that the manufacturing company General Electric was larger in market value than Microsoft or Cisco, the company that supplies much of the internet's technology backbone.Microsoft, founded by Bill Gates, the world's richest man, pledged to appeal against any negative ruling.Settlement talks broke down over the failure to agree on an effective remedy. Several of the 19 US states that brought the landmark legal action against the company two years ago believe that a break-up may be the only way of preventing future abuses.Microsoft chairman Bill Gates two weeks ago sent a detailed settlement proposal of almost a dozen pages to government lawyers. In it were several key concessions. Microsoft agreed to sell a version of Windows that does not have its web browser, Internet Explorer, bundled up its operating system; open its Windows code up to other programmers; and sell Windows at a standard price. But the government rejected the offer, deriding it as "inadequate".Several Wall Street analysts sought to ease investor fears yesterday. Rick Sherlund, an influential company analyst at Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, warned investors that they would need to have a "thick skin" to deal with the fallout from yesterday's ruling and the break-down in talks.
A Birmingham company that wants to create a lonely hearts website for people with genital herpes is raising &#163;3.5m in an Ofex flotation.The firm, Henderson Morley, is entirely focused on herpes. It is developing novel treatments for the disease, selling existing medicines and is planning an internet site of more than 3,000 pages for sufferers.Chairman Andrew Knight described herpes as a "particularly distressing" problem which was often a barrier when people met for the first time.He said that a lonely hearts service would help "remove the issue" and overcome any embarrassment.As a whole, the company's website will be a "cross between a magazine, a reference book and a herpes-focused shop".In time, Henderson Morley plans to sell medicines online.The company is likely to be valued at &#163;10m on joining the unregulated stock market. It believes it faces a huge market - one in five North Americans has genital herpes. The disease is thought to have similar prevalence in Europe, although screening is much less widespread.A former property and nursing homes entrepreneur, Mr Knight established Henderson Morley four years ago with Ian   Pardoe, a doctor researching herpes at the University of Birmingham.The company is working on three treatments. They work by altering the electrical potential of the virus, preventing it from reproducing. Henderson Morley has two further drugs under development, which originate from plants.Henderson Morley intends to charge browsers to enter its website, then channel the money towards drug development.Mr Knight said people would be prepared to pay. "Some of these people are desperate," he said. "They've got symptoms which they are very worried about."Many herpes carriers suffer from cold sores, ulcers, pain and depression with recurrences as often as every month. In more serious cases, the virus can cause blindness, shingles and cancer.Once contracted, there is no way of getting rid of the disease. The virus is believed to be developing resistance to the most common existing treatments.Henderson Morley's flotation is being handled by Griffiths and Lamb, the Birmingham stockbroker. The minimum subscription permitted is &#163;1,000.If successful, the placing will value Mr Knight's 37% stake in the company at &#163;3.7m and Dr Pardoe's stake at &#163;2m.
A US judge found Microsoft guilty of violating anti-monopoly laws last night in a historic legal decision that could change the landscape of the computer industry and end in the world's largest software company being broken up.Fears that Microsoft would be found liable for its anti-competitive behaviour had already wiped about &#163;50bn from the company's market value before Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson delivered his verdict late yesterday.The 15 per cent decline in the company's share price also cut about &#163;12bn from the personal wealth of Bill Gates, the company founder. Such a steep decline in what had been the world's most highly valued company had a seismic effect on US technology shares. The Nasdaq composite index fell 349 points, its fifth biggest percentage loss ever, as investors worried about further lawsuits and uncertainty.Mr Gates, who had led efforts to settle the dispute with the US government and 19 US states, said he believed Microsoft had "a strong case for an appeal". He said: "The principle at the centre of this case is very important for the economy. The lack of &#91;government&#93; regulation of the software industry has been key to its success to date."Joel Klein, the head of the Justice department's anti-trust division, described the ruling that Microsoft violated the Sherman Act as a "landmark" in the history of US anti-monopoly powers. The ruling, he said, demonstrated "that no company, no matter how powerful or how successful, can refuse to play by the rules."Yesterday's ruling offered little comment on potential penalties for Microsoft's behaviour. The settlement talks broke down largely because of a lack of trust on the government's side over whether Microsoft would comply with any remedy short of a break-up.Mr Klein said the department was committed to finding a remedy that put an end to Microsoft's "widespread and persistent abuse of monopoly power".Judge Jackson is expected to call for further court evidence before ruling on a penalty in several months' time. Microsoft will then appeal. Judge Jackson yesterday found that Microsoft had violated the law by using anti-competitive means to maintain its stranglehold on the personal computer industry.He also found that the company had unlawfully bundled its Internet Explorer to Windows, the company's software which is used on more than 90 per cent of the world's computers. Microsoft had broken state, as well as federal, laws.He wrote: "Only when the separate categories of conduct are viewed, as they should be, as a single, well-coordinated course of action does the full extent of the violence that Microsoft has done to the competitive process reveal itself."Microsoft placed an oppressive thumb on the scale of competitive fortune, thereby effectively guaranteeing its continued dominance in the relevant market."Microsoft said most of the ruling was not unexpected and pointed out that the government had failed to convince the judge that its marketing arrangements with computer manufacturers constituted unlawful dealing.Yesterday's ruling, by finding Microsoft to have abused its monopoly position, will be used by more than 100 lawsuits already filed against the company which allege that Microsoft overcharged individuals. Damages from such lawsuits can be punitive, or three times their actual value.Several Wall Street analysts sought to ease investor fears yesterday. Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, warned investors that they would need to have a "thick skin" to deal with the fallout. "Any good news on the suit may be a year away as a result of the appeals process," he said.
The RAC has conducted a top level survey to reveal what most people have in their glove compartments. Gloves don't even make the top five; nor do car manuals, or any useful safety equipment. The list goes like this:1. Spare underwear - men and women admitted to this, "for emergencies".2. Tapes - often unravelled, never in boxes and mostly of bands circa 19793. Condiments (like sachets of ketchup or mayonnaise)4. Perfume (including aftershave and deodorant)5. Receipts from buying petrol and for parkingEat that, Little ChefWell done to Granada Road  Services. They have just been voted "The most parent friendly roadside eating places" in the country. Granada brand development director Paul Kelly said he was "delighted", particularly after beating off distinguished competition from Little Chef and McDonald's to win the coveted gong. Good work.Quote of the week"If you ever bump into &#91;BMW chairman Professor Joachim&#93; Milberg while out shopping, run for your life because there's no way he'll say sorry. He'll say it was your fault and the fault of the supermarket for making the aisles too narrow and that the British Government is also to blame for not supporting corner shops. Then he'll sell your house, buy the company you work for and sell that too."Jeremy Clarkson, The Sun
What do you drive?A silver Ford Ka. It's bubble shaped, like a spaceship. I suppose that says I like to live in the present and the future but not the past.What do you like - or not like - about it?It's a manual, which I hate. I've only ever driven automatics - lazy I know. The great thing about it is   that it can carry a lot of petrol but be economical with it.Why did you buy it?I liked the shape.What kind of driver are you?Fast but safe, though apparently I'm a bit erratic and make my passengers want to throw up.Any bad habits?I forget to put on my seat belt.Any driving test tales?It was so long ago I can barely remember it. I passed second time and it was uneventful.What was your first car?A convertible Golf.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?I've had it all: points, tickets and a crash. A truck hit me when pulling out on to a main road. I had to crawl out on the other side but I was OK.What do you use your car for?Everything - work, pleasure, shopping. I couldn't do without it.Have you ever experienced roadrage?No I'm fairly calm. I always give way and let people out. As I'm busy with people all day long driving is my quiet time - my meditation down time.What's in the boot?An umbrella and an anorak that folds into its own bag.Have you ever had sex in a car?NoWhat music do you listen to on the road?Rhythm and blues. Apart from Jazz FM and Classic FM I rarely have radio on because DJs tend to shout and I can't bear to be shouted at while I'm in the car.What would be your dream car?A convertible VW Karman Ghia. But I'd want a brand new one that didn't break down, which is a   problem as they don't make them anymore.Who would be your dream passenger?The jazz singer Diane Reeves - she could sing to me while I was driving. I love her soothing tones.Paul J Medford has adapted and directed Inner City Jam which opens on Wednesday at West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds. Details: 01132137700
It all started with my sister Sarah. She'd grown sick of her ageing Fiat Punto and Henry and George's elbows were growing so fast that whenever the family went out, it was tears before the first lay-by. Sarah's heart was set on a Golf, so she persuaded her husband Gary - because Gary is a bloke - to go with her to the local VW showroom.She took Gary because Sarah is one of the 80% of women who feel they need to enlist the help of a male partner or friend before they are ready to walk through a car showroom door. Many of these suspected that if they bought alone, they may not get a good deal, though the findings, commissioned on behalf of Duckhams, stress that women often lack confidence because generally they have less technical knowledge of cars than men.The salesman who dealt with Sarah and Gary sounds like he was the spit of Swiss Tony from the Fast Show. He asked Gary some questions, then he asked him some more and, while Sarah pogoed up and down in his line of vision, she remained invisible. Yes, the car was for her, but if she'd just keep out of the man's business of negotiating a sale, she'd be doing herself a favour.Half an hour later, they had bought a Mercedes-Benz A class, spending considerably more than they planned to, but Sarah was happy: "The dealer asked me what I needed and he listened to me." And it would have been a he - the latest figures show female sales staff make up just 30% of the 386,000 employed in UK car sales. So even though 42% of cars are bought by women, it's not surprising that many consider forecourts and showrooms to be no-go zones.But is this perception right? To find out, I agreed with What Car? magazine that I would go to 10 dealerships to find out how much of a discount I could get on various new cars. Then What Car? staff reporter Sarah Cutler would go to the same places to see what sort of deal she could get. I said I was a self-employed professional, that I was in a position to pay for the car in full before driving away, but that I'd be interested in any credit schemes if that would mean saving money. Sarah made out that her situation was similar to mine. I visited all dealers before Sarah.First stop was Northfield Audi in Tetbury, and we were after an A3 1.6 SE. The salesman, Richard Friend, was friendly enough but made it clear I would be wasting my time if I tried to haggle and that it would make no difference if I was paying with cash or credit. He did, however,   run my details through Audi's Solutions scheme and went to great lengths to explain why I might be better off driving away under the terms of a repayment scheme. He also suggested that the extra for metallic paint would be money well spent when it came to trading the A3 in. There was no car immediately available for test drive, but one could easily be fixed up.When Sarah went along, Richard Friend wasn't around but Malcolm Rance offered similar information. Paying cash or finance would make no difference, and he ran through the   computer looking at Audi's Solutions scheme (which he was also enthusiastic about) and again there was no car available right then to test. But she was impressed by the service. No discount for either of us then.Next it was to Dick Lovett in Bristol to buy a BMW 318 SE. Simon Cockram told me that the model I was after was one of the lowest depreciating cars on the market. He said the only discount available was 3%, and that was only given to bulk fleet buyers. He did suggest that a six disc CD changer could be thrown in with the windscreen price.When Sarah went along Simon told her, as he did me, that only fleet buyers get 3% off. But when she said how serious she was, and that she could pay cash, he said he could probably get her that 3% off. There was no mention of a CD player so Sarah lost out to me on that, but her discount was worth &#163;636. Sarah came away impressed that he'd seemed more keen to sell her a car than he had to me.After a few more visits a pattern started to emerge. Far from being marginalised and undermined, Sarah was doing better than me,    coming away from many dealerships with hefty discounts where I'd got just a few quid off. And I'd been thinking that we were going to nail these evil sexists who are obviously lurking behind every yukka plant,   waiting to pounce and patronise the poor girl. "I haven't found any yet!" she beamed.But then, just when I was thinking it was safe for a woman to walk into a showroom wearing nothing but a bikini and white stilettos, shouting "Ooh, can anyone help me with this handbag, it's so full of cash?", a vestige of the past struck. Rudy Paul was the man I'd tipped from our ten incognito visits as the best salesman of them all. He'd gushed so violently about the new Fiat Punto and &#163;500 cashback deal that I'd virtually paid for one on the spot. I'd hidden my inside knowledge when he explained how good the car was to drive and played idiot when he narrated the best bits of a test drive. I liked him - the guy was a true professional, the right man to do business with.When he saw Sarah, something went wrong: "I found him totally patronising. I told him which model I wanted but he pushed me to get the 16-valve model as it would perform better. He offered me the in-house deal of &#163;500 cashback, but whereas he told Simon it was an in-house deal, he made me feel as if he'd cut &#163;500 off just for me, just like that, no problem. When it came to discussing paint, he said, in light of the &#163;500 off, he wouldn't throw in metallic paint - but asked me if I wanted to 'come and see the pretty colours'. He's a good salesman - I came away ready to buy a more expensive car than I'd planned. But I felt patronised and pressured, even if he did give me a lot of time."I couldn't feel that sorry for her, considering her total saving was so much greater than mine. So was Sarah happy?"Given that I made far bigger savings than Simon, I'd say yes. There were vestiges of sexism in some places, but I think we have to realise that, as a consumer issue, sexism can come from either sex and can be directed at either."All of which made me anxiously search through my notes: of the ten dealers we'd ambushed, two had been women. Had Sarah got a better deal from them? Toyota exec Sharon Cross had offered me zilch off a Yaris 1.0 GLS supermini. Phew, Sarah had done no better. But Vauxhall saleswoman Sarah Cross offered me &#163;540 off a Corsa 1.2 GLS, while for Sarah she'd coughed up &#163;1020. I felt transactionally abused - and could only agree with What Car?'s verdict on our research: "If you're a man buying a car, you'd do best to ask a woman to negotiate for you". &lt;P.The full report is in the May issue of What Car? magazine, on sale from Wednesday
Since we assembled the core team and began to see our vision take on tangible form, it has become easier to see why entrepreneurs put up with the great stress and emotional ups and downs that come with setting up a business.The buzz is fantastic and when we went to test the Rools proposition out with potential business partners, we could see a similar thing in some of the people that we talked to.We want to offer customers as much choice as possible by developing a network of partner retailers for our secure service to young people to shop online independently.We approached a mixture of established companies that had expanded on to the net from the high street and pure online players. When we meet with the latter it is always with people with a significant stake in the business, often the founders themselves.Their determination to succeed and the confidence they have in their ability to do so seems to set the tone for the whole organisation, making   them appear innovative and exciting places to be.Having spoken to a number of people who have founded internet businesses, it appears that it is not a simple lust for wealth that drives them - though the desire to share in some of the economic value that is created is obviously real. Instead, most of the enthusiasm appears to stem from the irresistible urge to make an impact.Indeed focusing on an eventual flotation may distract a new business; even when the shareholder's personal (paper) wealth is doing a Martha and is subject to amazing levels of public interest, it does not appear to be particularly relevant.More traditional retailers, whose employees are unlikely to have such significant shareholdings nor to have the opportunity to make a massive difference to the business, are having to compete with these highly incentivised and hugely motivated teams. Some of these big businesses appear afraid of   this challenge; others are meeting it head on. Freeserve is a good example of how it can be done.For us, it is the retailers' appreciation of the opportunities presented by the internet and the pace with which they can make things happen that makes them attractive partners. So far we have found that it is the new kids on the block and the more entrepreneurial traditional retailers that are a little quicker to respond. The reaction from these retailers has been over whelmingly positive - one of the founders of a very successful online business even said that he wished he had thought of it first. They see the Rools service as a way of accessing a valuable new market and developing relationships with their customers.We have had to back away from a few of the retailers who still appear to be grappling with their internet strategies. The good news for some of these businesses is that start-ups still get it wrong - less around the con cept and motivation, and more around the execution. A number of high profile start-ups have seen poor technology, fuzzy marketing and bad customer service.However, with the capability, resourcefulness and increasing levels of capital investment available to most start-ups, big business cannot afford to wait. Internet start-ups will not be making mistakes for much longer.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are co-founders of Rools.com
Microsoft is in the digital version of the last chance saloon. Over the weekend the judge mediating between the Seattle-based colossus and the US government confessed that differences between the two sides over how to break its monopoly grip "were too deep-seated to be bridged". Unless Microsoft offers much deeper concessions then nemesis will follow: the company will either have severe legal constraints put on it or else be broken up into smaller legal entities or "Baby Bills".Microsoft is a brilliantly successful company and most of its customers seem happy with the way it popularised desktop computing and established de facto standards both on operating systems (of which it has over 90% of the world market) and popular software like Word and Excel where its market share is similar. But it is also a monopoly and has, as the Justice department has found, exploited its position to attempt to snuff out competition - as when it struck exclusive agreements with internet service providers to display only Microsoft's browser. Mainly as a result of this, rival Netscape's market share (once 80%) has slumped to under 27% and Microsoft's has soared to 77%. Microsoft has offered some concessions - like allowing other software makers to see more of its key Windows code - but the mediator has rightly rejected them. Meanwhile Microsoft turned down overtures from the justice department for Microsoft to develop a version of its Office software for the (free) Linux operating system.Unless - which is possible - there is an eleventh hour agreement, Microsoft is likely to appeal against the verdict thereby keeping it in the courts for another few years while business goes on as usual. But if Microsoft is guilty of monopoly abuse then one consequence is that its prices - and therefore profits - have been far too high. (It makes a net 40% return on sales.) These "excess" profits have financed strategic investments in key areas like cable television and wireless. Without that money, Microsoft's strategy might have been more modest, leaving more opportunities for competitors. In natural justice it surely ought to "repay" profits earned from an abuse of its monopoly power. It may prove too difficult to backdate any restitution. But, if Microsoft were told that from now on excess profits will be paid back with heavy interest, it might concentrate its mind most singularly. We might even get a settlement by Friday.
A radical internet magazine has become the first victim of a libel case which has been seen as a threat to freedom of speech on the web.Outcast, which branded itself a "queer current affairs" publication, had its site shut down by its internet service provider, Netbenefit, after a complaint about material posted there. Netbenefit said it had acted "with great reluctance".Last week, Demon Internet agreed to pay &#163;15,000 damages and &#163;230,000 in legal costs to Laurence Godfrey, a physicist who said he had been defamed by two anonymous messages posted on the net.Internet firms are concerned about the implications of the Demon case. If it had not been settled out of court, it would have established whether ISPs are subject to the same libel laws as other media. By settling, Demon appeared to concede it was unlikely to win.Outcast expressed disappointment at Netbenefit's decision. Its editor, Chris Morris, said: "What we do is hard hitting but it is carefully written not to be defamatory." He believed Netbenefit had overreacted, and said the magazine would continue to be published in print.Netbenefit acted after a complaint by the Pink Paper, another gay publication, about the Outcast site.Alison Sparshatt, the managing director of Netbenefit, said: "We have no wish to get involved in monitoring websites. We are interested in providing and hosting web services." She added that the Demon case had "far-reaching implications" and the government needed to clarify the law.Ms Sparshatt compared the role of ISPs to that of a telecommunications firm, saying the latter was not responsible in law for slander over the telephone.Mike Ross, the Pink Paper's publishing manager, denied stifling free speech and defended his firm's actions.He said: "Chris Morris contacted us with a range of statements on which he sought comment. We felt they were defamatory and libellous."All we did was to send a legal letter to the ISP and his printers. We said that if he printed anything libellous or defamatory, we would take legal action."
Some readers may not possess a computer. Some may not be able to upload their own webpages to a remote server. Some, like me, may believe that the Net is an almost complete waste of time, a screaming global cacophony of ignorance. Some may harbour similar doubts that Mr Tony is going to end inequality forever by giving every poor person the opportunity, within five years, to waste astonishing amounts of time looking at grimly unfunny jokes, learning how to swear incompetently in another language, buying things to put them further into debt and gazing at child pornography. But, fellow flat-earthers, you should read on, because this chap Godfrey, if his critics are to be believed, has single-handedly become the greatest threat to freedom of speech since Robert Maxwell.Meet SuperGeek. This is a man who was sending e-mail 25 years ago, a man who was on the Net decades before it even had a name. Dr Laurence Godfrey, a 47-year-old nuclear physicist - he insists that he is, in fact, a high-energy physicist, which is simply a  branch of nuclear physics, but hey, whatever, it's hardly rocket science - has, with his court victory last week over Demon, one of Britain's biggest Internet Service Providers (ISPs), raised huge freedom-of-speech issues, both here and in America; it's being seen as a landmark case for the way in which the entire Net proceeds.On one hand is the perceived right of an individual to say what he or she wants on the Net, without fear of prosecution or censorship, a right held dear since the Net's popular inception about a decade ago; on the other is the right of an individual not to have deeply hurtful untruths about them spread around the world with the click of a button.Here's what happened. Godfrey, who had for years been chatting online to other groups of people - sometimes physicists, sometimes complete strangers who joined the same user-group of shared interest, be it the history of Thailand, or the education system in Canada, began, some time back, to upset too many people with his outspoken comments. 'Canada is mostly freezing, immensely boring, inhabited principally by mediocre individuals who are mostly brain-dead,' ran one, allegedly. He pointed out, while working in Thailand, the hypocrisy of the pretence that prostitution was illegal.He says, now, of his 'three or four thousand postings, I suppose, over the past five years,' that 'some of the comments I made were hard-hitting or contentious, and weren't very popular with some of the readers. Rude? I think not if you take them in context. Thailand in particular, I used to write   about the corruption, and the prostitution. I lived there for about a year and became fairly... I think I had a fairly good idea of what was going on. The activities were very obvious. And there was the exploitation aspect of the women involved - although that's a terribly complex issue, and one which Westerners who haven't been there don't fully... but I don't really want to go into that.'Anyway, his reputation grew on these sites as a sharp and contentious (if not downright rude and unpleasant) commentator, and he made enemies, who posted scurrilous libels about him, his professional merits and his sexual preferences (we can't, for obvious reasons, repeat the defamations here). So he sued some of the individuals, and won either retractions or damages, but by doing so he added to his reputation that of Net-litigant, the most loathed being in cyberspace.Most recently he was forced to sue Demon because he couldn't trace who had posted the latest libel; three times   he asked them, as the provider of the group facility, to remove it, but they failed to do so. The court case ended last week before it had really begun; Demon agreed to pay &#163;15,000 damages and over &#163;200,000 in legal fees, and a statement of apology was read.So we now have a panic in Networld, and beyond. Demon's settlement, goes one argument, particularly in America, means the Net's famous freedom of speech has gone. ISPs will be scared off running contentious comments; conversations will become anodyne.'Nonsense. Absolute nonsense,' says Godfrey, a quiet and pleasant talker, sitting opposite me in a greasy spoon in Stanmore, a tired, pedantic, not unkind man. 'Look... I don't think society would be greatly harmed if a lot of people making untrue and malicious allegations were prevented from doing so. The difference is that I had asked them, three times, to remove this stuff, and they hadn't done so. And all that has happened with this judgment - it's the same as is the case   just now, with bookshops, or newsagents: carrying something offensive is fine while they're innocent of it, but once alerted to the fact they must remove it.'Did he regret the Net's existence? Regret all those postings? 'Now, yes, of course I do. This has been an incredible strain on me and my family. But... I suppose I feel, sometimes, I do have to fight against injustice where I see it. Hypocrisy, injustice. That, ironically, is what started all this: that I believed I had the freedom to say what I wanted on the Net,  because I knew the facts. A lot of things on these newsgroups should really be confined to e-mail. When I wrote about something, I had done my research.' He will, he expects, begin posting again on the user groups. He'll leave it a little while.He's a sweetly pompous man - he says too many other Net users out there are 'arrogant enough to assume they know everything,' and 'feel somehow careless to sensitivity', blithely refusing to question his own role in all of this. And, I don't know, but if I'd   been a middle-aged bachelor in Thailand I might have refrained from posting shedloads of correspondence displaying my fascination with the local prostitution scene; so perhaps a little naive too.But Godfrey - who's married now, to a Filipino girl of 28 he met on his many lecturing travels - insists he hasn't 'ruined', in any sense, the Net. 'Let's say, then, that we've got somebody who wants to make allegations against a large corporation, who's done his research, who's confident of the truth. He would argue that his rights would be infringed now, because a service provider would remove it on complaint. But I don't think, with the Net, that I've  ever seen one case when someone's done their research properly, had something true to say, and hasn't been able to get it out through any other medium. My answer is simple: take it to a paper.'Thank you, SuperGeek. And that brings us back, I think you'll find, to where we came in.
An internal Microsoft e-mail seems to suggest that it is looking to agree a settlement with lawyers bringing the anti-trust case against it. And the $570 billion software giant, which last year was found to be a monopoly in one of the most sensational corporate trials in US history, believes concessions it is offering government anti-trust lawyers go beyond what would be determined by any judicial ruling.The Observer is the only UK newspaper to have obtained a copy of an internal e-mail sent by Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer to the company's 30,000 employees. The e-mail states that Bill Gates, Microsoft founder and former chief executive, thought to be distancing himself from the trial in an attempt to calm tensions, is still very much involved in the case. Extracts read: 'Billg... is focused on these efforts and we are working closely with our legal team.'Ballmer states: 'We have made, and will continue to make, substantial proposals to settle this case. While we're very sure of our legal position   and we're prepared to take it all the way to appeal, we've learned that discretion is the better part of valor, so we are working very hard to resolve the case through settlement.'Significantly, Ballmer then goes on to add: 'We believe we've put more on the table than the judicial process would ultimately provide, even if we lost the case... We do not know if these efforts will result in a settlement or not, but you can be sure that we are working hard and creatively, and will continue to do so.'Ballmer warns staff that 'in the days ahead, we will see even more rumors and speculation about the settlement process' and signs off by urging them to treat such stories 'with a big grain of salt'.Microsoft's concession apparently hinges around opening up its Windows computer code so that rivals can use it to develop alternative products. The software company is also understood to be preparing to unbundle its Internet browser from its Windows software. It was the linkage between these two products which led to the anti-trust trial.
An internet bank is promising to make overcharging at high-street cash machines a thing of the past when it launches the world's first personal ATM onto the UK market at the start of next month.Using tracking technology developed by Soviet scientists at the end of the cold war, Yourbackpocket.com says it can install a cash dispenser in the space beneath a CD-rom or DVD drive on a desktop PC for under £250 at cost.As part of a profile-raising exercise before its planned Techmark flotation, the Easdaq-listed company has announced plans to offer the personal ATM free to customers with over £2,500 in their current account in a bid to catch the cash-rich, time-poor market sought eagerly by the entrepreneurs of the new economy.Chief executive Chris Taylor, a former management consultant with a paper fortune estimated at over £13m, insists that the bank can succeed if it secures an early place in the market."We've got the staff, we've got the technology, now we've got to give the product the push it needs. But it's not sink or swim - we've got powerful backers, so I see no reason why we can't be the Amazon.com of the desk-top cash dispenser," he says.A satellite tracking system will notify the bank if one of its personal cash machines is moved out of a designated five-metre zone. And as a final precaution against theft, a security device is primed to incinerate the cash if anyone attempts to open the dispenser without the correct authorisation codes.The entrepeneur responds to accusations that the company is literally burning money by pointing out that many dot.coms write five-year losses into their business plans. He says few hope to ever make the profits suggested by their stock-market value.In addition, the bank has taken out corporate insurance against theft and fire, and expects to make enough revenue from a range of personal finance partnerships and onsite advertising to cover their losses.But the promise of a life free from cash-machine charges will no doubt be Yourbackpocket.com's greatest asset. A report last week into UK banking revealed that customers were being overcharged by up to £5bn a year. The inquiry team, headed by former telecommunications regulator Don Cruickshank, called for a radical shake up of the sector."Other banks want to get your money, cream off a handsome profit for themselves and then charge you to get your hands on your money. We don't do that. We just want to put it in Yourbackpocket.com," Mr Taylor remarked.The UK online banking sector has to date been hampered by high-street cash-machine charges. Few internet banks have a physical presence, and their customers are forced to pay up to £1.50 per transaction when they withdraw money from the Link network.Useful linksYourbackpocket.comEasdaq, the pan-European stock marketThe London stock exchange's Techmark
In the summer of 1937, the world's radio stations fell silent for two minutes. It was a mark of respect for Guglielmo Marconi, the man who laid the foundations for the broadcasting industry.Marconi died in the early hours of July 20, 1937 and is buried in the grounds of his family home, Villa Griffone, at Pontecchio, Bologna. The villa had been the site of his early experiments which overturned the accepted scientific wisdom that radio waves travelled in straight lines. He showed they were not affected by physical obstacles.But when the 21-year-old tried to get Italy's post and telecommunications ministry interested in using his idea to send messages he was rebuffed.His mother, a well-off member of the Jameson Irish whiskey family who had eloped with Marconi's father, had other ideas. She took him to England, where overzealous customs officers damaged his equipment, thinking the luggage contained a bomb. He used family connections to secure a meeting with William Preece, chief engineer of the Post Office, who gave his support to the young investor.Marconi patented his system of using radio waves for telegraphy. In 1897 he formed the Wireless Telegraph and Signal Company, although a demonstration on Salisbury Plain that year managed to send a signal just seven miles.He set up the world's first wireless factory in a disused silk factory in Chelmsford and the equipment quickly made its name after a series of dramatic sea rescues.In 1899, the Goodwin light ship off the Kent coast successfully radioed for a lifeboat after it was hit by a steamship in thick fog. In 1909, more than 1,700 people were rescued after two ships, the Republic and the Florida, collided in fog off the US east coast. The Marconi radio operator aboard the Florida sent out 200 messages over two days to guide rescue ships.Three years later, distress signals from the stricken Titanic were picked by by a German ship which helped to save 705 lives. Marconi had arrived   in New York two days earlier. The survivors presented him with a solid gold medal.By this time Marconi had proved that wireless signals could travel across the Atlantic.In 1910, the infamous Dr Crippen and his mistress were arrested following a ship-to-shore radio message sent on Marconi equipment.The entertainment value of radio was demonstrated in 1920 when a song recital by Dame Nellie Melba was broadcast from Marconi's Chelms ford works. Two years later, Marconi was in at the founding of the BBC.His company set up the first microwave telephone link between the Vatican City and the Pope's summer retreat, Castel Gandolfo. In 1937 it began building Britain's first air defence radar network.Marconi's portrait appeared on everything from meat extract to bank notes.In the consumer world, the Marconi name was linked to radio sets and valves. After the second world war, his compa nies were swallowed up first by English Electric and eventually by General Electric Company which used the Marconi name for its electronic defence business. When GEC sold the defence business to BAe for &#163;1bn last year, to concentrate on communications and IT, it retained the name Marconi as the group's title.This week the company invested &#163;40m in a new communications research centre at Cambridge University. Guglielmo Marconi never qualified to go to university.
The posters for the current identity-swap movie, Being John Malkovich, ask: "Ever wanted to be someone else?" But this dream is now available - at the level of names - for anyone with a PC and a modem.There is a dizzying moment when creating an email identity for yourself through one of the numerous free internet access CDs handed out these days, when you realise that you could become anyone you want. Tony Blair, Zo&euml; Ball, JD Salinger: turn yourself into any of these people, send messages around the world as them and the technology will do nothing to stop you. The only limit is the credulity of your correspondents.The ease of impersonation which email allows has always seemed to me a symbol of the moral irresponsibility inherent in the internet. But this week the hands-free stance has been challenged by some key legal cases. The award of damages and costs of around &#163;500,000 against the internet service provider Demon - for failing to remove libellous remarks about a physicist posted on a website - coincided with a case in which a student was fined for accidentally emailing a pornographic picture to users other than the recipient he intended. In both cases, representations in cyberspace were treated to the same limitations as printed or spoken material.The internet has often been sold as circumventing the usual rules. Beyond the mad, but already receding, period when the City seemed to believe that dot.com companies were exempted from the usual laws of economics, the worldwide web was seen as a liberating force. Artists would be freed from the tyranny of selection by professional corporations. Write a novel, record a song or shoot a film and - if the artistic establishment won't produce it - put it on the net. But electronic distribution was also seen as a challenge to the dictatorship of taste. Pornography no mainstream shop would stock is widely open to downloading.A nd the laws of libel - which so tormented writers and speakers in the world of paper and airwaves - were somehow believed to be suspended. Some local councils, sick of cleaning off graffiti, designated walls where it was tolerated. Many advocates of cyberspace saw the web as such a wall. Service providers like Demon held to the view that they merely provided the bricks. They could not be responsible for what was written on them.Some net-heads genuinely believed in freedom of speech and information. But there was also a practical aspect to this enthusiasm. Abuse someone in a newspaper and - even if the remark slips past the editors and in-house lawyers - the culprit's cutting will be on the victim's desk within hours. Launch a hostile comment into cyberspace and you could cynically assume it would never be traced. The internet was the perfect haystack in which to needle your enemies.But this view that the web placed a parallel universe for anarchists alongside the familiar policed and lawyered world found no support in court this week. Media lawyers disagree on the implications of the libel judgment against Demon. If the company was being punished merely for failing to remove the material (the physicist had asked several times for remarks to be cut), then the result will merely be a tamer cyberspace in which powerful figures will be able to delete comments they dislike. But if Demon was censured for having allowed the libel to be displayed at all, then shares in internet service providers are about to become an even riskier investment.One inevitable outcome, however, will be cyberspace ambulance-chasers: insult-trufflers who will surf the world's websites and bring hostile comments to the attention of those who may wish to sue and split the proceeds.It was never clear to me, though, why anyone believed that writing words in elec tronic limbo would not constitute publication. After all, one of the most famous recent libel cases - Lord Aldington v Tolstoy - resulted from words printed in a pamphlet. And the internet is merely a very large and hi-tech leaflet.You also don't need to be a luddite (I write and send thousands of words in cyberspace each week) to feel that the internet needs some controlling. This week, the novelist Jeanette Winterson revealed that she is taking legal action in a test case against a Cambridge academic, Mark Howarth, who has registered the web addresses of writers (including jeanette.winterson.com) and now tries to sell them back their electronic identities. As with the email registrations mentioned above, you don't need to have a name to use it on a computer site. Ever wanted to be someone else? Mark Howarth wished to be 130 noted authors.While there is a practical problem of baptismal duplication - some unknown Jeanette Winterson in, say, New Zealand has as much right to start a website as the author of Oranges Are Not The Only Fruit - it cannot morally or legally be right for a man to rob people's identities in bulk for profit. A name is a basic human right: a point made by prisoners who refuse to answer to numbers. Jeanette Winterson should be cheered to the door of the court. A victory for her would - like this week's internet libel case - challenge the silly and dangerous fairytale that computers are beyond rules. Why should people lose their right to name and reputation when they step through a computer portal?
A libel case with profound legal implications for the internet was settled yesterday less than a week before it was due to go to court.Demon Internet agreed to pay &#163;15,000 damages and an estimated &#163;230,000 in costs to Laurence Godfrey, a physicist who said he had been defamed by two anonymous postings on the net. Demon will have to pay its own costs, a similar sum.The case appears to establish in UK law that internet service providers are subject to the same libel laws as newspapers and other media. Some lawyers argued that the settlement   amounted to unacceptable censorship of the internet, though this was disputed by others. It could herald a run of libel actions in Britain, where the libel laws are much tighter than in the US, over allegedly defamatory statements on the net.The case, which had been due to start in the high court on Monday, would have been the first significant libel trial involving the internet in the UK. But yesterday, in front of Mr Justice Eady, the company apologised for failing to remove the postings when Dr Godfrey protested.Demon, now owned by Thus plc, later said it that would press the government for recognition that ISPs "should not be liable for the millions of items carried on the internet every day".The first posting, described by Gordon Bishop, Dr Godfrey's counsel, as "squalid, obscene and defamatory", appeared on January 12 1997 on the soc.culture.thai newsgroup, which is carried by Demon. It was a forgery purporting to be from Dr Godfrey.Despite several faxes from Dr Godfrey, the item remained on the newsgroup until January 27, and he initiated legal proceedings.In July 1998, a second posting, originating from one of   Demon's own customers under the pseudonym "Iniquity", appeared in the uk.legal newsgroup and made further defamatory and personal allegations about Dr Godfrey, the judge was told. Dr Godfrey again requested their removal and again his request was not complied with.Dr Godfrey received &#163;5,000 for the first libel and &#163;10,000   for the second, which he said had a much wider readership in Britain.Mr Bishop said Demon had never sought to suggest there was any truth in either libel and contended it was not responsible or liable for either.Thus plc said it had improved its procedures for handling complaints about material posted on the internet.Mark Stephens, a media lawyer, said: "In America, ISPs have immunity over the content they provide access to and that must be the situation here. Otherwise, you are going to have a legal free-for-all with libel writs flying left, right and centre."Dr Godfrey said the main issue was not freedom of speech but the power of the internet to destroy someone's reputation. "If Demon had taken the simple steps that I had asked of them at the outset, this monumental waste of money could be avoided," he said.&#149;Useful sitesCyber-rights &amp; Cyber-liberties (UK)Demon InternetElectronic privacy information center
Tony Blair yesterday moved to improve the government's performance in the provision of online services to businesses and voters in precisely the way it constantly urges them to embrace the new information technologies.After yesterday's discussion in an "information age" cabinet about Whitehall's progress after a somewhat slow start, Mr Blair announced that the government will try to offer all services on a 24-hour, online basis by 2005 instead of 2008, as originally proposed."I want the UK to be the world's leading internet economy," said Mr Blair yesterday, after briefing cabinet colleagues on the move."Businesses and individuals throughout Britain are responding to this challenge, getting the UK online. I am determined that government should play its part, so I am bringing forward our target for getting all government services online," he said.At a special summit in Lisbon last week European Union leaders agreed on strategies to help Europe catch up on the United State's daunting lead in e-business. This is Labour's first contribution.The target, agreed with the e-minister, Patricia Hewitt, and Ian McCartney, the minister for e-government, will be to   put all government services - now to use the new "UK Online" logo - on the internet through PCs, telephone and digital television by 2005.It is an ambitious goal, officials admit, and will include applications for drivers licences and passports.Services already online include NHS Direct, Companies House and the Number 10 website - on which the press secretary's daily briefing is visited far more often than the prime minister's own, more formal offerings.Other services due to join them include tax returns - with discounts of up to &#163;110 for small businesses who e-file their returns - vehicle excise duty and VAT registrations and the the small business advice service.The prime minister himself has been slow to use the new technolgies - although he is having lessons. Ministers, however, still cannot easily talk to other departments, let alone exchange email with other ministers through the Whitehall network.Yesterday Mr Blair said: "It is a challenging target which will require more joined-up working between departments, less reliance on paper trails and the development of new ways of working."But it is one we have to meet if our UK online strategy is to succeed."
BTyesterday further strengthened its partnership with software groupMicrosoftand leading US telecommunications groupAT&amp;Tto win a third generation mobile telephone licence.BT already has a software deal with Microsoft's Genie which sends data such as football scores and share prices direct to mobile phones, and an international roaming alliance with AT&amp;T.BT is also developing and trialling a third generation mobile network on the Isle of Man. The government is auctioning five mobile phone operating licences and yesterday BT was one of seven bidders making an offer of &#163;1.55bn for one of those licences.But the alliance is to go deeper, with the three companies working together to develop new applications for the consumer and business mobile markets.While the applications are   targeted at third generation mobile phones some will be deployed on existing services.Sohail Qadri, director of BT mobility, said: "Applications are key to customers. By working with AT&amp;T Wireless and Microsoft we will provide our customers with advanced, innovative and higher speed mobile internet applications, giving them true multimedia capability while on the move."None of the firms would reveal the level of their investment in mobile applications.
A multi-millionaire Dutch businesswoman could have single-handedly spooked the European market for internet shares, it appeared yesterday.Nina Brink, the 46-year-old founder ofWorld Online, sold 1.2m shares in the company just a day after its &euro;12bn flotation last week.Her divestment has only just come to light because it was carried out in the name of an obscure US private equity house. However, the transaction has sent World Online's shares plummeting 40% below their debut price.In any normal market, Mrs Brink's windfall would suggest, at worst, a slightly worrying lack of confidence in her company's future share performance. However, in these edgy days of internet hysteria, the transaction has fuelled fundamental concerns about "herd mentality" in dot.com valuations.Technology shares had a bad day yesterday, falling 7% in London. That added to a desperate week, which has seen the likes ofLycosandLastminute.comsink far below their ambitious flotation valuations. Lastminute ended the day down 35p at a low of 252p.To analysts, the most worrying feature of the incident is that it suggests few investors read the World Online prospectus. The document clearly stated that Mrs Brink had siphoned off many of her shares to holding companies, which would not be covered by her six-month lock-in. However, everyone was deeply shocked when they realised she had sold.Peter Bradshaw of Merrill Lynch says: "You certainly   could not describe what's happened there as a net positive for the sector."There is a growing feeling that European investors are taking too shallow a view of dot.com companies.Sarah Skinner, of the hi-tech stockbroker Durlacher, says: "There's a big difference between investors in Europe and the US. In America, there's more actual interest in technology and in companies. In the UK and Europe, people just like the idea of getting rich quick rather than having any longer interest in the sector."That has made European stocks even more volatile than US ones.Ms Skinner believes it would be incorrect to suggest the dot.com bubble has burst, preferring to see the sell-off as "a pull-back to quality and a flight to reality".The effect has been hastened by the arrival of more business-to-business e-commerce companies, which have a much faster route to profitability than the likes of lastminute.com and amazon.com, which are going after the consumer sales.Sharon Coombs, an analyst at HSBC, says: "We're moving towards the more healthy view that not all of these companies are going to succeed. There's some questioning going on as to whether the new economy is really going to benefit over the next 20 years so much more than the rest of the market."Internet service providers are feeling the pinch particularly badly - Freeserve fell 27p to 484p yesterday, its lowest point this year. There is a feeling that Europe is reaching a level of over-supply of these companies.Among the others joining Lastminute.com were Scoot.com, which dropped 41p to &#163;14.96 and QXL.com, which lost 57p to &#163;10.60. The only consolation for lastminute's co-founder Martha Lane Fox is that another dot.com woman, Ms Brink, is feeling the heat.
Should you be passing through the centre of Glastonbury and need to use your mobile phone, have a look at St John's church. High on the walls have been placed four microwave transmitters that beam out low-level radiation 24 hours a day. They are the object of deep suspicion and considerable fear.While the vicar and the parish council were happy enough with the modern manna from heaven - mobile phone company Orange is paying several thousand pounds a year for the site - the locals are deeply upset. A petition of 2,000 signatures collected by a hastily formed group called Glastonbury Residents Oppose Microwave Masts in Town (Grommit) was turned down by the local authorities and appeals to the company and Downing Street were ignored.It's a similar story at Bedonwel junior school in Belvedere, Kent. There a group of parents have been refusing to allow their children to go to school because they say radiation from the mast in the school grounds could be damaging.The Glastonbury and Belvedere residents are echoed by communities in Somerset, Yorkshire, Surrey, Lancashire and Scotland. They have been joined by pressure groups as diverse as Friends of the Earth, the Council for the Protection of Rural England, the Country Landowners Association, ramblers, mountaineers and hillwalkers, all of whom have been fighting to stop masts being erected on top of hospitals, council flats and in areas of outstanding natural beauty.And at last it seems they have not been complaining in vain. Yesterday an environment committee of the Scottish parliament recommended that all telecoms masts, including those for mobile phones, should be required to apply for planning permission, and that local authorities should adopt the "precautionary principle", keeping masts away from schools, hospitals and residential   areas. If this passes into law, it will be the first brake on the breathtaking mobile phone revolution, which has seen 25m Britons buy handsets in just a few years. The backlash has started in earnest.Nobody knows - or at least the companies, the government, local councils, Oftel and the Federation of Electronic Industries are unwilling or unable to say - quite how many masts and relay stations there are. Given that Orange, one of the four licensed providers, has said that it should have erected 10,000 masts by the end of the year and the three other operators - BT Cellnet, One 2 One and Vodafone - claim roughly equal coverage of Britain, there could be more than 35,000.But we are only on the the edge of the new telecommunications forest. Within a few years there will be tens of thousands more masts. The exact number depends on how many of us turn to cellular phones and for what reason. Because each mast can, for the moment, only handle a few hundred calls at any given time, the existing infrastructure is beginning to prove inadequate.Within two years, the companies expect there to be 40m mobile phones in use; within eight years not   only do they expect just about everyone in the country to have one, they expect us to be well into the third generation of phones. This is the universal mobile telephone system (UMTS), which will allow people to send huge amounts of data and pictures to their mobile phones via the internet. To guarantee good connections, this system will need vastly more masts and relay stations.But the telecommunications forest will spread further. The police and the emergency services are now linking with corporations to build a major system of their own, and a fifth major operator will shortly be given a licence. Each is expected to build thousands more masts.The prize for the telecoms winners is huge. The hype has it that within 10 years cellular technology will handle almost 90% of all the telephone calls and data transmission at present travelling by landline. In the cities, it will mean masts, satellite dish transmitters and relay stations positioned every few hundred yards, mainly on buildings. Most will be relatively unobtrusive - often no more than small dishes or boxes attached to lamp-posts. The companies will try to expand the existing masts by tagging on new pieces of equipment, but very   many will be brand new. In the country, depending on the terrain, the freestanding masts may in future have to be placed every few miles.Hundreds of communities will have to increase their efforts if they want to stave off an invasion. "Opposing masts is hard," says Alison Tisdall, who with other Wiltshire residents objected strongly to a Vodafone mast planned just a few hundred metres from houses. "You cannot object on health and safety grounds; the government only accepts arguments about the thermal effects, which are impossible to prove". In the end, Vodafone withdrew its application when it was found that the council did not own the site of the planned mast. However, now there are other applications - to extend existing masts - being advanced by other companies.The objections are not solely on health grounds. "We fought and fought," says Grace Jones, who, with other, opposed construction of a mast on the edge of the Peak District. "It was like punching air. The company was not interested in our concerns. They did not consult us. We felt utterly powerless to stop them spoiling a wonderful view."Meanwhile in Guildford, Surrey, more than 15 masts have been erected since 1993 and at least 40 more in outlying areas. It is deeply frustrating for councillors, who in most cases have no way of controlling where masts are built and cannot persuade the companies to share masts. Nigel Sutclife, a borough councillor, has watched helplessly as up to six companies have each built their own mast in the same area, mostly bypassing the planning system. "If the previous government had required companies to cooperate, then we would have had a good network with a third or fewer of the masts, making huge savings in cost and environmental damage," he says.But pressure is growing for government to review its guidelines, which say that councils should not question the need for a service or try to prevent competition between companies. In the next few weeks a report similar to that given to the Scottish parliament yesterday should go to the Department of Trade and Industry. It follows an early day motion, so far signed by more than 150 MPs, calling for precaution and more control. The local government association representing 150 local authorities throughout England and Wales has strongly criticised central government policy and also come down heavily in favour of banning masts from schools, hospitals and residential areas.Many of the masts that are already in place may now be under threat. Earlier this month, a government planning inspector from the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions ruled that a much disputed Vodafone mast in Leeds had breached planning laws because the company, in calculating its maximum height, had not included the plinth on which the mast stands. The company has been given six weeks to remove the mast or lodge an appeal in the high court.The companies - eager to present the best case before the new licensing round - admit mistakes have been made in siting some masts, but claim that they are now acting responsibly and consulting more widely. In fact they are learning where they will attract the least opposition. Considerable rents have been offered and accepted and more than 500 cash-strapped schools and dozens of hospitals and council flats now sprout tall masts. One Scottish council is believed to receive more than &#163;800,000 a year from its masts.But equally, many other councils are now objecting strongly on health   grounds and, to the despair of the companies, are banning masts from all council properties. Over a third of all local planning authorities in Scotland and a growing number in England have adopted the precautionary principle.The companies know their masts are eyesores and that the debate on the health effects is growing. They are, superficially at least, trying to address the problems. In place of the old gridiron constructions, which are the most unpopular, they are turning to tall, slim models and sponsoring designs that disguise masts as trees, lamp-posts, art works and flagpoles."We are as sympathetic to the environment as possible", says an Orange spokesman. "Our preference is always to use existing structures and to share masts. But sometimes we cannot. We only ever build a new site where no viable alternative exists."The future may be Orange, but it's not at all clear how communities will react when the full network of masts is rolled out and further research is done on the health effects. In Ireland, they haven't waited to find out. There have been major demonstrations and several communities have pulled down the masts in the dead of night."Here in Glengarrif, County Cork, they put up a mast near the school," says Denise Hall. "The next thing, it was down. Nobody will say how it happened but the company never raised it again. There has been grave concern all over Ireland about the health and environmental impacts, and especially because the companies don't need permission to put them up. People have taken matters into their own hands."The message for Labour, which has made new technology such as the internet and mobile phones central to its vision of future Britain, is clear. Having encouraged the telecom industry to expand like wildfire, it now needs to listen to the grassroots opposition. Only tighter planning controls and increased awareness of health concerns will avoid trouble spreading.Radiation nation: the case against transmittersTwo years ago Orange installed a mobile phone base station and mast 70m from Jane Palmer's home in south Wales. Not long afterwards, her daughter Nicola, who had been diagnosed epileptic at birth and had been having one or two fits a month, began to experience four or five fits a day. Yet when Nicola is away from home, or the transmitter is turned off, Palmer says her daughter experiences hardly any problems at all.Is this a coincidence or evidence of something very serious? The government, the National Radiological Protection Board which advises it and the mobile phone network operators insist that phone masts are operating well within safety guidelines. Technically, they are correct.During use, a mobile phone and the transmitter mast emit microwaves, the same form of electromagnetic radiation as is produced by a microwave oven. The thermal, or heating, effects of these microwaves - which are present all around us from televisions, computers, wiring and stereos - have been studied for years and it has been found consistently that they have no great effect on people.However, the radiation's non-thermal effects are being studied increasingly and this is where most of the concerns lie. There is a growing body of international scientific evidence suggesting that there may be serious health implications arising from long-term exposure to very low levels of microwave radiation - the sort Palmer would argue has been affecting her daughter.Research in the US and elsewhere has found that electromagnetic fields and exposure to these frequencies may interfere with brain signals, leading to problems with the immune and nervous systems, and slower response times.The NRPB does not recognise the scientific merit of these studies as they have failed to prove a categorical link between long-term exposure to low levels of radiation and ill health. The problem is that categorical proof is almost impossible to come by.However, many countries, such as New Zealand and Sweden - and now Scotland - as well as local councils are choosing to apply a precautionary principle, especially when it comes to children, the ill and old people, who are believed to be more susceptible to low-level radiation. Britain has chosen some of the lowest safety standards in the world but amid widespread calls on the government for further study of the effects, the department of health is expected to report back to MPs later this year.
The news that Thus, owner of Demon Internet, has settled out of court in an online libel case will send shockwaves through the UK's internet industry.Lawrence Godfrey had alleged that Demon failed to remove defamatory material from a discussion forum hosted on its servers in 1997. The message, posted to the soc.culture.thai newsgroup, purported to have been sent by Dr Godfrey, and contained damaging personal allegations against him. After Demon refused to delete the message, it was copied to other Usenet servers around the world.The court battle - the first of its kind in the UK - was important because it would establish whether internet service providers (ISPs) were subject to the same laws of defamation as other broadcasters. If a full case had found they were, they would have been held responsible for every one of millions of messages to forthright, often rude, sometimes obscene, internet newsgroups.A full hearing will not now go ahead, as Dr Godfrey dropped his case against Demon after it agreed to pay him £15,000 in damages, plus legal costs to be decided at a later date.Thus said today that the settlement allowed it to "draw a line under this issue and focus on serving our customers", adding that it would continue to fight for a change in the law to prevent similar cases being brought in the future. "Thus remains convinced that the law has not kept pace with the development of the internet."Under threat is the continued availability of the hugely popular discussion forums run through Usenet - a network older than the world wide web - and other public areas, includingNews Unlimited's talk forums.ISPs and website owners say it would be impossible to monitor every one of the millions of postings made daily, from around the world, to newsgroups and talkrooms, to ensure sure nothing defamatory was posted. They have been lobbying for a change in the law, which would mean they could not be considered publishers of the material placed on their servers. If that change in law does not come, they may remove the forums from their servers rather than attempt to censor them.The first warning that they would be considered publishers, like any broadcaster or print publication, came last year in the high court when Mr Justice Morland dismissed Demon's defence of "innocent dissemination".He ruled that Demon was responsible because it had refused to remove the allegedly defamatory posting when requested by Dr Godfrey.Demon, along with many other ISPs, now says its policy is to remove "defamatory or unsuitable material" posted to Usenet.But the fear for ISPs, and free speech advocates on the web, will be that it is not a big step from ruling that ISPs must remove postings if requested to ruling that they must censor messages to all online forums before they are posted.That would be almost impossible, and cause outrage among netizens who have long believed the net to be a worldwide bastion of free speech.ends
To law enforcement officers it's a simple matter of retaining existing powers of surveillance under warrant as correspondence goes digital and encrypted. As many cyber-libertarians see it, the plods and spooks want easy, under-supervised access to any private activity anywhere anytime. Businesses - and not just internet service providers (ISPs) and e-commerce outfits - are becoming seriously alarmed about the cost of additional equipment and the administrative impact on their staff.Britain is in danger of having one of the least enabling regimes in the world as Home Office attempts at "balanced" legislation too often favour the needs of plod/spook over those of citizens and business. Ireland, France, Germany, even Singapore and other countries to which many UK e-businesses could easily migrate, appear to be taking a much more liberal line.The regulation of investigatory powers (RIP) legislation is yet another Home Office bill in trouble. Few quarrel with its aims: to bring into a single law the disparate regimes for the interception of telephone traffic, use of bugs and opening of letters, as well as defining circumstances to compel decoding of encrypted data.But assessment of "balance" needs detailed knowledge - not widely available among politicians - of datacomms, e-commerce and crypto protocols, and the practicalities of surveillance. And the result must comply with human rights and data protection laws. The outcome has to be turned into precise wordings that can be applied by warrant-issuers and the courts.Finally, since so much of the enforcement depends on the co-operation of private sector communications service providers (CSPs) - including telephone companies and ISPs - the laws and associated codes of practice   have to become part of a manageable, affordable regime. That's the trick the RIP bill must pull off.The 1985 telephone tapping provisions (in the Interception of Communications Act) assume voice traffic only and BT as the main significant operator; RIP recognises new realities. There are now more than 150 telco operators, land and cellular, and even more acting as ISPs. It properly includes data, and covers private as well as public systems. CSPs have to make "reasonable" provision to facilitate warrants and to do so without alerting suspects; but as suspects may have several phone numbers and multiple email accounts, will telcos and ISPs have to prepare for one interception per 16,000 lines (the current figure for telephones) or one in 500 (as touted by the Internet Service Providers Association)?It's unclear how far the government will fund this. Even here, Home Office rhetoric that it doesn't want new powers but simply to maintain existing capability runs into difficulty: a single telephone conversation is easy to identify and isolate; not so data traffic where many simultaneous emails, world wide web requests and file transfers all occupy the same pipe and look pretty similar as data packets. How do we stop the intercept from exceeding the intended scope of a warrant?It's in relation to encrypted data that many of the problems lie. The first situation is stored data that is seized under warrant in a raid and which once decrypted might become evidence. RIP makes it an offence not to provide plain text or a key - but who does the asking and how does a court assess if a key has been genuinely rather than conveniently lost? And on whom does the burden of proof lie?It is much more difficult where there is a warrant for   covert interception of data in transmission which turns out to be encrypted. Here the recipient of a decryption demand will be an innocent third party. He or she may have severe contractual and data protection obligations to other users of the same crypto system but faces criminal sanctions both for non-compliance with a RIP demand and for any action which might lead to a suspect being tipped off. And if legitimate users of the crypto system suffer because of law enforcement clumsiness, what remedies do they have?One needs to look at the whole mechanism of RIP to see the extent of the difficulties: different types of activity give rise to a variety of warrants and demands, some issued by judicial figures, most by ministers, some simply by policemen. The range of bodies that can ask for (but not always issue) warrants extends as far as the inland revenue and the benefits agency.Criteria are sometimes "for the purpose of preventing or detecting serious crime" and "safeguarding the economic well-being of the United Kingdom" (in clause 5) but elsewhere "for the purposes of preventing or detecting crime" and "in the interests of economic well-being of the UK" (clause 21 - on traffic data).MPs in the standing committee reviewing the bill have complained about the proliferation of oversight tribunals and commissioners with varying powers and to whom the private citizen has variable rights of access as well as to information about suspected intercepts that might make such application meaningful. Ministers have justified the complexity by saying that the right balance has to be struck for many different circumstances.MPs have also been concerned that some RIP provisions offer a covert means for the security service, secret intelligence service and GCHQ to extend their territo ries into traditional police and customs territory.It is possible to guess why the RIP bill has taken this form: the scenario builders at NCIS, Cheltenham and the Thames-side fortresses read the same internet scare stories as the rest of us. They make projections about the powers they might need, partly to increase their influence but also because they fear they may not get another slot in a very crowded legislative calendar. And ministers lack knowledge to challenge their threat assessments.Peter Sommer is a research fellow at the LSE, special advisor to the commons trade and industry select committee and has been an expert witness in "computer crime" trials for 15 years."It will wreck our e-commerce hopes for the UK." Caspar Bowden, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, opens the debate on the RIP billThe new economy means we need an updated and revised framework for the legal interception of communications. But the proposed regulation of investigatory powers (RIP) bill won't make Britain a better place to live, and it'll wreck our hopes to create in the UK the world's best environment for e-commerce.RIP proposes powers to demand, even from an innocent person or business, the electronic keys that will unlock not just one or two messages, but perhaps all one's traffic to date. Though earlier attempts to legislate to secure copies of decryption keys have failed, and though other countries have turned their backs on the idea, the British government is still trying to secure a general right of access to them for a wide range of state authori ties, and for loosely defined purposes. Furthermore, at the government's whim, you cannot tell anyone, even your wife or your boss, that this has happened.This is intrusive for individuals. Business is slowly waking up to the enormity of these proposals, which have no parallel anywhere in the world.From this seriously flawed start, the RIP proposals degenerate. They seem to have been devised by redeployed cold warriors who want to put Britain on a paranoid infowar footing. Meanwhile the rest of the e-world plans a prosperous future based on trust in robust security without unwarranted interference.Do you still have every key, password, PIN number, cash card you have ever owned? Do you ever lose computer files by mistake? Under RIP, if you don't have your decryption key any more, you're liable to two years in jail unless you can prove to a   court, on balance of probability, that the key was lost or destroyed.I can commend home office minister Charles Clarke for now joining the debate, and his boss Jack Straw for conceding in the house that there is room for improvement in the bill, but we first pointed out these problems to the government two years ago.Mr Clarke recently said in a letter to this newspaper, "We believe that we've struck the balance right", and that "innocent people are not going to suffer under these proposals." Ministers come and go, but the legislation they leave defines our rights and freedoms. There is nothing in RIP that stops these powers being used arbitrarily.Although we've proposed many amendments, the RIP bill cannot be patched up. It must be withdrawn and rewritten. Law enforcement's task is not helped by unenforceable laws: we need, instead, a law that suits an aspiring e-commerce leader."The bill does not outlaw any form of encryption."Charles Clarke, home office minister, replies:I welcome a constructive dialogue on the RIP bill. I agree that we need to update law enforcement powers for the digital age. Not surprisingly though, I do not hold with your other assertions about the government's proposals.The bill is about ensuring, as best we can, that powers crucial to keeping this country a safe place for everyone to live and work remain effective in the face of technological advancement. Some of these powers, interception of communications for example, are particularly intrusive. That's precisely why they should, as the bill proposes, be closely regulated.This is a difficult area. New technologies, the growth of the global knowledge economy (and our desire to be a leader in it) and the penchant of criminals to exploit whatever new ways they can to evade detection throw up new challenges. Encryption raises   difficult, some might say unique, problems. But we would be putting our heads in the sand if we didn't tackle them.The bill does not outlaw any particular encryption technology or mandate the use of any particular key management system. Individuals and businesses alike remain free to use whatever technology best suits their needs. What the bill does is provide a power, where there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person has a key to unlock particular encrypted material, to require the disclosure of that key or the data itself in an intelligible form. The power only   applies to lawfully obtained material. And if you've lost or forgotten a key then there is a statutory defence for you.Neither of us wants to see criminals being able to use the latest technologies with impunity. You want to see an individual's rights upheld. So do I. You don't want to see business encumbered by unreasonable burdens or draconian laws. Neither do I. This is all about a balance and I believe that the bill strikes the right one.The bill will not be withdrawn. There is cross party support for the thrust of what is being proposed. But as you (almost correctly) point out, the home secretary has said that he hasn't yet introduced a bill that has not benefited from careful parliamentary scrutiny.The RIP bill is important and it deserves such examination. And that's just what is happening. We're going through the proposals in committee now, clause by clause.Mr Bowden replies:The RIP bill is about what it says, not necessarily what you say it is about. There's nothing criminal about using encryption, but RIP treats everyone as suspect. Bad memory - maybe two years in jail will help?As we use more websites, email, digital TV, and smartcards to live more of our lives through cyberspace, use of encryption is essential to stop fraud, blackmail, identity theft, and just to preserve a little privacy. But most people don't even realise they are using encryption when they make up a password. You can't bully people into recording every one as if their liberty depended on it. In the real world, 10% of ordinary computer users lose data by forgetting keys - passing a law won't change that.You assume everyone prosecuted will be a villain, refuse to say how they can prove they are not guilty, and then assure us that the innocent will not suffer! That's not the job of a politician. We have a judiciary to sort out the innocent from the guilty, on the basis of evidence.The trouble with your "statutory defence" is that there is no evidence when someone forgets something, so criminals with a lot to hide will always plead a bad memory.The jury or magistrate (if mode of trial goes through, people won't have the choice) will simply have to guess whether the defendant is lying. RIP requires no evidence (46.2.b.2) of an underlying (let alone serious - 46.3.b)   crime in order for decryption to be demanded. So here are four questions about RIP Part.III that we've been asking for a while:1)How can a person who loses a password reliably prove their innocence "on the balance of probabilities"?2)The handling centre for keys in the MI5 building may be secure, but what about keys in transit? MI5 lost a laptop the other day, and an encrypting modem disappeared from No.10 in 1998. How much is guarding seized keys really going to cost?3)Won't RIP encourage "steganography" (or information hiding), which will exacerbate law enforcement's problems ?4)It's true RIP doesn't insist that companies lodge spare keys with "trusted" third-parties anymore, but you are making company directors liable to imprisonment (S.69) if they cannot comply with a decryption order. Isn't this   "key-escrow by intimidation"?I am sorry that you have closed your mind to the possibility that this part of the bill is misconceived. But the opposition parties have clearly signalled that they will withdraw support if their serious concerns on these and other matters are not met.There are a hundred amendments tabled before decryption is due to be considered. Will you allow the committee to take its time?Mr Clarke replies:The committee is scrutinising the bill carefully. And it will continue to do so. As you assert, it's important to see what the legislation actually says.Innocent people are not going to be imprisoned for having a bad memory. Remember a vital point. The bill does   not allow the authorities to get their hands on material which they cannot do now.The new power only works where material is lawfully obtained. If it is encrypted, and someone who is in a position to decode it refuses to do so, only then does the question of a prosecution arise. Where prosecutions occur, the authorities have to prove, beyond reasonable doubt, that a person has, or has had, a key.How do you demonstrate that you've lost or forgotten a key? You explain what has happened and the court will decide whether, on balance, you're telling the truth.There are statutory defences if you hand over as much information as you can. If you've forgotten your key, you might explain how it was generated, when you last used it and what you normally do if you forget it. Your earlier analogy of losing a PIN is inappropriate. I can't think of an occasion when a bank would be unable   to provide details of an account when required to do so under existing powers. This isn't escrow by intimidation.The cost of establishing the technical facility which will handle keys obtained under the bill will be met from the money the chancellor has provided for tackling crime in the capital modernisation fund. Deploying the highest level of security for such keys is a top priority. Will criminals turn to other forms of information hiding post-RIP? We cannot tell what the future holds by way of other technologies that may or may not be taken up by criminals. Experience tells us that they will use what most readily suits their needs.The implication that the bill treats encryption users as suspect is wide of the mark. We know the technology is good for e-business, individuals' privacy and helps prevent certain crimes. It's also important to our e-government agenda. The bill does not criminalise the use of encryption. It targets the criminals, such as paedophiles, who use it to conceal their insidious activities.Mr Bowden:RIP doesn't target anyone at all - it's a blunderbuss which an extreme government could abuse for its own purposes. It's a pity that once again you seek to justify an unworkable encryption policy by associating it with an abominable crime.Child pornographers should be severely punished and deterred, but a responsible government would begin to give law enforcement the training and resources to defeat encryption when necessary through technical surveillance devices, and put in place an oversight framework with   teeth to see that these powerful new capabilities can never be abused. The course on which your officials have ill-advisedly committed you will enmesh us further in a culture of secrecy, which will corrode our democracy long after you have left office and anodyne reassurances have been long forgotten. A law which replaces the presumption of innocence with a medieval trial-by-ordeal is simply wrong, not "a question of balance".Mr Clarke:The RIP powers are necessary. But we've never said that they represent a panacea for all law enforcement's ills. We know that simplistic answers no longer work in today's fast changing technological environment.Last year's joint government/ industry task force on encryption and law enforcement recommended that a package of measures is needed if we are to have any hope of addressing effectively the threat posed by the criminal use of encryption.We're putting that package in place. Providing new powers, specifically recommended by the task force, forms an integral part of our approach.They require authorisation and are subject to independent oversight. But we're also providing law enforcement with a dedicated resource to assist over encryption and forging a new co-operative relationship with industry.These too are vital elements of the package, on which I place great store. This isn't about "corroding" democracy. It's about helping keep society safe.Web addressesHome Office RIP BillHome Office RIP billConsultation paperHome Office consultation paperHouse of Commons library research paper on RIPHouse of Commons research paperReport from the Cabinet Office, Encryption and Law Enforcement, May 1999Cabinet Office reportNational Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS): Project Trawler report, June 1999NCIS reportFoundation for Information Policy Research: RIP Bill Information Centrewww.fipr.org/rip/index.htmlCampaign against RIP bill:www.stand.org.uk
Demon Internet has paid &#163;250,000 to settle a court case against a man who alleged he was libelled on discussion threads run by the company.Laurence Godfrey took the UK internet service provider to court after allegedly defamatory postings about him appeared in newsgroups. It was the first case of its kind in the English courts and one that could have far-reaching implications for publishers of online material in the UK.His action related to a message posted in 1997 on soc.culture.thai, purportedly coming from him and containing damaging allegations of a personal nature.He said he had asked Demon to remove the message but the service provider had refused. The message was copied to its servers around the world and many other newsgroups.In a case that Demon had previously said would affect the entire ethos of free speech on the internet, Dr Godfrey alleged that the company had failed to remove defamatory material about him from a newsgroup it hosted. The case hinged on whether Demon could be treated as the publisher of the material.The case will affect other service providers, all of which host robust and often vicious newsgroups. But any moves among them to become more cautious about what they allow to be published will inflame the debate about freedom of speech on the net.Under English law service providers are not held to have been the publishers of defamatory material providing they satisfy two criteria. They must prove they took reasonable care to ensure such material was not published, and, once alerted to a problem, took steps to resolve it.
The battle for power over the internet - of which the fortunes ofLastminute.comare but a tiny skirmish - can best be seen as a struggle between the centrifugal forces pushing power down to the individual and the centripetal forces - mainly involving corporations - that are trying to capture control of the centre.Individual empowerment through the free exchange of information was the Magna Carta of the net in earlier days. Remember when commercial organisations trying to use the internet to sell things were subjected to instant spamming? Then commerce, inevitably, staked its claim.If one had to put a date on it then it was probably when the successor to the Mosaic browser developed at the University of Illinois (and distributed free over the internet) was launched byNetscape, a company determined to make millions by giving its browser away free.For all the hype, Britain's (corporate) internet boom has yet to celebrate its first birthday. Yet the flotation of Netscape, the first internet bubble stock, happened almost five years ago. (Yes, we are still that much behind the Americans.)Netscape's market capitalisation surged in the first few   hours of trading to $2.7bn, a milestone that had taken General Electric 43 years to achieve. At the time Netscape was losing $4.3m on six months' trading of $16.6m (rather a good performance compared with today's UK net start-ups).Where is the money now being made? There have been two main beneficiaries. First, the builders of the infrastructure - the equivalent of the entrepreneurs who made money out of selling shovels during the gold rush. Cisco briefly ousted Microsoft last week as the most valuable company in the world in terms of market capitalisation - although hardly anyone outside the loop has heard of it.One of the reasons the infrastructure companies have been successful is that they have built up strong near-monopolistic presences in areas where the barriers to new entrants are high. It's much easier to put up a new website selling to the consumer than to break into the markets for routers, servers and fibre optic networks.The second area where money is being made is on the stock market in anticipation   of the profits that may, or may not, to be made from selling goods and services to you and me. But, as of now, hardly any money is being made from selling things to the consumer.So, either there will be a huge spending bonanza on the web at prices that will justify the absurdly inflated prices at which these companies are being valued - or valuations will tumble to reflect the fact that the centrifugal forces are winning. The consumer, not the producer, is king of the web.As the world gradually becomes a single market for many consumer goods, it will become increasingly difficult for companies to make high margins from products unless they have a monopoly or a binding patent.Investors are beginning to get wise to the fact that the huge marketing spend needed to establish a presence is very difficult to recoup from the low-margins offered by products sold on the net where consumers (or electronic agents acting on their behalf) are constantly scouring the web for cheaper options.The concept behind Lastminute.com was, and is, a good one. It also has an importance disproportionate to its size in being an iconic flagship for UK web start-ups. Its problem is not that it isn't a good company, but that it is impossible for it to live up to the hype with which it readily acquiesced when it agreed to be floated at such a wild premium to its short-term potential. It is not easy for a business based in Mayfair to undercut airline bucket shops in Victoria and make a big profit from it. At least not until it establishes a global base (which Lastminute is working hard on).But the real significance of all this is not that ecommerce corporations fromAmazontoEgg, are finding it difficult to make any money, let alone serious profits, from online trading but that the web is being returned to its original ideals, albeit by a circuitous route. The founding mutuality of the web has metamorphosed into enforced mutuality. Companies are under   pressure to give away, or sell at a loss, products they find difficult to sell at a decent profit on the web, however much they would like to.It is not just email, browsers, calendars and online applications such as word processors and spreadsheets that companies are being forced to release for the comon weal. It is also a wealth of content. News, stock market prices, databases (on films, sport etc) and music that used to cost money are now free.Only where companies have proprietary rights over products for which there are no immediately available substitutes (eg popular films) can charges be made to stick.Even where the centripetal forces have been successful - like Amazon's amazing success in creating the world's biggest bookstore - they haven't been able to deliver the cream. Pioneers of e-selling, including Amazon, are facing an e-paradox: they won't make profits until they raise prices - but every time they try to do this, customers will click to a cheaper source.There has never been a better time to be a consumer.
Hardest hitYour article on Napster (March 16) is a good summary of the debate surrounding the unprecedented access some are now allowing to copyright music.Surely, though, it is not beyond anyone's imagination to see that free access to music is not a model for ensuring our music creators continue to produce good quality music in the future.Often forgotten in the frenzied debate about the music business revolution are the people at the core of the creative process - the composers, songwriters and music publishers which British Music Rights represents. Copyright protects their interests and ensures they receive proper payment for their work - it keeps good creators creating more.Ironically, when individuals trade copyright music for free, they harm the individuals whose work they admire the most. Music isn't free - it does have a value, and there is a long term cost to society of ignoring that value.Frances LoweDirector General,  British Music RightsStill snoopingPaul Trueman (March 23) seems to think that one can use one's free ISP's mail server for outgoing mail.  I advise him to have a look at theMAPS RSSorORBS.Also, any half decent company with internet access will have firewalls, probably preventing outgoing POP3 email connections and making sure outgoing HTTP goes through a proxy, and so it could be blocked or logged.There is even a problem connecting a modem to a PC in most offices, especially those which use digital PBXs, and so need special handsets.Matthew Byng-Maddickmbm@colondot.netFighting onMylene van Noort's article on queer sites online was interesting - but not all sites are as commercial as you might expect from her piece.There is a vast amount of campaigning and organisation on the web.Delga's sitehas been up since 1996, making us one of the oldest gay campaigning sites in the UK.Mark Ynys-MonDelga (Liberal  Democrats for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and  Transgender Equality)TV email hopeWarren Newman (Feedback, March 23) wonders what will happen to attachments to email received through interactive TV.I imagine that companies will provide server-based viewers for all common file formats - you could see Word documents, hear music, maybe even see video, all via attachments to your email!Maybe we really are moving towards Larry Ellison's net computer revolution...Moray McConnachiecerberus@herald.ox.ac.ukWarren Newman has missed the point.If he receives an email with an attached document authored in Microsoft Word, he should simply ask the sender to resend the text in a more universal format, such as rich text, which the set top box should be able to translate and display.Really, on a platform-inspecific medium such as the internet, file formats that are so exclusive to one package and platform, however "standard", should not be used.Thomas McIntoshthomas.mcintosh@argonet.co.ukMy Sky email system also has the distinct disadvantage that the user must go on-line before being able to access the email software.This means that the user is paying BT local rate + 1p per minute while composing and typing correspondence.A nice little earner in the short-term, one imagines, but hardly likely to do much for Sky's longer term ISP market share.Chris Jacksonchris@cj-associates.co.uk
E-Music picks upMore than two-thirds ofNetscape Onlineusers have already listened to MP3 music files on their computers. But with a shortage of legal MP3s on the internet, they have had to rely on converting their existing CDs or downloading pirate MP3s. However, a stack of releases suggests that the British music industry is about to catch-up with the online party.All of the big five labels have recently invested in an online music directory,www.listen.com, which allows users to search between different sites. And EMI's new partner,musicmaker.com, which offers users the chance to customise CDs, announced a threefold increase in profits in the third quarter of 1999.Then, last month, Elvis Costello, made perhaps the most significant MP3 release so far by issuing his first 12 albums in the format onEmusic.com. Users can now buy individual albums for $7.99 or individual tracks for 99 cents.  The former Fortran programmer joins David Bowie and the Beastie Boys in an online market place that is dominated by ageing rock stars and unsigned acts. This too should change.Badly Drawn Boy, darlings of the music press, release an exclusive MP3 album on Saturday onwww.twistednerve.co.uk, while Virgin offshoot V2 is giving away tracks by Underworld and the Stereophonics    atwww.dotmusic.com, the music portal.Washed upToo busy surfing to do the housework? Unilever has announced a new home cleaning and laundry service atwww.Myhome.co.ukIt's restricted to the south west of London, but, working patterns being what they are, expect the service to go nationwide soon.Unsafe betFollowingLadbrokesandVictor Chandlerinto online gambling, Littlewoods has just launched the UK's first web-based lottery atwww.bet247.co.uk. Using the BBC's national lottery draw, the site offers the chance to pick three numbers to win an estimated &#163;400, while four numbers could pull in as much as five grand. A weekly &#163;2m prize jackpot is also available for online football pools, and a deal with BTCellnet will bring mobile betting for WAP customers shortly.This is the second time Littlewoods has gambled with online lotteries: Prizeball 4 lost its shirt after only four months.Comic cutsControversial comics Chris Morris and Ali G both have new series on Channel 4. Although both are well served on the web by a number of content rich sites, the official site atwww.Channel4.comhad nothing on either by the time Online went to press. However, Chris Morris's often unsettling humour has found refuge on the web, and sites such aswww.koekie.org.uk/funnelandwww.rethink.demon.co.uk/laugh.htmlcontain lots of real audio and text-based material from Morris's boundary-violating shows. However, fans of Ali G are probably even better served: pay a visit towww.booyaka.co.ukfor 'nuff linkage.Jargon buskerCruder versions of the dack.com web economy bullshit generator atwww.dack.com/web/bullshit.htmlhave appeared on the web before, but it is still worth a laugh. Also try theWired magazine content generator.Nearly free PCThe "internet appliance" market has run into a snag in the US, where many users can buy an I-opener for $99. The catch is that buyers have to usewww.netpliance.comas their internet service provider, and it costs $30 a month in service charges.Little wonder, then, that the machine has already been "cracked". Seewww.linux-hacker.net/iopenerfor details.NettimeFormed in spring 1995 at a fringe meeting at the Vienna    Biennial arts festival, theNettime mailing listhas grown from a small, intellectual email forum into a sprawling website.It regularly features contributions from science fiction writer Bruce Sterling, media theorist Geert Lovink and a host of hackademics, activists and anyone prepared to stick their oar in.  Now the site has been upgraded for its fifth birthday, and French and Romanian versions have been added to those in English and Dutch.For most who encounter it, Nettime is an unwieldy entity rife with misinformation. But it is also one of the freest institutions on the web. And it is worth remembering that Nettime is neither a limited company nor owned by Bill Gates.New and notedControversial psychic Uri Geller is to sell works of art atwww.londonart.co.uk. Audio-visual pioneer Coldcut has just launchedwww.pirateTV.net:www.leapingsalmon.comdelivers gourmet ingredients to your door, whilewww.Lobster.co.uksells gourmet food online. Last but not least, BBC online has launched a site for London atwww.bbc.co.uk/londonlive
Most people can buy a digital camera without worrying about anything except the resolution and the price. It was different for me. As I stood in the camera shop on my way to the airport, words like "traitor" hovered accusingly in the air.I imagined former readers of my old photographic magazines tapping me sharply on the shoulder and saying: "Here, aren't you the Jack Schofield whose name is on the front of The Darkroom Book? The one whose idea of fun is painting eggs with photographic emulsion?"Yes, guv, it's a fair cop. But a digital camera provides a quick and effective way to take colour pictures that can be sent home by email or posted onto the web.You don't have to go through the processing and scanning stages needed for conventional films, or pay to have them done. The digital snapshot is instantly available; the only delay is the time to transfer it to your desktop or notebook computer. And that doesn't take very long at all.Most digital cameras store image files on a small removable card, typically either a SmartMedia or CompactFlash memory card. Remove the card from the camera, slot it into a carrier in the shape of a PC Card (aka PCMCIA card) or another device, then stick it in your notebook PC and copy the pictures across in seconds.Alternatively you can use the cable supplied with the camera, which links it to the PC's serial port. Transferring pictures over the cable takes several minutes. The main drawback is that it uses up some of the camera's precious battery life.Once on the PC, the pictures can be sorted, rotated, cropped, enhanced or repaired. Software will, for example, try to remove the "red eye" from the built-in flash. Then you can email your successes back to the office (if you're working) or to the family, or post them on one the many free "digital album" sites, such asPhotoPoint, or incorporate them into web pages.There are backpackers touring the world, scientists on field trips, protest marchers and many others all recording their progress on free web pages so friends, family, classrooms full of kids or supporters can follow their progress.It's a much better idea to put the pictures online than   to fill people's mailboxes with attachments they may not want, that take ages to download and don't decode correctly. And once the pictures are on the web, the world and its dog can look at them.The quality of the images from digital snapshot cameras is lower than film - even those that record more than 3 million pixels - and anyone who claims otherwise is either ignorant or lying. But on the web, quality is less important than file size, and most digital snapshot cameras provide good enough quality in 50-70KB JPEG files.For conventional photography, you're still better off with a snapshot camera such as the Olympus Mju-2 rather than an Olympus C3030Z or Nikon Coolpix at seven or eight times the price (or the Olympus C900 Zoom I bought last year). The difference will pay for a negative scanner and a lot of film.In fact, you can save the cost of a negative scanner, and avoid the effort of converting your best snaps to a digital format. Kodak will not just process a film and provide   high-quality prints, they'll throw in Picture CD or Photo CD of your negs as well. (The Picture CD format provides familiar JPEGs.)But digital photography has its charms. For a start, the more pictures you take, the cheaper it gets - bearing in mind that if you take 500 pictures with a &#163;500 camera, the capital cost is &#163;1 each. There's no real disincentive to taking thousands of pictures, as long as you use only rechargeable batteries!Once you've taken a digital picture, you can usually look at it on the camera's built in LCD screen, and have another go if you're not happy. This is useful when taking pictures of people for publication: they can be very co-operative when they can see the benefits.   Either way, you won't end up with a roll of film that has Christmas trees at both ends.There is, of course, a drawback: the need for a computer. That doesn't bother me because I carry a notebook PC at all times just to keep up with my email.One alternative is to carry several storage cards so you don't run out of space for new pictures - though that might be costly on a scenic holiday.But even this problem may disappear. Small handheld computers such as the HP Jornada 430 have the screen quality to display images and can be used to email pictures to a web site for storage, as well as playing MP3 files and games such as Bubblets.Eventually, digital cameras may come with Bluetooth connections so that users can wirelessly link them to a mobile phone and transmit pictures without using any sort of computer. In fact, given Bluetooth's ability to support ad hoc networks, groups of happy snappers will be able to sit around campfires swapping images the way kids trade Pok&eacute;mon cards.
What new challenges does the internet give to designers?One of the biggest problems with internet sites today is that they don't help the user. Websites as a whole are geared towards people who are willing to work at a slow pace and wait for pages to load. A few years ago that was a technology issue whereas now it's more of a design issue.Could you explain the Noodlebox part of the Amaze website?Noodlebox was me setting myself an agenda to look at the technology from an absolutely empty space and then see what I can do with it. The purpose of the project was not the little rooms themselves, rather the way all the rooms are strung together in a truly immersive environment. One other feature is that the loading screens, while something's being done with the network, always have something random moving around them - so you have a much more televisual feel.How would you say the net has changed since you started using it?Not enough. The technology has changed beyond all doubt and the bandwidth has changed - though not that much. But there are accepted web "standards" with regard to design, such as frames and spinning-buttons etc, where there's no real technical reason to keep doing those things. There was a period in about 94/95 when people were saying that the future would be plug-ins. Now, if you look at the penetration of these things, it's actually going down as the average new user is using an "out of the box" installation.How do you see the net evolving?I'm very dubious of Wap. Why would I want to use my mobile phone as an information network when I'd much rather just phone someone up and ask them? With regard to the future of internet design, I think there's a real need to look at interface and navigation. A much more interesting role for the interface is for it to look at what I'm actually trying to achieve as one whole process.Any favourite websites?I believe there are very few websites worth using. I'm sure there are a lot of people like myself who don't want to look at boring screens of information or spend all day looking round for something. At the moment web-pages are aimed at someone who's willing to surf around. What happens if someone doesn't want to learn the interface of a site? What if they just want to get something done? Saying that, for industry stuff I likeNinfoManiaandSabre Magazine. Other good sites areColors Magazineas it's not just an online copy of the magazine.Creation Recordshas elegant design and branding. For seamless integration of the branding between site and product there's theWipeOut3. For fun/wacky sites there'sKid Koala sound toyandNetBabyworld.&#149; See Noodlebox at:www.amaze.com/noodlebox
