Unlike past Resident Evils, Revelations 2 is being released as a series of weekly downloadable episodes, with the whole game available to buy on a disc on 20 March. Episode 1 features two stories, both set on the same fortress-like prison island. One is about Barry Burton’s search for his daughter, the other involves Claire Redfield trying to make good her escape. Ironically, Claire has Barry’s daughter helping her (shame she didn’t bring her mobile or she could have saved Barry a lot of bother), while Barry is assisted by a little girl who’s unarmed but can sense nearby zombies. You can play alone by swapping between characters or in split-screen co-op mode, which has the added bonus of giving you someone to chat to while you’re stalked by increasingly twisted and angry mutants in the hair-raising half-darkness. Unnerving, fun and often panic-inducing, this is a promising opener for the Resident Evil Revelations 2 series.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKSuper Stardust Ultra, PS4Seventies coin-op classic Asteroids involved chipping away at slowly drifting rocks while trying to avoid crashing into the resulting fragments. In 2007, Super Stardust HD gave the process a sparkly 21st-century facelift. Instead of black-and-white vector-drawn space rocks on a flat background, you orbited little spherical planetoids while shooting up full-colour meteors. Super Stardust Ultra doesn’t mess with that formula, settling for a small extra layer of graphical glamour, but otherwise leaving its hectic multi-directional shooting thrills untouched. It works nicely, although the similar Geometry Wars 3: Dimensions offers more in the name of innovation, adding differently shaped planetoids and a more diverse roster of enemies. Still, this is remarkably playable, and demands total concentration to survive its frenzied dances with death.Sony, £9.99Alto’s Adventure, iOSAlto, along with the other tiny snowboarders you unlock over the course of your adventure, slides down silhouetted snow slopes, performing leisurely backflips against the setting sun. Day eventually gives way to night followed by dawn, the minimalist landscapes lit with beautiful, slowly changing colours. On your way down, you’ll be catching runaway llamas, collecting glowing coins and pulling off stunts. You’ll also disturb so-called elders, whose campfire reveries are interrupted by you jumping over them on a snowboard, leading them to give chase on horseback, your only escape to hop over one of the game’s many bottomless chasms. Slipping quietly down its slopes, jumping rocks, catching llamas and grinding buildings puts you straight in “the zone”, with simple, harmonious music keeping you under this game’s hypnotic spell.Snowman, £1.49
In 2010, British cyclistVin Cox set a new recordfor circumnavigation of the globe, taking 163 days to ride over 18,000 miles. Some were less surprised that he smashed the previous record than by the fact he did so on the Croix de Fer, a two-wheeled, mid-price do-all from the rather workaday UK brandGenesis.That feather in its cap, the Croix de Fer is now marketed as an “adventure road bike”. It was only right, therefore, that I took the latest model on a little adventure of my own. With just a weekend rather than 163 days to spare, I went toHebden Bridge– West Yorkshire’s answer to Portland, Oregon, an alternative universe famous for having acafe for dogsand being thelesbian capital of the UK.I’d joined a cyclocross ride run by Rapha, which despite charging £160 for a pair of thebest cycling shortsyour crotch will ever have the pleasure of touching, runs free, guided rides near its shops.Nestled in a Calderdale valley, there is only one way out of Hebden – up. Every escape route is brutal, especially the one toHeptonstall, where Sylvia Plath is buried. We went off-road, which was even harder.Happily, the bike mostly performed superbly, even if I didn’t. I was glad of thesuper-reactive disc brakes. Once we’d let half the air out of the knobbly tyres, I got decent traction – even when riding through drifting snow. I had a few minor gripes. At over 11kg it was too heavy for me to sling over my shoulder and carry far – a necessary evil during cross rides. And the unyielding (man’s) saddle did not get on with my bottom. It also has a very long top tube, which, coupled with a longish stem, meant even the smallest, 50cm frame was a stretch for 5ft 4in me.Of course, the whole point of cyclocross bikes is that you can ride them fast both on- and off-road. I’d like to have taken the Genesis up the Croix de Fer itself. Instead, I went for a 60-mile spin in the lanes of Cheshire with my cycling club. I was able to keep a respectable pace, breezily riding through the winter debris everyone else had to swerve. It was good on my pothole-ridden commute in Manchester, too, the steel frame greedily sucking up the road buzz and protecting my wrists.Rather like your most annoying school friend – good-looking, good at sportandscience – the Croix de Fer really can do it all. And I have to admit there’s nothing annoying about that.Genesis Croix de Fer 20 2015 Adventure Road Bike: in numbersPrice£999.99 at Evans CyclesGroup setShimano TiagraGears10FrameReynolds 725 Heat-Treated Cr-Mo with mudguard and rack eyeletsDisc brakesTRP HyRd open hydraulics, compatible with cable-actuated leversHubsShimano Deore M525Weight11.38kg• Follow Helen onTwitter.
A committee of MPs has condemned police for continuing to upload custody photographs, including of people never charged, to a face recognition database, despite a high court judgement that ruled the practice was unlawful.In a report into use of biometric data, theCommons Science and Technology Committeesaid it was “dismayed” to learn that more than 12m photographs had been entered into the Police National Database without proper testing or oversight. It also noted that current practice appeared to flout a high court ruling from 2012 that said the contemporary policy of retaining custody photographs was unlawful.Related:The facial recognition databases are coming. Why aren't the privacy laws? | Kyle ChaykaSome forces, including the Met, have stopped putting images on the national database until the law is clarified. But others have continued to upload photographs in the absence of any national guidance.The chairman of the committee, Labour MP Andrew Miller, said they were not against the police using biometric technologies such as facial recognition to combat crime. But he added: “We were alarmed to discover that the police have begun uploading custody photographs of people to the Police National Database and using facial recognition software without any regulatory oversight – some of the people had not even been charged.”The report said there had been “a worrying lack of government oversight and regulation” around the use of biometric data. And that “compounding this confusion” there was an “apparent gap in the legislation regarding the retention of images, and the use of facial recognition software, by the police”.Related:10 things you need to know about biometrics technologyIt also questioned why the system for matching faces had not been thoroughly tested before being deployed. “It is highly regrettable that testing of the facial matching technology employed by the police does not appear to have occurred prior to the searchable national database of custody photographs going live,” the committee’s report says.The role of Alastair MacGregor, the independent biometrics commissioner, covers the use of DNA and fingerprints, but not other areas including face and voice recognition. The committee said, as a minimum, his remit should be expanded to include the police use and retention of facial images.As part of the inquiry, MacGregor told the committee that a searchable national database of custody photographs “had been put into operational use” by the police “in the apparent absence of any very rigorous testing of the reliability of the facial matching technology that is being employed”.The government has promised a review of the statutory basis for the retention of facial images, which the committee welcomed.
“Do you know AltJ?” Before I can even muster a reply, the listening room atNaim Audio’s headquarters in Salisbury is flooded with the rhythmic clatter of drums and soaring strings.The lime green leather sofa starts to feel even more comfortable as the warm melody of theMercury Prize-winning band’s track, Matilda, swirls around the room. It chimes and thumps from two large floor-standing speakers, which cost £30,000, as if the band is playing in the room. “There are few that can add the sound quality we can,” says Paul Stephenson, Naim’s managing director.Related:From vinyl records to toys: the return of analogue products in our digital livesNaim Audio is one of Britain’s best-kept secrets. It has been designing and producing handmade music systems from its base in this historic Wiltshire town since it was incorporated in 1973.It now exports to more than 45 countries and has more than 60 products in the range. They start at £895 for the mu-so streaming music player right up to a whopping £135,000 for its statement amplifier. Most of its kit is made to order, with a lead-time of two to three weeks.Specialist hi-fi brands have been pushed to the margins over the last few decades by Apple’s hegemony. More and more people have been seduced by MP3 digital downloads, iPods and compact wireless speaker systems from Bose or Sonos.But, a nascent backlash against the poor sound quality of MP3 could put British audio stalwarts like Naim andLinnback at the centre of music lovers’ homes. “You will always get the bare essentials [from MP3],” says Stephenson. “But in terms of changing your life and getting what the composer intended, you are never going to get that from MP3.”Paul Stephenson at Naim Audio.Photograph: PhilYeomans/BNPSMP3 is an audio coding format for digital audio. It was designed to compress and reduce the amount of data required to represent the recording while still sounding like a faithful reproduction of the original uncompressed audio. This “lossy compression” works by reducing accuracy of certain parts of sound.For most casual listeners to music, this may be fine. However, there is a growing army of audiophiles that are turning their back on MP3 in favour of tried and trusted formats like vinyl and CD, or better quality digital files such as Flac (Free Lossless Audio Codec) and Wav (Waveform Audio File).This growing rebellion may explain why vinyl sales in the UK passed the one million mark last year for the first time since 1997. In the US, vinyl notched a 49% year-on-year rise, with almost 8m sales. The stripped back musical facsimile that MP3 gives to listeners is precisely what sparked Neil Young, the Canadian singer songwriter, to launch hisown digital music player and download service.According to Official Charts, there is a substantial vinyl revival underway as more than 1.3m discs were sold last year, for the first time since 1995. Sales topped £20m, compared to just with £3m five years ago.Naim’s factory floor.Photograph: PhilYeomans/BNPSThe year’s biggest seller on vinyl was The Endless River, Pink Floyd’s first studio album in more than 20 years, ahead of Arctic Monkeys’ AM and the eponymous release from Royal Blood.Young reckons that Pono – Hawaiian for “essence” or “beginning” – will present songs “as they first sound during studio recording”. The high-resolution music player costs $399 (£265) and is capable of storing up to 2,000 songs.There is clearly a huge appetite among music lovers for higher quality products. The rocker raised the cash to produce Pono on Kickstarter, a crowd-funding platform. The target was to raise $800,000; it received pledges for more than $6.2m.In an interview with Californian radio show the Frame, he was pretty clear about why he was involved, citing “dissatisfaction with what my product was sounding like by the time it got to consumers”.Stephenson is more sanguine about the mass migration of music listeners to lower quality sounds over the past few decades. He believes Apple, particularly, has done as much to reinvigorate the public’s appetite for music. “Partly thanks to the likes of Apple, hi-fi is becoming part of people’s lives again,” he says. “It’s now our opportunity to get into that.”For more than 40 years Naim has strived to hone and perfect time-honoured methods of manufacturing. The firm was founded by Julian Vereker, a self taught engineer with a passion for music and racing cars.Vereker was frustrated with the quality of music reproduction after recording his friends playing live, so he turned from building his own racing cars to experimenting with amplifiers. The big breakthrough came in 1972 when Vereker won a contract to supply Capital Radio, which had just started, with audio equipment. The company was officially incorporated in 1973.‘Statement’ systems being made at at Naim Audio.Photograph: PhilYeomans/BNPSVereker was also instrumental in establishingBrompton, the folding bike manufacturer. The Naim supremo was a friend of Andrew Ritchie, the founder of Brompton, and agreed to guarantee a £40,000 overdraft in the early 1980s that helped financially secure the bike maker. He later became chairman of the firm.In 2000, Vereker lost his battle with cancer and his long-time friend Stephenson took over the Naim hot-seat. Ownership of the hi-fi specialist passed to a family trust following Vereker’s death. Then in 2011, Naim merged with Foucal, a French audio firm renowned for producing speakers. Two years later (2013) the merged Anglo-French hi-fi business was snapped up by Naxicap, a French investment bank based in Lyon.Ryan Latham, marketing director at Naim, reckons Naxicap will continue to be the majority owner for five years at least. “They want to see the company grow and prosper,” he says. “That’s why we did the deal with them. They were interested in supporting our product road map for the next five years. They want to grow from a stable base and to see sustained growth.”The business appears to be in rude health. It notched up annual sales of £21m last year and employs 160 in Salisbury – including 100 in production, 36 in research and development and the balance in marketing and support roles.One of these workers is Aga Penbrak, who has worked here for five years. With a rock steady hand, she expertly glues hundreds of tiny components to a circuit board with a red-hot solder iron. Penbrak makes about ten of these a day. “It takes a lot of attention, but it has to be done properly,” she says.Naim hi-fi components ready to be shipped.Photograph: PhilYeomans/BNPSThis hand-made craftsmanship and attention to detail is what won the recognition of Bentley. Since 2008, Naim has made the in-car music system for the British luxury carmaker.“It’s been great,” says Stephenson. “They are true engineers [at Bentley]; we’ve got a joint engineering spirit. That joint venture has definitely broadened the Naim brand out there.”Stephenson acknowledges that this was just the start of introducing a new audience to the Naim brand. “By and large we’ve grown steadily,” he says. “But unless you were in hi-fi circles, Naim was still a well kept secret … until now.”The hi-fi boss reckons the Salisbury firm’s latest all-in-one music streaming product, mu-so, could help to raise the firm’s public profile. The sleek brushed chrome box was designed in Salisbury but manufactured in China. It is the only product in the range that isn’t made at the Wiltshire factory.Stephenson says he had to use Chinese factories to bring the retail price down to £895. At this level, it can compete with other “lifestyle” systems from Bose, Sonos and Bowers &amp; Wilkins.The wireless speaker market is worth an estimated $3.3bn globally each year and is one of the fastest growing parts of the market. Was mu-so an intentional attempt to muscle into this potentially lucrative segment?“We haven’t gone out to make a consumer product, but it’s a way of getting the Naim brand out there,” he admits, noting that mu-so is not just available to buy from Naim’s usual network of specialist independent distributors, but is also competing for shelf space at John Lewis.Stephenson also hopes the player will get serious music buffs hooked on the British manufacturer’s wares and entice them to spend more on other bits of its kit in future – acting as a sort of gateway drug. He gives a throaty chuckle at the suggestion and jokes: “We like to take people’s money from cradle to grave.”
Last year in Germany, the games studio A Good Evil got together with the Cologne game lab to organise a two-daynewsgamehack. Media companies from all over Europe were invited over to join coders, form teams and create short, simple video games around current affairs issues. The Guardianwas there, joining in with the fascinating experiment in interactive journalism.This year, we’re going a step further, teaming up with theRezzed games festivalto help run and judge a news game jam. Taking place in London next week, the jam will run over the course of the event, challenging teams to design games, based around a story from Thursday’s paper. We’ll then take a look at the entries on Friday, with judges from co-sponsor Creative Assembly as well as the Guardian.As a primer, here’s a quick guide to the art of writing newsgames, written with the help of Tomas Rawlings from Auroch Digital in Bristol, a studio that has worked on several of its own interactive news titles, such asEndgame: SyriaandNarcoGuerra.Choose the right subject“You need to choose a topic where you can deliver something that the linear media cannot or is not,” says Rawlings. This may be a local story that you know a lot about and isn’t getting coverage elsewhere, or a big story that you feel could be explored through a game.“Most people producing news games right now are amateurs rather than journalists,” says Rawlings. “There was one produced recently around the situation in Ukraine, it was just an Angry Birds-style game where you’re throwing things at various political figures. It was quite fun, more of a satirical cartoon than a news game, and there’s nothing wrong with that.”It’s also important to bear development process in mind. If the story is going to pass in a couple of days, it’s unlikely you’ll be able to produce a game in time.Make the most of interactivity“It’s all about replayability,” says Rawlings. “Games can put you in the shoes of someone you’re not. The idea behind Endgame: Syria was that there are lots of different competing factions, so the player can take one set of decisions, see the outcome, then take another.”Choose the right platform“If you want rapid dessiminaton, the web is still the best way,” says Rawlings. Some form of Javascript or HTML 5 is the best bet at the moment. We’ve developed smart phone apps, but the Apple App Store takes seven days. The Android store is better, you can pass something through in a couple of hours, but the web is immediate.”“The problem with HTML 5 is, it’s a comparatively new protocol. There are packages likeGameMaker: Studiothat would allow you to make something comparatively quickly, but it’s still very tech heavy. That’s one of the issues.”“If you’re not a developer, ideally you should find one to work with. Otherwise you need to re-engineer something that’s already out there. Loads of people publish free Java Script tutorials – in fact, the game that the Guardian’s writer made at the News Hackathon, took a Flappy Bird tutotrial from the web and re-engineered it as something else. News does that all the time – news takes popular catchphrases and uses them to make a catchy headline. Using popular tropes is a way to communicate with people.”There’s also the interactive story creator,Twine, but Rawlings wants to see the development of tools that can help journalists with no experience of coding to produce a news game within a couple of hours.Market it though social media and on game sites“There’s a still a novelty factor to newsgames,” says Rawlings. “If you wrote an essay aboutPrismon your blog, it’s going to be hard to get traction unless you’re saying something remarkable. But if you did a game about Prism, that’s unusual.“There are plenty of sites like Kongregate where you can post HTML objects, so you can explore those. Also, social media is very important. Even though we we couldn’t distribute Endgame: Syria on the Apple App Store, we had a version on Facebook, we had an Android version, we had a free download version on sites like Indiecade. You need to distribute widely.”Be prepared to defend your work“When you make a newsgame you into into a whole new world of controversy,” says Rawlings. “When we released Endgame, we had people telling us that we were clearly on the side of the regime because the game was difficult so we were trying to put people off siding with the rebels; then we had people saying that, because you play on the rebel side, the game is pro-rebel.“So you hit all those journalistic issues to do with bias, but then you also hit the issue of it being a game. That happened a lot with Narco – people said ‘how dare you treat this serious issue as a game’. You have to be prepared to stand by your work, even more than if you’d have written a song or an essay. You need to say, no, a game can be sensitive to the material.”A version of this guide previously appeared in the article,A day in the life of the Bristol Games Hub.
“On the internet, nobody knows you’re a dog.” Thus reads the caption of a now-infamous cartoon by Peter Steiner in the New Yorker, capturing the zeitgeist of the early internet.This culture of relative anonymity led to the feeling, for many, that what took place online was somehow separate from reality. Online, you could use any name you wanted. You may have been a suit-wearing investment banker, but online, you could dabble in erotic fiction, or join a community for tattoo enthusiasts.But slowly, as the social web has become integrated into our daily lives, we’ve begun to use our given names – rather than, say, “hotgirl2286” – to identify ourselves but, until recently, we’ve almost always had a choice.Peter Steiner’s cartoon, published in the New YorkerPhotograph: Peter SteinerToday, the online public sphere is dominated by large corporations that have varied rules about how their users identify themselves. Twitter allows handles or usernames, but in some cases requires users to verify new accounts with a mobile phone number, identifying the user to the company but not the public.Google’s rules vary by platform: YouTube allows pseudonyms, while Google+ encourages – but does not strictly require – users to use their “real name”. Facebook and LinkedIn, as well as Quora and a handful of other sites, require that users sign up with their given name, and in some cases – such as if that name is flagged by another user as fake – require users to submit identification to prove their identity.Facebook’s policy and procedures have sparked particular ire among certain users. Because the platform makes it easy to report another user for using a “fake name”, some users have taken advantage of that ease to maliciously target users they don’t like.This appeared to be the case last autumn when a number of drag performers were kicked off Facebook en masse. Sister Roma, a performer and activist who was affected by the reporting, told me in an email:“All of these communities and cultures [that have experienced malicious reporting] have a history of being suppressed. We’ve all had to fight against homophobia, racism, and prejudice and discrimination. To me it is obvious that people are maliciously pinpointing entire groups of people that they feel are undesirable, morally corrupt, or live lives in opposition to their religious beliefs. They’d like to see us disappear, and unfortunately, as Facebook’s current policy stands, it is happening.”Facebook, for its part, claims that its policy of requiring “authentic names” makes users more accountable and “helps [the company] root out accounts created for malicious purposes, like harassment, fraud, impersonation and hate speech”, a Facebook representative told me. “We want Facebook to be a place where people can share responsibly, and we work hard to strike the right balance between enabling expression while providing a safe and respectful experience.”Sister Roma disagrees. “Facebook’s real name policy is encouraging and supporting malicious, targeted, blatant online bullying,” she says. “Millions of people [using names other than their legal ones] are using Facebook in a healthy, genuine and authentic way, communicating honestly and openly with their friends and their community.”Based on our email exchange, Sister Roma’s views on authenticity don’t seem to differ that much from Facebook’s, rather, it’s theimplementationof the policy that is a problem for her and others, like Dana Lone Hill, a Native American blogger who made headlines after her Facebook profile was deactivated (Facebook questioned her name). Hill and Sister Roma are not demanding anonymity, rather, they’re pushing back against a policy that views only legal names as “authentic”.After years of sticking to its guns, it appears Facebook is ready to recognize this. In an October post, employee Chris Cox admitted: “The spirit of our policy is that everyone on Facebook uses the authentic name they use in real life. For Sister Roma, that’s Sister Roma. For Lil Miss Hot Mess, that’s Lil Miss Hot Mess.”Are legal names – usually the names given to us at birth – truly representative of our authentic selves? Surnames are a fairly modern phenomenon in many societies, required and in some cases even created by governments to keep track of citizens. Legal names allow government to track property ownership, collect taxes, maintain court records, and perform police work, among other things. With the advent of international travel, governments around the world standardized their practice, issuing passports that, in most cases, contain a first name and a surname.Identifying an individual using their legal name may be standard practice, but does it make sense in all circumstances? Law enforcement or your boss may need your name to identify you, privately, but when you go to a bar or introduce yourself on the first day of work, you are generally free to use a name of your choosing.For companies, finding a solution that allows users to identify “authentically” when their name doesn’t match what’s on their passport or birth certificate will take time and fresh thinking. Facebook’s current solution – that is, allowing users to submit alternative information rather than legal ID – will help users like Sister Roma, who is a performer and a public presence, but may not make it easier for the average user to prove his or her authenticity.Mark Snyder is director of communications at the Equality Federation and has thought a lot about this problem while involved in activism to change Facebook’s policy while working at the Transgender Law Center. He sees the value of the company’s current policy, but fears that “the unintended consequences [of the policy] and … variations in enforcement show that a better methodology should be implemented right away”.He recommends a system that would focus more on harmful behavior than identity, de-emphasizing the ability to flag a user for their name and ensuring that users aren’t merely “going around flagging profile after profile”. He also supports training so that staff can better understand the circumstances around when a user prefers to use a name that doesn’t match their legal identification.The precise reasons a person might have for using a different name vary greatly, but are often connected by a common theme: vulnerability. As scholar Danah Boyd has written, policies requiring “real names” are “an authoritarian assertion of power over vulnerable people”, people who have very good reasons for using the names they do: they may be survivors of violence, or have a public-facing job that attracts attention to their online profiles.Or, in the case of many transgender individuals, their legal name may not match their gender identity. Transgender people already face disproportionate levels of violence and other risks. “It breaks my heart to think that young transgender people, especially transgender women of color, would have to face any additional burdens or barriers to being able to be their authentic selves,” says Snyder.One irony of Facebook’s continued insistence on “real names” is that the social network has often been a leader in user security, recently providing a way for users of the anonymity network Tor to connect directly to the site. This means that such users can obscure their identity from their internet service provider and any surveillance apparatus … right up until they use their name to log in to Facebook.This incongruity presents an interesting conundrum. As a society, we’ve arrived at a crossroads: identity is increasingly a part of our consciousness, while state surveillance of our communications more invasive than ever. This presents a challenge for online service providers looking to create spaces that are free from harassment and other ills. While “real names” policies are not yet a thing of the past, the changes Facebook is making to accommodate users whose names don’t fit convention may indicate a shift toward new ways of exhibiting our “authentic selves”.
Apple has released strict design guidelines for applications built for the watch, which suggest that applications be used for no longer than 10 seconds at a time, areport by Bloomberg states.Apple will review every application submitted to the App Store for the Apple Watch, like it does for iPhone, iPad and Mac apps, to ensure that only those that conform to its policies are let through to customers.Hotel CaliforniaAt an event inCupertino and Berlin on 9 March, Apple is expected to show off a range of apps from high-profile developers.Companies including BMW, United Airlines, Facebook and others have spent weeks within a secretive Apple Watch development facility at the heart of Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, California, the report states.Security is tight. Internet access is blocked within the testing rooms, as are personal devices.Apps written outside the secretive testing lab can only be brought in on storage devices that once they enter the lab, can never leave.Apple declined to comment.Instagram, Twitter, Pinterest, the list goes onApple’s secrecy and security around new products is legendary. But the Watch’s success will rest on convincing consumers that a smartwatch is more than an expensive, glorified second screen accessory for a smartphone. To do that Apple is turning to its strong developer community to produce killer apps.Key Apple Watch apps that are currently in development include Facebook’s Instagram, Twitter, Pinterest, car control apps from BMW and others, productivity apps from Evernote and Todoist and many others, while leisure companies including the Starwood hotel chain, are developing apps to unlock hotel room doors from the wrist.Rival smartwatches that have been on the market for the last two years have thousands of apps currently available for them. The Pebble smartwatch has over 6,500 apps, while Google’s Android Wear has over 2,000 apps according to the app aggregator Wear Store.•Apple’s Jony Ive digested: 23 things we’ve learned
In 2003, researchers Hatanaka Yuko and Miyakoshi Yukiko from Hiroshima University published a report that would come as little surprise to anyone who’s ever sang into a hairbrush in front of the mirror: karaoke is good for you. In their research paper “Karaoke and stress response” the duo reported that indulging in communal singing sessions reduces stress and increases sociability. As exercise, it is as effective as a short run – obviously discounting all the Jägermeister shots you may need before agreeing to belt out Take My Breath Away alongside your line manager.This is partly why it’s great news that the music gaming genre is set for a triumphant return. Last week,Kotaku speculatedthat Activision will soon be reforming its Guitar Hero series after a five year absence, while developer Harmonix revealed on Wednesday that it is working on a new Rock Band title. Both games provide players with a microphone, an array of plastic controllers designed to resemble musical instruments, and hundreds of songs to play along with. For a while, music games were a huge deal selling millions of copies. But then the market got overcrowded, the instruments were expensive and the economy collapsed a teeny bit. It was the day that music died.Related:Guitar Hero set for comeback?That was sad. And it was sad for some very important reasons. First, those games werefun. Some of the best gaming nights of my life have been spent yelling Smoke on the Water into a microphone while my adult friends stand around me playing undersized guitars. Music is a universal form of entertainment and self-expression in human cultures – it delves into the pleasure centres of our brains, bypassing all the logic circuits, dissolving our inhibitions. Music is life and fun and sex. Music is the opposite to first-person shooters.There is something else though. While the Nintendo Wii was commendable in the way that its easy-to-use wand controllers broke down the interface barriers and let everyone have a go, most of its games still replied on traditional gaming skills: timing, coordination, planning and speed. Titles like Mario Kart and Wii Sports also played into conventions and structures that are super familiar to veteran players, so they always had the advantage.But with music games, especially those that introduced singing – such as Rock Band and Sony’s wonderful Singstar – the skills were totally different. The roles reversed. Suddenly seasoned gamers found that their toolset of conditioned responses – their muscle memory for controller inputs – was useless. Suddenly, new talents were required. In my own house, my wife never plays games but she’s a much, much better singer than me – I couldn’t compete with her, though god help me, I have tried. This can be amazing and empowering and the dynamic of games as a social experience changes. It’s not just about giving the once-a-year gamers a Wii Remote and laughing as they gamely try to hit an onscreen tennis ball; it’s about those people stepping up and blowing everyone else off the stage.Music games also allow forms of expression that are impossible in other genres. There are plenty of games with cool soundtracks – one of the reasons Wipeout did so well as a PlayStation poster boy was that it brought the soundtrack of mid-nineties clubbing straight into your living room with its tracklist of Chemical Brothers and Leftfield tunes. But with music games, you get to choose the tracks and show off your preferences: playing Rock Band is like making someone a live mix tape – you’re saying “this is who I am, these are my tastes”. You can’t do that with Resident Evil.Guitar Hero, DJ Hero, Rockband, Singstar – they also allow a kind of emotional expression that contrasts entirely with the traditional gaming experience. Singing and playing along to a favourite song, eyes closed, head thrust back, unaware of anything else, just that moment, just that pleasure... this is the opposite to, say, Call of Duty, which requires you to be constantly hyper-aware of every pixel. Shooting games provide emotional release too, but the underlying tones are frustration and anger. Music games can touch on that – trying to get the chord sequence right on a tricky guitar track for example – but the overall emotional theme is one of joy and creation.When you’re young, music is everything – every experience channels through it, relationships are defined by it, sorrow is fought with it. When we get older, sometimes we lose that intense connection, or we narrow it down to the classic titles we loved all those years ago. Music becomes a nostalgic escape rather than an emotional release. Music games – like karaoke – can re-light the original intensity and broaden tastes and horizons.My friends on the radio showOne Life Leftrun regular “Marioke” nights where gamers go on stage and sing popular songs that have been adapted with new video-game-based lyrics. They are the best nights. Gamer crowds can be shy and inhibited, but there is such a euphoria and a shared sense of identity on these nights – the thrill of becoming a star. Games can be about this – and we are seeing through the rise of gaming YouTubers and the sharing functions built in to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One – that players want to be performers.Everyone does in some small way. Music is community, identity and passion. These are elements that game designers have to really strive for, have to spend years designing intricate user-interfaces to produce. But music games can do it with a mic and a tracklist. The greatest analogue controller we have is our voice – and some people use theirs better than others allowing them to come to the fore. That is empowering. Mostly, titles like Rock Band and Guitar Hero show us that games don’t just want your puzzle-solving abilities or your shooting skills, they want your high love and emotion, endlessly.
It’s 2015, but we still don’t have time-travelling cars. However, another gadget from theBack to the Futurefilms is within reach: the hoverboard. American startupArx Paxraised $510,590 on crowdfunding website Kickstarter in December for itsHendo hoverboard, with plans to ship the first in October to 11 backers who each pledged $10,000 for one of the first.The device uses magnetic-levitation technology: four disc-shaped “hover engines” induce an opposing magnetic field in a special surface, enabling the Hendo to hover an inch above the ground. Hundreds more people pledged between $299 and $949 on Kickstarter for Arx Pax’s “whitebox” developer kit, which includes a set of hover engines and enough surface to hover on. The idea is that they’ll be able to explore Arx Pax’s patented “magnetic field architecture” (MFA) technology, and perhaps make their own devices.The Hendo hoverboard floats about one inch above the ground using electromagnets.Photograph: PRMeanwhile, Arx Pax has its own startling ambitions: using MFA to levitate buildings – from homes to hospitals – to help them escape damage from natural disasters like floods and earthquakes. The hoverboard is a headline-grabbing calling card for its longer-term social goals. “Sometimes the big breakthroughs are as a result of the naive daring of the outsider. And that’s us,” says Greg Henderson, who founded Arx Pax with wife Jill. “We approached this with a social goal in mind: to be able to protect equipment and structures from earthquakes, floods and rising sea levels. The passion that drove all this came from the desire to really make a difference in how we build for mother nature’s bad days.”He boils down MFA as “a more efficient way to transmit electromagnetic energy”. Arx Pax decided early on that a hoverboard would be the best way to prove the technology, and drum up funding for the company. Initially, Arx Pax relied on the Hendersons’ savings, then investment from “friends and family”. The company chose crowdfunding as its next step rather than seeking money from corporate investors. “There are so many industries and larger companies that could benefit from this, but the real risk was that we would be put under their thumb, and the technology might be shelved because it was competition for what they were doing,” he says.“We made a conscious decision to go ahead and put it in everyone’s hands, and put it out there as far and wide as possible. This is a new tool for humanity. We can solve a lot of problems with this technology: it’s an obligation to share what we’re doing with the world.” Within Arx Pax, Hendo Hover has been given a clear brand identity. Henderson says the company won’t be hovering skyscrapers in the immediate future, but suggests smaller-scale applications like the ability to flip a switch to levitate computer servers or even wine racks – the August 2014 earthquake in South Napa, California cost vineyards an estimated $80m – as being closer. In the meantime, there’s a hoverboard to finish and ship.Testing a prototype of the Hendo hoverboard.The company is planning to present the first 11 purchasers with theirs on 21 October – “Back to the Future day”, after the date made famous in the film – and Henderson says it’s already fielding interest from skateboarding parks in installing the necessary surface.Answering critics will be another task: Henderson concedes there are still doubters unconvinced by Arx Pax’s technical explanations and demo videos: “The greatest opposition comes from folk who don’t think we’ve earned the right to put this out there, because we aren’t going through the rigorous peer review process that the scientific community has.“But the human resistance to change is the real obstacle. The idea that, if something was a good idea, someone else would already be doing it. If it weren’t for people who had the guts to try something new, we’d all still be living in caves! The real enemy is the wilful ignorance of the troglodyte.”
In 2015, Sean Percival is a partner at Silicon Valley seed accelerator 500 Startups, but from 2009 to 2011, he was working at MySpace as its vice president of online marketing – just as the social network lost its crown to Facebook.In a speech at the By:Larm conference in Oslo this week, Percival gave an insider’s view of what went wrong at MySpace, from the “massive spaghetti-ball mess” of its website and the “politics, greed” of parent company News Corporation to a doomed attempt to acquire music streaming service Spotify.His talk was aimed at startups looking to learn the lessons from MySpace’s decline, but it seemed as relevant for the largest internet companies today, such as Facebook, as they seek to avoid a similar fate.The early years“MySpace actually didn’t really exist as a company. They were part of a marketing company, and this company was doing very early e-commerce: they were selling junk, basically. They were selling diet pills. They were selling little remote-controlled helicopters,” said Percival, describing MySpace’s birth as a response to the popularity in 2003 of social network service, Friendster.“They looked at Friendster and said: ‘Wow, people are spending insane amounts of time on this site. We should copy it.’ And all they wanted to do was build a social network so they could have distribution for their ads, selling these horrible products to people. And that’s where it began.”Percival said that in its early days, MySpace was a pioneer in what’s now called influencer marketing. “They went to Friendster and found all the hot girls who got kicked off Friendster. You may remember Tila Tequila. She was a very very big deal on MySpace. But she was a Friendster user,” he said.“They kicked her off because she was just too damn sexy. And MySpace said: ‘Hey, we don’t care! We’re from Los Angeles, sex is what drives the economy out here. We’re happy to have you’. So they bring in Tila Tequila.”But Percival said just as important for MySpace was attracting bands, photographers and other creative people. “You were interested in what they were doing. You lusted after them because they were sexy… As the normal people – us – joined, we were just inundated with all these exciting people.”This sparked Percival to set up an agency that helped brands to create profiles on MySpace and grow their network of friends, although MySpace itself was trying to charge brands for this kind of service; after “scary legal notices” from the company, he shut down his business.Sean Percival at By:Larm.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianNews Corporation: ‘the corporate policies crept in’Percival wouldn’t join MySpace until a few years later, but remained an interested observer as it grew, including watching its $580m acquisition by News Corporation in 2005 – the impact of which was still being felt when he joined the company as vice president of online marketing in 2009.“News Corp is a monster organisation, just mammoth proportions: many many billions of dollars, many many users. At the time I remember they said: ‘Hey! We’re not going to disrupt anything. We’re going to let it run: you’re special!’ And just preserve that and not do anything,” he said.Percival said this was very much the external message, but that more recent technology acquisitions – Facebook buying Instagram or WhatsApp for example – have seen the acquirers learn from News Corporation’s mistakes in not sticking to its promises.“The reality was that as time went on, the corporate policies creeped in. The lawyers came in, the accountants. Everything came in. As opposed to being this nimble, fast-moving sports car, they started to become slow,” said Percival.“That was always the big challenge for me. I’d want to do something very very basic, and it’s like ‘okay, well, let’s go through the legal process’. We had 40 to 50 lawyers on staff, and we were spending $800,000 a month on external lawyers too.“We’re getting attacked from all sides. The Department of Justice is coming after us because there’s really bad stuff happening. There’s paedophiles! Weird stuff going on on MySpace. So we’re trying to fight this, and we’re just getting attacked from all angles.”The result? “As opposed to preserving and letting it run as it is, it just got really, really corporate. Politics, greed, all the horrible things that come with big corporations, slowly sort-of crept in,” said Percival.‘They knew that the end was near’By 2009, MySpace was still the biggest website in terms of traffic, but Facebook was growing fast by this point, and according to Percival the atmosphere was defeatist when he joined the company.“I remember the first meeting they had me set up with the whole team, and it was the saddest, most awkward meeting I’ve ever been in, in my life. And I’ve been in some really sad meetings. Literally sat there and everyone was so defeated,” he said.“The analogy I use is like you were the half-time [basketball] coach, and I walk in and it’s half-time, and you’re down by 100 points … They had been beat down by that corporate bureaucracy, they knew they were about to lose to Facebook. They knew that the end was near. They could smell it.”Percival said that one of MySpace’s main failings at this point was bloat, with verticals covering celebrity, fashion, sport and even books.“I can tell you: literature nerds were not going to MySpace to debate the latest John Grisham book! They [MySpace] just went everywhere, and that was a big, big mistake,” he said.“Facebook has done a really good job of not doing that … Lesson learned: do one thing great, not do many things good. Or in our case, we were doing many things kinda crappy.”Percival noted that at its peak, MySpace was attracting around 100 million monthly users – small beans compared to the 1.39 billion that Facebook had by the end of 2014, driven by internationalisation as well as smartphone penetration.MySpace did try the global expansion thing, but by opening offices in as many countries as possible. “Literally wasting hundreds of millions of dollars, fighting to set up teams, fighting to set up legal music rights and so on,” said Percival.“I’m pretty sure that in almost every market we lost money, with the exception of Mexico. Whereas Facebook said: ‘we don’t need to set up offices that quick; this thing is gonna scale’.”Rupert Murdoch: Comment on earnings call caused panic within MySpace.Photograph: Omar Vega/Omar Vega/Invision/AP‘The site was such a massive spaghetti-ball mess’Percival noted that MySpace also spent hundreds of millions of dollars building its own content delivery network (CDN), whereas websites today would use a cloud network like Amazon’s.“More money. More money pouring out. The total of money lost? I don’t even know, but it is in the billions of dollars. Thankfully News Corp has a few billion dollars and they could afford it,” he said, before recalling the “mess” that the original MySpace became in its later years.“The site was such a massive spaghetti-ball mess. You could do these tree flowcharts of your website … and we did it, and it was like the fricking seven scrolls that you could see. It just went on forever and ever and ever… We were not nimble in any way, shape or form.”Percival said the “last nail in the coffin” for the original MySpace was a comment made by News Corp chief Rupert Murdoch in an earnings call that MySpace would make a billion dollars in revenue that year.“At the time we were doing $50m to $100m, so we were at a tenth of where we needed to be,” said Percival. “He made that statement, but as far as I was aware, no executives knew that was the directive. So everyone scurries around … ‘The boss said we have to make a billion dollars, so I guess we need to make a billion dollars’.“And that’s why we had things like MySpace Books. It’s not because our users wanted to talk about books… But someone wanted to sponsor that. Someone was willing to pay us to build MySpace Books – HarperCollins – so we built it for $250,000 or $500,000. And those things were just rampant.”Percival remembered an infamous ad called Punch The Monkey, which invited people to click on an animated monkey to win some kind of prize – but which usually linked through to surveys and requirements to sign up for credit cards or other services to qualify for the prize.“It was one of the most annoying things you could do with an ad, but they just didn’t care: they had no respect for the users. It was all about monetisation. Making money, squeezing every dollar out of it,” said Percival.“And think about Facebook, the ultimate winner here. No focus on monetisation early on. Very few ads. And when they do ads, they actually do very nice ads. They do more native, more inline advertising, things that feel a little more natural. Not Punch The Monkey.”Percival said that during his time heading online marketing for MySpace, he wanted to build a better “onboarding” process for new users and a better retention mechanic for people coming back. “But I’m trying to fight for developer resources and get these things built, and it’s ‘No no no, got to build Punch The Monkey 2.0, gotta drive the revenue…’.”‘Unknown thing: we tried to buy Spotify’Could MySpace have been saved? Percival talked about what the company might have done differently, and admitted that by the time he arrived in 2009, it was possibly unsaveable – not least because by that time, it was difficult to hire the most talented engineers against competition from Facebook, Google and other rising tech companies.“I always thought, and I pushed this internally but we could never get buy-in, was to change the name. At that time MySpace was not cool any more,” said Percival.“The baggage was too much. Users had too many bad experiences. They would go on there and they’d get hit with spam. There’d be all this weird stuff. The baggage was really intense.”Percival also said that he thinks MySpace should have gone “all in on music” once it realised that Facebook was about to overtake it in the overall social networking battle.“We never wanted to admit to ourselves that we’d lost the social war. The identity was owned by Facebook. On Facebook you were your real name, you were yourself. On MySpace you were like 420princessxxx, you’re all these weird pseudonyms,” he said.“So we’d lost the social war, in a sense, but we really should have just gone all-in on music. At the time MySpace had a very, very unique deal with labels. They were the only site on the web that you could go and play any song from a major label for free.“You can do that on Spotify now … but that was so unique. It was a very special deal: we paid about $10m a year to get that deal, just to have the deal, and then we paid for all of the usage as well. That was something we had that nobody else had. We brokered that deal early on with the labels, and nobody else could get even close. We should have gone all-in on music and cut ship on everything else.”Percival thinks Spotify is the most obvious successor to MySpace in terms of blending streaming music with social features.“Unknown thing: we tried to buy Spotify and they sure as hell were not selling to us. They didn’t need to,” he said, before suggesting that Spotify has a much better chance of “getting” social than Apple and Google, which are shaping up to be its main competitors.“There are companies that do not get social and they never will. Apple’s one of them, Google is the other: they’ve failed with Google+. When your culture is engineering-focused, you do not understand social. Social is a very emotional experience. Engineers are not so much, in a lot of cases,” he said.Myspace Tom to Google+: don’t become a cesspool like my siteMyspace rebrand ‘would have prevented its collapse’Bebo and the other mega-deals that proved to be spectacular flops
Yey, Friday! What are you up to this weekend?
VALVE ENTERS THE VR BATTLEGROUNDValve, the developer behindHalf-Lifeand the owners of the PC download service Steam, has teamed up with HTC to create a virtual reality headset, Vive. The headset will rival Facebook’s Oculus Rift and is out this year.… AND WANTS TO TAKE ON PS4 AND XBOX ONE, TOOValve also detailed its plans to take on Xbox and PlayStation in the living room. The firm’s long-in-gestation Steam Machines will launch in November and be more affordable and powerful. The Steam controller – designed as an alternative to the mouse and keyboard – will debut alongside them at a cost of £33-£40.A volunteer trials Sony’s Project Morpheus headset.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APPLAYSTATION TO RELEASE PROJECT MORPHEUS NEXT YEARVirtual reality headsets dominated GDC, but one of the sleekest and most impressive devices was Sony’s Project Morpheus, which is nearly complete and launches in the first half of 2016. Sony also announced that 20.2m PS4s have been sold, making it the world’s most popular games console.IT’S NEVER BEEN EASIER (AND CHEAPER) TO MAKE GAMESUnreal Engine, Source and Unity are powerful game engines that developers use to create high-end titles such asGears of WarandHalf-Life. The latest versions of these technologies are being given away for free so budding creators have the tools needed to build the next gaming classic.The game and glasses designed to alleviate amblyopia.Photograph: Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty ImagesUBISOFT TO FIX THE ‘LAZY EYE’Ubisoft announcedDig Rush, a game designed to treat Amblyopia – also known as “lazy eye” – caused by decreased vision in one eye. InDig Rush, gamers must use both eyes binocularly with stereoscopic glasses. Once approved by medical bodies, the therapy will be available worldwide.
1. SECURE WEBMAIL WITH EXTENSIONSIf you’re using a popular webmail service, such as Gmail or Yahoo Mail, and you don’t or can’t make the switch to a more secure service, then consider installing Mailvelope.Mailvelopeis a browser extension for Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox that brings OpenPGP encryption to your webmail service. Similar extensions exist, such asSecureGmail, which encrypts and decrypts emails you send through Gmail. Using this extension means the unencrypted text should never reach Google servers. Recipients will need to install the extension in order to decrypt and read the encrypted email.2. INCOGNITOThis is perhaps one of the most basic privacy options that just about anyone can take advantage of. The top four most popular browsers - Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Safari - have a private browsing mode, which can be found in their respective settings menus. With private browsing activated, your browser will not store cookies or internet history on your computer. This has very limited uses and is perhaps really only effective at hiding your browsing history from your significant other, siblings or parents. Private browsing does not securely hide your identity or browsing activities beyond your local machine as your IP address can still be tracked.3. DON’T USE SOCIAL MEDIAThe amount of personal data that social networking sites like Facebook, Google Plus and Twitter have harvested from their billions of users is shocking. Head to facebook.com/settings and click ‘Download a copy of your Facebook data’ and you might be surprised to see just how much information is on file. Everything from who you have poked, what events you have or have not attended and when and where you have logged into your account is logged and saved. Similar levels of data harvesting occurs on all major social media sites. This is the price you pay for using a ‘free’ service. The only sure-fire way to avoid giving up this information is to delete your accounts entirely. A word of warning, ‘deactivating’ your account is not the same as deleting it. Deactivating your account is sort of like putting it into hibernation - all your information is stored and can be re-activated if you have second thoughts. Always delete rather than deactivate an account if you wish to completely wipe it.4. BLOCK AND MANAGE TRACKERSA large amount of websites track and collect the browsing habits of the users that visit them. These trackers are invisible and most people aren’t aware that they’re being tracked.Ghosteryis a free browser extension - available on all major web browsers - that will reveal these trackers, also known as web bugs. You can then decide which web bugs you’re comfortable with tracking you and which ones you’d like to block. In total, Ghostery keeps track of over 1,900 companies. Each company has a profile in the Ghostery Knowledge Library, allowing you to better understand who and why someone is keeping tabs on you and what action you would like to take.5. ENCRYPTED EMAILMost of the well known and popular email services - Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo Mail, Outlook - are not particularly privacy-friendly. For full Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) encrypted emails, consider signing up to a more secure provider.Hushmailis currently very popular, it provides a private email account with no ads, built-in encryption and unlimited email aliases. A limited free service is offered, with more features available for a monthly subscription fee. However, Hushmail is not above the law and in the past it has been forced to reveal user data to U.S. authorities following a court order. The company also logs user IP addresses.MyKolabis a similar service that has not revealed any user information in the past, however, they are also obliged to provide access to lawful interception requests so this still remains a possibility.6. TEMPORARY EMAILDisposable Email Addresses (DEAs) are anonymous and temporary. They allow users to quickly create new email addresses as-and-when they’re needed, which can then be disposed of after use. This is particularly useful for avoiding spam when filling in forms on websites that require an email address to proceed. Keeping your real email address away from spammers is crucial to protecting your identity online and DEAs are a great solution. Popular providers of this service includeGuerrilla MailandMailinator, although there are hundreds out there to choose from. Most DEAs are not particularly secure, so it is not advised to use these services to send sensitive information - rather, use them as a way to avoid giving away your own information in situations where you are obliged to do so.7. VPNVirtual Private Networks (VPNs) are one of the most effective ways to protect your privacy online. A VPN essentially hides your IP address - your unique online identifier - and runs all your online data via a secure and encrypted virtual tunnel, which can keep websites from tracking your online activity or even knowing which country you’re browsing from. These days, there are many VPNs to choose from.Hotspot Shield,TorGuard,CyberGhostandHideMyAssare some of the more popular ones that are currently available. Most of them require a small monthly subscription fee and they don’t all provide the same list of features, so it’s worth shopping around for a VPN that suits you.8. TOROriginally developed with the U.S. Navy in mind as a way to protect government communications,Toris a network of “virtual tunnels that allows people and groups to improve their privacy and security on the Internet.” Tor’s anonymity network allows access to the ‘deep’ or ‘hidden’ web, where websites can be created anonymously and individuals can communicate privately with each other. When using the Tor browser - which can be downloaded for free from torproject.org - it is very difficult for websites or individuals to track your online activity and location. However, while Tor is quite effective at protecting your online anonymity, it can be slow, complicated and restricting. It’s also worth noting that while the network can and has been used for good, it has also been used for illicit purposes, such as selling drugs and distributing images of child abuse.9. PROXY SERVERA proxy server is a computer through which your online activity can be processed, essentially acting as an intermediary between your computer and the internet. As such, this can be a great way to maintain your online anonymity as the proxy basically masks your IP address with its own. If the proxy is based in a different country than your own, you can fool websites and trackers into thinking you’re browsing from a completely different continent. There are many ways to use proxies and there are various free and paid services on offer.HideMyAss.com/proxyhas a limited free web proxy service that you can start using immediately if you’d like try it out.10. HTTPS EVERYWHEREHypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is the encrypted version of HTTP, the technology protocol which determines how web servers and browsers respond to commands and how messages are sent and received. The Electronic Frontier Foundation’s (EFF)HTTPS Everywhereis a neat little extension - available on Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Opera - that forces websites to use HTTPS, even when they default to the less secure and unencrypted HTTP. By EFF’s own admission it’s still feasible for “some attackers to break HTTPS,” but it’s certainly not a bad idea to install their extension as HTTPS is still far more secure than HTTP and will certainly help to protect your privacy and consequently maintain your anonymity. EFF is a nonprofit organisation that seeks to defend civil liberties in the digital world.11. DESTROY COOKIESCookies are little bits of code that are automatically downloaded from a website and stored on your system. Cookies allow websites to quickly and easily remember if you’ve been there before - if you have, the website may then alter certain variables based on the information that has been stored in the cookie in order to give you a more personalised and potentially useful experience. However, some cookies can be very intrusive, logging information such as how long you’ve been visiting a particular website, how many clicks you’ve made and what content you seem to prefer reading. It doesn’t hurt, then, to occasionally wipe your system of any and all cookies. Admittedly this won’t do a huge amount to protect your anonymity, but it will make it harder for websites to learn and understand your viewing habits. You can delete cookies from within your browser, but to make sure you nuke the lot, you can use an app like CCleaner, which is free and powerful.Related:DuckDuckGo: the plucky upstart taking on Google with stealth searches12. USE ALTERNATIVE SEARCH ENGINESLike most people, you probably use Google to search for things online. Google is an undeniably accurate, fast and efficient search engine, however, this is largely helped by its personalised search system. This is a feature that uses your past search history, rather than just relying on the terms you’ve typed into the search bar, to present you with results that are more relevant to your personal tastes. To do this, Google keeps track of your search habits in a number of ways, including browser cookies. You can turn off this personalised search by clicking Search Tools &gt; All Results &gt; Verbatim. But if you really want to make sure Google isn’t tracking your searches, consider using a different search engine entirely, such asDuckDuckGo, which promises never to track your searches and “emphasizes protecting searchers’ privacy and avoiding filter bubble of personalized search results.”13. USE ALTERNATIVE BROWSERSWhile Google Chrome, Firefox and Internet Explorer are popular, they’re not as secure as they have the potential to be. If you would like a more guarded browsing experience that has a more earnest approach to secure web browsing, consider trying out a privacy-focused browser such asDooble,Comodo DragonorSRWare Iron. However, do bear in mind that the additional security methods are fairly limited and will do little to protect your overall anonymity on their own, rather, this should be used in conjunction with other measures. Additionally, you can probably get a comparably secure service by disabling third-party cookies and blocking all location data in your regular browser’s settings and installing various privacy and anonymity-focused extensions and plugins such as Ghostery or Mailvelope."Dropbox...is very hostile to privacy"Edward Snowden14. DITCH DROPBOXEdward Snowden has called Dropbox - a cloud storage service -‘hostile to privacy’. That’s pretty damning. If you’re worried about sharing your files through this system, there are a number of good alternatives out there which offer better privacy. Snowden himself recommendsSpideroak, which describes itself as a zero-knowledge encrypted data backup, share, sync, access and storage service. You can use a limited version of this as part of their free trial, which can be found on their website. A fully featured subscription is available for $12 a month. However, if you’re just looking to quickly share small or large files anonymously for free, give OnionShare a go. It doesn’t have as many features as Spideroak, but it gets the job done.15. CHANGE YOUR PHONEStaying anonymous while using a smartphone can be tricky business. Many apps will want access to all sorts of settings on your device by default, which you may not be aware of and which you will have to manually manage with each new app installation and update. Furthermore, connecting to public networks while on the go is also a great way of potentially exposing your data to nefarious snoopers. While both Apple’s iOS 8 and Android’s Lollipop now have good encryption measures by default, there is another more extreme option in the form ofThe Blackphone. This is an ‘NSA-proof’ smartphone that claims to provide privacy features for texts, emails, web browsing and phone calls. Reviews so far have been mostly positive but at around £400, it’s not cheap.16. USE A PASSWORD MANAGERIf you’ve got a password that can be easily guessed, cracked or stolen, because you have a bad memory for that sort of thing, then you can say goodbye to your anonymity. This is especially true if you use the same password for everything, or across multiple websites and/or services. A great way to improve your password security is to use a password manager, likeLastPass. LastPass saves all of your passwords and only requires you to remember one master password, making multiple different passwords a lot less of a headache to manage, which in turn improves your online security and protects your anonymity.17. SECURITY FOCUSED OPERATING SYSTEMSThere are security focused email service providers, security focused smartphones and security focused web browsers, but have you considered using a security focused operating system?Whonixis exactly that - an open source OS that focuses on anonymity, privacy and security. Based on the Tor network, Whonix is about as anonymous as an OS can get before it all becomes too inconvenient for normal use. Whonix runs in two parts, “one solely runs Tor and acts as a gateway… The other… is on a completely isolated network. Only connections through Tor are possible.” You can download it for free from whonix.org.18. ANONYMOUS CURRENCYDarkcoinis an open source digital cryptographic currency based on the Bitcoin software code. It is intended to be a more private version of Bitcoin (which typically prides itself on its transparency) and it claims to be the world’s first anonymous cryptocurrency. Finding merchants that accept Darkcoin can be tough (Darkcoin has its own merchant directory which you can browse here http://tinyurl.com/qzo398u) but when you do, your financial transactions are well hidden and, in theory, entirely anonymous.19. VIRTUAL MACHINESUsing a virtual machine is a great way to work on sensitive files (or to open dubious ones) without the fear of online snooping or potentially infecting your main system. A virtual machine is essentially a second ‘virtual’ computer that you host within your main operating system as an application. So let’s say you want to download a JPG from an email attachment, but you’re worried that it’s infected with a keylogger or some other form of virus that could jeopardize your anonymity. Firstly, if you suspect this to be the case, you shouldn’t download it at all. But one method to more safely examine the file if you absolutely must is to use virtualization software, such asVirtualBox, to install a virtual machine onto your system. It’s best to use a secure OS for this, so something Linux based isn’t a bad idea. You can then download the file on the virtual machine before turning the internet on your virtual machine off and opening the JPG. Once you’re done with the file, you can delete it along with your virtual system, leaving no traces behind and no potential security issues.20. AVOID JAVASCRIPTJavaScript is used all over the web and can provide detailed information about your system to any website that uses it. This is almost always used completely harmlessly and is often used to improve your browsing experience or funnel more personalised and relevant adverts your way. However, some of this personal or system information can and has been leaked in the past. Disabling JavaScript completely is not really a viable solution as a large amount of websites require you to accept JavaScript in order for them to display correctly. However, you can install an extension into your browser that will allow you to blacklist or whitelist JavaScript activity, giving you more control over how and where your information is being used.NoScriptandScriptSafeare both popular choices and very easy to use.21. DESTROY ALL TECHNOLOGY AND LIVE IN A CAVEUltimately, the only way to truly stay anonymous online is to never go online in the first place. If you’ve already used the internet, delete any and all accounts you’ve ever created, turn your computer off and smash it to pieces. You will still leave a digital footprint of some sort in your wake, but hopefully it’s not particularly significant. If you’re using this extreme method, you should also smash up your smart phone, your tablet and your smart TV (they’re listening to us now). Now that you have purged all connected technology from your life, you may wish to live in self-imposed exile, perhaps in a cave, so that you are not tempted to re-enter the online world. Don’t tell anyone about this and you will successfully have acquired complete anonymity. Probably.Neolithic man installing a wifi router. Image: PoodlesRock/CorbisPhotograph: PoodlesRock/Corbis
APPSPeak Brain TrainingiOS/Android, freeAlready a hit on iOS, this slick brain-training game is now available for Android devices too. It gets you to play a set of simple, fun mini-games every day, and tracks your performance over time, letting you know you’re (hopefully) improving.Do Button by IFTTTiOS/Android, freeDo Button could be one of the most useful apps you have on your homescreen, with its ability to provide quick two-tap access to three of your regular actions – from tracking water consumption to emailing a loved one when you leave work.iA WriteriOS/Android, £3.99Minimalist word-processor iA Writer has been a top app for writers on iOS since 2010, but now it’s on Android too. With minimal clutter, it helps you concentrate on your writing – complete with a “focus” mode to fade out everything bar the current sentence.LinkedIn ConnectediOS/Android, freeBusiness-focussed social network LinkedIn may hold your online CV, but how can it be more useful on your smartphone? LinkedIn Connected is a stripped-down tool for keeping up with your contacts, and also for genning up on whoever you’re meeting next.Glow NurtureiOS/Android, freeIf you’re trying for a baby, Glow Nurture is one of the most polished apps for tracking … well, just about everything: weight, activity, notes on medical appointments and so on. It’ll also show you charts, health tips and store those all-important bump photos.Anorak AppiPad, £2.99In its print form, Anorak is a beautifully crafted magazine for children that focuses on stories rather than plastic covermounts. Its app is just as nice, with stories, word searches and comics designed to spark your kids’ creativity.Hop – Email MessengeriOS/Android, freeIf you’ve ever wished email could be a bit less like email and a bit more like instant messaging, Hop is worth a try. It turns email conversations into threads more like a messaging app, taking in photos, live chat, documents and voice calls.The Noise AppiOS/Android, freeSuffering from noisy neighbours? The Noise App is a tool for recording whatever’s keeping you awake, and then sending noise reports to your council or housing association. More than 100 are already accepting reports from it.PreziiOS/Android, freePrezi is one of the most popular online presentation tools – a cloud version of PowerPoint, essentially. Its companion app for mobile devices lets you browse your presentations and deliver them too – a feature at its best if using a screen equipped with Google’s Chromecast device.ASAP54iOS/Android, freeASAP54 is one of a growing number of apps aiming to take the strain out of high street shopping by using your phone. Aimed at women, it enables you to search by keyword or images, see what fashion hounds are wearing, and keep a wishlist of garments.GAMESThe Doctor and the DalekiOS/Android, freeThis is the work of the BBC: an official Doctor Who game for children, based around battling the Cybermen. The twist is that programming challenges are spread throughout the game, designed to get children interested in coding.EvolandiOS £3.99, Android £3.49If you love roleplaying games (RPGs), on any device, this is an essential purchase. It is a tour of the genre’s history in a single game, starting with a simple, monochrome setting and progressing through to a fully-3D, modern title. Clever, and reallyfun too.Alto’s AdventureiOS, £1.49It might not have whizzy 3D graphics, but Alto’s Adventure is the best-looking game this month – an endless, side-on snowboarder that makes stunning use of lighting and scale as you swoop and jump. Goals, combos and new characters keep it fun.Transformers: Battle TacticsiOS/Android, freemiumYou can spend up to £79.99 a time on Transformers: Battle Tactics’ in-app purchases, so this is best left to adults, not children. Longtime fans of the robots in disguise will enjoy it though: a rich, tactical game of battling bots.Auro: Monster-Bump AdventureiOS/Android, £2.29If you’re looking for something original to play this month, Auro is definitely worth a look. It is a fantasy game where you wander through dungeons fighting monsters – and as the title hints, you’ll be literally bumping them off to progress. It’s inventive and interesting.Midnight StariOS, freemiumA lot of people have tried to make first-person shooters for touchscreens and failed. Midnight Star has its flaws, but takes an innovative approach, as you focus on shooting rather than moving. It has neat controls, strong graphics and a not-too-aggressive system of in-app purchases.Magazine MoguliOS £3.99, Android £2.99These are tough times for the print magazines industry, but not in this addictive strategy game, where you have to lead your town’s mag to fame and fortune. If you’ve played developer Kairosoft’s previous games, you’ll know that this is a real time-sucker.Jolly JamiOS/Android, freemiumAre we bored with match-three puzzle games yet? Angry Birds maker Rovio hopes not: Jolly Jam is one of those, albeit with fruit jellies rather than sweets to swap. It’s colourful and fun, with some twists on the original formula.Agent AliceiOS/Android, freemiumAgent Alice is a “hidden object adventure game” blending crime-fighting storyline with scenes where you pick out objects. There are also puzzle mini-games, with new scenes and puzzles to be added every week. Polished and playable.Motorsport ManageriOS/Android, £1.99 + IAPTrue petrolheads only need apply for this engrossing management simulation, which sees you hiring drivers and building a car for your own racing team. There’s considerable depth to its strategy, from pitstops to car technology.
Video games have a long-standing relationship with war, exemplified by massive franchises such as Call of Duty and Battlefield. But despite the number of such titles and the frequency with which they are updated, gaming and the game-makers’ relationship with its subject matter remains woefully one-dimensional.TakeBattlefield Hardline, soon to be released. It’s a cops and robbers game, set in Los Angeles, but it uses the same shooting mechanics as other Battlefield titles, most of which are set in the Middle East. The gaming industry, then, despite endlessly repackaging war, really isn’t interested in the civilian cost – it will routinely overlook the humanitarian crises that lie at the centre of global conflicts. Players behave like a typical video game soldier inBattlefield Hardline, while surrounded by buildings, shops and houses. More blatantly than in other shooting games, the question of civilian suffering here has been wholly disregarded.But not all games treat war with such cavalier disregard.This War of Mine, by a Warsaw-based developer, 11 Bit Studios, follows a group of refugees during a thinly disguised version of the recent Balkan conflict. It’s a game that focuses on the toll war takes on civilians. “We were struck by the fact that physical challenge is not the worst thing people face in war – the emotional toll is much greater,” says Przemyslaw Marszal, art director ofThis War of Mine. “We knew that that was a good idea for a game, but it would only work if we took it seriously and created an experience that was properly respectful. It didn’t need to be ‘fun’. This was a serious topic and we wanted to approach it in a proper way.”“We started by looking at the siege of Sarajevo,” says Pawel Miechowski, one of the writers. “We also looked at the conflicts in Kosovo and then historically wider: the Warsaw uprising of 1944 and the siege of Leningrad. We wanted stories that described what life was like during those conflicts – stories about specific situations or choices people had to make in order to survive.”A gamplay screengrab from This War of Mine.Gamers, however, are used to playing as soldiers, so to integrate the civilian characters and their plightThis War of Minehas to appeal directly to people’s personal experience, using mechanical and visual conceits to cut to the heart of the war. “When it comes to the look of the characters – the models, animations – they’re all based on us, our friends and our relatives,” says Miechowski. “We wanted them to look like regular people.”“In terms of gameplay, people often perceive war like it’s an action movie,” says Michal Drozdowski, design director ofThis War of Mine. “In fact the danger is often very lurking – war is about waiting for things to come. That’s why our game is so slowly paced. Leaving your hideout in the night, and the danger that brings, raises people’s emotions. The endless scavenging and the effort it takes to make something out of whatever you have with you at that moment is a representation of the constant lack of necessities that refugees experience in war.”This War of Mineis not the first war game to focus on civilian rather than military struggle.Hushis a free, downloadable title set during the Rwandan genocide. Players take the role of a young mother and must tap keys in a certain order so as to sing their baby to sleep, lest his cries alert passing Tutsi militiamen. Developed by Jamie Antonisse, who has also worked at Disney Interactive, it’s another alternative take on war in video games.“War is treated as a power fantasy in modern games,” Antonisse says. “It’s a commodity, and it’s being sold for profit. “Alternatives need to be offered.This War of Minemakes war itself into a threat and an enemy, and the reward is an experience that is harrowing and personal – one that players will remember. If we, as developers, continue making these kinds of war games and making them well, hyper-glorified combat will start to feel outmoded and quaint – it’ll ring false for players.”The United Nations reports that 3 million Syrians have fled their country due to civil war, while a further 6.5 million are displaced within Syria itself. Meanwhile, the death toll in eastern Ukraine continues to rise; UN high commissioner for human rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, recently described the conflict as a “merciless devastation of civilian lives and infrastructure”.UNMANNEDInUnmanned, you play a drone pilot in the US army. However, the focus is not on dropping bombs or watching satellite footage; most of the game is spent seeing how his job affects his personal life.SEPTEMBER 12THYou’re presented with an overhead view of a Middle-Eastern town and told to drop bombs on the terrorists. Every explosion, however, kills people standing around your target and their grieving relatives then transform into terrorists themselves. Before you know it, you’ve created more enemies than you’ve destroyed.SPEC OPS: THE LINEA rare example of a war game that wrangles – or at least, attempts to wrangle – with war’s ethical dilemmas. Based loosely on Joseph Conrad’sHeart of Darkness, it’s notorious for a sequence wherein the player unknowingly drops a white phosphorous bomb on to a group of refugees.CANNON FODDERA British-made game from 1993,Cannon Fodderwas criticised by tabloids at the time for making light of war. It was intended, however, as a darkly comic, satirical take on the army. Players were treated to a loading screen that showed new recruits queueing up next to a graveyard containing all the soldiers that had died in the game so far.
It’s a big year for democracy: 800 years sinceMagna Carta, 750 since De Montfort’s January parliament – and there’s ageneral election. Now you can celebrate the evolution of UK democracy in a digital arts project.Democracy Streetis an interactive initiative that lets you explore links between street names and the people who shaped society. Use a GPS tracker or location-picker on the mobile site and up pop streets that carry the names of influential parliamentarians.You can explore their lives, portraits and impact on society, and upload photographs. With about 32,000 names in the database, including 400 with extended content, there’s a chunk of our history to explore, with political figures ranging from 15th-century “kingmaker” Richard Neville, the 16th earl of Warwick, to Victorian prime minister Robert Cecil.Influential activists and key historical events also get a look-in. “There are lots of Fawcett roads around the country but not a lot of people will know whoMillicent Fawcettwas or her importance within the movement for women’s rights and suffrage,” says Joseph Cavalla, project development manager. He also hopes that where there are multiple figures with the same surname, users will carry out detective work using resources such as the National Archives to pinpoint the street’s correct namesake.There’s more: a desktop version of the website has an interactive map that reveals which streets have been “discovered”. “Whenever you discover a street or upload a photo, it’s reflected in real time on the interactive map,” says Cavalla.By exploring the streets and learning more about the figures they nod to, you can notch up kudos in the form of progress badges that can be converted into a ‘Mozilla Open Badge’, a digital gong that can be displayed on social media profiles to attest to your newfound knowledge.The project has been commissioned by the Houses of Parliament speaker’s art fund and Arts Council England, and developed with digital design agency Si digital. “What we want to do is to empower people,” Cavalla says, “to make them think ‘there were these amazing people in the past and they made a huge difference to all of our lives, where are our modern-day equivalents?’”By exploring how users interact with the mobile and desktop sites, Portsmouth-based artistJon Adams, whose projects often touch on his personal experience of Asperger’s and dyslexia, will create an exhibition of artwork that will tour the country from November. “I see patterns in things that others can’t,” he says, enabling him to reimagine maps of our commemorative streets. “I want to take the information, see a new pattern in it and then make from there.” To take part in the project, go todemocracystreet.comfrom 26 March.
The woman who has accused one of Silicon Valley’s most prestigious venture capital firms of sex discrimination will take the stand on Thursday in a case that is shining a harsh light on the treatment of women in the tech community.Ellen Pao is suing for $16mshe says she lost when she was passed over for promotion at legendary tech investment firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers. Pao claims she was not promoted because of her gender.Related:Silicon Valley executive brings $16m sex discrimination lawsuit to courtPao, who was fired from her $560,000 a year job in 2012, is now interim chief executive of social news site Reddit. Kleiner Perkins disputes her claims, argues she lacked the interpersonal skills to succeed in the company and that she is adequately compensated at Reddit.The trial, being heard at the superior court in San Francisco, has all of Silicon Valley gripped. Kleiner Perkins is among the most prestigious venture capital companies in technology and counts Amazon, Google and Uber among its investments.In earlier testimony Alan Exelrod, Pao’s attorney, argued that Kleiner Perkins systematically discriminated against women. In opening statements he said the company had existed for about 40 years when Pao was let go and had only promoted one woman from junior partner to senior partner in that time.Exelrod contrasted Pao’s evaluations with those of male colleagues. She was described as having “poor interpersonal skills” and “her own agenda” while male colleagues, who were promoted, were evaluated as “quite tough”, “arrogant” and “blunt and overbearing”.The case is not about sexual harassment. However, Pao has said she was given a book of erotic poetry and nude sketches by a senior partner at the firm. She also claims another male employee interfered with her work after she ended an affair with him.Pao’s testimony follows that ofJohn Doerr, billionaire senior partner at Kleiner Perkins, who testified that he had tried to save Pao’s career at the firm after criticism from colleagues. Pao worked as Doerr’s chief of staff when she joined the company.In a performance review filed with the court, Doerr said Pao had been dismissive of peers who did not meet her expectations and needed to improve her interpersonal skills. He otherwise praised her performance in her first year as his chief of staff.In court Doerr said he had provided Pao with two coaches to improve her presentation skills but the training failed to pay off. “Ellen is very talented,” he told the court. “I felt that she ought to have another shot.”Presiding judge Harold Kahn has allowed jurors to ask questions at the trial and this week one asked Doerr why there were few women in venture capital.Doerr said VC companies tended to recruit tech founders and that there were too few female tech entrepreneurs to pick from. “This industry, technology, would be better served, and [venture] firms would make better decisions, if they hired more women,” he said.According to Doerr, 20% of partners at Kleiner Perkins are women, a far higher percentage than its peers according to arecent studyreleased by Babson College in Massachusetts. According to that study, released last year, the total number of women partners in venture capital firms has declined significantly since 1999, dropping to 6% from 10%.
Meerkat, a live-streaming phone app, became the latest fascination for many Twitter users on Wednesday, less than a week after its launch.The app, named after the small, carnivorous member of the mongoose family, is built to allow users to live-stream video straight to the web. It relies on Twitter to alert people to Meerkat broadcasts.It was launched on Friday 27 February by Life On Air, a live-stream startup team of just 10 people. Meerkat had originally been conceived as a side project but by Tuesday, Ben Rubin, the company’s CEO, had decidedto focus the whole team on Meerkat.Using Meerkat is simple. You download the app. You open the app. You sync it up with Twitter. There is a box saying “Write what’s happening …”After writing what is happening, there is a “stream” button to click on. Your phone’s video screen appears, a tweet is sent out, and you are live-streaming. (Or Meerkating.)As people start to watch, their Twitter profile pictures appear on screen so you can see who is viewing and say hi. If your viewers tweet at you, the message also appears on the screen, allowing you to respond.Interestingly, those viewers’ profile images will remain on screen long after they have closed down your broadcast. It leads to a false sense of importance, as well as (potentially) encouraging people to continue their live-streaming even if no one is watching.A still from the Meerkat app.Photograph: Adam GabbattAs for the viewing experience: the viewer must wait for someone to tweet out a broadcast, or alternatively search for “meerkat” and click on one of the thousands of available URLs. In a desktop browser, you are whisked off tomeerkatapp.co. On a phone or tablet, you are taken to an in-app player that seemed a bit glitchy.The app works in portrait or landscape, but due to the route you take to it (from the home screen) I found you were likely to end up streaming in portrait. This is fine – unless you then want to publish that video afterwards, when portrait-viewing could be frustrating. (Note the YouTube video above.)Life On Air raised $3.6mbefore Meerkat’s launch, the bulk of which came from Israeli company Aleph. When Meerkat went live it was a mere “experimental side project”, Rubin said, according tothe Wall Street Journal. Rubin said it had been built by Life On Air’s chief technical officer in just eight weeks.Life On Air’s main focus was intended to be “air”, a live-streaming app designed to replace Rubin’s previous success with the similar “Yevvo”. Whereas air appears as if it was designed just to share experiences with friends – “Stream live video to the people you care about,”its website says– Meerkat streams live video publicly.All of Meerkat’s features are currently available through existing live-streaming apps such as LiveStream and UStream, although Meerkat appears to have a more seamless connection to Twitter.One might venture that Livestream and Ustream are more useful, given that a meerkat broadcast is so ephemeral. It can only be watched while it is live. The broadcasts are not saved on the website. If you click on a link to a finished meerkat, you just get a message saying it has finished.There is also no option to embed your Meerkats, which limits the possibilities for journalists using it to stream live from breaking news scenes. Or for journalists wishing to embed their Meerkats in stories.
European ministers are pushing for new laws which would “permit every imaginable breach of net neutrality”, internet freedom campaigners have warned.Days after the US voted to protect an open internet where all traffic is considered equal, proposals agreed by European telecoms ministers of 28 members states could allow a two–speed internet, where companies such as YouTube or Netflix could legally pay mobile networks or broadband providers for faster, more reliable delivery of their content – potentially to the detriment of other internet users.Campaigners warn the move could stifle online innovation and undermine the digital economy.The proposals also water down draft laws on mobile roaming. Instead of letting travellers within Europe make calls, send text messages or browse the web from their phones for the same price they pay at home, ministers want a cap on low-cost usage with operators able to charge more once the cap is exceeded.The text by the European Council of Ministers does not specify the cap levels, which would be for a transitional period, but it is understood some parties have proposed no more than token allowances: seven days of roaming per year, to include only five minutes of voice calls, five text messages and 5MB of data per day.Related:Net neutrality activists celebrate internet victory with grumpy cat paradeOn Wednesday, the council agreed its text on net neutrality and roaming, a first stage in producing a directive for a European single market for electronic communications, which is scheduled to come into effect from 30 June next year. The text has not been formally published, butcopieshave begun circulating online.Ministers say they are bent on “safeguarding access to open internet”. But their text states “quality of service” agreements should be allowed for:End users, including providers of content, applications and servicesservices with a public interestnew services such as machine-to-machine communicationsTelecoms companies have argued that future technologies such as self-driving cars, remote heart monitors and smart gas meters should be given priority over other web traffic to ensure safety. There may also be an argument to allow priority for specific public services, such government websites or even the BBC.But the clause campaigners are most concerned about could open the door to private companies paying for faster online delivery. Such a move could make it harder for new services to attract users and grow. The text states: “End users, including providers of content, applications and services, should therefore remain free to conclude agreements with providers of electronic communications to the public, which require specific levels of quality of service.”In an attempt to build in safeguards, ministers also propose that national regulators should assess whether the negative impact on other websites, apps and services is “material” by analysing latency, jitter, degrading of images or sounds, congestion, actual versus advertised speeds and the quality perceived by customers.In apress releaseon Wednesday, the council stated it “now has a mandate to start negotiations with the European parliament on new rules to cut mobile phone roaming fees and safeguard open internet access.” The laws must be agreed with European commissioners and MEPs before being put to the vote.The council’s text “claims to aim to defend the open internet, but would, in fact, permit every imaginable breach of net neutrality,” said Joe McNamee, executive director of the campaign groupEuropean Digital Rights(EDRi).Related:Republicans strike back: FCC member invokes Star Wars in net neutrality fight“The reason the internet is successful is it allows everyone to communicate on an equal basis. If you establish fast lanes then you are removing the characteristic of the internet that makes it such a success for freedom of communication. If YouTube pays for the fast access and a start-up in a garage can’t afford to, then the incentives to innovate are decimated.”Ministers also want powers for broadband providers to block, slowdown, degrade or alter internet traffic in certain situations, for example to counter cyber attacks by hackers, or to avoid network congestion. They should also be able to block websites if ordered to do so by “national measures of general application, court orders, decisions of public authorities vested with relevant powers, or other measures ensuring compliance with such legislation”.Access, which also campaigns for net neutrality, has described the council’s proposals as“a wolf in sheep’s clothing”, saying: “Net neutrality has now been gutted everywhere in the text that was introduced by the council today. Not only does the proposal enable the creation of slow and fast lanes by allowing paid prioritisation and discriminatory practices ... but the proposal also introduces loopholes that could authorise the blocking by internet service providers of legal content.”Measures to create a digital single market were first put forward by the European Parliament last April. They sought to protect net neutrality, and also eliminate the extra charges imposed on travellers using their phone while travelling in Europe.After heavy lobbying by mobile networks, the council, which represents national governments, is also pushing for a watered-down version of the roaming rules. They want a transitional period, during which there would be caps on how much airtime customers could get without having to pay extra.If an agreement can be reached by early summer, it will be put to the vote. If the legislation passes, it will become directly applicable in all EU member states.
Five tiny homeless encampments dot two sides of the San Francisco headquarters of Airbnb. The inhabitants appear to be outsiders in every sense. Out on the streets. Out of the city’s economic boom. Out of luck.None of those interviewed had heard of Airbnb, though its four-storey office, a 72,000-square-foot converted warehouse, dominates this section of the SoMa district.They did not know the home-rental service motto – “We believe in a world where all seven billion of us can belong anywhere” – was a poster child of Silicon Valley’s vaunted “sharing economy”, with more than 1 million homes listed worldwide. Or that it was valued last year at $10bn.Airbnb’s headquarters.Photograph: Mae RyanThey just knew that the area around the junction of Brannan and 7thstreets was home, at least for now. There was a roof of sorts in the form of Interstate 80, with vehicles roaring overhead. There were nooks in the sidewalk to host their cardboard, blankets, tents and shopping carts.San Francisco’s homeless population of 6,436 is part of a wider crisis in Silicon Valley. The technology boom is driving up rents and evictions. Airbnb is accused of reducing low-cost housing stock, but the company says 56% of San Francisco hosts use Airbnb income to help pay rent or mortgage.Homelessness is the city’s most visible manifestation of extreme income inequality, which according to one metric ison par with Rwanda’s.It is drawing high level attention: Barack Obama’s chief of staff, Denis McDonough, joined Mayor Ed Lee with a clipboard one recent night to scour San Francisco’s streets for the biennial homeless count.The little community dotted around Airbnb numbers around 20, an eclectic group of men and women, white and black, teenagers and pensioners. They hustle and survive, it turns out, in ways familiar to their billionaire neighbour: they seize economic opportunity, legal or otherwise, and embrace technology.Three shared their stories.John Pobuda, 56: ‘My phone is my most valuable possession’John: ‘Most people who walk by don’t even notice us half the time’.Photograph: Mae Ryan“I’m from Eden Prairie, Minnesota. I can’t blame my childhood for anything. It was great. A lot of flowers and fruit and running around. My grandparents grew berries. I joined the army when I was 16. I was an infantry private. After leaving I thought about studying marine biology. There’s no ocean in Minnesota and I’m fascinated by it.I took a wrong road. I have a lot of regrets. Number one is letting someone stick a needle with cocaine in my arm. That changed my whole life from then on. All downhill except for a few uphills and they never went very far. I’m an addict. That’s what got me here, living under an overpass. It doesn’t feel like home but I can feel halfway safe.One of the biggest problems about living out here is basic cleanliness. It’s a chore finding restrooms and keeping clean. I keep the place as tidy as I can but my friend Richie leaves junk lying around. I don’t like it, it’s messy and draws attention.Most people who walk by don’t even notice us half the time. Some give food and money, though I don’t ask for it.For some reason housed people fear homeless people. Maybe because they think we’re scoundrels and bums and are going to steal everything. I don’t do that.One time a guy offered my girlfriend and I $500 to shoot porn. We said no. I have social security and (Veterans Affairs) health benefits but survive mainly by collecting stuff and recycling it. Cans, bottles, extension cords, piping, copper, it’s amazing what people throw away. I’ve salvaged about $400 worth from that (Airbnb) dumpster. I guess you could say that makes me part of the technology industry but I don’t feel like it.I think the technology boom is a good thing – the next generation. My phone is my most valuable possession. Out here you it’s the only way to stay in touch. I have email and Facebook. When we’re in the tent at night I like to go on YouTube and watch television, especially shows about the ocean. Killer whales, Great Whites ... every time they go out there they find something new.”Christopher Young, 59: ‘The toughest thing about being homeless is the ageing’Christopher: ‘People can be very kind and helpful.’Photograph: Mae Ryan“I was born 40 miles east of here. I studied computer-generated sound at Stanford and became the west coast agent for Zuckermann Harpsichords. I sold and built instruments, assembled kits, moved and tuned harpsichords for orchestras, that sort of thing. I composed two albums. One reviewer said my music was as addictive as drugs.I had a 20-year lease on a loft pretty close to here. I’m gay and used to be very promiscuous. By the end of the 1980s so many people in my world were dying of Aids – 165 people I knew personally.My partner, Mike, had been a marine and a US roller figure skating champion. Really bright, great sense of humour, well-travelled and in great shape. He got sick and died really quickly. That was 1992. Then my mother died. I had difficulty coping and slipped into depression. I had dental problems at the time and noticed when I took codeine I felt better. That led to morphine, then heroin. Well, you can imagine. I ran through my savings. Lost the apartment.I’m on methadone maintenance treatment so I don’t do heroin anymore. But I’m still homeless. Every now and again I rummage in the waste bin for food. Occasionally people hand me their lunch. People can be very kind and helpful. I find it remarkable.On the surface there’s a sense of community among the homeless but if people are on the street there’s often a good reason for it. Many are mentally disturbed. I keep to myself. I’ve been celibate for 15 years, maybe because the methadone lowers my sex drive.The freeway keeps the rain off but the vibrations and sound from the traffic are affecting my hearing. The toughest thing about being homeless is the ageing. Miraculously I’m HIV negative but I have diabetes. I have no sensation in my feet, it’s like walking on stumps. I used to have a great set of teeth but lost them all. It was so horrifying to me I grew the beard to cover it up. There’s a gap in the middle because when I fall asleep with a cigarette it burns.I use restrooms when I can. Otherwise it’s a garbage bag. I have a process. I don’t leave anything behind.San Francisco has changed radically in the past 15 years. There used to be more gay people and gay culture. Now it seems to be technology and business. I like technology. A nephew who works at one of the big companies gave me a tablet. YouTube and Netflix are my entertainment at night. I can’t sleep, so it passes the time. I hope to get off the streets eventually. I’d like to get into a subsidised studio or a one-bed maybe.Elizabeth Lewis, 53: ‘I don’t talk to people from my former life. I don’t want to burden them’Elizabeth: ‘When you’re a woman it’s more dangerous.’Photograph: Mae Ryan“I was a forensic psychologist and worked at state prisons. During (California’s) budget crisis they let me go. I had an apartment – stunning views over the Noe valley – but losing my income, coupled with separating from my girlfriend, and a few other things, put me on the streets. In anglo-saxon culture it’s profoundly shaming. You’d rather kill yourself than live on the streets. Yet here I am. I don’t talk to people from my former life. I don’t want to burden them. I call them civilians.When my material possessions were all stripped away and I was still there it distilled my sense of self. It was liberating.Artists, poets, musicians and philosophers used to be the heart of the city but they’ve been driven out and replaced by techies. At the beginning I felt a sense of conectedness to them but not anymore. Some look at you with detachment. Some with contempt, ridicule and fear. Others are very kind. It’s very humbling being in the most marginalised part of society. It’s different worlds. A strong sense of separation. They’re in there. We’re out here.If you weren’t taking drugs before living on the streets, you do once you’re out here. It’s very tough. Crystal meth lets you deal with hunger or repetition, numbs you out. You want to get high. That’s the goal. People organise things around that. San Francisco is a crystal city.The homeless move in little clusters and these little groups can become communities. But there’s no trust because people predate on each other, rob each other’s phones or tents, anything. People con you all the time. There’s a lot of paranoia and an end-of-days vibe. You hear rumours of people – civilians – giving poisoned food.When you’re a woman it’s more dangerous so I move around on my bike. I’ve been attacked by men. Even if you’re a chick being beaten up by a dude people say, hey, that’s your own fight.The community takes a lot of bikes from the yuppies. Tonnes of them. You buy and sell them. [Lewis grinned when told Nathan Blecharczyk, an Airbnb co-founder, had his bike stolen: ‘That makes me happy. I’m sorry’].You see amazing things, especially at night. There’s a boy I’ve seen, a beautiful boy, very slender, who tap dances and sings, just for himself. There’s a timelessness out here; no one knows what time it is. But it’s not for the weak. Five days out here on a dollar a day will change your consciousness and your politics.”Airbnb ‘initiatives’In a written statement to the Guardian, Airbnb responded:Homelessness is a complex issue with multiple causes and no simple solutions. We are committed to continuing our work with nonprofit organisations to help tackle this issue. We also know from our community that when people hit hard times, Airbnb can provide a valuable source of additional income to help pay the rent and allow people to stay in their homes.Our employees volunteer regularly with nonprofit organisations throughout the city, and we were particularly proud to join with the Mayor’s office of Housing Opportunity, Partnerships and Engagement (HOPE) last year to donate funding and volunteer hours to provide needed resources for a new housing centre for homeless veterans. Through our Shared City, Disaster Relief, and other initiatives, we are developing concrete ways to ensure that our platform and resources are used to support diverse populations as well as those in need.
Where we live we have very poor medium wave and FM radio reception, and the DAB signal is hopeless, so we bought a DTech internet radio to listen via online streaming. Sadly, the BBC has dropped support for the formats our device uses (WMA and AAC), and other internet radios seem to be in a similar situation. Help! Which internet radios still receive BBC radio under the new arrangements?SteveI live in the Philippines and rely on BBC Radio to keep in touch, but my favourite stations are no longer available as they have changed some stuff. I still get Radio Scotland on my Samsung GT-S5360 phone. What do I need to do to receive the new BBC Radio?JohnLast month, the BBC introducedAudio Factory, a new system for streaming its radio stations over the internet. The change silenced a lot of internet radios and hi-fi streamers. Worse, a lot of internet radio manufacturers were caught out as well. These included big names such as Sonos, Linn, Naim, Cambridge, Roberts and Logitech, including Squeezebox.The debacle promptedangry complaintsand agrovelling apologyfrom Jim Simmons, the BBC senior product manager who had posted the Audio Factory update. This didn’t solve anybody’s problems, however.The gist of the story is that the BBC junked its patchwork WMA/AAC infrastructure and moved to a new system based on “HLS and HDS using the AAC codec”. Further, Simmonds said that “by the summer we hope to have these streams available in the non-proprietary DASH format”.The BBC also provided MP3 streams viaShoutcastas a fallback for devices that can’t handle the new formats. This is a temporary measure.Many Radio 3 listeners complained when their 320kbps AAC audio stream was replaced by a lower-quality 128kbps MP3 stream. In response, the BBC seems to have backtracked and restored its high quality Radio 3 streaming in AAC. The rest have gone.MP3, if you can get itThe BBC chose MP3 because almost every device supports it. It should work with most of the internet radios that used the discontinued WMA and AAC streams. But if you can’t get them from your usual source, you will have to figure out how to change the settings to get them from Shoutcast, if possible. That includes Steve’sDMTech Starry7internet radio – which does support MP3 – and whatever John is using in the Philippines. For Android users, theXiiaLiveinternet radio app may help.Although MP3 isn’t very good for online streaming, the UK’s antique DAB digital radio is still using MP2, with which it started in the mid-90s. Indeed, some users are particularly angry because they bought internet radios and hi-fi streamers to get higher quality sound than they could get from DAB.If you still can’t stream BBC stations, visit the manufacturer’s website and the forums dedicated to your particular devices to look for solutions. Manufacturers are trying to develop fixes such as firmware updates, while users are looking for workarounds, perhaps usingradiofeeds.co.uk’s resources and alist of BBC stations(hat tipDigital Spy).While MP3 streams offer a temporary solution, they do have a problem. To save money, the Shoutcast streams are international, which means they will not carry material that the BBC does not have the rights to broadcast internationally. So, for example, UK residents will not get football and cricket commentaries if the BBC can’t stream them to the Philippines and other places. They’ll need to use HILS instead.HLS, HDS and DASHJim Simmons said the BBC was using HLS and HDS while migrating to “the non-proprietary DASH format”. It’s absurd that most BBC radio listeners had never heard of these before they appeared on a BBC technical blog or, worse, here.HLS (HTTP Live Streaming) is a problem because it’s a proprietary Apple system aimed at Apple products. Apple has disenfranchised its iPhone users by leaving out FM radios – which are battery-friendly and found even in cheap feature-phones – but apparently the BBC feels it must serve this audience.HDS (HTTP Dynamic Streaming) is a more advanced format developed by Adobe, and first appeared in Flash. It’s based on part 12 of the MPEG-4 standard, “fragmented MP4” (fMP4), which should replace the older MPEG-2 Transport Stream (M2TS) used by Apple’s HLS.In the long run, however, the target is the MPEG’s DASH (Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP), which became a ratified international standard in 2011. DASH is very close toMicrosoft Smooth Streaming, which was the first system to adopt fMP4. AsWikipedianotes, “Live Smooth Streaming H.264/AAC videos [can] be dynamically repackaged into the Apple HTTP Adaptive Streaming format and delivered to iOS devices.”Using HTTP, like web pages, means broadcasters should not need special servers and streams should not have problems with content delivery networks, firewalls and so on. However, you will note that all these are essentially video formats. They’re not what radios were designed to handle. AsLinnnoted, ffmpeg’s dynamic use of memory is fine for computers but “unsuitable for an embedded system with relatively constrained memory that is expected to run for long periods”.As I understand it, the BBC contacted leading internet radio manufacturers about a year ago, and most thought they’d be OK with AAC audio streams. They didn’t realise they might arrive inside, say, a Flash wrapper.What to do?If you can’t get the BBC’s radio streams on your radio, you should be able to play them via almost any PC, tablet or smartphone. You should also be able to use your device with a loudspeaker dock or feed the audio to a hi-fi, though you will lose the kitchen radio-style convenience.You should also be able to play the HLS streams, as well as MP3s, though you may need to download ffmpeg. The freeMedia Player Classic-HCworks well on Windows, whileVLCworks on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. There are other options. However, your device may insist on the screen being on, because it thinks it’s playing video.If you really want an internet radio, check the specs carefully. The bare minimum is the ability to play MP3 streams from Shoutcast, but support for an HTTP format – HLS but preferably DASH – is recommended. The Pure One Flow, Pure F4 and Pure Sensia 200D Connectreportedlysupport HLS now, but I expect it will take radio suppliers a while to get things together. Personally, I’d wait for the smoke to clear.If you can get a decent signal, Freeview and Freesat are good sources of digital radio. Also, FM radios start cheap (£10-£20) and can work well, especially with aerial assistance. Of course, they are threatened by a digital switchover, but given the outcry created by small numbers of 6Music and internet radio listeners, the attempt to switch off many millions of FM users – including most road users – would be political suicide.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
In a move likely to upset simulation fans everywhere, games publisher Electronic Arts has announced that it is shutting down Maxis Emeryville, the studio behind the classic SimCity game and its many successors.Development on the SimCity series will continue at other studios, and its hugely popular spin-off, The Sims, is now being made elsewhere by a dedicated team – but the company that legendary designer Will Wright founded in 1987 is effectively gone.Wright invented a new genre of game with SimCity, a sandbox urban planning simulation in which players are free to build and maintain their own metropolis. He left in 2009, and the latest instalment in his series, the 2013 reboot, SimCity, was not a success, suffering bugs and server issues and alienating fans by requiring a constant online connection.But during its pomp in the nineties, Maxis pumped out an array of fascinating variations on the Sim dynamic. To commemorate the studio, here are six classic moments from the Sim series.Your first monster attack in SimCityAn alien robot sizes up your city for radical urban re-planning – in other words, utter obliterationPhotograph: public domainYou spend hours constructing a complex yet balanced city, with a flourishing economy, happy citizens and a well-maintained industrial sector – and then a Godzilla-like monster or alien invasion force turns up and smashes everything. Will Wright’s decision to add randomised disasters to his otherwise serious simulation was a masterstroke of game design, adding a constant tension to the thoughtful gameplay. But you probably switched them off right? You wuss.Raiding the red ant nest in SimAntTo the victor, the spoils: a whole backyard to yourself and all the spiders you can catch and eatPhotograph: public domainOne of the first spin-offs from the original SimCity was this ant farm simulator (inspired by the work of Pulitzer-winning ant expert, EO Wilson), giving you control over a colony of black ants in a tiny backyard. The aim was to build a vast insect civilisation, killing and eating other bugs, and extending your subterranean home. But the climax involved raiding the competing red ant colony, slaughtering their soldiers and finally their queen in an act of mass territorial aggression.The Sim Copter “himbo” hackThanks to a rogue coder, the world of SimCopter filled with shirtless macho men on certain datesPhotograph: public domainThis otherwise unremarkable flight sim from 1989 was best known for a remarkable controversy in which one of the game’s coders secretly inserted an army of shirtless hunks (or “himbos”) into the game. On certain dates, the streets would fill with men in swimming trunks, kissing and hugging. It later transpired that the programmer Jacques Servin was paid to insert the prank by an anti-consumerist group named ®TMark. EA did not see the funny side – he was fired for “adding unauthorised content”.Spore gives birth to a creationist controversySpore: cute creatures or abominations against God?Photograph: public domainWill Wright’s final game for Maxis was the ambitious but flawed oddity Spore, which allowed you to create a range of alien creatures and watch as they evolved to suit their habitat. Gamers were annoyed by the restrictive DRM that EA applied to the game disc, but that wasn’t the best controversy – the game also attracted the ire of creationist bloggers who saw the game as a calculated attack on their beliefs. Hence the website,Antispore, in which an enraged writer accused Will Wright of brainwashing and posted photos of Spore creatures in suggestive poses. Was it a parody or was it real? No one is certain. At one stage, though, the blog apparently considered employing notorious anti-games campaigner and attorney Jack Thompson to help build some sort of court case against EA. It didn’t work out. One post simply reads, “Turns out that Jack Thompson is a terrible lawyer.”A strange way to complete a tower“I now pronounce you man, woman and skyscraper”Photograph: public domainDesigned by Japanese studio Open Book, but published by Maxis, SimTower is perhaps the most under-rated title in the Sim series, a fascinating skyscraper design challenge in which you construct layer upon layer of your thriving vertical town, adding offices, restaurants and living accommodation while preparing for random terrorist attacks. But the only way to “complete” the game and earn the ultimate Tower rating, is to build an actual cathedral into the edifice and then wait for someone to get married there. Sadly this is not actually a feature of real-world high rise planning laws.The Sims swimming pool crueltyIn The Sims, pool parties are always fun – until someone removes the ladderPhotograph: public domainWhen Will Wright first envisaged his “living soap opera”, The Sims, he must surely have guessed what would happen. Give players control over a household of tiny people with authentic needs and emotions, and random acts of monstrous cruelty will doubtless follow. And they did. When the original game was released in 2000, many players realised that if their sims got into the pool for a swim, you could delete the pool ladder, thereby trapping the virtual victims until they inevitably drowned.Pools were originally absent from the latest version of the game, Sims 4, angering sadistic fans of watery homicide. At the time, producer Ryan Vaughan explained to Polygon that this was because they needed more time to test the systems – and the possibility of accidental deaths. “We wanted killing Sims to be done by intention rather than something just happening,” he said. “We wanted you to have control over it.” Pools were later reinstated. Video games, everyone.
Netflix has been accused of hypocrisy after it revealed it had teamed up with Australian ISP iiNet to obtain preferential treatment despite being a long-time proponent of net neutrality.The news comes as it attempts to explain seemingly contradictory statements from its own chief financial officer, who told a media and technology conference that the company wasn’t pleased with the US Federal Communications Commission’s decision to regulate the internet as a “Title II” public utility, akin to telephone lines.Netflix will launch in Australia and New Zealand on 24 March, ending the situation where customers in those countrieswere forced to use virtual private networks(VPNs) to access the service semi-legally.But, as part of the launch, the video-on-demand company is pairing with iiNet in order to offer its service to the ISPs customers without impacting on their broadband caps, something which seems counter to its longstanding support of net neutrality – the principle that ISPs should treat all internet services equally.Usage caps on iiNet’s tariffs begin at 100GB per month, and rise to 1TB, with fees of $0.60 (£0.31) for every gigabyte used over the limit. With HD streaming clocking up more than 100MB every minute, even a moderate Netflix user could go over the cap with ease – which explains why the company is eager to make a deal.Netflix’s head of business development, Paul Perryman, said that “working with iiNet to offer quota-free Netflix content gives more people the opportunity to familiarise themselves with who we are and what our service offers”.But in 2012, the company’s chief executive expressed a very different view on broadband caps.That year,Reed Hastings wrote on Facebookthat “Comcast should apply caps equally, or not at all.“If I watch last night’s SNL episode on my Xbox through the Hulu app, it eats up about one gigabyte of my cap, but if I watch that same episode through the Xfinity Xbox app, it doesn’t use up my cap at all.“The same device, the same IP address, the same Wi-Fi, the same internet connection, but totally different cap treatment.”Netflix explained the discrepancy to The Verge with a statement: “Zero rating isn’t great for consumers as it has the potential to distort consumer choice in favor of choices selected by an ISP. We’ll push back against such efforts, but we won’t put our service or our members at a disadvantage.”But a day later, the company was facing a new charge of hypocrisy, after chief financial officer David Wells told a technology conference that the company wasn’t too happy with the FCC’s decision to mandate that broadband internet be treated as a Title II utility, severely limiting providers’ ability to affect the traffic they carry over their cables.“Were we pleased it pushed to Title II? Probably not,”Wells told the Morgan Stanley Technology, Media &amp; Telecom Conference. “We were hoping there might be a non-regulated solution.”But in 2014,the company had filed a brief with the FCC arguing that“Title II provides a solid basis to adopt prohibitions on blocking and unreasonable discrimination by ISPs. Opposition to Title II is largely political, not legal.”In an effort to explain the discrepancy,a Netflix spokesperson told Recode that Wells was“trying to convey the evolution of our position on net neutrality in recent years”.The company said it “supports the FCC’s action last week to adopt Title II in ensuring consumers get the internet they paid for without interference by ISPs.“There has been zero change in our very well-documented position in support of strong net neutrality rules.”But the explanation didn’t come in time to prevent the telecoms firms laying into the streaming service. AT&amp;T’s Jim Cicconireleased a statementexcoriating Netflix: “Netflix has spun a lot of tales during this FCC proceeding. But it’s awfully hard to believe their CFO would go into a major investor conference and misspeak on an issue supposedly so crucial to their future.“More likely he had an attack of candor. At least until his company’s lobbyists got hold of him. I’m sure they’ll also have some terrific spin to explain Netflix’s data cap deal in Australia.”EU doubles backWhile the net neutrality debate is more or less settled in the US, after the FCC’s intervention, in the EU, it’s just getting started. And the latest proposal, from the council of ministers, has “managed to alienate almost everyone with a stake”,according to industry news site The Register.The council’s proposal bans certain forms of traffic management, preventing ISPs in the EU from blocking specific content, or even slowing it down. But it retains language that allows providers to offer “specialised services”, seen by net neutrality proponents as little more than a euphemistic term for an internet fast lane.Dutch MEP Marietje Schaakeled the signatories of an open letterthat called on the ministers to “ensure consumers are protected, innovative startups can develop, and competition on the open internet is fair”.At the same time, ETNO, the pan-European industry group for telecoms firms,also criticised the proposal. “Any future regulation must recognise how networks function,” the organisation said in a statement. “We need balanced rules on traffic management as well as measures that allow the development of specialised services and innovative offers.”
Apple’s rumoured “iPad Pro” has reportedly been delayed by production issues surrounding its bigger screen.The 12.9in business-focused iPad will begin production in the second half of the year, reports fromBloombergand theWall Street Journalstate.The production delay will give Apple time to assess the addition of USB ports as well as support for keyboard and mouse input for the new iPad, the reports indicate.Production starting in September would allow Apple to release the new iPad within October, the month in which Apple traditionally refreshes its tablet line.Consumers cooling on tabletsApple has seen four straight quarters of declining sales of its iPad line, which is currently offered in 9.7in and 7.9in screen sizes, despite the launch of a thinner iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3, both introducing Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint sensor to the tablet line.Consumers have cooled on tablets, with the global shipments of the devices falling for the first time, in the fourth quarter. A slower rate of tablet replacement compared to smartphones and cannibalisation by larger-screened smartphones, including Apple’s own 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus and phablets such as the 5.7in Samsung Galaxy Note 4 and 6in Google Nexus 6, have been blamed.Apple’s share of the global tablet market was also down 5% year on year in the fourth quarter at 28.1%, according to data from research firm IDC.Targeting business for revivalA larger iPad measuring 12.9in diagonally would offer 76% more screen area than the current 9.7in if it retains the same 4:3 ratio for its width and length. It could be more attractive to business users, who have already started to use Apple’s 9.7in iPad as a cheaper, more secure and longer-lasting laptop alternative.The NHS, publishers and other office-based industries have adopted the iPad as a work machine, but a a larger tablet combined with adeal Apple signed in July with IBM, could be crucial to reviving flagging sales.IBM released a collection of business applications for Apple’s iPad in December for banking, retail, governments and the telecommunications sector. More are expected this year.The addition of a USB port would provide greater flexibility within a business environment and potentially provide support for secure USB-based systems for storage and access management, removing one of the last differentiators between tablets and laptops.Apple declined to comment.
Video games are often labelled as just another hobby, but often, they can be much, much more.Our games writer Keith Stuart spoke in depth about the positive influence Minecraft has had on his son, who was diagnosed with autism. For him,its creator Markus “Notch” Persson helped give his son a voice:But most important was the way in which, after talking to each other while playing, they came to talk to us. Zac never really tells us much about what he does at school; his short-term memory isn’t great and a lot of it doesn’t seem to filter through. Or perhaps he doesn’t want us to worry. We know he doesn’t play with other children at break times or lunch, he sits by himself – the other kids grew tired of the fact that he couldn’t deal with team games. But he talks to us about Minecraft. He talks and talks. We were getting bored of it, to be brutally honest, but then my wife read an article that said if you listen to your children when they’re young, they’ll tell you more when they’re older. It’s sort of an investment of care. So we always listen, even though we don’t really get what the ender dragon is, or why it matters.With so many playing video games today, there are bound to be more stories out there: and we’d like to hear them. How was video gaming changed your life? Have games improved it in some way? Or perhaps they’ve introduced you to a new community?Let us know via GuardianWitness and we may feature the best on theguardian.com.You can share your photos and stories with us by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ buttons. Or if you’re out and about you can download theGuardianWitness appor look for our assignments in thenew Guardian app.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Elite: Dangerous is coming to Xbox One as a timed console exclusive, Microsoft has announced. The ambitious space trading game, a sequel to the classic BBC Micro title from 1984, was released on PC last December. In an announcement at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco on Wednesday, Xbox chief Phil Spencer said that the new version would be released this summer.Featuring a vast universe with 400bn star systems, some realistically mapped from our own galaxy, Elite Dangerous is a massively-multiplayer open-ended simulation where players are free to explore, trade and engage in battles. The project was partially funded through a Kickstarter campaign in 2012 which raised over £1.5m. The Xbox One version will apparently include all of the add-on material that has been released for the PC version since its launch.Writingin a blogpost on the game’s website, creator David Braben promised that the console game would not be a cut down version. “Elite: Dangerous on Xbox One will be the complete and authentic Elite: Dangerous experience,” he claimed. “It will not be ‘dumbed down’. We’ll be working with an all-new audience, but that doesn’t mean a change in direction for the game, and nor does it mean slowing development on the PC version.“More players across more formats means we can devote more resources to development. The more players we have, the better the game will become. Elite: Dangerous is a living game and it will keep growing on all our formats so long as people are excited to play it.”Braben, who’s studio Frontier Developments also makes Xbox titles such as Kinectimals and Screamride, went on to state that the Xbox One and PC versions will share the “same overarching narrative and galaxy state”. It’s unlikely console and PC players will be able to co-operate or fight against each other, but the galactic wars that make up the narrative background of the game will follow consistent plot lines.Related:Elite: Dangerous review – vast, beautiful and intimidatingAlthough the game suffered minor server issues early this year and has received mixed reviews (mostly positive, but some complaining about the emptiness of the universe), it has sold over 300,000 copies. The space simulation genre has seen something of a resurgence over the past two years with rival titles Eve Online and the yet-to-be-released Star Citizen attracting large communities. Microsoft will no doubt hope that its console version of the game will compete with Sony’s much-anticipated No Man’s Sky, an ambitious space exploration game from UK studio Hello Games.At first it was not clear whether the exclusive was timed or not, but in a tweet Braben confirmed that the game will be coming to PlayStation 4 later.@smallfaraway_Sure. Mac of course, then down the line we will support more, including PS4. The XB1 is a timed exclusive.&mdash; David Braben (@DavidBraben)March 5, 2015The big question now will be how the Elite: Dangerous team will transfer the game’s complex controls, which involve much of a PC keyboard, to the console controller. A vast array of Kinect voice commands is probably not going to be an option.
It is definitely Thursday. Sorry about yesterday. Crazy day.
Children should have the opportunity to be creators, not just consumers of technology. I learned how to code when I was a kid and I’ve been doing it ever since. But introducing your kids to what’s possible with robots, electronics and computers can feel daunting, and I’m someone who has studied computer science!My wife is an author and photographer, and we have four children, aged two, four, six and eight – they call themselves the “mini-makers” because we’re all quite creative. The eldest have started showing an interest in technology, partly because they see me tinkering, but also because learning about technology now has a bigger emphasis in the school curriculum.So, where do you start? Here are a handful of “kidtech” kits to get the family learning about coding, robots and electronics at home.Technology Will Save Us DIY Thirsty Plant KitTECHNOLOGY WILL SAVE US DIY THIRSTY PLANT KIT£20TECHWILLSAVEUS.COMThis kit is a great first step in learning how to build a useful electronic gadget and only takes an hour or so. You follow instructions together to make a sensor that will tell you if you need to water a plant.The box is colourful and attractive, and the instructions easy to follow. It definitely doesn’t feel geeky and it’s quite like putting a Lego set together. As a parent you don’t need to worry about understanding the components.Other kits have more longevity and can be used for a variety of other projects. This is really for a one-off making session. However, the plant sensor becomes a constant reminder in your home that you do this kind of stuff together.Littlebits Space KitLITTLEBITS SPACE KIT£120ROBOSAVVY.COMOne of the challenges for parents wanting to introduce kids to electronics is that we’re all a bit rusty, if that! This kit sidesteps that – it’s a set of pre-build modules that snap together magnetically to create devices, so kids can easily follow the instructions. This is their Nasa-themed kit so was a real hit – you can build a mini space station and a Mars rover together.This is designed for slightly older kids than mine but even so they loved it, and it’s something to grow into over time.Accessible, achievable and inspiring. I’d have so loved to have had this when I was growing up.KanoKANO£100UK.KANO.MEKano is a beautiful “build your own computer” kit based on a Raspberry Pi and they’re solving the complexity of getting up and going with it. One of the problems with the Pi is that for non-coders and people used to OSX and Windows it can be a bit daunting and fiddly. The onboarding process was so much fun and almost like a game. The operating system is simple, and is skewed towards helping kids learn.It needs a bit of work because we sometimes got stuck and had to restart the device, but the kids loved the whole experience. I can imagine a Kano plugged into the TV as a great thing for the living room and I can’t wait to see the next version that uses the more powerful Pi 2.Raspberry Pi 2RASPBERRY PI 2£25UK.RS-ONLINE.COMI’m amazed about how much computer they can pack into such a small size – and at such a low price! It’s best to ease yourself into this, because it’s quite a steep learning curve.Keeping the kids interested while getting it set up was hard, and there’s some assumed knowledge about how Linux works which you need when things go wrong.Make sure you have a book or a website to help you.I had trouble with the operating system – just getting it connected to the internet, which was frustrating. But once you’re past that you have a great tool that you can use in projects like making robots, so stick with it!MakeyMakeyMAKEYMAKEY£39MAKEYMAKEY.COMThis is a circuit board that pretends it’s a computer keyboard. Attach anything conductive and trigger key-presses on your computer by closing a circuit. Plug it in, no need to download or install anything, attach a couple of wires to something conductive and you’re all set.Make sure you have a pack of bananas to hand. They’re conductive, so a great first project is the included “banana bongos”. Or how about controlling Minecraft with pots and pans? It’s so simple, yet so versatile. Together with a Raspberry Pi you can make some amazing projects and it’s something you’ll keep coming back to when you have an idea. We’re trying a “musical staircase” next.Bare Conductive Touch Board Inventors KitBARE CONDUCTIVE TOUCH BOARD INVENTORS KIT£90BARECONDUCTIVE.COMThe standout from the kits we tried together is this beautiful kit from a London startup. It’s an elegantly engineered Arduino (so you can do loads with it in future) but it’s also usable right out of the box without any code. We used the conductive “electric paint” to make a poster of a tree, with six hand-drawn birds on it. Touching the paint plays one of a set of MP3s that you can load on to the Touch Board.We downloaded six Radio 4 Tweet of the Day episodes, so that when you touch one of the birds you hear its birdsong. All that I needed to do was put the files on the supplied MicroUSB card and name them “TRACK001.mp3” and so on.Being able to combine art and electronics to make something together that feels this magical is really inspiring!Technology Will Save Us DIY Electro-Dough KitTECHNOLOGY WILL SAVE US DIY ELECTRO-DOUGH KIT£15TECHWILLSAVEUS.COMThis is a fun, cheap, introductory kit for kids aged four and up. Make coloured dough together, with extra salt so it becomes conductive. Then make circuits with batteries, wires and lights. Several kids can do it together if you buy extra battery packs from an electronics shop. As the parent, you don’t really need any electronics skills.OverallKids have short attention spans, so when you’re trying to introduce them to something you need to know it’s going to work first time. Each of the kits does a good job at doing that, but there are still gremlins.Make sure you open up the kit in advance of showing it off so you know if you’re missing some crucial connector – in the case of the Pi, you might need a Wi-Fi adapter, an HDMI adapter for a monitor, an extra keyboard and mouse.With the Kano I’d advise setting it up the night before to get past the boring software update part, then put it all back in the box after creating a new profile for your child.For the Touch Board I needed an extra USB phone charger so that I could power the speaker when it ran out of charge.All of these things seem minor, but when you’re trying an activity or a project you’ll want to keep the kids engaged and excited – finishing a project together in an afternoon is a great feeling.For most of the kits we reviewed you have potential for a wide variety of creative projects so read their websites for inspiration, check out Instructables, DIY.org and similar sites, or think up a project of your own.The topics that the kids are doing at school or what they’re interested in at the moment are good starting points. Once you’ve done one or two your confidence builds and you’ll be able to try out ambitious things.The MakeyMakey, Touch Board and Raspberry Pi are all so versatile that you’ll quickly start thinking of ways to use them in projects together, and to me that’s the most inspiring part – kids learning to invent something new with technology rather than being glued to the screen playing the latest game.Stef Lewandowskiis a technologist and artist currently working on an inspirational box of technology for schools atDistributeTheFuture.com
Director John Dower has applied his craft to films and TV, including EastEnders, The Bill and Casualty. Now he also directs games, from RuneScape to Risen 3. The founder of The Mocap Vaults shares what being a game director entails and why it’s an opportunity for the medium.What does a game involve?Directors get involved because animators and developers sometimes feel they don’t have the skills to direct actors. So a large part of it is guiding actors and getting performances out of them, whether they are in a voiceover booth or on a motion capture stage. The other thing is creating a kind of visual storytelling and guiding the game in that way.Does that mean the craft of directing is fundamentally the same in games as it is in film, television and theatre?Yes. I’d say to people considering getting into this side of working on games that the essential skills are very similar and the convergence of games and other forms is very real. You are telling a story dramatically and helping the actors, technicians and other creatives to create the best piece of entertainment they can.But there must be differences?The technology is the most apparent one. But the real difference is that the stories are told interactively rather than in a linear fashion. The player makes the story happen; not you as a director. That took me a long time to get my head round when I started on games at Lionhead.Are games makers increasingly keen to work with directors?They are and should be, because there’s a lot of potential, and I’m optimistic. People increasingly understand the importance of performance in games. The technology to capture performance is getting so good and player expectations are rising. There’s still room for improvement, but things are changing.
A cynic might say that we have the internet we deserve. We were promised a democratic platform for change, for equality, for collaboration, yet are faced with areality of weary cynicism, as author Charles Leadbeater wrote last summer, and an assumption that we cannot trust any organisation with our personal data.We were told of flourishing startups and opportunities for all, yet the internet hasamplified global inequalities, says Andrew Keen, a writer on the internet revolution, using the parlance of openness and opportunity to create an industry of disproportionately wealthy entrepreneurs.And as the meaningful engagement of governments in the lives of citizens diminishes, we stare into a dystopian future described by Evgeny Morozov: Silicon Valley is heading towards a“digital socialism”, where benevolent corporations provide all the health, education, travel and housing employees could ever desire, negating the need for state provision. Ice that cake with the unpalatable truth about the reach of our government’s surveillance services and we might think our internet is already beyond help.Commercial interests have shaped the internet, and have created such powerful organisations that governments now struggle to keep up – out-funded, out-lobbied and outwitted. Rather than reflecting the real world, the internet absorbs and amplifies it, re-presenting a version of our lives, our work and our culture, from the gross disproportion of privilege and access afforded to those even able to access the internet to the misogyny that cripples meaningful debate. Even acknowledging its infancy, the internet does not represent a version of ourselves of which we can be proud. From privacy and surveillance to our collective cultural record, where is the internet we are truly capable of? Quietly, excitedly, and in a modestly British way, there is an alternative emerging. Rather than the internet as shopping mall – defined and dominated by commercial interests – how could we build the public park of the internet?Many of the concerns I have raised in this column – that we are primarily nowconsumers before citizens, that the ferocious disruption of technology is not being tempered withethical oversight, about the failure of the BBC to embrace a digital future – all point in the same direction. We have a missing national institution.The idea of a Digital Public Space was discreetly mooted by some of the BBC’s most overlooked and visionary staffas far back at 2010. February’sWarwick Commissionreport, a barometer for the UK’s cultural and creative health, picked out the project as one of six key goals, a digital cultural library of artistic and cultural assets.What will be the digital legacy of the V&amp;A, the British Library, the British Film Institute? These organisations at best are under represented in the digital world, at worst absent, outdated and woefully underfunded. The relentless, superficial, commercially motivated hyperspeed internet is built for the new, the now, the sellable – which is of course why these organisations need a digital manifestation more than ever. And that doesn’t mean being digitised by Google Books.The internet is dominated by the US, and noisy voices of extreme libertarianism; witness Jimmy Wales onthe Right to be Forgotten, who believes any accommodation of humanity by a search engineis censorship. Tell that to the wife of a murder victim, whoasked that prominent mentionsof her in outdated and disturbing articles about her husband’s death be de-indexed.The Digital Public Space would be, in principle, equally accessible to anyone regardless of status or income, safe and private, and operating in the interests of users and not of the ecosystem itself. Creative assets – artworks, archives, films, books, photographs – could be reused and redistributed within the space, an antechamber to the main internet, but only for non-commercial use.This is not a vision of the technological future imagined and engineered by the dominant young, white, male west coast developer who asks “can I build it”, rather than “should I build it”. There, the rule is build it first – ask questions about the social, cultural and ethical impact later. But this is public space by design, public by default, the internet at the service of the public.With an intense and probably bruising runup to BBC charter renewal, the amorphous digital public space project still requires a leap of imagination. Given the mundanity of BBC priorities, it is unlikely to feature prominently in any negotiations and would not be BBC funded. But the BBC is only the shepherd of this project; this is a coalition of the willing, a call to action for the UK’s most powerful public institutions who can and will have a say in the future of the public internet. A more dynamic BBC might have already rebuilt itself as this kind of organisation, but it has fallen behind. Its digital executives wearily mourn the opportunity. “It hasn’t developed or kept pace with technology,” one says. “The UK deserves a world class digital technology brand without dominance of the US and with a crucial ethical underpinning. It’s our missing public institution.”Leave aside our collective hangover about the power and impact of Britain’s voice, politically and economically, from a Victorian mindset about our rightful place in the world. Culturally, the UK is a powerhouse, and the best place in the world to start a meaningful discussion about the truly public, truly digital space that we deserve. It is the right time for that battle. Who is on board?
A database of civilian drones being flown in the UK should be created to enforce their safe operation, a House of Lords report has recommended.The database would log any civilian drone and their pilots and allow police greater powers to enforce flight rules, capturing rogue drones and being able to identify law breakers.The report supported the European Commission’s proposals for legislation governing drone use across the EU, but urged for flexibility at a national scale to support a nascent industry that could provide Europe with 150,000 more jobs by 2050.Committee chairman Baroness O’Cathain said: “We need to find ways to manage and keep track of drone traffic… drone flights must be traceable, effectively through an online database, which the general public could access via an app. We need to use technology creatively, not just to manage the skies, but to help police them as well.”The report authors said “stifling the industry through over-regulation can be avoided if safety rules are proportionate to risk” while noting that misuse of drones by commercial or personal pilots could undermine public acceptance of the technology.“The growth in civilian drone use has been astonishing. But public understanding of how to use drones safely may not keep pace with people’s appetite to fly them,” said O’Cathain.Sophisticated air traffic control system neededThe report welcomes the EC’s plan to add drones, such as those weighing less than 20kg, to existing aviation research programmes seeking an air traffic control system capable of managing drones, as well as traditional aircraft.The committee urged the EC to liaise with the US National Aeronautics and Space Agency, which is already working on something similar, and that a system capable of logging flight plans and drone identification numbers should be developed.The lords cautioned that drone pilot liability insurance determined by the weight of the aircraft is not adequate, while the increased use of drones by journalists and authorities should be part of public debate on their acceptable use.“Drones are a dream come true for voyeurs and industrial spies, and though they have the potential to transform the way we do business, they can also erode privacy and cause harm,” said Janine Regan, a data protection lawyer with Charles Russell Speechlys. “Like private security cameras, drones will be subject to data-protection constraints if they film public spaces, like roads or footpaths. Even the recipients of Christmas-present drones should be prepared to provide copies of the footage if requested by the individuals captured, or face legal sanctions.”Related:Parrot Bebop drone review: bird's eye video without a sky-high priceCurrent UK legislation by the Civil Aviation Authority dictates that drones cannot be flown within 50m of a building or a person and within 150m of a built-up area. In addition, the maximum flight height is 400 feet, and the drone has to remain in line of sight and within 500m of the pilot.For commercial purposes, pilots must complete a training course and apply for a permit to fly the drone from the CAA.The majority of consumers buying drones, which can be bought for as little as £40, are not aware of the rules governing their use. The lords and the CAA urge greater efforts from drone manufacturers to make consumers aware of the restrictions.
The drone industry could create 150,000 jobs across the European Union by 2050, but it would take “just one disastrous accident” to destroy public confidence and set the sector back, a group of peers has warned.A report from theLords EU select committeehas concluded that there is huge potential for growth in the sector, but that this potential can only be realised if the safety of drone operations is demonstrated to the public.The report comes after a near miss betweena passenger jet and a civilian drone near Heathrow airport in Decembersparked debate abouthow best to regulate the consumer drones market.Commenting on the report, Civilian use of drones in the EU, the committee’s chair Lady O’Cathain described the growth in civilian drone use as “astonishing”, adding that they were “taking to the skies faster than anyone could have predicted”.“We have a huge opportunity to make Europe a world leader in drone technology,” she said. “But there’s also a risk – public understanding of how to use drones safely may not keep pace with people’s appetite to fly them. It would just take one disastrous accident to destroy public confidence and set the whole industry back.”Related:Battle of the drones: the little guys taking on the tech giantsO’Cathain said that authorities would need to find ways to manage and keep track of drone traffic. “That is why a key recommendation is that drone flights must be traceable, effectively through an online database, which the general public could access via an app. We need to use technology creatively, not just to manage the skies, but to help police them as well,” she said.The report recommends the development of a shared manufacturing standard for drones – similar to the CE marking that exists for products that adhere to European Economic Area regulations – and that an online database to track and manage drone traffic be created.The committee found that drones – formally known as remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPAS) – are increasingly being used by small and medium-sized businesses across Europe for photography, filming and surveying, and that they can be used to carry out dirty or dangerous jobs, like cargo shipping and search and rescue.The group of peers called for urgent public debate about the acceptable uses of civilian drones in light of evidence that the media and police use of drones will increase.Earlier in 2014, theBritish Airline Pilots’ Association(Balpa) demanded better protection for the public from the risks of drones. It called for drones to meet the same safety standards as piloted aircraft, including that they are only flown by operators with pilot-equivalent training.
Apple has officially overtaken Samsung as the world’s biggest smartphone maker, selling more phones in the Christmas quarter than any other brand thanks to rising demand in China.The US company sold 74.8m smartphones, just ahead of Samsung’s 73m units, analysis firm Gartner said.Apple’s iPhone sales were up almost 25m on the same period last year, driven by an explosion in demand from China that helped push its profits to a record $18bn (£11.8bn) in the final quarter.Apple has long outsold Samsung by value, but its new dominance by volume spells trouble for its South Korean rival, which has been struggling with falling sales and shrinking earnings.Samsung sold nearly 10m fewer phones than it did in the runup to Christmas 2013, thanks to lacklustre demand for its flagship Galaxy S5 and fierce competition at the lower end of the market.“Samsung’s performance in the smartphone market deteriorated further in the fourth quarter of 2014, when it lost nearly 10 percentage points in market share,” said Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner.“Samsung continues to struggle to control its falling smartphone share, which was at its highest in the third quarter of 2013. This downward trend shows that Samsung’s share of profitable premium smartphone users has come under significant pressure.”Chinese firms such as Xiaomi, Huawei and Lenovo, which from a startup in 2010 is now valued at $45bn, have begun to nibble at Samsung’s sales by offering high performance low-cost phones and brands that younger customers increasingly identify with.Xiaomi has more than doubled its market share in a year to 5%, selling almost 19m units in the final three months of 2014, up from 6m the year before. The firm has already expanded into developing markets including India, Indonesia and Mexico, and is preparing to launch its Mi.com accessories store in Europe.Lenovo is in third place with 24m units sold, and Huawei fourth with 21m units.Samsung is now fighting to avoid the downwards spiral that damaged once profitable mobile phone businesses like Nokia and Blackberry. It responded on Sunday by launching two updates to its flagship phone, the S6 and S6 Edge, which sports an unusual curved screen.Despite Samsung’s problems, the overall market is still growing. Sales of smartphones to end users grew totaled 1.2bn units in 2014, up 28% from 2013, and these internet enabled devices now represent two-thirds of global mobile phone sales.
Smartphones are psychologically addictive, encourage narcissistic tendencies and should come with a health warning,researchers have said.A study by theUniversity of Derbyand published in theInternational Journal of Cyber Behaviour, Psychology and Learningfound that 13% of participants in the study were addicted, with the average user spending 3.6 hours per day on their device.The majority of participants said their smartphone use caused distraction from many aspects of their lives, including employment, hobbies and studies.Related:Stop worrying about your 'addiction' to the internet. We're all cyborgs – always have been | Jess ZimmermanCo-author Dr Zaheer Hussain, from the University of Derby’s psychology department, said he was not suggesting the harmful effects were on a par with cigarettes or alcohol but that nevertheless the devices should carry a health warning.“People need to know the potential addictive properties of new technologies,” he said. “It [the warning] could be before they purchase them or before they download an app. If you’re downloading a game such as Candy Crush or Flappy Bird there could be a warning saying that you could end up playing this for hours and you have other responsibilities [that could be neglected].”The study examined the responses of a self-selected sample of 256 smartphone users who were asked about how they used their device as well as questions intended to establish their personality traits.Social networking sites were the most popularly used apps (87%), followed by instant messaging apps (52%) and then news apps (51%).Narcissism and neuroticism were linked to addiction and the authors suggest that smartphones can actually create the former in users. They point to the fact that 35% of people said they used their devices in areas or situations when they were banned (eg while driving), with many offering the justification that they knew better than the authorities who created the rules.“Narcissism is a negative personality trait and if a person is spending a lot of time on Facebook or Twitter they’re more likely to display these types of traits,” said Hussain.While 47% of people spoke positively of improved social relations, almost a quarter admitted their smartphones create communication issues in “real life”. These included less conversation and a breakdown in communication because of spending too much time on their device in the company of family and friends. Severe distraction from interpersonal relationships leading to a negative impact in familial communications was specified by 60 participants.Hussain said that he is not anti-smartphones – he has one himself, which he uses mainly in the morning while having breakfast and in the evenings – but that addiction to them is negative.The study says: “If adverse effects of smartphones are well advertised, users might realise that despite using the device for improving communications, it can easily lead to narcissistic actions which can potentially breakdown familial relationships.”Hussain said he intends to carry out more research on the subject in future, with a more diverse sample of people.
Chinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi is taking its first step into Europe by opening an online store this year, the company has announced.The five-year-old company – dubbed “China’s Apple” – recently became the third largest smartphone manufacturer despite only selling its phones in China. In Europe it will start selling itsMi Bandfitness tracker, headphones and battery packs, but not its eagerly anticipated smartphones.If Xiaomi begin selling smartphones such as its well-receivedMi Note 4 phabletin the US and Europe, the company would be likely to face legal challenges over patent infringement.Lin Bin, Xiaomi co-founder,recently saidthat intellectual property was “not the most important matrix”. However, it was one factor that he and CEO Lei Jun use when planning country-launch strategies.“It’s going to be a different Mi.com experience from what we have in our markets in Asia, because we’re not selling phones,” Xiaomi’s global vice president and former Google Android executive Hugo Barra told the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, adding that the firm planned to sell items including fitness trackers, headphones and power banks.The European store will follow Xiaomi’ssimilar moves in the US, which marked the company’s first step into western markets. Xiaomi has faced challenges expanding beyond China, after an unsuccessful effort to launch in Indiawhere it has faced issuesaround patent infringement.The company recently launched a range of new smartphones and phablets that target the market leaders, Apple and Samsung. Chief executive Lei Jun announced that the company had won various patents across its smartphone technology and that it had raised $1.1bn in venture capital, valuing the company at $45bn.•Xiaomi: It’s China’s Apple – though you’ve probably never heard of it
Mobile game Crossy Road has made $10m in just over three months since its launch in November 2014, including $3m from in-game video advertisements.Developer Hipster Whale revealed the revenues figure in a presentation at the GDC conference in San Francisco, during which co-founders Matt Hall and Andy Sum also said that the game has been downloaded more than 50m times so far.According to Polygon, Hall described himself as “happily surprised” by Crossy Road’s success, noting that the developer made several design decisions – including being unaggressive in the promotion of in-app purchases – that have likely reduced its revenues.Related:The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad“If you make a game that’s only about business, you’re going to get Candy Crush clones,” said Hall. Instead Crossy Road took its inspiration from 1980s arcade game Frogger, providing players with a variety of characters to tap across roads and rivers – and ultimately, to splat against or under cars, trucks and trains.Players earn currency from playing that can be spent on unlocking new characters, with no timers, lives or pay-gates forcing them to delay or pay to continue playing as much as they want.“Obviously, $10m is fantastic. That’s way, way, way, way, way more than we thought we would get. But someone on the free-to-play business would look at those numbers and think we could make a lot more per user. But, if we changed it … if we followed some of those best practices … if we sold coins and had a ‘save-me’ button and it felt like the other games, would anyone have cared?”At least $3m of Crossy Road’s revenues have come from its in-game video advertisements – usually for other mobile games – which players can choose to watch to earn more currency.That figure was revealed in a separate GDC talk by Jussi Laakkonen of games tech firm Unity, whose advertising network Hipster Whale is using for its game.Crossy Road had earned $1m from the ads by mid-January, but the game’s Android release has fuelled another $2m since.“The success of Crossy Road with Unity Ads shows that mobile games can make millions of dollars with ads that users choose to watch,” said Laakkonen,according to industry site PocketGamer.biz. “Opt-in, seamless part of the game and high monetisation - that’s the holy grail of in-game mobile ads.”Hall is right that $10m in three months may seem relatively small compared to the most lucrative freemium games: as a comparison,Candy Crush Saga players spent $1.33bn on that game in 2014 alone– more than $3.6m a day.Not every developer wants to make a Candy Crush though. Hall is hoping that publishing Crossy Road’s figures will inspire other independent developers to realise that there are many ways to approach freemium without fleecing gamers and over-concentrating on heavy-spending “whale” players.“Once you realise you don’t have to hunt whales, and you can make money in this way, then hopefully people will give it a shot, and we’ll get lots of cool stuff on the app store,” he told Polygon.In the case of Crossy Road, the next “cool stuff” will be an update featuring British characters, including busby-wearing guards and policemen,judging by recent tweets by artist Ben Weatherall.
The billionaire creator of Minecraft has a $70m mansion in Beverly Hills complete with iPad-controlled fountains and a 16-car garage. He wastes his days making silly jokes in an empty “office” and his nights burning through hundreds of thousands of dollars in Las Vegas casinos. He doesn’t need to create anymore; he could spend the rest of his life throwing handfuls of cash off his balcony into the balmy LA night. He may sound like a self-indulgent one-hit wonder, but Markus “Notch” Persson is a hero of mine. Persson helped give my son a voice.Anew Forbes interviewwith the coder-turned-playboy-slacker, paints Sweden’s most famous export since Abba in a weird light. For several years, Persson worked on Minecraft with a small team and no budget. It was just another creative sandbox game, a tiny indie project that not many people knew or cared about. But by the time it officially launched in November 2011, it had a large dedicated community of fans. This was a game that put you in a vast blocky world and let you do what you wanted, build what you wanted, and play how you wanted. Word kept spreading.About the same time, 900 miles away, in Frome, Somerset, my wife and I were going through the tortuous dance of securing a diagnosis of autism for our six-year-old son, Zac. He’d always been behind on language development; he’d always had a problem in crowded environments. Noise terrified him, he was socially awkward and withdrawn. Some days I had to carry him to school as he wailed and fought. I was tired and angry and upset all the time. I didn’t know what to do for him. I didn’t know how to make him happy. That’s what you want as a parent, I gradually realised. On the hierarchy of parental needs, happiness is pretty high, higher than any academic ambitions. Way higher than anything you want for yourself.In 2012, Minecraft developer Mojang employed the Scottish company 4J Studios to create an Xbox 360 version of the game. It was a little simpler and clearer, providing instructions on how to craft the game’s many tools and objects (the PC version relied on its huge community to impart wisdom and share tips). It also included a local multiplayer mode, so up to four people could gather around a single TV screen and play together.I’d introduced Zac and his younger brother Albie to a few games beforehand. Zac loved the open-world racer Burnout Paradise, which allowed him to drive freely through a huge city, smashing into things and leaping over ramps. But then I brought the Xbox version of Minecraft home, and watching Zac play, it was like a light switching on. He just got it. He got that he had to mine for materials and chop down trees to make a home; he knew that when night fell he had to get inside to avoid the zombies. Within its clearly defined rules and systems, Minecraft provided a creative structure that freed him. I was elated.Minecraft – a game that enables and encourages creativity, in an ordered, easily understandable environmentPhotograph: MojangPeople aren’t sure what to think about Notch now. The Forbes piece portrays a sort of tragic figure. He gave up his development role on Minecraft after the launch of the game in 2011 (it is still regularly updated by the Mojang team) and felt a sense of euphoric freedom. But soon his post-Minecraft ideas crumbled under the extraordinary weight of expectation. Then there was the tragedy of his father’s suicide, and the end of his marriage. So much to cope with. But he was still the Minecraft figurehead for the game’s growing army of fanatical devotees. When something went wrong in the Minecraft world, he got their frustration, and now that he was rich, he got their jealousy too.My sons were getting better at the game, creating more ambitious structures. At first they roved Minecraft’s sprawling environments, hunting the cute, blocky pigs and cows that inhabit its sylvan hillsides. But they also talked. They talked and laughed and planned. Zac’s language improved. He learned about all the minerals that you can mine in the game, he built bizarre hut-like structures filled with doors leading nowhere and little dungeons that he crammed with wolves (we tried not to worry about that). Eventually, he and his brother created vast structures of glass and stone, illuminated by a thousand glowing torches. They learned how to channel water and lava, and to make simple machines. When they played, they talked continuously. And when Minecraft passed 30 million in sales, I wrote enthusiastically about Zac and Albie’s experiences in the game.Related:Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal storyBut most important was the way in which, after talking to each other while playing, they came to talk to us. Zac never really tells us much about what he does at school; his short-term memory isn’t great and a lot of it doesn’t seem to filter through. Or perhaps he doesn’t want us to worry. We know he doesn’t play with other children at break times or lunch, he sits by himself – the other kids grew tired of the fact that he couldn’t deal with team games. But he talks to us about Minecraft. He talks and talks. We were getting bored of it, to be brutally honest, but then my wife read an article that said if you listen to your children when they’re young, they’ll tell you more when they’re older. It’s sort of an investment of care. So we always listen, even though we don’t really get what the ender dragon is, or why it matters.Zac in his beloved Minecraft hoodieI think people want to see Notch as a tragic figure. Alone in his mansion in Los Angeles, like some fairy tale castaway. He has a new development studio, Rubberbrain, but it seems to be just a hobby, a place to hang-out. “It’s like a day care for us–grown-ups,” he told Forbes. People begrudge him that. Some fans are angry he sold Mojang to Microsoft, the corporate monolith he once seemed to despise. They’re angry at him for responding to Twitter jibes by posting a gif of Woody Harrelson mopping away tears with a wedge of dollar bills. Some people are just angry with him full-stop.But Markus Persson did something pretty extraordinary with Minecraft. Even though his game is by no means unique (early on, people accused him of stealing the idea from the 2009 indie hit Infiniminer) it caught the imagination of thousands, and then harnessed their enthusiasm. Before Minecraft, games were built, marketed for millions of dollars and then launched in a complete form never to be touched again. Mojang however popularised the new ‘early access’ model, releasing Minecraft as an ongoing project then encouraging the community to help shape it. Nowadays that’s how small, risky independent games build fan bases and get released. It’s how some of the risks are mitigated. Minecraft changed the industry for the better.In November 2013, I appeared on Charlie Brooker’s documentary How Video Games Changed the World. We’d been putting Zac through a number of tests and meetings with pediatricians, trying to work out if his array of behavoural difficulties aligned with autism. I’d always fought the idea of giving him a label; I mocked parents who seemed to rush into the latest on-trend diagnosis – anything that could explain why their kids were such a gigantic pain in the ass. I fought it, and then I desperately needed it. That’s another thing about parenthood – it’s amazing how quickly longheld beliefs and stigmas crumble. I wanted to know why we couldn’t make him happy. And when we got the diagnosis earlier in 2013, I had a partial explanation, something to hang on to.I think when I went on that programme, it was at a sort of pivotal moment. I knew Zac better, I understood him a little. He was telling us more. Minecraft seemed to have given him both a vocabulary and the confidence to use it. So when the documentary producer asked me about that game, I just gushed; I talked about how it was being used in schools to help teach kids everything from physics to architecture, but most of all I talked about how it created a safe and creative space for a lot of children who may struggle to find safe and creative spaces elsewhere. “I’d love to shake the hand of the guy who designed that game,” I said. I think the emotion behind that sentiment was palpable on screen. And then they stopped filming, and I suppose I was crying a little bit.So yeah, no schadenfreude from me. I don’t buy into the unhappy billionaire fantasy and even if I did, it would give me no comfort. Markus Persson had one chance to change my son’s life and he took it. He didn’t know it, but that’s what he did. He will always be a goddam hero to me.
Morpheus, Sony’s virtual reality headset for PlayStation 4 will launch in early 2016, Shuhei Yoshida, president of Sony’s Worldwide Studios has announced.The company revealed an updated version of its device, which encases the wearer’s eyes to give the sense of having bodily entered the environment rendered on its visor-like screen.Morpheus now features an OLED display with 1080p resolution capable of generating images at 120 frames per second, twice the performance of the model unveiled at last year’sGame Developers’ Conference. There will also be less than 18 millisecond latency (the delay before a user’s head movements are represented on screen), which Yoshida claimed is indistinguishable from the way in which humans perceive the real world.The race for a market-leading virtual reality device is now fully under way. In 2014 Facebook acquired the company behind the rival Oculus Rift headset, although the device’s final specifications and release date remain unknown.Samsung is working with Oculus Rift on the Gear VR, a mobile, wire-free version of the hardware that works with smartphones, while Valve Software, the company behind the Steam online PC game store, has partnered with smartphone manufacturer HTC to develop its own VR headset, named the Vive. This is set to be the first major VR headset to reach consumers, with a launch date pencilled in for later this year. Valve is set to reveal more details at the Game Developer’s Conference currently taking place in San Francisco.Related:HTC and Valve take on Oculus Rift with Vive virtual reality headsetYoshida was quick to acknowledge the competition. “Over the last year we have all seen the virtual reality world explode,” he said. “Whether it’s Morpheus, Oculus Rift or Samsung Gear VR, an increasing number of people are looking at moving virtual reality from the realm of science fiction into our living rooms.”The Sony executive claimed that the combination of Sony’s sleek headset with the “robust platform” that PlayStation 4 represents will provide the standard for game developers to target with their virtual reality video games and experiences in the future. However, many analysts believe that the HTV Vive with its backing from Valve and access to the vast Steam store of games and developers, may be in just as strong a position.The Project Morpheus is designed to feel light and unobtrusive on the user’s headPhotograph: SonyThe Morpheus headset unveiled at the press event is apparently close to a final consumer version. The new design places the device’s weight on the top of the head so that there’s little pressure on top of face – a mild dig at Oculus Rift’s more intrusive goggle-style design. The headset is comparatively light, and the redesigned strap distributes the weight evenly for a comfortable fit. A button on the side allows users to quickly tilt the visor away from the face so that they can orientate with the room, or have a sip of water.Related:Sony's Project Morpheus brings virtual reality to mainstream console gamingAt a press conference in San Francisco on Tuesday, Sony showed off a selection of new demos, developed by the company’s London studio. In one gangster-themed mini-game, named The London Heist, players used two PlayStation Move motion controllers to search environments and to shoot at enemies.There was also a “street luge” game in which the avatar’s movement while speeding down a virtual hill is directed by subtle tilts of the head, and a bomb-disposal game dubbed Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes in which one player tries to disarm a bomb according to the instructions read out by another.Yoshida went on to claim that the dawning era of virtual reality will represent as significant a transition as when video games moved from two-dimensional sprites to 3D representations in the mid-1990s. “VR is a new medium: the demos that we have been creating are just the beginning,” he said. “We will deliver a VR experience that pushes boundaries of play, and ignites a passion in players. Creativity is thriving in this industry.”
Every time US musician Amanda Palmer releases a new song, video or long-form piece of writing, she’ll earn more than a total of $13,000 from her1,400 backers on crowdfunding site Patreon, making her one of the site’s most popular creators.It took just over 14 hours for the musician to reach that figure afterlaunching her profile on the US-based site, with her fans pledging to pay an average of $9.28 each whenever she releases a new piece of content to her “patron-only” feed.Palmer famously raised $1.2m in 2012 from fans on Kickstarter to fund the release of her last album, plus an art book and tour. She’s now shifting her efforts to Patreon, with its model of regular, smaller payments from fans to support the work of creators.So far, more than 430 fans have pledged to pay at least $10 per “thing” that Palmer releases – a payment level that will grant them access to a monthly webcast by the musician.Related:Amanda Palmer is crowdfunding again, but this time on PatreonMeanwhile, 30 have pledged at least $100 per item to join her “inner circle”. After the campaign launched, Palmer added another tier – $1,000 or more per item – with two fans already having committed to it. “I’ll call, we’ll talk, we’ll have dinner. All the things, pretty much,” she wrote. “Thank you (holy shit).”Outside Patreon, Palmer is planning to release “pretty much” all her work for free on sites including YouTube, Bandcamp and her own website, although she may still use Kickstarter as a pre-ordering tool for one-off releases.“If 1,600 people want vinyl, i’ll make 1,600 vinyl. No problem,” she wrote.Patreon said in November 2014 that it waspaying out $1m a monthto its network of musicians, filmmakers, writers, illustrators and YouTubers. The company takes a 5% cut of creators’ revenues, and signed up more than 125,000 “patrons” in its first 18 months.
“Kids should be outside kicking balls around, not inside staring at more screens!” is a regular complaint about children’s apps. But what if they’re outside kicking a ball around that they’ve programmed using an iPad app?That’s the pitch forHackaball, a projecttrying to raise $100k on crowdfunding site Kickstarter. Described as “a programmable ball for active and creative play”, it has already raised more than $12k towards its goal.The device is aimed at six- to 10-year-old children: the age group that since September has been learning programming skills in England as part of the new primary computing curriculum.The ball is fitted with motion-detecting sensors that track whether it’s still or moving, as well as whether it’s being dropped, bounced, kicked or shaken.Related:'Great big poo balls!' What it's like making a Kano computer with your kidsHowever, it is up to children to come up with games by modifying the ball’s behaviour – including sounds, lights and “rumble patterns” – using its app, unlocking new features the more they use it.The company behind Hackaball is selling the first 500 for $65 through Kickstarter, but it will cost $69 after that point. The product is expected to ship in December.Hackaball says that making an Android version of its app will be one of its goals if it exceeds its Kickstarter target. The company is hoping parents will see its device as both a way to get children more active, and fuel their interest in programming.“Hackaball teaches the basics of programming and how technology works without kids even realising it. It’s learning through play,” says the Kickstarter pitch.In that aim, Hackaball certainly isn’t alone. Other examples include build-it-yourself computerKano; Play-i’s programmableBo and Yana robots; iPad gaming accessoryOsmoand learn-to-code appsTynker,ScratchJrandHakitzu Elite.
The US’s top media regulator hit back at critics of new net neutrality rules voted into law last week, comparing them to the first amendment and saying neither government nor private companies had the right to restrict the openness of the internet.The Federal Communications Commission chairman, Tom Wheeler, was speaking in Barcelona at Mobile World Congress, the world’s largest telecoms trade show, just as European governments are meeting to thrash out their own principles for keeping the internet open.“This is no more regulating the internet than the first amendment regulates free speech in our country,” Wheeler said. “If the internet is the most powerful and pervasive platform in the history of the planet, can it exist without a referee? There needs to be a referee with a yardstick, and that is the structure we have put in place. A set of rules that say activity should be just and reasonable, and somebody who can raise the flag if they aren’t.”Telecoms companies across Europe and America have railed against Wheeler’s reforms, saying they will discourage investment in better cable and wireless networks and simply benefit bandwidth-hungry services like Netflix and YouTube, which do not normally pay for their content to be carried across the internet. In the US, Verizon and AT&amp;T, the two largest mobile operators, have said they will try to reverse the new rules in the courts.Meanwhile, Wheeler told conference attendees in Barcelona: “Those who were opposed to the open internet rules like to say this is Depression-era monopoly regulation. We built our model for net neutrality on the regulatory model that has been wildly successful in the US for mobile.”The FCC rules will treat telecoms companies in a similar way to utilities such as electricity. Internet service providers will be explicitly prohibited from blocking, throttling or prioritising internet traffic for commercial reasons. Where complaints are raised, the FCC will decide on a case-by-case basis whether what network owners are doing is “fair and just”.The FCC has said it would not intervene areas such as pricing, network unbundling and technical operating requirements.The European parliament is in the midst of negotiations with member states and network operators over final net neutrality rules, which could be published later this spring. A source at one of Europe’s largest mobile carriers said the fear was that Europe would introduce similar rules, only to find itself out of step when the FCC is forced to back down by a legal challenge or a change of president.Barack Obama was elected on a promise to preserve net neutrality and has been a staunch supporter of the new rules. But America will elect a new president in 2016 and Republicans have rallied against the regulation.The chief executives of Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom said on Monday at Mobile World Congress that they should be allowed to prioritise the delivery of data for future services like heart monitors or connected cars, where an interrupted signal could compromise safety.“We favour net neutrality, but we need to be allowed to have quality classes to enable new services in the internet of things,” said Deutsche Telekom’s chief executive, Tim Höttges.Proposals put forward by the Latvian presidency of the European Council, leaked to the Financial Times, suggest corporate and individual customers should be able to pay for faster internet services, although these could not be allowed to impair other internet traffic in any “material manner”. The proposals would enshrine a principle of net neutrality but allow network owners to shape the flow of traffic. Any suggestion of a two-speed internet will be fiercely resisted by open-internet campaigners.But European executives are not convinced such developments would be banned in America. Vodafone boss Vittorio Colao told journalists on Monday: “I have asked explicitly to the chairman of the FCC, ‘So, are specialised services, fast lanes and quality of service forbidden or not?’ The answer is no, they are not forbidden. We understand that they will be there. Are they explicitly authorised? No, they are not.“Americans are great pragmatists so they will do what is right.”
It is news that will cheer anyone who has struggled to get a vacuum cleaner, fridge or TV repaired only to be told it’s probably cheaper to buy a new one. A new government decree in France isforcing manufacturers to tell consumers how long their appliances will last. French companies will also have to inform consumers how long spare parts for the product will be available, or risk a fine of up to €15,000 (£11,000).And if this wasn’t enough, from next year faulty products – whether it’s mobile phones to washing machines – will have to be repaired or replaced for free within two years of being purchased.The French government hope this will help to combat “planned obsolescence” – the practice of designing products with restricted life spans to ensure consumers will buy more.It’s hardly a new idea. In the 1920s,the Phoebus cartelhad the bright idea to create bulbs that would break after 1,000 hours instead of providing the 1,500-2,000 hours that previous bulbs managed. Before the advent of“fast fashion”– planned obsolescence in action – it was the basis forThe Man in the White Suit, a 1951 Ealing comedy starring Alec Guinness as an inventor who makes a dirt-repelling everlasting fibre, and promptly finds himself a target for trade unionists and mill owners who fear he will destroy the textile business with one perfect product.The lightbulb – a eureka moment for planned obsolesence.Photograph: Tom Payne/AlamyToday, it’s hard not to become paranoid when you start thinking about the appliances we use – currently I am incensed at having to buy yet another electric toothbrush because the battery can’t be changed. As with various laptops and the sleekest mobile phones, they are sealed in, so when the battery dies it’s easier to chuck the whole thing away than try to repair it. And don’t get me started on children’s toys made from cheap materials that break as soon as you look at them – or the fact that I am peering at my iPad through a web of cracks.Manufacturers say there are valid reasons for all of this. Sealed batteries, for instance, make for a thinner productthan one that can be upgraded or fixed, while tamper-proof screws can be safer.But Janet Gunter fromRestart, a charity that aims to get people fixing and tinkering again, says bad design, or cheap materials, can also be blamed for limited lifespans. In their free community repair events they have seen examples of a fuse being soldered into hair straightening irons, so it cannot be changed. “There are a couple of barriers to people fixing things,” she says. “Things are not designed to be taken apart any more.” She points out that some new phones don’t have removable batteries or that memory chips on tablets and phones are soldered on to circuit boards: you can’t upgrade them easily, so once they run out or fill up, you’re stuck.The charity even claims to have encountered a “kill chip” designed by manufacturers to disable printers so that “after a certain amount of print-outs, ink will have leaked in a way that makes the printer unviable”. Will French law make planned obsolesence obsolete?Peut-être.
Musician Amanda Palmer made a splash on Kickstarter in 2012,raising $1.2m from fanson the crowdfunding website for an album, book and tour. Now she’s turning to the crowd again on a different site: Patreon.Palmer is inviting fansto pledge to pay from as little as $1 to more than $100 every time she posts a new song, video or piece of writing to her “patron-only” feed on the website.“If you’re a fan of mine, and really want to support me in the creation of new songs, film-clips/music-videos, long-form writing and more random, unpredictable art-things (comics? podcasts? who knows)....this is your chance,” wrote Palmer in the introduction to her Patreon profile, which promises “constant communication” with fans who back her.Related:The art of asking Amanda Palmer: 'The system is going to start favoring the direct voice of the people'“I think Patreon is a revolution in music-release and art patronage: i’m planning to release pretty much ALL MY CONTENT for free: on youtube, bandcamp, my site, wherever.it’s yours, it’s everybody’s, you can take it, you can share it.but i need support, true patronage, from you you YOU if i’m going to take the plunge and have money to live and make art.”Fans pledging to pay $1 when Palmer releases a new piece of content will get access to the patron-only feed, while those paying at least $3 will be emailed “keepable, playable, readable downloads” each time too.Fans paying more than $5 per item will be added to a “random surprise” group which will be emailed more personal blog posts, photos and poetry, while those pledging more than $10 will also be invited to monthly webcasts in which Palmer will perform and chat.30 patrons paying $100 or more per item will become Palmer’s “inner circle” on Patreon, receiving all the above rewards plus guest-list entry to all her gigs; the promise of “weird postcards from weird places I wind up”; and cards drawn by Palmer herself.It represents a move from Kickstarter’s model of one-off crowdfunding for specific projects to Patreon’s system of recurring revenues.The company was launched by musician Jack Conte in 2013 as a way for creators of all kinds, from musicians to web-comic creators and YouTube vloggers – to build their incomes from fan donations.By November 2014,Patreon was paying out $1m a monthto its network of creators.“I’ve been a full-time musician for 10 years: I have a million ideas in my little black book that I keep in my laptop case, and one of the pages in that book was ‘what if I charge my fans a buck per video?’,” Conte told the Guardian.Conte is one half of Pomplamoose, a musical duo that first established themselves on YouTube. The band currentlyearns more than $6,700 per videofrom nearly 2,000 patrons on Patreon, and released 14 videos in 2014. He praised Palmer as exactly the kind of artist that the company wants to attract.“I have so much respect for her as a businesswoman, as a creator, as an artist. The fact that she’s going to be communicating with her fans and hanging out with them using Patreon software, more than anything to me, is a tremendous responsibility,” he said.Related:Art is a business – and, yes, artists have to make difficult, honest business decisions | Amanda Palmer“She’s going to push the boundaries of our platform, and find the holes where it doesn’t feel like being on-stage. We’re going to have to build things that satisfy her, and that’s a good way for us to step up.”Palmer’s adoption of Patreon is not necessarily a rejection of Kickstarter. MusicianJulia Nunesand web-comic authorZach Weinerare examples of creators who use Patreon to provide a regular income, but also turn to Kickstarter for one-off projects like albums and books.However, the news is a big deal for Patreon, whichraised $15m of venture capital funding in June 2014to continue its expansion amid competition from crowdfunding services like Kickstarter, Indiegogo and PledgeMusic, and also Bandcamp which recently startedenabling artists to charge monthly subscriptions.Having Palmer on board could bring a flood of new fans signing up as patrons, who may go on to back other artists through the site, and it may also attract more musicians to use the platform in her wake.“Here’s the key: THIS IS A HUGE EXPERIMENT,” Palmer wrote to fans on her Patreon profile.“I’m really excited to see what happens with this, guys. whether you’re backing me for a dollar or ten dollars, i am so glad you’re here. every patron who’s supporting me is important to this community, YOU’RE who i’m creating for, and i’m glad you found me here.”
A baby weasel was photographed riding a woodpecker in Essex, UK, and the internet lost its mind.Amateur photographer Martin Le-May captured the incredible scene after hearing the bird in distress. Unfortunately, it turned out that the baby weasel was trying to kill the woodpecker and hadn’t graciously accepted a free ride.Luckily the bird escaped unharmed, and the two internet heroes live to fight another day.Speaking to the Standard Le-Ray said: “Quickly the bird gathered its self-respect and flew up into the trees and away from our sight.“The woodpecker left with its life, the weasel just disappeared into the long grass, hungry.”Here’s a round-up of the best five #weaselpecker memes.Add your meme to the list via GuardianWitnessPutin&#39;s latest PR shoot#WeaselPeckerpic.twitter.com/kveSI00eIa&mdash; james abraham (@_jamesabraham)March 3, 2015What do you see? Weasel and woodpecker or white and gold?pic.twitter.com/aHZrWnH24D&mdash; The Poke (@ThePoke)March 3, 2015I came in like a#WeaselPeckerpic.twitter.com/9pkVciT9t4&mdash; The Poke (@ThePoke)March 3, 2015Travolta knows ...#WeaselPeckerpic.twitter.com/ZZzXx79fb0&mdash; AngryBritain.com (@AngryBritain)March 3, 2015Wheeeeeee!&#10;http://t.co/3grkzGdLCxpic.twitter.com/VMVdTG0ssy&mdash; AJ Jefferies (@moonjam)March 3, 2015Add your meme to the list via GuardianWitness
Government agencies and companies across the world hold large amounts of data on each and every one of us. From profiles of your favourite movies to where you ate out last night, this vast mountain of data is a representation of you that you can do little about.But is that strictly true? Can you find out what GCHQ, Facebook or Google hold on you? And can you get it removed?Let’s start with the king of data collection in the the UK: GCHQ.A recent court win by human rights watchdog Privacy International could enable some people to see what the British surveillance agency holds on them, if someone is prepared to go to court for them.The groupwon a case with the Investigatory Powers Tribunal(IPT), which declared that regulations covering GCHQ’s access to emails and phone records intercepted by the US National Security Agency (NSA) were illegal – the first time the IPT has upheld a complaint against GCHQ.The next step is to find out which Brits were illegally spied on. Anyone can apply to the IPT and ask for it to find out from GCHQ whether they were illegally spied on, but Privacy International is making it easier:fill in a simple form on its websiteand it will apply on your behalf, and fight any resulting court battle.More than 6,000 people signed up in the first 24 hoursafter the form was launched, and more than 10,000 in the first two days. “We’ve always believed GCHQ has been illegally spying on people, but it’s never been shown in court,” says Mike Rispoli, communications manager at Privacy International. “So this opportunity is rare.”The IPT is obligated to respond to any complaints, and reveal if you were illegally spied on or not. If so, you can ask the data be deleted. Rispoli admits the process could take months if not years to resolve, but suggests Privacy International may be prepared to continue to take GCHQ to court if it doesn’t comply.“GCHQ might come back and disagree with us,” said Rispoli. “We’re very happy to be having that long battle with them because we feel that strongly that this illegality needs to be remedied, and intelligence agencies need to be held accountable for when they participate in illegal activity, and this is one way to do that.”It’s easy to assume that GCHQ knows everything about us, but it’s important to actually find out, says Paul Bernal, a law lecturer at the University of East Anglia: “It is good for attention to be drawn to the fact that information may be being held about almost anyone.“In general, it seems that when people know about how their privacy is being invaded, they care more – and much of the current problem, particularly in the UK, is through complacency and a feeling that the ‘nothing to hide’ argument holds water. If they can see their own information, they are more likely to care.“This kind of campaign is also a way of keeping the issue in the public eye – which is critical,” he added. “GCHQ would probably like this issue to just disappear, and people ‘move on’.”The Privacy International project hasn’t gone without criticism of its own. As thousands of Brits were signing up, pundits took to Twitter suggesting PI was inadvertently building a list of names for GCHQ to start surveilling, if they weren’t already.“I think that’s a legitimate concern,” says Rispoli, admitting that when a privacy organisation gathers personal information and then passes it to an intelligence agency, “it raises red flags”. However, the data isn’t going directly to GCHQ, but to the IPT – and he says it’s simply the only way.“I understand the concern. I would be concerned too. But I think that when you have these types of opportunities, these moments, and you want to stand up to illegal activity, you unfortunately sometimes have to hand over some information,” he says.“The Tribunal can’t act by itself – it can’t go to GCHQ and say ‘delete all the data that you collected on people’. People actually need to come forward and complain.”The Information Commisioner’s Office has templates to help you request your dataPrivate firms, private data?Making a noise in court may be the only way to get information from GCHQ, but the intelligence agency isn’t the only organisation to keep a tight hold on our personal data. If you’re impatient for the results of Privacy International’s attempt to wrench data from GCHQ, you can easily fill the months and years trying to find out who else knows what about you.Under the1998 Data Protection Act, Europeans can ask organisations to hand over details of personal data held about them. You can invoke this law simply by sending a letter or email to the data controller of the company in question. The company has 40 days to respond and can charge you £10.Data can be exempt from right to access for a wide range of reasons, including national security, interference with criminal investigations, or social and health records that could cause serious physical or mental harm, among others.Sound simple? It doesn’t mean you’ll get a good response. Many companies fail to live up to the letter of the law, according to a study by Professor Clive Norris of the University of Sheffield.For the research, he and his colleagues contacted 327 European organisations to see how well they responded to requests for data under right of access.Published last summer, the research found “serial obfuscation” on the part of those contacted: in one in five cases, the researchers were unable to even find contact details for the data controller.When that could be found, four in ten still didn’t disclose what personal data they held; when data was disclosed, a third of the time it wasn’t everything the organisation held.On top of that, the vast majority still charged the £10 fee. In the UK specifically, Professor Norris’s report revealed “systemic suspicion” from companies when faced with such requests.Some of the worst offenders were massive technology firms . Microsoft and Facebook “provided many pages of content regarding privacy but failed to offer users an unambiguous and simple platform through which to make access requests”.“Given the sheer breadth of personal data collected by these organisations, there would appear to be a deliberate strategy to deny citizens their rights to know how their personal data is being used, processed and shared,” the report noted.If you’ve asked for your data, and faced the hurdles Norris described, you can complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).The data protection watchdog not only hasa host of form letters and list of data controllersto help you correctly file a right to access request, but it will also investigate any complaints for organisations that fail to follow through fully. In its last annual report, ICO said half of the 14,738 complaints it received dealt with right to access.Others take it further. Consider Max Schrems. While a student, the Austrian decided to write a paper about how Facebook meets European privacy law after the company’s lawyer gave a talk to his class. In 2012, Schrems asked Facebook for the data it held on him, and was sent a disc of 1,200 pages.He’s taken the social network to court in Austria, with aclass action suit alleging Facebook broke data protection laws. Thousands of Europeans signed up to take part – and like the PI’s case against GCHQ, Schrems believes the support will help put pressure on Facebook.“With this number of participants, we have a great basis to stop complaining about privacy violations and actually do something about it,” he said in 2014.Find out what Google thinks you like – and tells advertisersHow to get (some of) your dataTech companies do offer ways to get a slice of your data without invoking the Data Protection Act. Head to your General Account Settings in Facebook, and there’s a link at the bottom to Download a copy of your Facebook data.The site will take some time gathering up the data, but eventually send you an archive of your account, from your posts and photos to ads you’ve clicked, friends you’ve deleted, facial recognition data, IP address and your last location, and even metadata from your photos.You can get a less detailed, but similar, slice of data from Googlevia its Dashboard. It tracks locations where you’ve signed in, linked devices, search history and more. You can also find outhow it sells you to behavioural advertisers– it’s a bit of a hoot to see if Google guesses your age, gender and interests correctly, but it doesn’t let you see how it comes up with those distinctions.Twitter also lets you download an archive of your data, mostly made up of your Tweets. To see yours, head to Settings and Account, and scroll down to Request Your Archive.Such archives don’t disclose all the data the company has on you, however. For that, you’ll have to make a formal request in writing to each company, and as Professor Norris’s research showed, you still likely won’t get everything without a battle.Why do they make it so difficult? “Generally speaking, both corporates and the authorities try to avoid giving information about the data they hold, because they know … that when people know or understand how their privacy is being infringed, they care more and even take action – avoiding services or using them less, or even making purchasing decisions based on privacy issues,” says Bernal.“The key here is that we have some power and influence. If companies think we care, they’ll change. That’s what I think is the most important part of the PI campaign – to keep up the momentum of thinking that people care about privacy and surveillance.”It may feel like hassling everyone from GCHQ to Facebook for your data is a waste of time – but it may actually make a difference.Facebook bows to pressure on privacy settings for new users
World of Warcraft is set to launch real-money transactions and the ability to play without paying for a subscription, as developers Blizzard move to position the game against free-to-play competitors.The company is introducing “WoW tokens”, which can be bought from other players for in-game gold, or from Blizzard for real money, and exchanged for 30 days of game time. That currently costs £9.99 on Blizzard’s Battle.net store, although it drops to £8.69 if bought in bulk. The changes mean players can for the first time buy in-game gold from Blizzard indirectly .At the same time, a player with more time than money can now use gold collected while playing the game to buy themselves a longer subscription, without having to spend real money on anything other than the initial purchase of the game.While the change doesn’t quite make World of Warcraft free-to-play, like so many of its competitors, it does open the prospect of a renewed increase in subscriber numbers, halting thelong-term declineseen by the game in recent years. The model is largely identical to that seen in popular space simulation EVE Online.Both games limit one particular transaction, however: users cannot make real-world cash by farming in-game currencies.Blizzard says: “The WoW Token was created to give players with lots of extra gold the option to use it to help cover their subscription cost, and give those who want to purchase gold a way to do so from fellow players through a secure, easy-to-use system. The Token will be making its debut in an upcoming patch.”As it stands, there is a thriving, if banned, market for in-game currencies on World of Warcraft. Gold farmers, largely players in developing nations, amass large quantities of the currency and sell it online (typically at valuations of around $10 for 10,000 gold pieces). But Blizzard is continually trying to put a cap on the traders, and there are growing concerns amongst players about the ethics of buying from such farms.A 2011Guardian investigationrevealed that Chinese labour camp prisoners were being forced to harvest Warcraft gold in nights, after a day of breaking rocks and digging trenches in real coalmines.“Prison bosses made more money forcing inmates to play games than they do forcing people to do manual labour,” one former prisoner told the Guardian. “There were 300 prisoners forced to play games. We worked 12-hour shifts in the camp. I heard them say they could earn 5,000–6,000rmb [£470–570] a day. We didn’t see any of the money. The computers were never turned off.”Don’t let me buy Warlords of Draenor, please
Google will be conducting test flights of its first drones this year after purchasing unmanned aerial vehicle manufacturer Titan Aerospace.The drones will be used as atmospheric satellites, part of Google’s plan to provide internet access to areas without ground-based access and the four billion people currently without access, its senior vice president of product, Sundar Pichai, revealed during Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.Pichai said that the Titan drones were at the same stage of development as Project Loon – Google’s atmospheric balloons used to deliver internet access – were two years ago. Loon launched a pilot with approximately 30 balloons in rural New Zealand in 2013.The new lightweight solar-powered drones are being developed to maintain high altitude, hovering in the stratosphere for long periods. They act as an alternative to a satellite by beaming internet onto a target area – much like satellite TV companies such as Sky do from geostationary satellites.Pichai explained that the Titan drones and Google’s balloons would work in tandem, but that drones were easier to put into place and keep in a targeted area. They could also be deployed to provide internet on demand where access has been removed because of disaster scenarios or similar.Google is looking to partner with local internet service providers to create an overlapping network, so that consumers will not have to worry about where the internet is coming from, simply to connect and go, Pichai said.Titan Aerospace, manufacturer of the atmospheric satellites, wasbought by Google in April 2014following interest from both Google andFacebook. The US technology companies have similar interests in drones, with Facebook’sinternet.orginitiative working to connect the next billion people to the internet through free or subsidised mobile broadband.•Mark Zuckerberg: Facebook’s future is to reach billions of mobile users
“Screw you, you baldy bastard,” cried the man I’d spent the last 15 minutes alongside, slaughtering Russian mobsters and seizing bag-loads of drugs. We were at the end of a Grand Theft Auto IV online mission and things had gone wrong; somehow, I was getting the blame, despite the fact that hewas the one who nearly blew the plan by leaving me behind at the helipad.Nonetheless, a belligerent grenade, tossed at me in spite, marked the end of our contemptuous partnership. It was his words however, not the explosion, that cut deepest.He couldn’t have known it of course – we spoke over headsets, and his remark was aimed at my onscreen character and not at me – but I was going through the early stages of male pattern baldness and the associated dawning denial that accompanies the ordeal.This was back in the early stages. My widow’s peaks were ever so slightly creeping backwards towards my crown – the sideswept look I’d pulled off for many years was beginning to look a little less convincing. It wasn’t a massive concern, but itwashappening. And somehow, the bald-headed GTA avatar I’d designed for myself, using the game’s character customisation tool, was an attempt to outwardly reflect the inevitable. It was a mark of virtual defiance.Although Grand Theft Auto IV lead character Niko Bellic clearly has a receding hairline, it’s not easy for gamers to replicate his look in most character customisation toolsPhotograph: public domainThere are basically two types of players when it comes to character customisation in video games. There are the eccentrics who want to contrast their real-life personas as much as possible, often wearing nothing but Y-fronts, fluorescent pink clown shoes and motorcycle helmets. Then there are the players who try to match themselves, or how they wish to be perceived, as closely as possible.I fall into the latter category, and thus my virtual incarnations have reflected my gradually devolving coiffure. Shoulder-length, Gareth Gates-esque spikes, bleached blonde – I’d had them all in my formative years. But the bottom (hair) line was simple: as I started thinning up top, I began to slap hats, bandanas, and helmets onto my digital doppelgangers. I’d become convinced that I was lying to myself otherwise.Screw you. You baldy bastard. The words echoed. My new onscreen embodiment, designed to empower me, had become something to insult. It had backfired. Was this a sign of things to come? Would I face this torment in the real world? Perhaps most importantly I began to ask myself: why did it bother me so much? After all, many men accept male pattern baldness. Many even look better for it.“I think it’s simply a matter of confidence, really,” explains Nadeem Uddin Khan, the owner of the Harley Street Hair Clinic in London, the centre at which Wayne Rooney had his hair transplant in 2011. “It can age the person prematurely, and having hair is really about confidence in appearance and a sense of wellbeing. Some people aren’t bothered by it but, unfortunately, nowadays looks, appearances and presentation have become more important than they ever have been, and it seems every decade it increases. Which is why everyone, including the president of the US is taking selfies – that’s the trend.”The parallels that can be drawn between real-life hair transplants, and adding hair to virtual clones are quite striking: both act as vehicles through which you try to alter how others view you. I had tried to embrace baldness with my avatars, but I could understand the instinct to go the other way.“In games like Destiny and Second Life, players tend to want to look like what they look like in their minds,” continues Uddin Khan. “In their mind, the key is, a lot of people don’t see themselves as bald, and when you pick an avatar or a third [person] character, you kind of want to look like this image in your mind or in your imagination. Usually this is not the reality – for some people it is, the lucky few, but also games are about fantasy. No one fantasises about being bald, do they?”No. No they don’t. And no one fantasises about it becoming an insult, either. What strikes me most about modern video games in this vein, however, is the distinct lack of characters who have gone progressively bald. Sure, there are scores of bald characters in games, and even characters who are receding, but there are very few, if any, who’ve went naturally bald over time.The Tekken series, for example, has done a fine job of gradually aging its characters, yet none have lost a significant amount of hair throughout the generations. Uncharted’s Nathan Drake looks to be garnering a little bit of gray in the screenshots for his forthcoming adventure, yet he’s still sporting an exquisite full head of hair. Even Metal Gear’s Solid Snake, who was subjected to an accelerated ageing process in his last outing, went Steve Martin white, but still enjoyed a deep and convincing hairline nonetheless. In the cop drama, Max Payne 3, the troubled lead character shaves his head in a sort of symbolic act, representing his descent into drug-fuelled madness. That’s not very encouraging. Of course, none of these characters shouldhaveto go bald, but it’s difficult not to appreciate the misrepresentation across the board. Especially when it’s happening to you.In Uncharted IV, the latest title in the long-running action adventure series, lead character Nathan Drake still has a strong hairline, despite a few specks of greyPhotograph: public domainWhich brings me to my saviour: Dark Souls, From Software’s brilliantly challenging role-playing adventure. Up to this point, many customisation menus had offered characters with sort-of widow’s peaks – essentially bald but with little stubborn tufts of hair; Dark Souls was the first to offer something which truly related to me. Amongst many other on-screen options such as “Shaved”, “Short”, “Swept back” and “Pony tail”, there was one possibility that stood out: “Receding”.There it was – categorically spelling out a viable middle-ground option amid the hair-or-bald dichotomy. I still had a few years yet before brutal, unconditional baldness, and in this liminal stage, Dark Souls termed me, “the rough warrior”. Baldness is something many don’t bother about, but for me, this was liberating. Suddenly, for the first time, I felt better able to embrace my evacuating follicles in both virtual and actual reality. Suddenly, I felt compelled to revisit Liberty City.Dark Souls features one of the few character creation tools to offer a receding hairline as an optionPhotograph: public domain“Hair is always there or thereabouts in the newspapers for one reason or another,” says Uddin Khan. “Hair is a symbol of confidence, vitality, youth. If I restore my hair – which I have done – I’m restoring something that I’ve lost. It’s not me asking for something better, I’m not doing a cheat on a game, I’m playing with all the options, playing so I learn the game properly. Restoring isn’t a cheat – it’s just restoring back what you would have had a few years ago.”Of course, Uddin Khan has a vested interest in this point of view, but I don’t disagree with him. Many men do and will continue to get hair transplants: according to the International Society of Hair Restoration Surgeries, over 300,000 restoration procedures are carried out annually, and the numbers are increasing as the stigma attached to the process declines.Ultimately, though, hair transplants cost a lot of money. If I had the cash, I don’t know what I’d do. For now, I can get Dark Souls – and the solace it provides – for 20 quid. And I get to fight monsters in the process.
Internet users are being warned to ensure that their routers have unique passwords, after email spammers have been spotted sending phishing links, which try to hijack the devices using default passwords, in order to harvest personal information from their victims.The phishing emails attempt to trick the user into clicking a carefully crafted link, which will log the spammer into a home router if it’s set up with the default security settings and a known password. From there, the spammer can eavesdrop on communications by altering the router’s settings to pass all traffic through their owner servers.Californian information security firm Proofpointdiscovered the attacks, which primarily targeted Brazilian internet users.Security reporter Brian Krebs wrote: “The emails were made to look like they were sent by Brazil’s largest internet service provider, alerting recipients about an unpaid bill. In reality, the missives contained a link designed to hack that same ISP’s router equipment.”But the attack isn’t likely to remain in Brazil, says Proofpoint: “The limited size and geographic scope of this initial sample do not mean it will remain so: the history of malware is the story of the spread of techniques from a local blip to [a] global threat as attackers continually adopt new techniques that demonstrate their effectiveness against existing defenses [sic].“The fact that in this case the attackers chose email as their initial vector for attempting to compromising vulnerable routers – normally viewed as a network-based attack best defended by network IPS solutions – demonstrates both the continued evolution of attack techniques and the continued pre-eminence of email as the go-to attack vector for cybercriminals.”Most routers sold today ship with a unique password, which protects against this type of attack. But older routers were frequently sold with standard sign-in credentials such as “admin” and “password”, and websites such asRouterPasswordsmake finding the information easy.As a result, hacked routers have become a popular tool for online mischief: most notoriously, the hacking collective Lizard Squad used a network of routers captured through applying default sign-in credentials to launch a distributed denial of service attack against Sony and Microsoft whichtook down their gaming services over the Christmas period.But even if the router is one that ships with a unique password, such as BT’s Homehub range, users should still be careful about what email links they click on. The phishing attack discovered in Brazil made use of a vulnerability in the ISP’s routers to enter the default credentials, but vulnerabilities for other brands may not require that much information.What is the world’s weakest password?How to protect yourself from phishing
The announcement of Samsung’snew flagship Galaxy S6 smartphoneshas caused quite a stir, with a new design, interesting features, and a stripped back approach – but the company has lost what made its phones different in its war with Apple.Samsung has been the dominant player in the smartphone market since it took the top spot in global smartphone shipments from Apple in 2011. The phone to help it do that was the Galaxy S2, Samsung’s first hit, which succeeded because it was both different and capable.Part of what made the S2 great compared to competitors was the flexibility it gave the user. It had a removable battery, users could add more storage if they wanted – and it did this without compromising on the design.Samsung’s Galaxy S2 was a turning point for the company.Photograph: GillyBerlin/flickrBut while Samsung has enjoyed success in volume across its entire range of smartphones, the Korean conglomerate has been locked in a war at the top with Apple and its iPhone. The Galaxy S line saw large growth over four years selling 200m before the introduction of the S5.The original Galaxy S sold 25m units, the S2 40m, the S3 60m and the S4 sold 40m in the first six months heading towards 75m in total. Butthe Galaxy S5didn’t live up to expectations, selling 40% fewer smartphones than expected – around 4m fewer than the S4 in its first three months on sale according to reports.Samsung’s durable but cheap-feeling design and materials – mainly chromed and texturised plastics – had lost favour with consumers and critics alike compared to the premium metals and glass being used by Apple, HTC and others.The Galaxy S6 has continued Samsung’s change in design language first introduced with the Galaxy Alpha, then the Galaxy Note 4, now pushed an extreme – all metal and glass.Samsung’s use of metal and glass addresses shortcomings of last year&#39;s all-plastic Galaxy S5 – good move.pic.twitter.com/PjKPHayM0k&mdash; Ben Wood (@benwood)March 1, 2015Samsung has given critics what they want, but at the cost of what made its phones interesting and different from Apple and others.Want more storage? ToughNo more support for microSD cards means users are stuck with the storage they buy.Photograph: trophygeek/flickrThe Galaxy S6 has no removable storage. That means what you buy is what you’re stuck with – 32GB, 64GB or 128GB of storage. That may seem a lot, but previous Samsung smartphones supported microSD cards, which were a cheap and effective way to add up to 128GB of storage and transfer that storage between devices.Movies, TV shows, books, photos and music could be loaded onto the cards to keep the internal storage free for apps and then moved to a new device when needed. Instead the Galaxy S6 includes far more internal storage than its predecessors, but it has lost that flexibility to add more, which many people loved.Part of that push has come from Google and its Android operating system. It’s Android 4.4 KitKat put heavy restrictions on the use of removable storage by apps, which made it behave differently to internal storage. However, Google’slatest Android 5 Lollipoprelieved some of those restrictions making the SD card more useful again. Google’s own Nexus smartphones do not have removable storage, but that doesn’t mean others shouldn’t.Battery be goneAnother Samsung favourite, the removable battery, has been sacrificed too. It’s something that has been lost across the wider smartphone industry as a whole, but Samsung was one of the last manufacturers to still include it, which made for an important differentiator.You could argue that you don’t need a removable battery anymore, given that battery life is getting better and two or three days of useful life per charge is no longer unheard of, but that doesn’t help longevity.Beyond being able to carry a spare battery to keep the phone running for longer, the removable battery allowed users to swap it out when it started to lose capacity – a problem plaguing all current mobile device batteries.As the battery is discharged and recharged, the capacity diminishes. Most smartphones are charged at least three days a week. Modern battery technology has extended the useful life of a battery, but after two years of regular use batteries are not going to perform the same as new.Replacing a battery that is not removable is not often possible by consumers, requiring a trip to a repair shop or risk damaging the phone while trying to take it apart, which is increasingly difficult.Don’t get it wetRubber gaskets sealed the back of the Galaxy S5 to stop water getting into the delicate electronics, while a door on the USB port was needed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe last thing Samsung has lost was the last to be introduced: waterproofing. The Galaxy S5 was waterproof to IP67 standards or 1m of fresh water for up to 30 minutes. It meant that a dunk in the toilet wasn’t an issue.Waterproofing a smartphone has a cost to ease of use. The smartphone is only as waterproof as the seals protecting the sensitive electronic components, which means having fiddly doors on the charging ports most users will not be sad to see go.And just as Sony proves that it’s possible to waterproof a smartphone without any downside by havingboth the headphones port and USB port exposed– the Galaxy S6 is no longer waterproof.User reaction to Samsung’s removal of these key features in pursuit of the design model so favoured by Apple has been mixed. Praise for the materials and premium look has been drowned out by negative reaction to missing components.paulisok02 March 2015 1:59pmNo removable battery, no external sd slot no thank you.reggiedixon02 March 2015 1:46pmWithout the ability to change the battery, the Galaxy loses the main point of having it. As to the astonished people who can't conceive of someone carrying a spare battery that always respond to this, just accept that some people have a bit of foresight.1Essex02 March 2015 2:40pmSamsung seem to have been influenced by the reviewers who keep harping on about its phones being made of plastic, so they've gone down the &quot;style over substance&quot; route and put the phone in a shiny package while at the same time introducing two major downgrades (replaceable battery and Micro SD slot).As someone who uses a phone because of its functionality, rather than as a fashion accessory or status symbol, this is a disappointment. I think I'll stick with my S4, which still works perfectly and hasn't been &quot;dumbed down&quot; like this new one.graz02 March 2015 1:28pmHa! Just as I was considering switching from an iphone to a Samsung because of the SD card memory capability. Maybe I'll end up with a HTC or LG after all...Whether the negative reaction to feature removal will impact sales or whether Samsung’s bet on iPhone-like design will succeed is yet unknown.“Samsung Galaxy S6 &amp; S6 edge need to be winners in order to drive demand for Samsung’s entire portfolio,” said Ben Wood from research company CCS Insight.Concluded Thomas Husson from Forrester: “Despite a new hardware design and some software innovation, there’s a risk Samsung’s 2015 flagship devices are insufficient for the company to regain brand leadership among consumers and businesses looking for high-end smartphone experiences.”•Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge: 13 things to know
