As early as last summer, the iPhone laid claim to having become the world's most popular camera, when it transpired that more of the photos on picture sharing site Flickr were taken on one of Apple's devicesthan on any single "proper" camera.Because the camera does not lie, we now have hard data to illustrate this trend. Sales of mass market, budget digital cameras are in freefall. In the UK, they were down 30% by value on the previous year from January to November 2011, according to the latest figures from research firm GfK.That month, famed photographer Annie Liebovitz, whose images have graced countless Rolling Stone and Vanity Fair covers, was asked which camera she recommended to Friends. In an interview on America's NBC News,Liebovitz declared the iPhone the "snapshot camera of today".Why did that moniker come to be applied to a machine designed for making calls and surfing the web? Convenience has played its part. With a smartphone in the back pocket, there is no longer any need to remember to charge the digital camera and then make room for it in a handbag.It is bound to be the phone, not the camcorder, that is nearest to hand at that surprise moment when a baby sits up or takes their first steps.And cameraphones increasingly deserve the name. Gone are the pixelated, blurred approximations of visual reality, at least from high end models.When launching the latest iPhone, Apple made almost as much of its camera quality as its processing power. The 4S has a resolution equal (at eight megapixels) to the mid range snapshot cameras of a couple of years ago. It takes crisper, more colour-balanced images than the Panasonic I paid £100 for in 2009.And as Liebovitz pointed out, "it's the wallet with the family pictures in it". Phones now have enough memory to be miniature albums. A recent visit by a once-close cousin began with a ritual exchange of phone camera rolls. Within minutes images had filled the blank space left by years of absence.The urge to see and share instantly is irresistible. How else could a camera that took photos as poorly as the Polaroid have become a household name?It is all too easy to forget images inside the memory card of a digital camera without ever printing them. The phone is both a lightbox on which to instantly view, and a means of disseminating snapshots through email or sharing sites.Having begun life as a substandard Swiss army knife of a gadget, capable of tackling any number of tasks badly, the smartphone is evolving into a multi-category killer.With Google and Nokia now offering free navigation on mobiles, the paper map and the satnav are not must-haves. Any number of Angry Birds and Super Mario apps mean portable games consoles could soon be extinct. Responding to email or checking the web on the move no longer requires a laptop.If Google and the UK mobile phone networks have their way, this will be the year the phone begins to replace credit cards. Just remember to bring your charger.
A selection of 10 apps for you today:Call of Duty EliteActivision has launched a companion iPhone app for its Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 game, and the surrounding Call of Duty Elite community. The app lets players crunch their stats and tweak their custom classes, pushing them to the main game so they're ready next time they switch on their console. An Android version is following shortly.iPhoneDragon Go!Nuance has launched its latest voice recognition app for Android: Dragon Go! Its exclamation mark, obviously. It's pitched squarely as a Siri-for-Android service. "Wouldn't life be simpler if there were one app that you could simply tell it what you want – and it delivered it within seconds?" explains its store listing. It accesses more than 200 mobile websites, along with Spotify, Wolfram Alpha, Facebook, YouTube and Pandora.Update:as commenter stensuper has pointed out, the app appears to be US-only for now.AndroidVimeoVideo-sharing site Vimeo already has an iPhone app, but now there are Android and Windows Phone versions available. According to VentureBeat, 15% of Vimeo's traffic now comes from mobile devices.Boycott SOPAOpposition to the proposed Stop Online Piracy Act legislation in the US continues to build, with technology companies and campaigning groups worried about its likely effects on the internet. Now there's an app to protest that. It identifies more than 800 companies who are publicly supporting SOPA, with the aim of getting people to boycott their products and services.AndroidBoden for iPadBritish clothing brand Boden has launched its own iPad app, styled as a monthly digital magazine showing off its latest womenswear ranges.iPadLine RunneriOS hit Line Runner has made the leap to Android, with its familiar stick-man running and jumping action intact.AndroidVodioVodio is an iPad app that wants to save you time searching for web videos to watch. It uses links shared by your social network friends, as well as your personal preferences, to recommend streams of videos.iPadGarmin Smartphone LinkApps that connect phones and tablets wirelessly to other gadgets are a theme this week at the CES show – see Sony's PlayMemories Mobile below for another example. Garmin's app lets an Android smartphone share data with one of Garmin's satnav devices.AndroidBoy Loves Girl"Follow a young boy's journey as he encounters one of life's greatest mysteries… how to please a woman." Apple approved this? Oh, no, not that way. Boy Loves Girl is strictly a romantic platform quest across more than 100 levels, with bags of charm.iPhone / iPadPlayMemories MobileSony has launched an app for transferring photos taken with its Wi-Fi-toting digital cameras onto the iPhone, iPod touch or iPad, as well as Android devices. It appears to be US-only for now. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPad
Samsung took the chance at CES to announce a number of new products and introduce some already familiar outside the US.Briefly, they were:• Smart TV, with a promise that models bought now will in future be upgradeable through a simple add-on part;• 3D content for TVs;• the 5in Note "phablet" (a phone/tablet), introduced in the UK in October 2011 but new to the US;• Wi-Fi enabled cameras;• a (very impressive) 55in Super OLED TV;• a new ultrabook;• an app winner who devised an app intended to run across Samsung Smart TVs, tablets and phones, who won $100,000.The list of products announced and launched is very long, and involved what seemed like the entire cast of executives of Samsung's US business, plus Boo Keun Yoon, president of Samsung Electronics, who opened proceedings, declaring that Samsung was "pushing boundaries" and that he was "very proud of where this company is today". He said Samsung was the world's No 1 TV brand, its sixth consecutive year (it's not clear if that's top-selling in TVs, or some industry award), and that in November, Samsung had sold 5.7m sets.In the third quarter, Samsung had become the largest smartphone seller, and for 2011 had sold a total of more than 300m mobile phones (not just smartphones, but feature phones as well). It is the No 1 refrigerator company in the US for the third straight year (again, it wasn't clear if this was in sales, or some industry award). "We are here to see the future of consumer electronics," he said. "As a global leader, Samsung must go further. We see our role as making consumers' life simpler, smarter and more enjoyable."•Smart TV:Samsung is developing its own smart TV systems which appear to be separate of Google TV, despite also being a partner for that. Some of the sets – specifically those shown in the promotional films that the presentation favoured (there were no demos of any products, apart from an onscreen showing of the Super OLED TV) – seemed to have Microsoft's Kinect capability built in, as they showed motion and voice control, as well as internet searching powered by Microsoft's Bing.Samsung made much of its Smart TV platform, first launched in 2008, for which it says there are now 25,000 companies developing apps, and that by the end of January 20m apps will have been downloaded worldwide. (I have previously asked Samsung for details of the geographical distribution of app downloads, to see if it is concentrated heavily in its native South Korea. The company declined to give details.) The app library to run on Smart TVs is expected to grow by 60% this year. In its press release, Samsung suggests that the app download figure is presently 15m, and says it hit 10m in October 2011. No details on the number of sets used to download apps, or the average or median number of app downloads, was available. Samsung quotes figures from GfK saying that 1.4m smart TV units (of all platforms) have been sold in the UK.•3D content:Samsung is "committed" to 3D, said Yoon. Tim Baxter, president of Samsung Electronics America, said that the company has sold more than 12m 3D TVs since introducing them in 2010. More than half of TVs that Samsung sells worldwide will be 3D-enabled. The company is working with content companies such as Universal to create 3D versions of existing content: the example cited was Battlestar Galactica, which will be available through Samsung's Hub in 3D format.•Games content:Angry Birds will be coming as an app to Samsung Smart TVs. The introduction was excruciating (Baxter pretending to talk to the animated bird on a screen projection) and there was no demo of how a family sitting in an average sitting room would control the cursor on a screen across the room.• Joe Stinziano, senior vice-president of Samsung Electronics US, followed to announce the the $100,000 winner of a $225,000 contest to develop the app that could best be used across phones, tablets and smart TVs - from a shortlist of a music app, a photo-sharing app, and a social responsibility app. The photo-sharing app, called Party Shots, won.• Buyers of Samsung Smart TVs will be able to upgrade them to faster processors using the "Smart Evolution" kit, which fits into a slot in the back of the TV and will ensure that sets aren't left behind as processing power and demands increase.• As maker of 90% of the world's supply of OLED (organic light-emitting diode) panels, Samsung is in a good position to show off a Super OLED TV - which it did: a 55in dual-core processor, 3D-enabled set with a very thin bezel. This product was demonstrated, and looked extremely impressive: even from many yards away, the vibrancy and contrast of colours was striking. No price or retail date was supplied.• Having introduced the smart fridge (which the family can use to leave notes for each other), Samsung is now introducing the smart washing machine: you can program it from a distance to start a wash, and monitor the wash, and get an alarm when the wash finishes.• The Samsung Note "phablet", which includes a stylus (five years to the day after Steve Jobs said that styluses are too much trouble - they get lost) that is sensitive to 256 different levels of pressure, and which can be used to draw on the screen for subsequent screenshots and emailing to contacts. The US version of the Note, which will be sold through Verizon, will include LTE/4G networking.• The "ultrabook" is the hot new category in the laptop space, at least as far as manufacturers are concerned; whether price-conscious buyers agree with them is as yet unclear. Samsung unveiled the Series 5 Ultrabook, available in 13in and 14in versions. It's got a hard drive rather than an SSD, though there is a 16GB SSD in the standard model, and you can choose to have a 128GB or 256GB SSD drive as the main drive. Unusually for an ultrabook, it includes an optical disk drive – which is usually a weighty component that is left out. Prices and release dates were not given.• Connected cameras with Wi-Fi.• A "smart" Blu-ray player with DLNA capability for automatic playback of content when connected to home networks.All in all, Samsung had a busy day, though the lack of demos was extremely noticeable, particularly on the voice- and/or motion-controlled TVs, where we had to rely on jolly films to "demonstrate" how things worked. It's still extremely unclear how any grouping of people larger than one will be able to motion-control a TV set.But what was noticeable was that the queue of journalists and analysts and others seeking to get into the press conference snaked down and around the interior of the building – indicating just how far the company has come in earning the world's respect and interest in what it will do next.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI Shot Asteroids – With My Eyes [VIDEO]The technology has been programmed to work with an Asteroids-like game and even the Windows 8 Metro interface. I tried it out with the Asteroids game and found it remarkably effectiveLG Unveils High-Tech Smart AppliancesThe company also unveiled a fridge feature called Blast Chiller that can chill a bottle of wine in eight minutes. The refrigerator also features French doors, the largest of its kind on the market.And not in the mood to vacuum? A new LG robot vacuum cleaner will clean up the house as you kick up your feet and relax on the couch while operating the device via a smartphone.Samsung inTouch TV Hands-on - SlashGearThis camera is a Wi-fi enabled webcam-like device that allows you to turn your gigantic home television into a 720p conferencing station, fully integrated with Skype. This little device also allows you to browse the web and use YouTube on your television with ease. And what's best? It's doing so with Android!CES 2012: RIM Shows Off New BlackBerry Phone And Tablet OS | WebProNewsBlackBerry OS 7.1, which begins rolling out to BlackBerry smartphones today, includes a variety of new features. BlackBerry Tag allows users with NFC-enabled phones to exchange information by bumping their phones together. Mobile hotspot functionality has been added as well, along with enhanced search capability.CES 2012: Intel Lays Out Its 2012 Ultrabook Strategy, Concept Laptops - TestedServices such as PayPass—which will allow users to make payments by tapping their credit cards to the device using NFC—and Nuance speech recognition are being incorporated into new Intel partner devices. The goal, said the chip giant, is not only to produce thinner and lighter machines, but laptops that are both fast and capable too, thanks to Intel's forthcoming Ivy Bridge chipset.Lenovo K91 Smart TV hands-on video and pictures | The VergeThe 55-inch 3D-enabled IPS television is running a skinned version of Android 4.0 ICS, has a webcam built into the bezel, and is powered by 1.5GHz dual-core Snapdragon processor.Lean, Green Tablet Prototype Promises Mobile Computing for $100 | Gadget Lab | Wired.comOLPC's XO 3.0 tablet is encased in lime green plastic like its laptop counterpart. It has a solar panel cover that can generate four watts of power (which delivers two hours of usage) after charging for an hour. It can also be powered using a hand-cranked power supply. Six minutes of cranking will net you two watts of power, or one hour of usage.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy I Hate Android &gt;&gt; MG SieglerMG Siegler (whose post repays a careful reading; look past the headline, which is misleading): "Apple, for all the shit they get for being "closed" and "evil", has actually done far more to wrestle control back from the carriers and put it into the hands of consumers. Google set off to help in this goal, then stabbed us all in the back and went the complete other way, to the side of the carriers. And because they smiled the entire time they were doing it and fed us "open" bullshit, we thanked them for it. We're still thanking them for it! "When you think about it in the context of this election season we're entering, it's a brilliant political maneuver that Google has pulled off with Android. They've taken something they've done that's actually bad for us and spun it in such a way that most people actually buy into it being good for us." What he really hates is what Android, or Google, has given up: the aim, explained with the Nexus One, of freeing people from the carriers.I Shot Asteroids - With My Eyes [VIDEO]The technology has been programmed to work with an Asteroids-like game and even the Windows 8 Metro interface. I tried it out with the Asteroids game and found it remarkably effectiveLG Unveils High-Tech Smart AppliancesThe company also unveiled a fridge feature called Blast Chiller that can chill a bottle of wine in eight minutes. The refrigerator also features French doors, the largest of its kind on the market. And not in the mood to vacuum? A new LG robot vacuum cleaner will clean up the house as you kick up your feet and relax on the couch while operating the device via a smartphone.Samsung inTouch TV Hands-on - SlashGearThis camera is a Wi-fi enabled webcam-like device that allows you to turn your gigantic home television into a 720p conferencing station, fully integrated with Skype. This little device also allows you to browse the web and use YouTube on your television with ease. And what's best? It's doing so with Android!CES 2012: RIM Shows Off New BlackBerry Phone And Tablet OS | WebProNewsBlackBerry OS 7.1, which begins rolling out to BlackBerry smartphones today, includes a variety of new features. BlackBerry Tag allows users with NFC-enabled phones to exchange information by bumping their phones together. Mobile hotspot functionality has been added as well, along with enhanced search capability.CES 2012: Intel Lays Out Its 2012 Ultrabook Strategy, Concept Laptops - TestedServices such as PayPass--which will allow users to make payments by tapping their credit cards to the device using NFC--and Nuance speech recognition are being incorporated into new Intel partner devices. The goal, said the chip giant, is not only to produce thinner and lighter machines, but laptops that are both fast and capable too, thanks to Intel's forthcoming Ivy Bridge chipset.Lenovo K91 Smart TV hands-on video and pictures | The VergeThe 55-inch 3D-enabled IPS television is running a skinned version of Android 4.0 ICS, has a webcam built into the bezel, and is powered by 1.5GHz dual-core Snapdragon processor.Lean, Green Tablet Prototype Promises Mobile Computing for $100 | Gadget Lab | Wired.comOLPC's XO 3.0 tablet is encased in lime green plastic like its laptop counterpart. It has a solar panel cover that can generate four watts of power (which delivers two hours of usage) after charging for an hour. It can also be powered using a hand-cranked power supply. Six minutes of cranking will net you two watts of power, or one hour of usage.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Okay, that's Monday done, let's try Tuesday on for size. Any gaming last night, then?
Steve Ballmer's final keynote at CES is being held in the Venetian hotel. The queues are colossal - though they always are - but thankfully there's room for everyone who wants to get in. (Note: this was blogged as live, but posted afterwards. For best results, read slowly and take a drink between each chunk. What you drink is entirely your choice.)18:10Sitting right behind the sound desk in the ballroom in the Venetian hotel (to which the keynote has been moved; in previous years it has been in other more distant locations). The queue was miles long, but the ballroom is just as large as last year's - though this one isn't raked, so those at the back may have to hope that Steve Ballmer, whose swansong it is, stands on a ladder for some parts of his keynote. At least they won't have to worry about hearing him; at the Nokia press conference three hours ago he proved once more that he doesn't need a microphone to be heard extremely clearly at the back of any room.18:26Lights are starting to go down, and the room is pretty much full. And limit flash to "the first few minutes of each presenter's presentation". Reasonable enough. There are two tables on the right and left of the main stage which seem on the right to have a number of devices, and on the left just seems like a table - perhaps Microsoft Surface 2.0 (or are we up to 3.0 now?)18:29Lights down. Here we go. "World's largest consumer technology show", say the slides. We'll have to ask CeBIT what they think of that. Promo video rolls for Consumer Electronics Association. No people on stage yet.18:31Gary Shapiro of the CEA, the guy who had the difficult conversation with Steve Ballmer about the 2013 keynote. "We know today the PC and its progeny are a critical part of the home enertainment experience… we learned about the convergence of TV and PC. in 1995 Bill Gates took to the stage to talk to a small group… Bill walked into the Hilton by himself with his head buried in a book. His speech was called "the coming revolution in consumer computing". Bill said the revolution would be social. and that was in 1995." (We think: classic Bill, right in the long term, wrong in the short term.)"Now as many of you have heard, Microsoft is taking a break from the keynote stage in 2013.. for those who have asked why Microsoft got the keynote slot… they uniquely changed the world and improved productivity and the way we communicate… and drove press and attention to the show. Microsoft took a risk on us early and we both benefited."But as much as our inclination is to protext the status quo.. for us both to be fresh innovative and enticing we agreed to a pause." (That's a different story from Microsoft, which didn't talk about "pauses" or "agreements".) "I offer gratitude and goodwill towards Microsoft. In one introduciton I compared Microsoft to the founding fathers of our nation.. America has been blessed by the vision of our founders and of Microsoft… I would be shocked if Microsoft did not take the keynote stage in the next few years." We'll note that as a prediction, Gary.18:35And it's Ballmer. He and Gary Shapiro do some gladhanding and complimenting. Shapiro gives him a giant … something with pictures. A memento of all the years of Microsoft keynotes.OK, 11 speeches from Bill, 4 from Steve. Two-minute video of how it has gone over the past 15 years. Autotuned Billg is really very weird. Including the time when the machine died. Someone has worked hard on this video. Fun.Watch on YouTube, or below:18:38Ryan Seacrest is our host. (I'm afraid I don't know who Ryan Seacrest is. If you don't either, here's theWikipedia entry.) The background is a big orange Metro tiled shifting pattern; it's as thoughJoan Mírowere in charge, but given only one colour to work with. "Tonight we'll do it conversationally, talk about the tech industry, what's next for Microsoft, Steve, me, and a lot of Microsoft's latest gear." So Steve Ballmer comes up to the stage for the second time. Blue background. They're now sitting on stools. What should we expect this evening?18:40"We have chance in the next year to raise our product line to the next level across phones, tablets, TV, xbox… our featured attraction tonight…" We await the wordsXbox 720: "our Metro interface". Gah.Seacrest: "so it's going to be a fun night. Let's start with Windows Phone." Localised outbreak of whooping. That'll be the Windows Phone team.Ballmer: "I'm excited about where we are. Unique and beneficial experience. The other phones make the sea of icons the view of the world. We have a better way putting the people who matter to you.. in front of you." Give us some numbers, Steve. Give us some hard facts about licences sold.Nope, lots of noodling about Windows Phone and its interface. He could have done this last year. "I'm in regular touch with hundreds of people…"18:45Derek Snyder of somewhere comes out. "Breadth of choice.. same software on all our handset makers." It's Windows Phone, demo, again. Microsoft's $1m for its keynote is buying it some more forced advertising. Hard to feel that this is really showing the consumer electronics business the direction of the future: it's a marketing splurge.18:47Still with Snyder. Personally, I'm pondering who should do the keynote next year. Larry Page, Google's chief executive? He'd never do it. Andy Rubin, head of Android inside Google? At least he would be someone who'd be able to tell the CE industry what's happening: everything's going mobile. Or should it be someone who stands outside the industry, an analyst of some stripe who could point to the trends that are coming and tell them the direction of the weather? A smart person last year could have pointed to the rise of HTML5 by looking at how browsers were shifting. They could have pointed to the rise of Android. Looking back at last year's keynote from Ballmer, none of it has come "true". He talked about Windows Phone; it didn't take off. (This is the reboot.) He talked about Surface; no sign yet. He talked about Bing; its market share hasn't shifted (anything it gains from Yahoo is stolen from itself, since it does Yahoo's search). He talked about Windows 8 and running on ARM chips; we've seen more demos (and 3 million downloads of the Windows 9 preview) but it's still not expected until October.Synder's demo is going terribly - his voice-driven memo didn't transcribe correctly, his Local Search didn't work. OK. He virtually runs off the stage.18:52"Tell us what's going on with the phones' hardware partners, Steve." This really is pretty dull. Nokia has a phone. HTC has a phone. App Market growing about 300 per day.18:56Windows PCs. "Tough competition. Nothing better than tough competition." Huh? Who would that be? The suggestion that Microsoft has any competition in the desktop OS market is just madness. Apple is its only competitor, and has about 5% of the market; if it continues at its current rate (growing faster than the market) it might reach 50% in about 2099. But competition sounds better than complacency, one supposes.Ballmer: "One of the most amazing phenomena in our business has been the way that the Windows PC has constantly changed and reinvented and spurred other technology innovations… over 3bn Windows PCs are in use around the planet." (Analysts I've spoken to suggest more like 2bn. Perhaps 3bnsold, but half of those have been replacements.)"People don't want to compromise. Nobody wants to give up on their desktop when they moved to notebooks. We don't give up anything… with Windows 8 we've reimagined Windows. It will give a no-compromise experience. We kicked this off at CES and we're further down the road now."Seacrest: "tell me about the Windows 7 hardware available now."Ballmer: "Intel's done a lot of work maing them lighter, thinner…" Video of ultrabooks, though the word isn't used - why not? Lots of Macbook Air-alikes and Pro-alikes.19:00Tami Reller, chief marketing officer for Windows. She's really thrilled to be here, apparently. To talk about… Windows! She's going to talk about Windows 8. OK. "It's more than the next version of Windows. It's a new way of thinking about your PC. Windows reimagined."Ah, this is going to be the phrase: "no-compromise experience". You can see that the marketing is going to suggest that the iPad is a compromise device compared to Windows 8 tablets. That could be an interesting one. Reller: it lets users "effortlessly move between what they want to do and what theyneedto do."19:02Lock screen shows things such as waiting emails, other things without any need to unlock it. Picture password unlock - very neat. She's on Windows 8's start screen, which is a Metro screen: "the tiles act as a window into your apps without you having to launch them." Works with touch or mouse/keyboard. No matter how large your screen or screens. Swipe from the right edge to reveal "charms" - search, share, Start (your old refuge), devices, or settings.She's going to launch a finger-painting app. Would have been more interesting to see her launch email, to be honest. Finger-painting not in particularly high demand for most Windows 8 users, I suspect.Now a tablet with an i5 processor, from Samsung. "The same device we gave out to developers last fall [autumn] to let them start building Metro-style apps." Apps once written can run on x86 or ARM architectures."Apps are what power the new experience in Windows 8… you can see it's very easy to navigate the store." It is, but one looks at the Metro tiled interface and wonders how well it will be for presenting a really big list of things."Windows Store will initially open in late February.. let you test the range of free apps. Will be global, available in every language authored for Windows. Free and paid in more than 200 countries. Businesses can use to deliver apps and updates for employees."Good news for software developers. (Still a little unsure how this is going to benefit the broader consumer electronics industry, though. Will there be standard interfaces for tablets, or will different companies have different connectors, thus splitting the market?)Apps can be grouped, can be named (and renamed). (Wonder if a group can be password-protected; seems like a good idea.)19:12Looking at Reller's demonstration, one immediately thinks two things: Windows 8 is an enormous leap forward in usability, and it's likely to unsettle some people who have always wanted to be able to root around in the file system. It abstracts the file system away, rather like the iPad or iPhone. OK, you can go to a standard Windows desktop, but you'll miss out on many of the best usability features of the new OS if you do. She seems very purposely not to be showing the standard desktop view. That's the past, though it's also the foundation.Next big Windows 8 milestone will be in late February (with the store opening). We're also being invited to get a new PC: "Windows 7 today, Windows 8 tomorrow."19:17Ballmer: "Windows 7 is the best-selling operating system ever, 500m users worldwide, licensing about 7 new copies per second.Every Windows 7 PC will be ready for Windows 8 on day one." Good business for Microsoft, not such good news for the hardware makers?19:19We're now getting theTweet Choir. Short and to the point. They sing tweets. (None of mine, it seems. Rotten luck.) Here's one: "watching #ces: hoping for good Xbox news." Yes, let's hope for that. They're nearly as loud as Ballmer himself.19:22Xbox appears on the screen. Seacrest: "Ten years ago… if I said Xbox to someone in the street they would give me a blank stare. Did you expect it would turn out like this?" Ballmer: "Xbox represents a part of our DNA that we like best…we're the world sales leader in the last year for consoles, 66m users, 40m Xbox Live subscriberstuning in for entertainment experiences, some for games, more for family entertainment, and for an entertainment hub.. social, music, and still games. Did I expect it ten years ago? No, I bet on it ten years ago."Kinect getting a big mention again. "We shipped a little over 18m of these [Kinects] in the year.. and as we integrate Bing into the Xbox and Kinect experience it will change the experience." The 18m is an interesting number. Sales must have slowed down considerably from the first year; still, they seem to be integrated into the new Samsung SmartTV (this hasn't been mentioned yet by anyone, including Samsung). But the motion and voice sensing of the Smart TV, which also uses Bing, screams Kinect.19:29.. showing the ESPN app on the Nokia Windows Phone via Xbox on his Xbox playing on his TV. And now showing off how he can use his voice to navigate around. (One watches and thinks: really clever. And then: you'd quickly get bored of waiting between commands, such as "Xbox: TV." (Pause while it navigates there.) "Program guide." You really want to go there straight away: "Xbox, TV program guide", or stack instructions together - "Xbox, TV, program guide" and let it figure it out.)19:32Demo for Xbox Kinect Sesame Street. "For the first time you can physically and vocally impact a TV show." It's Microsoft's take on smart TV. Hard to range it against Google's or Samsung's approaches here: it's not exactly apps-based, and it's not quite about bringing the internet to your TV. It's a different approach altogether. (If I'm honest, I'm really unsure what it is that Microsoft is hoping to inspire here. Is the expectation that people with Sesame Street-aged children will rush out any buy a Kinect and Xbox? Rather than a Samsung Smart TV or a Google TV set-top box?)19:38Ballmer: "the number of things you can do with video entertainment.. it's enormous. Getting the computer to see and hear you… we'll see Kinext revolutionise other industries, health care, education, it really is incredible."Kinect promo video. (So is the thinking that people who exhibit and come to CES don't browse the internet and know about Kinect? Haven't seen the promo video?)Kinect is coming to Windows on February 1st.We're working with more than 200 companies on unique Kinect applications.. Amex, Toyota…" No explanation of what they're actually doing.SIG is in lots of cars. Office 2010 is the fastest-selling version in history. Pushed into the cloud, had a "Stunning" success rate compared to the other cloud services guys. Acquired Skype, people who use over 300 billion minutes of voice and video. And of course the product that Microsoft … Bing, we've reached 30% market share in partnership with Bing in the United States." Uh-huh. Let's not mention its massive losses, eh. But perhaps it is going to be an Xbox in disguise, which over time will dominate. If the market can turn to using TVs for search, and if they aren't using Google TV, and if Xbox can be the dominant internet TV experience. That's one big "if" followed by another.Seacrest: "we're almost out of time.. one final question: what's next?"Ballmer, loudly: "Windows 8 is what's next! Late February and then BOOM! on to the shipment. The kind of no-compromise experience with the dynamic Metro experience…" People are heading out. Like water pouring out of a breached dam. Ballmer is still talking. "We'll use the software and services to invent incredible things… Metro will create incredible experiences.. Metro will ensure that 1+1 really does equal 3. Metro, Metro, Metro and Windows, Windows, Windows." Notice - no date on the shipment for Windows 8. Analysts expect it in October.19:43And we're done. Not a bang but a sort of whimper. That's it: 16 years of history ends, with Windows front and centre of Microsoft's message, but no wider picture for the consumer electronics industry to chew on. Next year, could they pick someone who will be able to paint the landscape they can see beyond the window - rather than inside Windows?Serious suggestions welcome: who should give the keynote next year, and why?
Nokia is aiming to break back into the US smartphone market with two new phones, including a new Lumia 900 with high-speed mobile internet, after being overhauled in the past five years by Apple and phones running Google's Android software.Stephen Elop, chief executive of the Finnish phone maker, said at the Consumer Electronics Show 2012 in Las Vegas that the company had now established "a beachhead" in the UK and Europe with the releases in November of its first phones running Microsoft's Windows Phone software, and was looking to start "a new dawn for Nokia in the US".Together with Microsoft, the company is rumoured to have a marketing budget of between $100m (£64m) and $200m for its latest push, which will consist of a combination of advertising, marketing and incentive payments of $10 to $15 to retail sales staff in carrier shops for each handset sold, to drive Nokia sales. "We've got the perfect device to appeal to the 150 million Americans who have not yet made the transition to smartphones," Elop said.Elop reiterated his belief that "the smartphone market has moved from being a battle of devices to a war of ecosystems", and that Windows Phone is the "third" ecosystem along with Apple and Android.The new phone, called the Lumia 900, will be available on AT&amp;T, the biggest US mobile carrier, and will include long term evolution (LTE) – also known as 4G – capability, which can give mobile internet connection speeds as fast as fixed broadband connections.The Lumia 900 also has a larger screen, at 10.9cm diagonally, than the 9.6cm screen of the Lumia 710 and 800 launched in Europe. That also allows the phone to have a larger battery, with a capacity of 1830 milliamp hours (mAh), 26% greater than the 1450mAh of the Lumia 800.No price or date was announced for the release of the Lumia 900, though Elop said it would be on sale in the "coming months". The other phone will be the Lumia 710, which has already gone on sale in Europe, and will be sold through the T-Mobile network in the US.Nokia's smartphone sales share has dropped to almost zero in the US, after years when its Symbian platform dominated the broader market. But since the introduction of the iPhone five years ago, followed in 2008 by the introduction of phones running Google's Android, it is now Microsoft and Nokia which face an uphill struggle.Elop declined to give any figures about sales so far in Europe for the Lumia devices because Nokia is in its "quiet period" following the end of its financial quarter on 31 December. But he said that having established a beachhead in those markets, "the focus now shifts to pricing and marketing".He suggested that Nokia will produce a number of lower-priced smartphones in the coming months to attack more segments of the US market, where competition at the low end is intense from phones running Google's Android software.Elop declined to comment on rumours that the company had sought to buy BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM), which he was said to have approached with Microsoft. Instead, he suggested that Nokia was seeking to demolish the struggling Canadian company: "We do see an opportunity for ourselves in the business-to-business marketplace. The combination of our phones and Microsoft's back-end server capabilities gives us the tools to compete with people who have been in the business market in the past." RIM's strongest sector has been its business users.Some analysts privately suggested to the Guardian that the inclusion of the LTE capability would adversely affect battery life on the Lumia 900. Phones such as Samsung's Galaxy Nexus run down the battery more quickly than it can be charged when using the LTE capability.But Elop said in response that Nokia has worked with Microsoft and the chipmaker Qualcomm, which provides the basic communications chips for the phones. "We believe the battery performance will be very superior on LTE networks compared with other devices," he said.The phones will not have NFC (near field communications) capability, which is the increasing focus of attention over cashless payment systems, despite Nokia having included it on other Symbian phones previously. "With our first Windows Phone devices we had to make decisions about priorities," Elop said. "But NFC is growing in importance, and I personally believe in it."Elop hedged on the question of whetherNokia will introduce its own tablet, as has been suggested following an interview by one of his executives. "Our reasoning would be the same as for phones: we'd want to achieve differentiation, and we'd do that with design and optics and services. If we believe we have a combination of those we can bring to a tablet, then that's an opportunity that's presented to Nokia."
Not long ago, life's precious moments were captured by someone who had the foresight to bring their camera. Now, everyone can reach for their phone. And having also dented demand for landlines, the PC and the satnav, smartphones are now officially replacing the compact camera as the most popular device for taking photos.Sales of point and shoot cameras fell 30% by value in 2011 compared with the year before. Camera manufacturers have been on red alert since last summer, when the iPhone&nbsp;4 became the most popular device from which snaps were uploaded to the picture sharing website Flickr.Even some professional photographers admit they turn to their phones for snaps, with the celebrity photographer Annie Liebovitz describing her iPhone as the "snapshot camera of today". "I'm still learning how to use mine," Liebovitz told NBC. "I can't tell you how many times I see people show me their children. It's the wallet with the family pictures in it."Basic fixed-lens cameras accounted for more than 48% of manufacturers' takings in Britain in 2010, according to research firm GfK. By November 2011, the most recent data shows these cameras represented just 37% of takings."2011 was when sales of basic cameras seriously started to decline," said GfK analyst Zhelya Dancheva. "It's about how consumers are using cameras, and on what occasions. The smartphone is popular because it's always in your pocket, and you are connected so you can directly upload to the internet whenever you want."Manufacturers will attempt to breathe new life into the budget camera market at this week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, an annual showcase for gadget makers. Samsung, Canon and Sony Electronics have added a range of bells and whistles, including Wi-Fi connections and technology to recognise and zoom in on children's faces, with which they hope to lure back their lost customers."All manufacturers need to focus on the value of a camera and what differentiates it versus a smartphone," said Reid Sullivan of Samsung, unveiling the firm's latest model, the DV300F, which can upload images to sharing sites. It will also do away with the need for cables by sending images wirelessly to a computer.The camera also claims to eliminate blurry backgrounds when capturing fast moving subjects, and has a small screen on the front to let users see self portraits.Canon's flagship new point and shoot IXUS models can apparently prioritize face detection of children so that even the most fidgety subject's expression will appear in focus.Sony's newer cameras can take photographs in 3D and will work in extreme conditions, including under water. The budget models will also come with more powerful zoom lenses that capture events at a greater distance and with a higher resolution than phones.The iPhone 4 is now used by more than 5,000 people to upload more than 73,000 photos each day on Flickr. The second most popular camera, with slightly more than 4,000 daily Flickr users, is the Nikon D90. It costs more than £550 without a lens and has a picture resolution of 12.3 megapixels, compared with the iPhone 4's five megapixels.Unveiling the latest iPhone last autumn, Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, spent as much time emphasising its camera features as its processing power. The 4S has a resolution of eight megapixels, almost as high as the minimum of 10 now sported by most basic cameras.The trend towards cameraphones is just as advanced in the United States, where they were used to take 27% of photos last year, up from 17% in 2010, according to market research firm NPD. The proportion of photos taken with a point and shoot camera fell from 52% to 44%.Trevor Moore, chief executive of photography retailer Jessops, said customers now believe the quality of photographs taken from their smartphones is high enough to spend money turning them into prints. "We have a huge number of smartphone users coming into our stores to use our printing kiosks," said Moore. "We take the opportunity to talk to them about how they can make better pictures with a high quality camera."In fact, sales of higher quality camera models are booming, giving hope to manufacturers such as Canon. Having become dissatisfied with the limitations of basic digital cameras, customers are flocking to those which offer better zooms and higher resolution. Sales of fixed lens devices, which offer a zoom of more than 10 times, were up 42% by volume in the year to November, having risen 55% in 2010. Compact system cameras, which have interchangeable lenses, have seen sales by volume rise 51% in the past year, according to GfK.Expert viewHaving spent a few years schlepping around a heavy bag of cameras and lenses and with at least one dodgy shoulder to prove it, I'm always interested in developments that take some of the weight out of shooting decent pictures. And it looks like I'm not the only one who has discovered the joys of using the ultimate lightweight camera as millions of people seem to have proved by ditching them and using a smartphone instead.Sales of cheap cameras are down; it's not surprising – if you carry one thing these days it's a phone, and if it shoots pictures of similar quality to a camera, why carry a camera too? Having shot those great pictures of junior's first steps, a couple more keystrokes  on the phone have them winging their way to a proud granny. If you really want them, Hipstamatic and other apps are available to "improve" your snaps, while Twitter or Flickr will distribute or store them for you.Photographically, a really interesting and encouraging thing about using a smartphone is the way the focal length of the lens feels "right" for many shots. This is because the lens is slightly wider than the "standard" lens sold with a camera and gives a usefully wider view. In practice these images feel comfortable or real to the viewer, something early users of compact 35mm cameras in the last century discovered.They were trying to capture reality and a widish lens gave them that result. They were also trying to be inconspicuous, hence the use of small Leica cameras just as these days someone using a phone in the street arouses no interest. Even if you are not a Cartier-Bresson, convenience and a reasonably faithful representation of their world is all that most people want from their photography. A smartphone gives you  all that.Roger Tooth, the Guardian's head of photography• This article was amended on 11 January 2012. The original referred to Canon's flagship new point and shoot PowerShot G1X. This has been corrected.
Android devices overtook Apple's iOS for web browsing at the end of December in North America, according to new data from an American analytics company, Chitika Analytics.But iOS held on to its lead in the wider worldwide market of mobile browsing according to data from another company, NetMarketShare, which tracks geographic use.NetMarketShare statistics for mobile web browsing share over 2011Data from Chitika Insights says that following the Christmas season Android's share of mobile browsing – in which it includes Amazon's Kindle Fire – leapt by 5.5% to overtake iOS in North America with a 51.6% share of web traffic, up from 46.1% in November.Apple's iOS, which includes its iPad and iPod Touch, fell from 51.7% to 46.5% in the same period.Among other smartphone platforms, RIM saw its share squeezed from 1.7% to 1.5%, while Microsoft's Windows Phone and Mobile platforms saw their share shrink from 0.5% to 0.4%.ButNetMarketShare offered a differing opinion, with its figures to the end of December suggesting that Apple had maintained a strong lead in the worldwide market, with a 52% market share compared to 16.2% for Android – behind Java ME's 21.27%, in second place. (Java ME is the operating system used on Nokia's Symbian OS and Samsung's Bada OS.)When Apple's figures are split to break out the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch, the iPhone takes 25%, as does the iPad, while Android's 16.2% share is split between 9% for 2.3 ("Gingerbread"), 4% for 2.2 ("Froyo"), 1% for 3.0 ("Honeycomb") and 0.05% for the newest 4.0 ("Ice Cream Sandwich") version.Asked about its methodology, Chitika said:"Our methodology takes a distribution of mobile impressions seen on our ad network across all available operating systems. We include tablets within our mobile market share calculations, whereas we are unsure of Netmarketshare's practices."Since our network is comprised of hundreds of thousands of unique publishers, it should represent a fair and unbiased sample of overall traffic on the web. Specifically, our analysis limits to US and Canada, whereas after a quick glance, we cannot tell if NetMarketShare follows a similar method."The rapid growth in Android browsing in North American tallies with data from Andy Rubin, the head of Google's Android mobile division, whotweeted on 20 Decemberthat the company was seeing 700,000 activations of Google Android devices per day, and then on 27 December that there were3.7m Google Android devices activatedon 24 and 25 December.Those figures exclude Amazon Kindle Fire and Barnes &amp; Noble Nook devices, which do not contact Google's servers; however they are included in Chitika's numbers.Amazon has said that it sold "millions" of Kindles of all sorts during December, but has not broken out numbers for the number of Kindle Fires, which are 7in tablets capable of web browsing.• The rise in Android tallies with other data from Freelancer.com, a jobs site, which found that jobs posted working on Android products rose by 33% in the fourth quarter of 2011, to 2,454 (from 1,845) while those for iPhone products grew less quickly, by 18% to 3,682 (from 3,120).Jobs involving the iPad rose by 22% to 1,692 from 1,387. Jobs for BlackBerry were up 2% but at low volume, while Symbian and Windows Phone jobs did not register. Jobs involving Nokia were down "to insignificant numbers".The total number of jobs posted grew sequentlally by 18%, from 114,000 in the third quarter to 134,820.At this growth rate, says Matt Barrie, Freelancer.com's chief executive, Android jobs will be close to overhauling iOS jobs by the end of 2012.Job postings requiring HTML5 skills grew by 41% to 1,585, while those requiring Flash grew just 6% to 2,995. Barrie forecast that HTML5 jobs will overtake Flash jobs by the middle of this year.
On Monday night at 6.30pm (Vegas time), Steve Ballmer will take to the stage at the Consumer Electronics show and deliver his annual keynote for the last time. Microsoft has decreed viaa quick blog postthat the event no longer fits in with the company's product announcement timeline, and that it'll take a more muted role in the future.So what can we expect from Ballmer's last CES hurrah?Well, if the games industry rumour mill is anything to go by – and it usually isn't – it seems Microsoft may be gearing up to supply some details about the forthcoming successor to the Xbox 360. Last year, a French site named Xboxygenclaimed to have heard from a reliable sourcethat key technical details about the new machine would be revealed at CES, including the employment of a hexa-core CPU with 2GB of onboard memory and an AMD graphics chipset. It even suggested that Sony had got in on the plans and was devising its own PS4 reveal.But there are reasons for being skeptical. First, Microsoft is pulling out of its CES announcements because it wants to better stage manage its big revelations at a more relevant date for any production plans – and I'm thinking the official announcement of a new games console fits snugly into the 'big revelations' category.Also, Micrsoft has never made any truly significant Xbox announcements at CES. There was something about Avatar Kinect last year, and before that, Robbie Bach, the former president of Microsoft's Entertainment division, would often hop onstage to give us some sales figures or promise some new Xbox Live functionality. But it would be unprecedented for a major specifications drop to happen at the Las vegas event.Still, this is thelast everone. And Ballmer, ever the showman (lest we forget– which we never can), might not be able to resist a scene-setting announcement, placed perfectly to build hype before summer's E3 event.The question is, do we wait up til 2.30am to watch the live feed?
It's been a busy Monday for media announcements. First up,streaming TV and movie service Netflix has now officially launched in the UK and Ireland. It will offer unlimited access to a range of broadband content for £5.99 a month, or  €6.99 in Ireland.As well as being accessible via PC, Mac and mobile platforms, the service will be viewable on Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii consoles. The Netflix app is already available for download on PS3, with versions for the other consoles set to follow.Content-wise, Netflix is promising "tens of thousands of hours" of TV and film content. There are deals in place with most of the major movie studios, but don't expect recent blockbusters to be filling the menu – the fact that the launch press release pulls out examples such as The Expendables and Paul Blart: Mall Cop tells you that, right now, this is more about back-catalogue content and niche releases.In terms of TV, there's a good selection from Peep Show to TOWIE (though this is all mostly available on the on-demand services provided by the terrestrial services), as well as acclaimed US series such as Breaking Bad.Its availability through consoles puts Netflix in direct competition with LoveFilm, which is now accessible via Xbox 360 and PS3, and costs £4.99 a month as a streaming service. Most of the TV shows and movies available on LoveFilm's PC offering are also open to Xbox and PS3 owners, although certain Pay TV content cannot be streamed via consoles due to rights issues. Plus, on Xbox 360, users get full access only if they subscribe to Xbox Live Gold.Still, with LoveFilm and Netflix likely to be offering different movie selections as part of their services, it's an interesting time for console owners to start looking into video on demand from their machines. And while Netflix still dominates the sector, with 20 million members in 47 companies, LoveFilm is steadily growing – it has just past the two million users mark.Meanwhile, BSkyB has just announced a partnership with "second screen" social viewing service Zeebox, which saw it take a 10% stake in the company. The Zeebox offering is a free app designed to run on a laptop, tablet or smartphone device and providing an interactive companion to whatever you're watching on TV.The idea is, it knows what you're watching and knows what's going on in the relevant programme or film – so if, say, Michael Fassbender pops up on screen, it'll tell you what other movies he's currently in (ie, all of them), as well as linking to biographical information elsewhere on line – a sort of live televisual hyperlink.The service is also social, allowing you to see what your friends are watching, and communicate with them. And of course, it's Twitter-compatible. It's also fully e-commerced up: if an album or book gets mentioned on a TV chat show, there will be a link to the item for purchase.For its part, Sky will now be building Zeebox compatability into its Sky+ and Sky Go apps. It will also allow subscribers to manage their Sky+ recordings while out and about as well as utlising their iPhones and iPads as remote control devices in the living room.How does this relate to games? Well, this whole concept of the "second screen" is an enticing one for console manufacturers who are looking for ever more devious ways to turn our games machines into our central entertainment hubs.Nintendo's Wii-U console, set to launch later this year, includes a tablet-style controller with its own screen – now, this will no doubt be used for game content, but the potential is there for some kind of TV deal, allowing Wii-U owners to interact with programmes in new ways, very similar to the Zeebox proposition.Meanwhile, both Sony and Microsoft are building ever greater links between their home consoles and their mobile devices – in Sony's case, that means both the Xperia Play phone and the PS Vita handheld; in Microsoft's its the Windows Phone format.Both companies are already looking at games that are playable across multiple platforms, but the next step is entertainment services that engage with both home and portable machines.Right now, the implementations of services such as LoveFilm and Netflix on consoles are pretty dumb and straightforward – the machines are merely a conduit for the streaming data.Going forward, however, Sony and Microsoft must be planning Zeebox style initiatives, in which viewers get to control and share content across devices, and even perhaps, to view video-on-demand services within games or other entertainment apps.Whether you're at all interested in a – okay lets write it – transmedia future or not, we probably just took a large stride in that direction.
A selection of 18 apps for you today:NetflixNetflix's app isn't new, but it's new to the UK. The streaming film/TV service has just launched with a £5.99 monthly subscription, and a one-month free trial as long as you don't mind signing in via Facebook.Android / iPhone / iPadSnapdragon Game CommandChip-maker Qualcomm wants to help Android users discover more great games. Hence Game Command, which focuses on games that'll show off its Snapdragon processors. It will include some exclusives, while pulling in games news from websites too.AndroidSpotON RadioSpotON Radio is a nice idea: it uses Spotify's mobile API to provide Pandora-like personal radio. You can create streaming stations based on artists, marking songs as liked or disliked to fine-tune the preferences. Spotify provides the music – so you'll need a premium subscription – while The Echo Nest provides the recommendations.iPhoneVubooFootball app Vuboo styles itself as "a virtual stadium for football fans", providing live scores and the ability to check in to games and chat with other fans – friends and strangers alike. It pushes comments out to Facebook and Twitter too. A Zeebox for football, sort of.AndroidStuff LiveGadget magazine Stuff has launched a new iPad app that doesn't offer full issues. Instead, it's all about the latest product photography, with new galleries uploaded regularly. Renault is on board as a sponsor.iPadCombat Arms: ZombiesThis survival first-person shooter is based on a mode in Nexon's online game Combat Arms, complete with a bonus code to be used in the original in some parts of the world (alas, not Europe). The game is also notable for its use of the Unreal Engine3.iPhone / iPadMinicraftMinicraft started life as a hack made by Minecraft creator Markus Persson for a public competition. Now it's actually been released for Android. Essentially it's like Minecraft if that game had been made in the days of the Commodore 64.AndroidLife Is CrimeLocation-based mafia game Life Is Crime made its debut on Android last year, but has now blasted its way onto iPhone. You have to build a mob empire in your real-world hometown, inviting friends to join your gang. For more on the developer behind it, Red Robot Labs,read our interview.iPhoneFruit Ninja: Puss in BootsFruit Ninja's branded spin-off for the Puss In Boots film makes its way from iOS to Android. Fruit-slicing action is still the focus, but with bonus items and characters from the movie added into the mix.AndroidPinspirationPinterest is the buzzy new social service of the moment, and now Windows Phone users have an unofficial app to access it. Pinspiration lets you browse and post to Pinterest from the device.Windows PhoneMonsters &amp; MutantsBritish publisher Amber Books' latest iPad app focuses on mythological beasties throughout history, from Cyclops and the Minotaur to King Kong and the Jersey Devil.iPadProInsights for BlackBerry PlayBookBusiness users of RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet will want to grab ProInsights, which aims to help dig into your LinkedIn profile, transforming its data into "extremely informative infographics".BlackBerry PlayBookSoulcraft THDSoulcraft is a new action-RPG that's just launched in open beta for Android – or at least Android devices with Nvidia's Tegra processor inside. The demonic action is set in the real world: cities including Venice, Rome and Hamburg.AndroidTiVoThis'll be more use for US readers, but set-top box maker TiVo has released its official Android app, turning their smartphone or tablet into a remote control for the box.AndroidQVIVO PlayerCloud entertainment service QVIVO has launched its official iPhone app. The service aims to help people port their films, music and TV shows into its cloud, to access them from multiple devices.iPhoneKhoya – An Interactive Fantasy AdventureThe latest iPad book-app with grand ambitions is Khoya, which was shown off at conferences held by Wired magazine and TED last year. It's a fantasy adventure with interactivity and camera usage.iPadThe Next Gen SUV Augmented RealityAR firm Total Immersion has made an iPhone app based on the new Nissan Pathfinder car, which was recently unveiled at the Detroit motor show. The app shows a 3D model of the car when pointed at a target.iPhoneBackbreaker 2 VengeancePlayBook owners who aren't scrutinising their LinkeIn data (see above) may prefer to batter a few linebackers out of the way. Backbreaker 2 is the popular American football game on other platforms that focuses on skipping down the field evading opponents - or turning tackler yourself.BlackBerry PlayBook
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAcer's AcerCloud unveil is a blatant iCloud ripoff | The Verge"Which is which? Acer just showed off its AcerCloud service, something that already sounded suspiciously like Apple's iCloud. Even the "PicStream" element sounds a lot like Photo Stream. Still not convinced? Acer basically ripped off Apple's slide wholesale, outside of the font, which is a simulacrum of Apple's font of yore. Check out both slides below." The slides are indeed a ripoff, though it's hard to argue that the idea of having a cloud storage system is unique to Apple. Although the key point here is that this isn't connected to Google, and it's like Apple's iCloud in that it abstracts the file system away - you have photos and you have documents.Microsoft, defying image, has a design gem in Windows Phone &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comMicrosoft's team draw an interesting analogy with the plight of the hiker who got his arm trapped under the boulder and had to cut it off.The Restart Page - Free unlimited rebooting experience from vintage operating systemsDoes what it says. Amazing. This is what the web was made for. Or something.Real QR Statistics from TfL &gt;&gt; Terence EdenPeople have been scanning the QR code to get live bus updates. Helpfully, TfL has used a public shortener, which means the platform (haha) and other statistics are available.Steve Yegge: how to present to Jeff Bezos (without dying) &gt;&gt; Google+Entertaining description of what it's like to present to Bezos (ie very scary). He is one of the least-profiled people around.Yahoo seeking new board members &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Yahoo Inc. is searching for several new board candidates to replace possible outgoing directors and has hired executive search firm Heidrick &amp; Struggles International Inc. to assist in that effort, people familiar with the matter said. "The search for board candidates is aimed at possibly replacing directors who have been on the board for a long time, the people said." Just go back and check whether the first letter of each paragraph spells out R-O-Y-B-O-S-T-O-C-K and J-E-R-R-Y-Y-A-N-G.Motorola Mobility says Holiday quarter wasn't so jolly &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Motorola Mobility on Friday warned that fourth-quarter sales won't be what many were expecting. "The cellphone maker said it estimates its sales totaled $3.4bn, and that it will post 'modest profitability', excluding various items. Motorola said it shipped about 10.5m mobile devices in the quarter, just over half of which were smartphones. "While Motorola itself hadn't given a forecast for the quarter, analysts were expecting sales to be a lot closer to $3.9bn." Its last of four quarters as an independent company? (And: giving out mobile phone figures? How declasse.)Windows 8 Storage Spaces: pooling redundant disk space for all &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"When Microsoft killed Windows Home Server's "Drive Extender" technology, we mourned its loss but held up hope that the company would persevere with the concept. The company has done just that with a new Windows 8 feature called Storage Spaces, described in a lengthy post to its Building Windows 8 blog. "With Storage Spaces, physical disks are grouped together into pools, and pools are then carved up into spaces, which are formatted with a regular filesystem and are used day-to-day just like regular disks. "Unlike RAID systems of old, but in common with other modern storage technologies such as Solaris' ZFS and Linux's btrfs, pools can use disks of different interface technologies--USB, SATA, Serial Attached SCSI--and different, mismatched sizes. New disks can be added to a pool at any time. Pools can also include one or more hot spares: drives allocated to a pool but kept in standby until another disk in the pool fails, at which point they spring into life." That's very cool.Join the fight against phishing &gt;&gt; PhishtakWorthy, but one feels that it needs a bigger, more automated effort to make it effective.The Nielsen Company &amp; Billboard's 2011 Music Industry Report &gt;&gt; Yahoo! Finance"Total [US] Album sales were up for the first time since 2004 (1.3%) with sales totaling 330.6 million, compared to 326.2 million in 2010." You have Adele and the internet to thank for that.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Hurray, it's another cold, wet, dark Monday morning! How was your weekend? Any gaming? I did Battlefield 3, Lego Indiana Jones 2 and Fruit Ninja.
The Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas comes at the beginning of the year, and usually marks the electronics industry's attempts to revive itself, to pick itself up from the blowout of the Christmas peak, and show off what its engineers have been working on for the past months to showcase for this year.But this year, CES will be notable for an ending rather than a beginning: Microsoft has said that it will be withdrawing from the show; this is the last time that Steve Ballmer, its chief executive for the past 11 years, will give the opening keynote on Monday night (early Tuesday morning UK time).In one sense, it is a seismic shift for the industry. The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), which runs CES, has always insisted that Ballmer – and before him Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder – have been asked to give the keynote because Microsoft is so important to the overall industry, through the growing influence of PCs and software.Microsoft says goodbyeMicrosoft CEO Steve Ballmer appeared as a Kinect avatar on a large screen during his CES 2011 keynote address. What will he do in this, his last keynote year? Photograph: Rick Wilking/ReutersBut now that is over. Microsoft says that the scheduling of the show simply does not fit with its own plans: "Our product news milestones generally don't align with the show's January timing," itsaid in a blogpost.The CEA has hinted that it didn't want Microsoft to continue either. Which only leaves the question of how Ballmer will go out in his final offering at the Venetian hotel: one can hope that, as it's Vegas, there will be a huge chorus line of showgirls, a magician or two making things appear and disappear, and some sort of fireworks.More likely, we will be treated to news of the tieup in mobile phones with Nokia, and some more glimpses of Windows 8, the next version, which is due to ship some time in the second half of this year. But with the PC market flatlining, and tablets and smartphones the fastest-growing segments, Microsoft looks a little out of the picture. Perhaps this is the right time to say sayonara.The company says it will still be here next year, but not actually on the show floor; instead, it will hire space in hotels around the site.Tablets: not takenSanjay Jha, CEO of Motorola introduced the Xoom tablet running 'Honeycomb' at CES 2011. It didn't fare well. Photograph: GuardianIndeed, the show has an odd air: unlike last year, when there was great expectation around tablets (and especially Google's Android 3.0 "Honeycomb" software for tablets, and BlackBerry maker RIM's announced-but-previously unseen PlayBook), the shape of the market seems clear. Honeycomb tablets did not set the world on fire; by the end of the year a few million had been sold, using numbers from Google. The PlayBook has turned into an expensive flop for RIM. Only Apple, which (as usual) is not displaying at CES, has made the tablet into a success story with the iPad.The story now will be about Android tablets running "Ice Cream Sandwich", the 4.0 iteration of Andoid, which is meant to work on both smartphones and tablets, and so make it easier for app developers to target both.The suggestion is, though, that until Google has content offerings to compete with Amazon's online store through its Kindle Fire (at the low end) or Apple with its App Store and iPad (at the high end) then those products will languish. Much energy will be expended, though, in trying to find out if Motorola or Samsung is going to make a tablet exclusively to Google's direction, rather as has happened with smartphones. Watch this space.Similarly, a great deal of inquiry will surround Windows 8, and the version that will run on tablets using the ARM chip architecture. Will it compete with the iPad? With Google tablets? How will it interact and interface with standard Windows on the desktop? What about Windows tablets using Intel chips?Ne plus Ultrabook?Apple's MacBook Air. Expect to see 'ultrabooks' that closely resemble it. Photograph: Tony Avelar/AFPSo instead, the industry is turning its focus back to the PC, and specifically a category called the"ultrabook": super-thin, super-light notebook PCs whose only clear distinguishing characteristics seem to be that they look and weigh much the same as Apple's super-thin MacBook Air product, and cost about the same too.For PC manufacturers who saw the world market stumble in 2011, as smartphones and tablets ate into sales in the west, and the ultrabook is the best chance they have to push up margins while introducing something new-ish.The thing about the ultrabook though is that it isn't really a new category; Sony and Lenovo have been making ultra-thin, light laptops to compete with the MacBook Air for at least three years, since Apple introduced its model. What's changed now is that the chipmaker Intel is giving companies a $100 per device incentive to build them.For many manufacturers, that's substantially more than they make in profit on each machine, so it's not surprising that they're leaping into the category. Whether Intel will continue with the subsidy, and whether buyers will embrace ultrabooks when they could get a Windows laptop that's cheaper and has better specifications in every aspect except weight and thickness are both open questions.There are expected to be about 50 ultrabook designs on show, costing around $1,000 – steep for a Windows laptop – though Forrester Research says a survey of 5,000 US consumers found 22% "interested" in buying an ultrabook at that price. Perhaps they will replace netbooks, which are dying a rapid death at the low end of the market.Nokia: revival?Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop, left, and Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer in February 2011. Can the Lumia 900 get Nokia back into the US smartphone market? Photograph: Luke Macgregor/ReutersOn Monday afternoon (early Tuesday morning UK time) Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop is expected to unveil the the latest result of the Finnish phone maker's collaboration with Microsoft: the Lumia 900. This will be Nokia's attempt to break back into the North American market, from which it had all but disappeared with its old, and now deprecated, Symbian software.The 900 is expected to have a 4.3in screen measured diagonally – as large as the best-selling Samsung Galaxy II, and larger than Apple's 3.8in iPhone. (That contrasts with the the Lumia 800 launched in the UK at the end of last year, which has a screen the same size as the iPhone's.)Can Windows Phone revive Nokia's US fortunes? The two companies are putting their effort behind it, with up to $200m being spent on a nationwide marketing and advertising campaign pushing the company and its new look.So far Windows Phone has made little impact on the market, and Microsoft has been parsimonious about giving details of its progress. For Elop, and for Ballmer, the Lumia 900 needs to be a trailblazer in this huge market where only about one-third of mobile devices are smartphones; that leaves plenty of room to grow into.Smart TV (again); 3D TV (maybe)Hot on the heels of the success of the 3D film Avatar, last year saw the showing at CES of all sorts of 3D devices: TVs, laptops, glasses. In that time the only 3D product that has seen any noticeable success is the Nintendo 3DS handheld console, and even that has performed poorly.3D TV keeps looking like an expensive way to have a mediocre experience, and Sony's attempts to kickstart the market (including a 3D Vaio laptop) don't seem to have borne fruit. It may be that everyone is saving up for a 3D TV for the Olympics (the TV retailers' best hope), but don't pin your hopes on it."Smart TV" – also known as internet-connected TV – has more promise. Most people will have wanted to watch some sort of internet video on their TV: in the UK we have the BBC's iPlayer, and the ITV and Channel 4 catchup services; in the US there is Hulu. Smart TV offers the promise of giving you this internet access over the TV. Logitech leapt into it last year, calamitously; in the first three months of 2011 more people returned its "Revue" set-top boxes than were sold as Christmas good ideas turned out to be flops.Smart TV seems like a good idea, and Google is having another pitch at it. The problem it faces is that the TV companies are unwilling to let their content flow through the internet to be monetised by Google selling ads against it; that's why Hulu bans Google TV from accessing its site.Once again, Google faces an impasse created by its lack of easy access to content. Certainly you can sell TVs with smart capability built in; the question is whether you can find anything smart out there to watch. (YouTube, for the most part, isn't it.)As long as TV companies can make more money from selling their programs to each other than they can through Google, this is going to be an uphill battle for the search giant.ARM v IntelThe British company ARM designs the chips that are used in smartphones and almost every tablet on the market today. As the use of smartphones grows – and their sales have outnumbered those of PCs for more than a year – ARM benefits, because smartphones use more of its designs.However, it doesn't make the chips directly, but licenses the design to chipmakers. Thus its revenues and profits are nowhere near those of Intel, which designs and makes (and sells) the chips that power all standard PCs now.Intel's problem, though, is that as PC sales growth has slowed and stopped, it has been unable – despite billions of dollars of investment – to match the ARM architecture's low power demands, and so hasn't been able to bid for the market in smartphones or tablets.Paul Otellini, chief executive of Intel, is expected to show off some phones running on Intel's "Medfield" chips at the show on Monday. But the tide is against Intel: the question everyone will ask is how long those phones last in normal use, since existing top-end smartphones tend to last a whole day's use, while Intel's are more power-hungry.In part that comes from the essential design of the chips: ARM stands for "Advanced RISC Machines". RISC, in turn, stands for "Reduced Instruction Set Computing": such chips work from a very limited number of basic instructions, but execute them quickly and so efficiently.RISC is like a very efficient short-order cook who works off a limited menu. there's very little waste, but not that much variety. By contrast Intel's designs are "complex instruction set computing": there are more instructions to choose from, like a chef who can cook a huge variety of dishes, but takes longer and needs more resources.For years, Intel's designs have dominated computing. But now Microsoft is developing Windows to run on both ARM and Intel architectures – a move it announced at this show a year ago – while HP has also said that it is working on server designs that use ARM architectures specifically for its power-saving benefits.CES 2012 may mark the turning point where we can see ARM's architecture begin to spread into mainstream computing. But with smartphones – of which there are perhaps about 800m in use now – beginning to catch up on the 2bn installed base of PCs, the question may become what we mean by "mainstream computing". If the majority of people start to get their internet access from a smartphone rather than a PC, which one is "mainstream"?Other trendsCES is essentially a sales meeting, where the business gets together and manufacturers try to persuade retailers, carriers and wholesalers to take up their new idea. Other areas such as wearable computing – watches that will do more than just tell the time – in the same month that Microsoft has killed off support for its SPOT Watch, which it launched here five years ago.Celebrities ahoyLast year we had Lady Gaga; this year it's Dennis Rodman (retired basketball player), Robert Horry (retired basketball player), John Salley (retired basketball player), Alison Fishman (retired bas… sorry, cooking teacher and cookbook author), Eliza Dushku (ex-Dollhouse, Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel star), Jordan Rudess ("recording artists, composer, producer and performer" who has worked with David Bowie), Jillian Michaels (sports and fitness teacher), Jamie Michelle (swimsuit model), Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi (from the reality show Jersey Shore), Carl Banks (retired American football player), and Alistair Overeem (British-born martial artist and kickboxer who apparently has never married Jordan).No, never heard of them either. Perhaps that tells you something about CES's international celebrity standing. Or perhaps they're all busy this week.Justin Bieber on stage in Birmingham. We're hoping for better at CES. Photograph: Steve Thorne/RedfernsOh, but50 Centwill be there. Oh, and alsoJustin Bieber. Wonder what the chances are of getting them to do a duet? Stranger things have happened.Heck, this might be an interesting week after all.
Thousands of British email addresses and encrypted passwords, including those of defence, intelligence and police officials as well as politicians and Nato advisers, have been revealed on the internet following a security breach by hackers.Among the huge database of private information exposed by self-styled "hacktivists" are the details of 221 British military officials and 242 Nato staff. Civil servants working at the heart of the UK government – including several in the Cabinet Office as well as advisers to the Joint Intelligence Organisation, which acts as the prime minister's eyes and ears on sensitive information – have also been&nbsp;exposed.The hackers, who are believed to be part of the Anonymous group, gained unauthorised access over Christmas to the account information of Stratfor, a consultancy based in Texas that specialises in foreign affairs and security issues. The database had recorded in spreadsheets the user IDs – usually email addresses – and encrypted passwords of about 850,000 individuals who had subscribed to Stratfor's website.Some 75,000 paying subscribers also had their credit card numbers and addresses exposed, including 462 UK&nbsp;accounts.John Bumgarner, an expert in cyber-security at theUS Cyber Consequences Unit, a research body in Washington, has analysed the Stratfor breach for the Guardian. He has identified within the data posted by the hackers the details of hundreds of UK government officials, some of whom work in sensitive areas.Many of the email addresses are not routinely made public, and the passwords are all encrypted in code that can quickly be cracked using off-the-shelf software.Among the leaked email addresses are those of 221 Ministry of Defence officials identified by Bumgarner, including army and air force personnel. Details of a much larger group of US military personnel were leaked. The database has some 19,000 email addresses ending in the .mil domain of the US military.In the US case, Bumgarner has found, 173 individuals deployed in Afghanistan and 170 in Iraq can be identified. Personal data from former vice-presidentDan Quayle andformer secretary of state Henry Kissinger were also released.Other UK government departments have been affected: seven officials in the Cabinet Office have had their details exposed, 45 Foreign Office officials, 14 from the Home Office, 67 Scotland Yard and other police officials, and two employees with the royal household.There are also 23 people listed who work in the houses of parliament, including Jeremy Corbyn, Labour MP for Islington North, Lady Nicholson and Lord Roper. Corbyn said he had been unaware of the breach, adding that although his email address was public he was disturbed by the idea that his password could be cracked and used to delete or write emails in a way that "could be very damaging".Nicholson, speaking on a phone from Iraq, said she had no idea that her personal information had been hacked. She said she was very unhappy that private individuals had had their fundamental right to privacy violated. "To expose civil servants is monstrously unfair," she said. "Officials in sensitive areas like defence and the military could even be exposed to threats. Guarding data like this is extremely difficult, but it's not impossible, and we should do a great deal&nbsp;more."The hacking has had a big impact because Stratfor offers expert analysis of international affairs, including security issues, and attracts subscribers from sensitive government departments.The British victims include officials with the Joint Intelligence Organisation (JIO) responsible for assessing intelligence from all sources, including MI6 secret agents.A former deputy head of Whitehall's strategic horizons unit is listed. The unit is part of the JIO based in the Cabinet Officeand was set up four years ago to give early warning of potential serious problems that might have an impact on Britain's security or environment.The extent of the security risk posed by the breach is not known. Bumgarner said officials who did not take extra precautions in securing passwords through dual authentication or other protection systems could find email and other databases they use being compromised. "Any foreign intelligence service targeting Britain could find these emails useful in identifying individuals connected to sensitive government activities," he said.British officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were aware of the hacking but it did not pose a risk to national security. Passwords for their communications within Whitehall would be different from any used to access the Stratfor sites. Whitehall communications would also be protected by extra security walls, officials said.However, they added that their personal communications could be at risk if individuals used the same password as they used to access Stratfor for their bank accounts and other personal communications.A government spokesman said: "We are aware that subscriber details for the Stratfor website have been published in the public domain. At present, there is no indication of any threat to UK government systems. Advice and guidance on such threats is issued to government departments through the Government Computer Emergency Response Team."Stratfor has taken down its website while it investigates the security breach. The company says it is "working diligently to prevent it from ever happening again".This is just the latest action to hit the headlines by hackers associated with Anonymous. The group, whose loose collection of members are scattered around the world and linked through internet chatrooms, has previously targeted Visa, MasterCard and PayPal in protest at the companies' refusal to accept donations for the WikiLeaks website.
One of the biggest changes to the internet since its inception 30 years ago will begin this week. From Thursday, anyone will be able register any web address suffix for $185,000 (£119,000).Ford, for example, can apply for the rights for .ford, while Pepsi is, apparently, keen on buying up .pepsi so it can launch a drink.pepsi website. Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has announced City hall's intention to register .london. A number of other cities, including New York, Paris, Sydney, Rome and Berlin, are also planning to launch their own top level domains (TLD).The launch of the so-called "dot brand" names is the latest big change to the strict rules governing internet nomenclature since the launch of .com in 1985. Since then, industry body Icann has opened up the internet to country codes, such as .uk, .fr,  and .de, and 22 other generic suffixes, including .info, .gov, .eu, and .cat (for Catalan rather than felines).The biggest recent change came last year when .xxx was created to give adult websites their own space on the internet. The new top-level domain (TLD), launched with the slogan '"let's be adult about it" boasts 250,000 websites in the nine months since in went live last April.Icann is encouraging companies to "get ready for the next big thing". Rod Beckstrom, its chief executive and president, said: "Time is short. If you have not done so, now is the time to get expert advice and get your marketing people engaged to take advantage of new opportunities."However the proposed changes have not gone down well with some big businesses and governments. Jon Leibowitz, boss of the The federal agency fears that a quick expansion of domains, a project that has been several years in the making, would increase the likelihood that scammers could trick people who enter common misspellings, such as Amazon.comm. The government is also concerned that it will have a more difficult time getting information about website owners after the switch. "The potential for consumer harm is great, and Icann has the responsibility both to assess and mitigate these risks," four top FTC (Federal Trade Commission) officials wrote in a joint memo. The FTC has warned that the relaxation of the rules could be a "disaster". "We see enormous cost to consumers and businesses and not a lot of benefit," he said at a congressional hearing into the change last month.More than 40 of the world's biggest companies, including Coca-Cola and Johnson &amp; Johnson, have also complained that the expansion will increase costs, confuse consumers and increase the risk of internet fraud.Icann claim a detailed 50-question application form will deter fraudsters and ensure that companies copyright holders win the right to domains using their brands.Applicants have until 12 April to sign up, before an eight-month evaluation process. The first top-level domain sites are expected to go live in 2013.Roland LaPlante, chief marketing officer of domain registry Afilias, said he expects up to 4,000 applications.
"Why flash when you can flutter," it says on the box. Why indeed? I don't actually own a car myself, which leaves me with two options for myLashes4cars: to attach them on the brand new Fiesta I'm currently test-driving formy famous motoring column in Guardian Weekend magazine; or to put them on my girlfriend's car. I'm not sure how the Ford press office would react if one of their cars came back with headlamp lashes. Plus my girlfriend is away for the weekend. I take the easy option.It's an old Polo. Well, let's see if we can't tart her up a bit for the new year. The lashes are a little wide, but they trim down easily with a sharp pair of scissors. When my own eyebrows get a bit bushy, this car's owner takes the scissors to me; now this feels a little bit like revenge. Ha."Fun and easy to install," it also says on the box. And they are. I then curl them using the curling tool provided (a piece of wooden dowelling), for added cuteness, and a woman walking past says I should be a stylist. Good, now they're curled, I can see my lashes above the bonnet as I drive along.I don't think I'm treated any differently on the road. No one lets me in or out; chivalry appears to be well and truly dead in north-west London. No wolf-whistles either. I don't know, you make an effort, and for what? In Homebase carpark, a little boy notices, and points. His dad gives me a look that's about 25% amusement, 75% pity.To be honest, I don't think I'm really in the right kind of car for these. Something cute, such as a Fiat 500, would be perfect. Or a car with pop-up headlights, such as a first-generation Mazda MX-5. Then I really could flutter. But in this, I'm really just mutton dressed as lamb. It's also possible I'm not quite the right kind of driver. I'm thinking – you know – gender, age, that kind of thing.Will I have to live with them any longer, though? Bad news I'm afraid: my girlfriend, on her return, loves them.
Age:Unborn.Appearance:Like TV, only cooler.Unborn? Cool? What are you on about? It's that decrepit broadcaster behind The X Factor and I'm a Celebrity.That's ITV with a capital I. This thing's got a little i, just like …I spy?No! iTunes, iMovie, iPhoto, iPod, iCloud, iMac, iBook, iPhone, iPad …Aha! It's something to do with Apple, that fabulously creative company …That's right.I haven't finished. That fabulously creative company that sprays everything white and gives it a silly name.As usual, you're behind the times. It prefers black or matt-finish steel now.How very 80s. This is Steve Jobs' attempt to revolutionise television, is it?It is and it isn't. As most people noticed, Jobs died last October.Oops.But iTV does seem to have been his brainchild. According to his official biography, he "wanted to do for television sets what he had done for computers, music players and phones: make them simple and elegant". Not long before he died, he "finally cracked it".China's suicidal factory workers must be dancing in the streets. What will this magical device look like?Apple won't even admit it's working on the project, but rumours predict a 50in screen, a wireless internet connection and all sorts of "apps", the whole thing controlled by voice and movement.A la Xbox Kinect? I like it. You could program your TV to turn off whenever you stuck up two fingers. You'd never have to look at George Osborne's ugly mug again.Or even Wayne Rooney's. There are also claims that Apple wants to buy TV rights for the Premier League.Does the iPad come into this somehow? It usually does.You'll be able to "stream" content from one Apple device to another, so you could start watching a match while eating a curry in front of your TV …Then switch to your tablet so you wouldn't miss a second while you were on the toilet.Exactly. In fact that's probably the precise example Apple will use in its ads.Do say:"It just works."Don't say:"So did the old set."
Among the many criticisms lobbed at Microsoft by Apple's late founder Steve Jobs, one of the best remembered was about design: "They have absolutely no taste. And I don't mean that in a small way, I mean that in a big way, in the sense that they don't think of original ideas, and they don't bring much culture into their products."The latest version of Microsoft's operating system for smartphones is a revolutionary product for its parent company because it is considered to have both taste and culture. Windows Phone uses the company's Metro interface, whose graphics are so cutting-edge they can make the iPhone seem out of date. Its creators, Microsoft's in-house design team, claim it is changing not only how their products appear, but the company's philosophy.Windows 8, the latest version of Microsoft's world-dominating PC software, will be released later this year and has been given a Metro makeover. The worry is that Microsoft has discovered the power of good taste a little too late.Windows software is installed on 95% of the world's estimated 1.5bn home and business PCs, but in the western world sales of laptop and particularly desktop computers have reached a plateau. When Windows 8 is released later this year, millions of Microsoft customers will ask themselves whether they should spend money upgrading an old computer, or treat themselves to new one. For many, that new machine is likely to be not a PC but a tablet, and until now Apple has been the only company capable of selling tablets in large numbers."The ground is shifting under Microsoft," says Jean-Louis Gassée, former head of Apple Macintosh development and contender for the chief executive role in the late 1980s. "The world will no longer be PC-centric. We will see growing numbers of smartphones and tablets and we as users will spend more time on these devices. PCs will be reserved for the tasks of content creation."This could also be the year when investors form a view on whether long-serving Steve Ballmer – the 30th employee Microsoft hired and its chief executive for the last decade – should continue in the top job. Ballmer's efforts to catch up with Google on web search, and play a meaningful part in the mobile  world, have so far proved fruitless.Windows Phone took just 1.5% of the mobile operating system market in the third quarter of 2011, according to research firm Gartner, compared to over 50% for Android and 15% for Apple.These setbacks have not mattered while Microsoft remains dominant in PCs – but all that could change if PCs no longer dominate. Research firm IDC forecasts that in affluent western economies, desktop computer sales will slip from 57.8m a year in 2010 to 49.8m by 2015. Laptop sales dipped by some 7m in 2011; they are expected to recover this year, but go on to grow at a far slower pace than previously. Sales of tablets are heading the other way, rising from 17.6m in 2010 to 77.4m last year and a projected 326m in 2015."This is going to be one of the most important years in Microsoft's history," says Gartner analyst David Cearley. "The desktop era has been supplanted by a new mobile computing era and it makes Windows 8 the most critical version of Microsoft's operating system we've seen in a long time."Cearley says the transition is "as big, if not bigger" than that made when Microsoft moved from its command-line operating system DOS – where words without graphics appeared teletext-style on a black screen – to the Windows format. If Windows 8 fails to become a credible alternative to Apple and Android, will Ballmer be replaced? "It's too early to say," he says. "If it fails badly, the market in general is going to be taking a very close look at Microsoft and that could include changes in management."The noises surrounding Windows 8, which is in limited trial circulation with opinion formers, are far from negative. Its interface should help: the Industrial Designers Society of America named Metro in its mobile phone form "best in show" last year.As few will have used it, here is a brief description. With white text on a simple background, it uses large type as the main visual element and for the controls. Windows, boxes and frames are banished. Elsewhere, the usual motionless app icons are replaced with animated tiles which draw in content from whatever they represent – a Twitter feed, the weather, photo albums. The name "Metro" refers to the uncluttered signs seen on the  public transport system in Seattle, where Microsoft is based.Last month, design director Steve Kaneko, who has been with the company 20 years,suggested Metro had started to change the Microsoft philosophy. "We have a smarter idea of who we are and who we aren't, and this goes back to Metro. It turned out to be something very authentic and unique to Microsoft and that confidence is attracting better designers, better developers and better programme managers, because they sense that we are no longer looking over our shoulders at other companies."Metro is being applied to the Xbox games console dashboard as well as phones and PCs, to imitate Apple's strategy of devices that are compatible and members of the same family."We are reducing the noise," Kaneko said. "Content and information is getting denser and denser and the only way to prepare ourselves for the future is to strip ourselves out of the equation, so that what you are seeing is all about you and not about us."But early versions of Windows 8 suggest that Microsoft will, for now at least, steer clear of changing those elements that are must-haves for its business user base. Microsoft Office seems to have been relegated to an app, but when it is fired up brings a more traditional Windows look back to the screen.Crucially, Windows 8 will be compatible both with the Intel chips predominantly found in PCs, and with chips designed by the British group ARM, whose products are now found in almost every smartphone and tablet.Microsoft has taken what Gassée calls a "Swiss army knife approach"; not necessarily a good thing, he believes. "If Microsoft tries too hard to have their PC and their tablet rolled into one, it's going to be a failure."In fact, analysts say Windows 8 has been primarily designed for tablets, and that most PC users, be they at home or at work, will remain with earlier versions for now and update in a few years with Windows 9.When Windows 7 was released in 2009, it boosted full-year revenues in the consumer software division by $3.5bn to $18.5bn. That is unlikely to be repeated this time: Gartner predicts Microsoft will have no more than a 20% share of the mobile market in three to five years.But analyst Mark Moerdler at Bernstein Research says the gloom surrounding Microsoft's share price, which, at $28, is down by nearly a quarter on its five-year high of $38, is based on a doomsday scenario that will not come to pass. "We believe threats from tablet growth, alternate operating systems and cloud computing are manageable."Microsoft revenues rose 12% to nearly $70bn last year. Lower uptake of tablets in favour of PCs in emerging markets, and sales of its own tablets, will maintain momentum, with Moerdler predicting that Windows will see average revenue growth of 6% until 2015. Entertainment devices, driven by the enduring popularity of the Xbox, will grow 8%.Having seen off the threat from Jobs's Macintosh in the 1980s, and developed an internet browser still holding its own against rival offerings from Google and others, Microsoft has proved that, when faced with competition, it can fight hard and win. If Metro does not save Microsoft, it should at least ensure a graceful decline.
Bioshock InfiniteXbox 360, PS3, PC, 2K Games, out: autumnThis is Irrational Games' follow-up to its outstanding 2007 first-person shooter,BioShock. The action shifts from underwater to a floating Edwardian city traversed via a complex system of municipal one-man rollercoasters. Fantastical enough, but with gameplay making use of holes in the space-time continuum and featuring a gigantic,mechanical birdman with homicidal tendencies, it simply cannot arrive soon enough.Stuart RichardsonNinja Gaiden 3Xbox 360, PS3, Wii U, Tecmo Koei, out: 23 MarRyu Hayabusa returns for a third instalment of hacking and slashing, with, of course, a difficulty level that ensures players will spend an awful lot of time, well, dying. This time he is doing some freelance work for the government, and while Team Ninja have said that they are going to tone down on general gore, it looks like they have simply added copious amounts of blood to compensate. A&nbsp;new competitive multiplayer is also&nbsp;promised.Jack HarringtonStreet Fighter X TekkenXbox 360, PS3, Capcom, out: 9 MarchThe once unthinkable collaboration between Capcom and Namco will produce two games, but only Capcom's take on it will be out in 2012 – there's still no release date forTekken X Street Fighter. In the meantime this is a mouthwatering two-on-two, tag-team fighter made in theStreet Fighter IVengine, with theTekkencharacters smartly integrated into the game despite their lack ofStreet Fighter's signature fireballs.Nathan BrownUncharted: Golden AbyssPS Vita, Sony, out: 22 FebSony's big adventure series gets small to lead the charge on its forthcoming handheld console Vita. Doubts linger as to whether this will be a "proper" Nathan Drake game – original studio Naughty Dog is busy with PS3 – but caretaker Sony Bend has stuck to the rigorous performance capture process behind the unique emotion and humour of the PS3 series, and with the handheld's twin sticks it plays like the full-fat version too.Nathan DitumGrand Theft Auto VXbox 360, PS3, PC, Rockstar, release date  to be confirmedWith only a brief trailer to offer clues, speculation remains rife about the details of the latestGTA. For a start, the potential 2012 release date might yet still turn into 2013 – though this hasn't stopped conclusions being leapt at with abandon… A return to an LA-like sprawling cityscape, with an expansive countryside? Multiple playable protagonists? Mini-games including golf and even yoga? Don't expect the buzz to&nbsp;die down any time soon.Felix AtkinNi No Kuni: Wrath of  the White WitchPS3, Namco Bandai, out: autumnJapanese RPGs certainly aren't to everyone's taste butNi No Kunipromises to offer something more. This is the first game from famed animators Studio Ghibli, bringing their&nbsp;unique vision to the story of a 13-year-old travelling to a magical world with his fairy companion. It has garnered rave reviews in Japan, and if&nbsp;nothing else will look simply beautiful.Toby MosesMass Effect 3Xbox 360, PS3, PC, EA, out: MarchBringing to a close the story that developer BioWare began in 2007,Mass&nbsp;Effect 3is the final chapter in the epic tale of Commander Shepherd and his (or her) crew. For many it will conclude what has been the greatest sci-fi trilogy sinceStar Wars, so anticipation is high, and while the addition of multiplayer to the already superlative single-player mode has raised a few eyebrows, there's confidence that&nbsp;BioWare can pull it off.Kelly MacDonaldThe Last GuardianPS3, Sony, out: 2012The fact thatThe Last Guardianis made by revered studio Team Ico makes it one to watch. They are the creators of enchanting, emotionally affecting gaming worlds such asShadow of the Colossus,and withThe Last Guardianthey look to be building something very special in that mould again: an adventure game about the peculiar friendship between a boy on the run and a massive, feathered beast.Will FreemanMetal Gear Solid: RisingXbox 360, PS3, Konami, out: MayBack from the brink of cancellation,Risinghas been given a new lease of life by Platinum Games, the studio behind brilliant occult brawlerBayonetta. The action, then, should be great. Whether this notoriously plot-averse developer can uphold theMetal Gearseries's proud tradition of vaulting melodrama and cod-philosophical speechifying is another matter…Rob GallagherMax Payne 3Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Rockstar, out: MarchRockstar have turned their antihero into an overweight, balding man with a beard. And he's swapped the black leather jacket for Hawaiian shirts. What gives? Turns out Max has left New York City for a new life in São Paulo, Brazil, but he still can't stay out of trouble – great news for fans of high-def run-and-gun action and the neo-noir grit that has defined the series.Bulent YusufFinal Fantasy XIII-2Xbox 360, PS3, Square Enix, out: 3 FebruaryFinal Fantasy XIII-2is due to resume the saga of the world of Pulse, keep and refine the stunning Paradigm battle system, but introduce a much-needed element of non-linearity. Players can now jump around in time as well as space. Baby kept, bathwater thrown out. And as the unbearably jocky Snow returns only as a non-player,FF XIII-2could be perfect.Serge Pennings
To say that John Brockman is a literary agent is like saying that David Hockney is a photographer. For while it's true that Hockney has indeed made astonishingly creative use of photography, and Brockman is indeed a successful literary agent who represents an enviable stable of high-profile scientists and communicators, in both cases the description rather understates the reality. More accurate ways of describing Brockman would be to say that he is a "cultural impresario" or, as his friend Stewart Brand puts it, an&nbsp;"intellectual enzyme". (Brand goes on helpfully to explain that an enzyme is "a biological catalyst – an adroit enabler of otherwise impossible things".)The first thing you notice about Brockman, though, is the interesting way he bridges CP Snow's "Two Cultures" – the parallel universes of the arts and the sciences. When profilers ask him for pictures, one he often sends shows him with Andy Warhol and Bob Dylan, no less. Or shots of the billboard photographs of his head that were used to publicise an eminently forgettable 1968 movie, . But he's also one of the few people around who can phone Nobel laureates in science with a good chance that they will take the call.Cynics might say that this has something to do with the fact that Brockman has a reputation as an agent who can extract massive advances from publishers. (There's a story, perhaps apocryphal, that he regards books that earn out their advances as failures because it means he didn't ask for enough in the first place.) And he is indeed a hustler who spotted early on that there was a massive audience for writing about science, but there's more to it than that. Brockman is genuinely passionate about big ideas. He is fascinated,he toldWiredmagazine, "by people who can take the materials of the culture in the arts, literature and science and put them together in their own way. We live in a mass-produced culture where many people, even many established cultural arbiters, limit themselves to secondhand ideas. Show me people who create their own reality, who don't accept an ersatz, appropriated reality. Show me the empiricists – and not just in the sciences – who are out there doing it, rather than talking about and analysing the people who are doing it."Brockman's immersion in both sides of the Two Cultures runs deep. He did an MBA at Columbia in the early 1960s and started his own financial leasing company on Park Avenue. But a friend introduced him to avant-garde theatre, thereby launching him on the primrose path into the arts.He then got involved in the city's underground movie scene,&nbsp;becoming manager of the Film-Makers' Cinematheque, the home of underground cinema, in 1965, where his mandate was to produce a festival that expanded the form of cinema. He commissioned 30 performance pieces by world-class artists, dancers, poets, dramatists and musicians. The resulting festival made a big splash. "Intermedia", the term Brockman coined and used as his logo, was suddenly hot. A number of notable art-world figures were immersed in the genre, among them Les Levine, the "USCO" Group, La Monte Young, Terry Riley, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, Andy Warhol (which explains the photograph), several kinetic and "happenings" artists, avant-garde film-makers and dramatists, the Velvet Underground, and composer John Cage.This immersion in New York's arts scene also led to deep interest in science and technology. Many of the pieces at the festival were informed by artists' interest in cybernetics. They were reading and discussing books by scientists. (So much for CP Snow's castigation of arts folk for their indifference to science!) Rauschenberg suggested to Brockman that he read George Gamow'sOne, Two, Three… InfinityandThe Mysterious Universe. Gerd Stern, co-founder of media collective USCO, who performed in conjunction with talks by Marshall McLuhan, introduced Brockman to several scientists and eventually arranged for him to meet McLuhan and his colleagues.In cyberspace, Brockman is best known forEdge.org, a site he founded as a continuation of what he describes as "a failed art experiment" by his late friend, performance artistJames Lee Byars. Byars believed, Brockman recalls, "that to arrive at a satisfactory plateau of knowledge it was pure folly to go to Widener Library at Harvard and read six million books. Instead, he planned to gather the 100 most brilliant minds in the world in a room, lock them in and have them ask one another the questions they'd been asking themselves. The expected result – in theory – was to be a synthesis of all thought." But it didn't work out that way. Byars did identify his 100 most brilliant minds and phoned each of them. The result: 70 hung up on him!Byars died in 1997, but Brockman persisted with his idea, or at any rate with the notion that it might be possible to do something analogous using the internet. And so Edge.org was born as a kind of high-octane online salon with Brockman as its editor and host. He describes it as "a conversation. We look for people whose creative work has expanded our notion of who and what we are. We encourage work on the cutting edge of the culture and the investigation of ideas that have not been generally exposed."As of now, the roll call of current and deceased members ofthe Edge salonruns to 660. They include many of the usual suspects (Richard Dawkins, Craig Venter and Stewart Brand, for example, plus Daniel Dennett, Steven Pinker, George Lakoff, Daniel Kahneman, Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Murray Gell-Mann, Nick Humphrey and Richard Thaler, to name just a few.). It's a predominately male crowd, with women accounting for only 16.5% of the members – which is probably a reflection of the fact that science is still largely a male-dominated business. There are a lot of what one might call the "digerati" – the Clay Shirkys, Douglas Couplands, Steven Johnsons and Howard Rheingolds of this world. Two generations of the Dyson clan are represented – the great physicist Freeman and his two kids, Esther and George. Edge seems biased towards the Anglo-Saxon world; at any rate, there are surprisingly few continental Europeans or Asians. Brits, on the other hand, figure prominently: names that stand out include those of Brian Cox, Charlie Leadbeater, Colin Blakemore, David Goodhart, John Barrow, Karl Sabbagh, Martin Rees, Mark Pagel, Lewis Wolpert, Matt Ridley, Patrick Bateson, Simon Baron-Cohen, Ross Anderson, Tim Berners-Lee and Helena Cronin, for example.Asked how he had assembled this intriguing posse of thinkers, Brockman replied: "It's all based on word of mouth and reputation. Edge, contrary to how it may appear, is not exclusive. Elitist, yes, but in the good sense of an open elite, based on meritocracy. The way someone is added to the Edge list is when I receive a word from a Steven&nbsp;Pinker, a Brian Eno, a Martin Rees or a Richard Dawkins, telling me to do so. It's as simple as that&nbsp;and I don't recall ever saying no in&nbsp;such circumstances."Ever since it appeared online, Edge.org has consistently been one of the most thought-provoking and interesting sites on the web. As I write, the front-page lead isan extraordinary pieceby the evolutionary biologist Mark Pagel in which he argues that humans' capacity for social learning has made us less intelligent than we like to think we are. "If I'm living in a population of people," he writes, "and I can observe those people, and see what they're doing, seeing what innovations they're coming up with, I can choose among the best of those ideas, without having to go through the process of innovation myself. So, for example, if I'm trying to make a better spear, I really have no idea how to make that better spear. But if I notice that somebody else in my society has made a very good spear, I can simply copy him without having to understand why."What this means is that social learning may have set up a situation in humans where, over the last 200,000 years or so, we have been selected to be very, very good at copying other people, rather than innovating on our own. We like to think we're a highly inventive, innovative species. But social learning means that most of us can make use of what other people do and not have to invest the time and energy in innovation ourselves."This essay is a perfect illustration of Brockman's idea of what Edge.org should do:to serve as a forumfor big, intriguing and/or disturbing ideas advanced by intellectuals who have a track record of major achievements in their fields. He doesn't seem to have much time for the scholar who crawls along the frontiers of knowledge with a magnifying glass.This philosophy is also what drives one of his annual rituals. Every year, on the anniversary of the launch of the site, he poses a question and invites Edge participants to answer it.What kinds of question? "Questions that inspire answers we can't possibly predict. My goal is to provoke people into thinking thoughts they normally might not have." In previous years, the questions have included:What do you believe even though you cannot prove it? (2005)What is your dangerous idea? (2006)What are you optimistic about? (2007)What have you changed your mind about? (2008)What will change everything? (2009)In 2010, Brockman's question was: "How is the internet changing the way you think?" He received 172 replies in the form of mini-essays of varying length. These were published on the Edge site in the usual way, but 150 of them have now been collected between hard covers under Brockman's editorship. The result: a whopping hardback,How is the Internet Changing the Way You Think? The Net's Impact on Our Minds and Future, published by Atlantic Books.Reading it over Christmas, I was intrigued by the book and emailed John Brockman to discuss some of the&nbsp;thoughts it evoked. What follows is an edited transcript of our exchanges.JOHN BROCKMAN: the net, elites and life on the EdgeJohn NaughtonI see you've been variously described as a "cultural impresario" and an "intellectual enzyme". How wouldyoudescribe yourself?John BrockmanWallace Stevens wrote in his poem "Man With the Blue Guitar":Throw away the lights, the definitions,And say of what you see in the darkThat it is this or that it is that,But do not use the rotted names.Any attempt to describe myself would end in awkwardness, confusion and contradiction. Also, I like to keep changing the subject, to surprise myself.JNWhat's your intellectual background? From which of the original "Two Cultures" do you come? I'm an engineer, so this two/three cultures stuff really resonates with me.JBIn 1944, at three and a half years old, I was stricken with spinal meningitis and was in a coma for six weeks at Boston's children's hospital. The doctors had given up on me when, unexpectedly, I opened my eyes. I am told the first thing I said was: "I want to go to New York."I arrived there at age 20 in 1961 for graduate school at Columbia. I was immediately struck by, and impressed with, the argumentative and exciting culture in which conversations were being carried out month after month in the pages of literary magazines such asCommentary,Partisan Reviewand the UK'sEncounter.For a dollar or two, I was privileged to look over the shoulders of the intelligentsia of the day – Lionel Trilling, Stephen Spender, Hannah Arendt, Alfred Kazin et al – as they went at one another over important issues such as the Eichmann trial and/or more trivial pursuits as to who slept with whom on a particular Bloomsbury weekend or who was still&nbsp;a Stalinist after the purge trials&nbsp;of 1937.It's interesting to note that while I was ostensibly at Columbia to study economics and finance, my interests and instincts were strictly cultural and I made the most of the resources of a great university and New York City to educate myself in the areas that interested me and also to situate myself in the milieu where the action was taking place.JNHow did you get involved in the arts?JBI quickly realised, but did not articulate, something the anthropologist Gregory Bateson told me 10 years later: that of all our human&nbsp;inventions, economic man was by far the dullest. A friend suggested I come downtown at night and help out at Theatre Genesis, an off-Broadway theatre in St Mark's in the Bowery, the avant-garde church that also was home to a bustling poetry centre.So every night I would show up in my three-piece banker's suit and help set up the theatre. Working with me were the 21-year-old Sam Shepard, a young playwright from the midwest, and his room-mate, Charlie Mingus Jr.One of the artists I got to know was the poet Gerd Stern, who had, on occasion, collaborated with Marshall McLuhan, incorporating live McLuhan lectures into USCO intermedia performances. Gerd, with his unkempt hair and abundant beard, was an odd counterpoint to the buttoned-down classics professor from Toronto, but they got along famously. Through Gerd and other artists, McLuhan's ideas had begun to permeate the art world, though it would be several more years before they hit the mainstream.Gerd introduced me to the anthropologist Edmund Carpenter, McLuhan's collaborator, who in turn invited me to Fordham University in 1967 to meet McLuhan, Father John Culkin and other members of that charmed circle of communications theorists. The discussion centred on the idea that we had gone beyond Freud's invention of the unconscious and, for the first time, had rendered visible the conscious.JNOK, so you're deeply immersed in the avant-garde scene and entranced by McLuhan. But how did you get from there to an involvement with science and technology?JBIt was McLuhan who turned me on toThe Mathematical Theory of Communication, the book by Bell Labs scientists Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver that began: "The word 'communication' will be used here in a very broad sense to include all of the procedures by which one mind may affect another. This, of course, involves not only written and oral speech, but also music, the pictorial arts, the theatre, the ballet and in fact all human behaviour."He also pointed me to Oxford zoologist JZ Young's 1950 BBC Reith lectures entitled "Doubt and Certainty in Science". And I recall his quoting one memorable line that has stuck with&nbsp;me and informed my thinking since that day: "We create tools and mould ourselves through our use of them."John Cage had also picked up on all these ideas. He convened weekly dinners during which he tried them out, as well as his mushroom recipes, on a group of young artists, poets and writers. I was fortunate to have been included at these dinners where we talked about media, communications, art, music, philosophy, the ideas of McLuhan and Norbert Wiener. McLuhan had pointed out that by inventing electric technology, we had externalised our central nervous systems; that is, our minds.Cage went further to say that we now had to presume that "there's only one mind, the one we all share". He pointed out that we had to go beyond private and personal mindsets and understand how radically things had changed. Mind had become socialised. "We can't change our minds without changing the world," he said. Mind as a manmade extension became our environment, which he characterised as "the collective consciousness", which we could tap into by creating "a global utilities network". In some ways in 1964 and 1965 he was envisioning what would become the internet, long before the tools became available for its implementation.Inspired also by Buckminster Fuller and others, I began to read avidly in the field of information theory, cybernetics and systems theory. I also seized the opportunity to become the first "McLuhanesque" consultant and producer and soon had a thriving business working with clients that included General Electric, Metromedia, Columbia Pictures, Scott Paper and the White House.I wrote a synthesis of these ideas in my first book,By the Late John Brockman'(1969), taking information theory – the mathematical theory of communications – as a model for regarding all human experience. A main theme has continued to inform my work over the years: new technologies = new perceptions.An incident from those years stands out. During an evening at dinner, Cage reached across the table and handed me a copy ofCyberneticsby Norbert Wiener. Fast forward two years. Around 1967, I spent two days with Stewart Brand while he was assembling the first edition of theWhole Earth Catalogand we sat and read the book together, underlining as we went along. Central to our interest was the notion of "feedback", the non-linear relationship of input to output. It was apparent that the ideas in cybernetic theory were far more important than the applications for which the mathematical descriptions were designed.Stewart and I have been in touch regularly since then – a 45-year connection.JNWas it difficult to come up with Edge's 2010 question, about the internet?JBEvery August, I begin a conversation with three of the original members of Edge – Stewart, Kevin Kelly and George Dyson. Eventually, I came up with the idea of asking how the internet is affecting the scientific work, lives, minds and reality of the contributors. A big consideration of this question is the difference between "we" and "you". When people respond to "we" questions, their words tend to resemble expert papers, public pronouncements or talks delivered from a stage. "You" leads us to share specifics of our lived experience. The challenge then is not to let responses slip into life's more banal details.JNI was struck by something that one respondent, Evgeny Morozov, said about his fear of a chasm opening "between the disengaged masses and the overengaged elites". The elites, he goes on, "continue thriving in the new environment, exploiting superb online tools for scientific research and collaboration" etc. Actually, it's clear that many – most? – of your respondents are, par excellence, members of those elites. That's not a criticism, but it might mean that a casual reader could come away from the book thinking that&nbsp;public engagement with the internet and its significance is rather more elevated and intelligent than is actually the case.JBThe problem with a discussion that uses the word "elites" is that the word is automatically perceived as a pejorative. But that's not how I feel about it at all. Elites are a problem if they're closed and exclusive. Elites that&nbsp;are open, inclusive and based on merit can be nurturing. Also, members of elites give one another permission to be great. One example is the Beat poets. Another example is the mix of people who created Silicon Valley.While Edge is a read-only site, the cast of characters contributing to the various projects is ever-changing and inclusion is by recommendation of members of the community. That said, Edge is not for everybody. It helps to know some stuff. But one thing you won't find in the responses is arrogance. The site stands or falls on the quality of the questions it asks.In terms of this particular question – "Is the internet changing the way you think?" – there's the question of people having skin in the game. The contributors to Edge are what I call third-culture thinkers or intellectuals. Not only are they focused on science-minded pursuits based on evidence and empiricism, they are also public communicators, reaching out to the public by means of their books, lectures, etc. They live by their wits, and doing so in the changing times of the digital age is a challenge. Their concerns are very different than, say, the casual user, who has signed up for a&nbsp;social network and by default becomes the product whose private information is sold to advertisers.JNIn a way, the shadow of Marshall McLuhan looms over the conversation. Two of his aphorisms in particular – "The medium is the message" and "We shape our tools and later they shape us" – seem particularly apposite. The first captured the thought that what's important about a medium is not the content of the messages it carries but what the medium is doing to those who use it. That seemed to me to emerge from lots of the responses. And the meme about our tools shaping us surfaced again and again in the essays.JBMcLuhan is certainly central to this crowd and to the book. This is interesting because for more than a decade his name was barely mentioned. He certainly was an influence on me in terms of my intellectual development and career. In one typical conversation, he recounted his ideas on how psychoanalysis had gone the way of the gods and we were in a new realm where we were looking at the evolution of patterns and information. A lot has been written about the differences between atoms and bits, but the first time I heard it was from Marshall. For anyone who met him during the 60s, his manner and the way in which he presented himself were remarkable and never to be forgotten. Sitting down at lunch, you would be faced with machine gun-like expositions of facts and ideas ranging from medieval classical literature to arcane scientific matters concerning the aural space of the native North American Eskimos, the focus of the work of his collaborator Edmund Carpenter.It was Carpenter who explained to me what he thought was the secret behind Marshall's brilliance. At the time, McLuhan was hospitalised after being operated on for the removal of a brain tumour. "And all those years we thought about the brilliance and we thought it was just Marshall," Ted said. "But it was the pills he was taking for symptoms of what turned out to be the tumour."JNI noticed that Martin Rees and Richard Dawkins avoided talking about themselves and wondered if there might be something cultural – ie&nbsp;British – at work here? I'm an Irishman and so can say this!JBActually not. In this regard, the major challenge is to get 150 to 200 of the most brilliant people in the world to follow a simple set of guidelines. And one of the pronouncements this year is: "No anecdotes about spouses, significant others, kids, family pets."The reason for this prohibition is that Edge is a conversation – it's not a magazine written for the public. The audience for the contributors to Edge is the other contributors. The readers have the opportunity to look over the shoulders of some extraordinarily gifted individuals as they go back and forth in the battle of ideas. And since the scientific method is central to our activities, I want to avoid the personal and focus on evidence.JNI was pleased to see quite a lot about the "collective IQ" of the net – which is something that the mainstream media don't seem to understand at all. A passage in William Calvin's essay where he talks about the net enabling us to "stand on the shoulders of a lot more giants at the same time" reminded me of an older metaphor coined by, I think, Doug Engelbart, who invented the mouse, windowing interfaces and a lot of other seminal computing technology: "Power steering for the mind".JBOne of the concepts that people were talking about in the late 60s was "the collective conscious". McLuhan made specific reference to it on many occasions. Cage used to talk about "the mind we all share". The cultural anthropologist Edward T Hall, who was in that circle, and studied what he called the silent languages of time and space, once pointed out to me that our most significant, most critical inventions were not those ever considered to be inventions, but those that appeared to be innate and natural.His candidate for the most important invention was not the capture of fire, not the printing press, not the discovery of electricity, not the discovery of the structure of DNA. Our most important invention was… talking. This was something considered innate and natural, or actually something that was probably&nbsp;never even considered, until&nbsp;the first human rendered it visible&nbsp;by saying: "We're talking" – probably an important moment in our&nbsp;evolutionary past.The internet is such a new invention,&nbsp;a code for the collective conscious or "distributed networked intelligence". The internet is our collective externalised mind. I think of&nbsp;it in terms of the concept of feedback: the infinite oscillation of our&nbsp;collective conscious interacting with itself, adding&nbsp;a fuller, richer dimension to what it means to be human.It's not about computers. It's not about what music your friends are listening to. It's about human communication. "We're talking."How is the Internet Changing the Way You Think?, edited by John Brockman, is published by Atlantic Books.John Naughton'snew book'From Gutenberg to Zuckerberg: What You Really Need to Know About the Internet'is published by Quercus Books
The key to survival – in business as in the jungle – is to be able to learn from your mistakes. The strange thing is that some industries haven't yet figured that out. Chief among them are the so-called "content" industries – the ones represented by huge multimedia corporations which own movie studios, record labels and publishing houses.Every 20 years or so, technology throws up a challenge to these industries. When audio cassettes arrived, for example, the music industry fought tooth and nail to have the technology outlawed or crippled. Why? Because it would encourage "piracy". What happened? The record labels wound up making lots of money from cassettes as well as records.Then along came the video recorder, and the movie industry fought it tooth and nail because it was the handmaiden of the devil – on account of facilitating "piracy". What happened? Same story: it turned out that the studios were able to make tons of money from videocassettes, because films continued to sell long after they had disappeared from cinemas.Since then the story has been repeated at least twice more – with DVDs and portable MP3 players. So you'd think that the penny would have dropped in what might loosely be called the minds of those who run the content industries. The lesson is that new technologies that look like threats can become glorious opportunities. But there's still no evidence that media moguls have grasped that simple idea.Which brings us to the internet and the Sopa opera currently playing to packed audiences in the US Congress. The initials stand for the "Stop Online Piracy Act" and it is currently before the House of Representatives, which for these purposes is a fully paid-up branch of the movie industry. Its sister bill in the Senate is the Protect IP Act (Pipa). Both bills propose law that would allow the US attorney general to create blacklists of websites to be censored, cut off from funding or removed from search engine indexes.Pipa was introduced to the Senate judiciary committee in May of last year, and quickly passed through its initial stages until senator Ron Wyden, a congressional leader on free speech matters, managed to put a temporary hold on the bill. But Pipa is not dead, merely sleeping.Sopa arrived in the House in late October and despite noisyopposition from a broad coalitionof engineers, entrepreneurs, internet users, developers, student groups, legal scholars and libertarian groups, the House judiciary committee scheduled&nbsp;only a single, heavily biased,&nbsp;hearing on it.What's wrong with Sopa?Well, for starters it probably violates the US constitution and would certainly curtail free speech, threaten whistleblowers and undermine human rights. If implemented, it could put the US government on the same side of the line as China, Burma, Iran, Saudi Arabia and other authoritarian regimes which seek to control and censor the internet.But the most worrying aspect of these bills is that they would distort the architecture of the internet in ways that would cripple its capacity for enabling innovation – something that has beeneloquently pointed out to senators and congressmenby many of the network's original architects. The reason for their concern is that the proposed legislation would tamper with the Domain Name System (DNS) which is one of the core components of the net. This is the system which translates domain names (such aswww.observer.co.uk) into a machine-readable code that enables any computer in the world to find the site.Sopa and Pipa would give US authorities the power to block sites accused of copyright infringement at the domain level – in other words to make them disappear from the internet&nbsp;by rendering them unfindable. (This is what happened briefly to WikiLeaks in the furore following Cablegate, and it's exactly what authoritarian regimes everywhere would like to do to sites that go on about democracy, human rights and other annoyances.)Now you might say: what's wrong with that? Shouldn't a site devoted to wholesale piracy be "disappeared"? The answer, in some cases, might be yes –provided it's done with due process and under judicial supervision. But the problem with DNS-blocking is that it's indiscriminate. The vast majority of the world's (legitimate) websites and services are hosted on servers which exist under the umbrella of single domain names. A major hosting service (Blogger.com, for example) will contain many thousands of individual blog sites, a few of which may be fostering or practising piracy. But a DNS block would make the entire Blogger.com universe vanish.Some people think that Sopa/ Pipa are too absurd to pass into law. Hopefully they're right. But given the dysfunctional nature of the US Congress right now, I wouldn't bet on it.
Price £16,995MPG 44.8Top speed 121mphI met James Bond last weekend. Not 007, unfortunately, but another one. This one works in a gift shop in Bath. When he handed back my credit card and receipt he said: "Is that really your name?""What, Martin?" (Actually I was quite pleased with that, but&nbsp;Bond didn't bat an&nbsp;eyelid.)"No, the Love bit.""Oh… Yes, it is. What's yours?""James Bond."There was a longish pause. I was genuinely lost for words. In the end I said: "Is that a bit tricky at times?" The serious young man said: "It's a&nbsp;nightmare. I'm going to change it, but haven't decided what to yet."Names can go wildly against type. But I don't think getting it wrong is as bad as we sometimes fear. The fact that a week later I'm still thinking about James Bond is surely a good thing for him. And 15 years after Michael Howerd was charged £20  for a £10 overdraft and changed his name to Mr Yorkshire Bank Plc Are&nbsp;Fascist Bastards, I still wonder how he's getting on. Is he Mr Howerd again or has he stuck it out?The point is, a&nbsp;name that sticks in the memory is a huge plus for marketeers when it&nbsp;comes to creating and&nbsp;positioning a brand. Think Freelander, Sunbeam, Viper, Mustang… And the less seductive but equally memorable Swinger, Probe, Brat, Big Foot and, my favourite, Bongo Friendee. My brother drives a Mitsubishi Pajero. He loves the fact thatpajerois Spanish slang for "wanker". In his eyes an absolute bonus. I think it may have been the reason he bought it.The Pepsi Challenge of the motoring world is the "badge test". Would you perceive a car differently if the badge was different? Would  you rather drive a VW Passat or  a Skoda Octavia? They're essentially  the same car. What about a Toyota IQ or an Aston Martin Cygnet?This week I've been driving a&nbsp;Lancia Delta. The word Lancia conjures up an immediate image of style and elegance. Possibly a bit dodgy mechanically, but who cares – it's Italian. But there is no Lancia distribution network in Britain so Fiat, the parent company, has badged it a Chrysler. Confusingly, Fiat also owns Jeep and Alfa Romeo. I'd have thought either of these two would have been sexier. The Italian-American carmaking group is&nbsp;clearly thinking commercially and is favouring its American inheritance. It's only a name. It shouldn't make a&nbsp;difference, but somehow it does.The badge-swapped Delta is a&nbsp;creditable vehicle. It's at the luxury end of the mid-car range and it's roomy and well made. There's leather to sit on, chrome to smudge and rubbery nubs to finger and press. The instrument panel is classy. The handling can feel a&nbsp;little aimless at times, but the Fiat-built turbocharged engines – a 1.4-litre petrol unit and either a 1.6 or 2-litre diesel – are very driveable. Your best bet in terms of economy and everyday usability is the 1.6 diesel. The Delta gets five stars for safety. It has stability control and&nbsp;comes with the full set of airbags.Would you buy one instead of a&nbsp;Golf? Depends on how much you want to stand out from the crowd. It certainly looks unique. And if that fails to wow passersby, you can always tell them it's a Lancia.Calling all PistonheadsThe Performance Car Show: powered byPistonHeads.comis the place to be for sports and performance-car enthusiasts when it takes over Birmingham's National Exhibition Centre on 14-15 January 2012.A selection of the world's most exciting cars will be on show in the Supercar Paddock, with visitors able to get up close to the McLaren MP4-12C, Ferrari 458 Italia, Lamborghini Gallardo LP 560-4 and Nissan GT-R among many others.The new BMW 3 Series Saloon will be unveiled to the UK public on the Autocar stand at the show, where it will sit alongside the Ginetta G60, Range Rover Evoque and Porsche Cayman R. Also on hand will be the Autocar road test team, who'll be conducting live Q&amp;A sessions at 12:00, 14:00 and 16:00 on both public visitor days.Two kit-car launches will cater for those with a passion for hand-built machinery. R-Tec Motorsports (RTM) will launch its mid-engine rear-wheel drive La Bala, while SDR Sportscars will be showcasing its latest model of the successful V-Storm, equipped with a Subaru Impreza engine.Replica vehicle manufacturer Hawk Cars will display its version of the Lancia Alitalia Stratos within the show's Hand Built British Sports Car Pavilion, which features machinery from the UK's best home-grown engineering and design talent.The Performance Car Show is also the perfect opportunity for visitors to give their own vehicle some tender loving care. Award-winning car-care product manufacturer Dodo Juice returns this year, offering visitors the opportunity to create their own car wax by purchasing its Home Brew kits.Also present will be Porsche Club Great Britain, returning with a display of the iconic marque's models, and Noble, who will reveal its exposed carbon model of the M600 for the first time.The Performance Car Show: Powered by PistonHeads runs alongside Autosport International, the world's greatest motorsport show, with tickets offering entry to both areas. Displaying some of motorsport's most iconic machinery, visitors will have the chance to see such stars as Formula One racers Paul Di Resta and David Coulthard, before getting an adrenaline fix ahead of the new season in the Live Action Arena.Tickets for the show are now on sale at a cost of £30 for adults per day. Children's tickets are £19.50 (children under five go free). Each ticket includes access to Autosport International and a reserved seat in the Live Action Arena. For more information and to book tickets, call 0844 581 1419 or visitwww.PistonHeads.com/show.
Charles Addams, the American cartoonist who created the Addams family, has been commemorated in a Google doodle celebrating the centenary of his birth on 7 January.Addams, who was bornin Westfield, New Jersey in 1912, had a fondness from a young age for coffins, skeletons and tombstones and went on to become known for the black humour of his cartoons, many of which regularly appeared in the New Yorker.His first cartoon was published in the magazine in 1935, long before his particular take on macabre fun went mainstream.The Addams Family, including Gomez, Morticia, Uncle Fester, Lurch, Grandmama, Wednesday, Pugsley, and Thing, were recurring characters who originally appeared separately.After members of the family first started to appear in the late 30s, they were adapted for television shows and film. In one recent incarnation, Brooke Shields played Morticia in a Broadway musical.Addams, who died of a heart attack in 1988, had been married three times and was also remembered for having a penchant for the grim in his personal life.His marriage to Marilyn Matthews Miller in 1980 took place in a cemetery for pets, while the bride wore a black dress and carried a black feather fan.The Google doodle in his memory was created courtesy of the Tee &amp; Charles Addams Foundation.
The reason you can see off most games releases in about a weekend's worth of sofa usage is that most players have other distractions: work, family, eating to name but a few. Dabbling isn't for everyone though, and there were some games from last year that will prove far more loyal companions …Dark souls, PS3, Xbox 360Dark Souls casts you into a pitiless subterranean void peopled by unspeakable beasts hungering to rip you to pieces; you can't pause it and dying has very serious ramifications. For the right kind of masochist it's heaven.NamcoBandai, £49.99Minecraft, PCMine raw materials to build anything from hammers to castles while avoiding getting eaten by monsters. Wilfully lo-res, Minecraft has inspired outrageous creativity, some on a scale it's difficult to believe.Mojang, £16.95Modern Warfare 3&amp;Battlefield 3, PC, PS3, Xbox 360It doesn't matter whether you prefer macho, Rambo-infused Modern Warfare 3 or Battlefield 3's more  tactical team game – the single player campaigns are merely a gateway to an endless multiplayer war. It's fantastic.Modern Warfare 3: Activision, £44.99-£54.99; Battlefield 3: Electronic Arts, £39.99-£49.99Gran Turismo 5, PS3;Forza Motorsport 4, Xbox 360Blending driving fast cars with the thrill of steadily improving them, both Forza 4 and 2010's Gran Turismo 5 remain highly entertaining. Forza may be better designed, but – on the downside – it's got Jeremy Clarkson in it.Gran Turismo 5: SCEE, £19.99; Forza 4: Microsoft, £36.99LittleBigPlanet 2, PS3LittleBigPlanet's gorgeous level building toolkit makes players into creators, giving rise to an ecosystem of madly inventive (as well as tediously banal) homemade content.SCEE, £19.99Dungeon Raid, iPhoneIf you've ever matched rows of three things you'll know how surprisingly addictive it is. Dungeon Raid blends this with the further dependency-inducing role-playing trope of the upgrade path. Just try putting it down.Alex Kuptsov, £1.49Mario Kart 7, 3DSThe only people getting excited about 3D technology seem to be those working for the companies behind it.  But while this may just be Mario Kart all over again, when played against friends there's no denying its power to create spectacular races that never seem to get boring.Nintendo, £34.99Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, Xbox 360Bask in the radiance of the revitalised HD single player mode before enjoying Xbox Live's reliable matchmaking skills and maps that have grown to feel like home – a home well stocked with ammunition and weapons.Microsoft, £34.99Infinity Blade II, iPad &amp; iPhoneInfinity Blade brought weighty sword combat to iOS. Its successor adds extra layers of complexity, but it's giving every indication of having the same absurd longevity as its oft-updated older brother.Chair Entertainment Group, £4.99Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360With a job, let alone children, Skyrim is unknowably vast. A frank admission: I've played 197 hours of Skyrim – five working weeks, a disturbing figure – and there are still countless new sights, treasures and stories to uncover.Bethesda, £44.99-£54.99
A lot of cars now have a&nbsp;rear-view camera to&nbsp;help with parking. You put it into reverse, the camera comes on, and an image of what's behind you appears on a screen on the dashboard.Quite handy – especially for ladies you might say (if you were a sexist, but I'm not so I'll say especially for women). C'mon, let us have parking, we've relinquished everything else. And I've found a study, actual&nbsp;statistics.Anyway, you generally find rear-view cameras only on quite posh cars, ones that have screens for satnavs and all the multimedia stuff. This isn't a posh car, it's&nbsp;a&nbsp;Ford&nbsp;Fiesta. There's no satnav&nbsp;screen. So where does the rear-view camera display appear? In&nbsp;the rear-view mirror.Perfect – that's where you'd expect to look to see behind you. And you can check the camera's view against the mirror's, to make sure one of them isn't lying. The only puzzling thing is that the first time it comes on, a warning sign pops up, along with what looks like a picture of a book. This has me and my girlfriend (there she is!) wondering what book it might be. Alice Through The Looking Glass? Mansfield Park? Stuart: A Life Backwards? Etc. Or possibly it's telling you to refer to the manual.Oh, the rear-view camera is an extra – an extra £475. Nah, forget it. Especially if you're a fella, ella ella. Be a man, look over your shoulder.What about going forwards then? Well, it's really rather good. As a&nbsp;famous motoring journalist, I drive a lot of new cars. And to be honest they're all pretty good these days. But also very few stand out, unless they're either something cute (Fiat 500, say) or quick (Nissan GT-R) or stately (Bentley Mulsanne). The humble Ford Fiesta manages to stand out without being any of those things. Well, stand out a bit – I&nbsp;mean it's not going to turn many heads. But I do really like it, and it's not often I think that about a car. That's it, it's a very likable car.Why? Well, mainly because it's&nbsp;very nice to drive. Nothing blistering, but it's agile round town, precise and well-behaved. And on the open road it seems to grow by a few inches, feels like a more grown-up car. It's comfortable, the seats are great, the ride is good, inside it's&nbsp;quite stylish. It&nbsp;even looks nice&nbsp;on the outside, too, certainly much more elegant than the previous model.That's enough, isn't it? A small car that's fun to drive, nice to look at and doesn't cost too much. And which, for an extra £475, will certainly help you park whether you're a he or a she, and possibly also encourage you to read.Ford Fiesta Titanium 1.6 Ti-VCT DuratecPrice£14,595Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.7 secondsAverage consumption48.7mpgCO2 emissions134g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Samsung has announced its quarterly financial results. Well, actually, no, it hasn't; what it did early on Friday was to give some indication of how big it expects its financiai results to be. It would, after all, be remarkable for a company as colossal as Samsung to have its full financial details all ready and waiting only five working days into the new year after the financial quarter ended.But that's broadly what it has done. Here's Reuters, saying that "Smartphones power Samsung to record quarterly profit":Samsung Electronics, the world's top maker of memory chips and smartphones, reported a record quarterly profit on Friday, aided by one-off gains and best-ever sales of high-end phones.Fair enough: Samsung is the only company in the world that has figured out how to make money from DRAM, it got a $580m (£376m) windfall from selling its hard drive business to Seagate during the quarter, and its smartphone business is doing gangbusters – at least according to analysts.That these aren't final numbers (which as I said, is unsurprising) is borne out by another quote from the wires: "The South Korean firm posted 5.2 trillion won ($4.5bn) in quarterly operating profit, beating a consensus forecast of 4.7tn won by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters. It said actual profit may rise or fall by 200bn won from the preliminary figure when the firm provides detailed earnings later this month." So it could be 5tn won, or 5.4tn. Either way, it's ahead of the analyst forecast.And that's good, make no mistake: operating profit (basically, profits on selling stuff) were up 73% year-on-year.But the trouble is that when you start to inquire about precisely how well the smartphone business is doing, things get hazy. How many smartphones were sold in the quarter? How many tablets? (They're both part of the same division inside Samsung, so one needs to know these things.)Answer comes there none. (And I've asked Samsung repeatedly for numbers on these.) In fact Samsung, despite being crowned the biggest seller of smartphones in the third quarter, ahead of Nokia and Apple,has never actually said how many smartphones it shipped or sold during that period. The figure of 27.8m is often quoted. But it appears nowhere in Samsung's literature.Samsung Mobile SA tweet about smartphones. But what does it base that claim on?Thetweetabove comes fromSamsung Mobile SA(the official feed for Samsung South Africa) might seem like a confirmation. But when I asked for a link to an official figure, I wasdirectedtothis piece about Samsung's third-quarter results.To begin with, it looks impressive:Samsung overtook US rival Apple in the third quarter to become the world's largest seller of smartphones. It sold 27.8m smartphones during the quarter compared to Apple's 17.1m…but wait, there's more…according to market researcher Strategy Analytics.That's not Samsung.In fact, I can find no record of Samsung saying how many smartphones it shipped inanyquarter of 2011. (And that's another bone of contention: is "shipped" from the factory the same as "sold", as the tweet says? To most people, "sold" means "put into the final customer's hands". But to Samsung, "sold" may mean "sent to a carrier or retailer". We don't know, though, because it doesn't give that information in its financial results.)When it comes to shipments, there are lots of estimates from people such as Gartner, whom I respect, but I find it remarkable that a publicly-quoted company whose smartphone business is chewing up huge chunks of the market isn't prepared to give key data like these.Apple does: you can see adetailed breakdown(PDF) the number of phones it sold and the revenues it got from them, along with those for iPods, iPads and other products and services.Nokia does: it gives a very detailed breakdown of how its entire mobile business has fared in each quarter. (It even used to give its calculation for each quarter of the size of the smartphone market.) HTCgives figures for smartphones shipped. Motorolagives figuresfor smartphones shipped (and tablets). RIMgives those figures. Sony Ericsson (now just Sony)gives those figures.How about Samsung? Here's the3Q 2011 results. Smartphones?Samsung's Mobile Communications Business saw revenues rise 39% year-on-year to 14.42 trillion won. Handset shipments rose more than 20% quarter-on-quarter, driven by growth in the smartphone segment where sales were up more than 40% on-quarter and 300% year-on-year. Samsung continued the global rollout of its flagship GALAXY SII, which has now sold more than 10m units in the five months since its introduction.Despite enhanced price competition, the average sales price of Samsung's handsets increased on-quarter, while sales volume for the GALAXY Tab portfolio of tablets increased with the expansion of the 8.9in and 10.1in devices into the lineup.Oh, well, maybe it's in thedata presentation that accompanies the results.No – it isn't. There's nothing that gives an indication at all of how many smartphones Samsung shipped, nor how many tablets, nor what the revenue split between the two might be.Perhaps Samsung was stung by its experience a year ago, when it said that 2m of its 7in Galaxy Tab tablet had sold. Then it altered course somewhat, andsaid that those weren't actual sales; they were shipments to mobile carriers and retailers.One executive was quoted initially as saying sales were "quite small"; the quote was later amended to "quitesmooth": in the correction, the Wall Street Journal noted: "Samsung said the transcript, done by a third party and initially cited by a company spokesman, has since been corrected."Perhaps it's just me, but there's a vaguely Orwellian feel to that correction. (Verizon meanwhile wasreportedly seeing very high return rateson the Galaxy Tab, of 16% compared to 2% for other tablets. So quite a big gap between "sold" as we might understand it and "shipped", then.)Does it matter if Samsung doesn't give out its smartphone or tablet sales (or shipment) figures, though? You might think not: after all, if the company's accountants are happy that it has indeed received the money it says it has, then that's the end of it. The company is making the money that it says it is, and that's all that financial statements are meant to tell you.Update:lots of commenters saying "yes, that's it. They don't have to tell you anything apart from the revenue and profit. Maybe not even the revenue." Sorry, but that's wrong. Samsung is apublicly-traded company(on the London, Seoul and Luxembourg exchanges) which pays a dividend twice a year. That means that there is a responsibility to give shareholders timely information about the operation of the company. Compare it with RIM, which gives detailed information about, for example, inventory values, phones shipped, the mix of hardware/services/software and so on. It was by looking at data like that that analysts were able to decide - along with investors - that RIM is presently a bad bet. Without that information, lots of people would have been left without a clue that RIM's profits were about to crater. Publicly-traded companies need to provide timely and full information about their activities so that stockholders can make informed decisions. It's an axiom of business: the shareholders give the company money, and in return it tells them what it's doing with the money.But that's not it. Firstly, by passing the job essentially of guessing at Samsung's smartphone (and not forgetting tablet) shipments over to analysts who are having to work with imperfect data from retailers and carriers, Samsung is deliberately causing confusion in the market. Did it ship 27.8m smartphones in the third quarter? Or 28m? Or 20m? Or 30m? We don't actually know. Samsungappearsto be the biggest smartphone maker. It's very likely that it is by a substantial margin. But presently, that's a guess.Update:and what's wrong with passing the job to analysts? It's that they only know about what they can see in the shipment data. What happens if a company ships more devices than it sells, or vice-versa? (This can happen: it happens with RIM.) Knowing how many smartphones a company has pushed out of the door is an important metric quite separate from the analyst data, which comes from the "channel" - the retailers and carriers. Again, the analyst picture is incomplete.If you were considering whether to invest in Samsung, then as a potential shareholder you'd want a clear idea of what the most profitable division is actually doing, and whether its high profit would be even higher if it could sell more tablets (what effect are they having on revenues in the division? Do they boost or shrink the operating profit?). Can you find that out from Samsung's figures? No.And yes, for journalists it is frustrating to be driven to roundabout language such as "believed to be the world's largest smartphone seller". I'm far from the only person to have been frustrated by this today;  I know directly of two others on different publications (Matt Brian of The Next Web and Chris Davies of Slashgear) whognashedtheirteethover precisely this topic and the misleading tweets from Samsung Mobile SA.If Samsung thinks it's the world's largest smartphone seller, then I'd like to at least have it onSamsung'sauthority. If Apple comes up with a startling figure for the number of iPhones sold in the quarter (25m?29m?35m?) then will Samsung finally come up with its own figures? If Nokia's Lumia 800 has spearheaded a flight past 30m smartphones shipped in the quarter, will Samsung open up?Quite possibly its executives don't care about external opinion like this, and were so scarred by the "small/smooth" fiasco that they vowed not to get mixed up with discussions about absolute numbers again.That's fine – but they shouldn't be surprised then if their numbers are hedged around with uncertainty. If there's a shimmering fuzziness to Samsung's numbers, it's Samsung's fault – nobody else's.
Lego Batman is probably the Lego title I've played the least of over the last couple of years – not because it's bad, but because my son lost his DS copy down the side of our car's passenger seat a while back and I've never been able to find it.But all is not lost, as Warner Bros has just announced a sequel, coming to (deep breath) 3DS, DS, PC, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 this summer. The adventure will see Batman teaming up with fellow Justice League stars Superman, Wonder Woman and Green Lantern to defeat Lex Luthor and the Joker."We're offering fans a rich and expansive Gotham City environment filled with cool characters, great customisation options and plenty of surprises," says Tom Stone, MD of the series developer TT Games. Apparently, we'll get to travel in the Batmobile and the Batwing, as well as toy with new gadgets such as Batman's Power Suit and Robins' Hazard Cannon.We're also told to expect some fresh abilities, including gliding over the Gotham streets, and using heat vision. Sounds like someone on the design team has been playing Batman: Arkham City...Interestingly, the game is being tied in very closely with the new Lego Super Heroes: DC Universe toy collection, which will include a variety of construction kits based around famed DC characters. It's likely several of the kits will include buildings and vehicles featured in the game, which will be a bit of a first for the series. It's an intriguing acceptance that many children may now be discovering Lego through the games rather than the other way around.Anyway, there's no more info yet, but I'm looking forward to seeing blocky interpretations of the Justice League characters. I'll also be getting the Xbox version this time, so there will be no car seat disasters.
Clearly nothing important is happening in the UK today, as Twitter splutters into life amid mock outrage or fully fledged mirth over Ed Miliband's misspelt Blockbusters tweet. More elephant trap than social network, Miliband (or rather his Twitter minion) entered the word"Blackbusters" in an initial attemptto express sadness at the death of former gameshow host Bob Holness.That in turn prompted an excited debate about the distance between the "o" and "a" on a keyboard and well who knows what else. Of course, this comes the day after Diane Abbott's "divide and rule" tweet, which may well have been ill-judged but hardly ranks as terribly important in the political scheme of things. And at a time when Miliband is having one of those "bad weeks" that media so love. But all this hardly makes a typo a trend; if it did, a whole lot of us are in trouble. (What typos at the Guardian? Never.)There was a time when Twitter was considered a great tool for liberation – a utility that could not be suppressed when there were protests in Iran, regardless of how many Iranians used it. Maybe that was optimistic, but it was fun, at least, when people could use it as a tool of mass disobedience, making a mockery of superinjunctions taken out by Premiership footballers like you know who.But this is now getting silly. Rupert Murdoch has joined Twitter. Then a bloke from London pretending to be @wendi_deng (now@fictitious_acct) started flirting with Ricky Gervais. Suddenly we realised the whole place was full of bots and fake celebrities, but there was no time to digest that, as the Twitterati segued into the Abbott "race row" shortly after, before lunging forward into this – a fully fledged political crisis.Or rather a competition to see who could come up with the best#edmillibandgameshows. But then this is Britain: and jokes always did beat revolutions. So, I'm going for The Weakest Link. Does that apply to Twitter too?
Google and Apple are preparing a rematch of the battle they fought for dominance of the smartphone market, but this time the contest between them will be for control of our television sets.LG Electronics, the South Korean manufacturer, will next week unveil its first internet-connected or "smart" TVs to run on the Android interface, while Samsung will produce its first set using Google software later this year. Sony and Vizio already have Android models, and Google has announced more are planned.In attempting to assemble a similar coalition with manufacturers to the partnerships which brought Android to smartphones, Google is hoping to steal a march on Apple, which is expected to launch an iTV set, complete with screen and internet connection, later this year.Apple has already transformed the music and mobile phone industries, and it seems the revolution will now be televised, as the maker of the iPhone vies with Google to shake up the way we watch TV.Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman, forecast in December that "by the summer of 2012, the majority of the televisions you see in stores will have Google TV embedded". At stake is a growing world market for internet-connected TVs forecast to nearly double from $68bn in 2011 to $122bn in 2016, according to IMS Research.LG's Android set, to be unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, will allow its owners to simultaneously watch a programme, search the internet and communicate with friends over a social network such as Facebook.For those who want further extras, the set will also come with a pair of 3D glasses. It will launch in the US this year, before arriving in the UK in 2013. Pay-TV subscribers or those with a Freeview box will be able to plug those services into their new machines.With an interface similar to the look of Android on smartphones, viewers will see a series of apps on their screen from a range of content providers. Google said it had 150 apps specifically built for its TV service – still a tiny number compared with the hundreds of thousands already available for phones."Google TV is about bringing new entertainment and innovation from the web to TV and our team along with our partners are pleased to bring more Google-TV -powered products to more people, across more devices in more countries in 2012," Mickey Kim, Google's TV partnerships head, announced on the company's blog.The service has had a slow start. Google TV can be used to buy programmes to download from stores such as Amazon, but television stations have boycotted it.It is blocked by America's main internet TV website, Hulu, which is owned by NBCUniversal, News Corporation and the Walt Disney Company and features content from more than 260 production companies including Aardman and Endemol. Broadcasters fear Google has designs on the billions of dollars in advertising income generated by its sales houses.Last year Logitech, the Swiss maker of webcams and computer mice, revealed it had sunk more than $100m in operating profits into making Google TV settop boxes that failed to sell. Its chief executive, Guerrino De Luca, described the venture as "a mistake of implementation of a gigantic nature".Android smart sets have done little to transform the fortunes of Sony's television division, which remains loss making. LG is hedging its bets: its previous smart TVs have, until now, used NetCast software, and more than 60% of new models will continue to use it.But industry observers believe Apple's intervention could mark a fresh start for internet television. A former Apple employee claimed to have seen a slick 50in set inside the heavily guarded studio of Apple's head of industrial design Sir Jonathan Ive, the newspaper USA Today said earlier this week.The suggestion is that Apple's set will have a liquid crystal display (LCD) flatscreen and a built-in Wi-Fi connection. It could be voice controlled, using the Siri voice-recognition technology already installed on the iPhone 4GS. Apple patents also suggest the company is working on devices that can be controlled by gestures, such as waves of the hand.The sets would have access to the iTunes shop, which already carries a selection of films and television shows. But key to the success of such a service will be negotiating access to the latest hits from the very broadcasters whose businesses the iTV threatens to disrupt.Barclays Capital analyst Ben Reitzes estimates that an entry into TV in 2013 could bring Apple an additional $19bn in&nbsp;revenues."There will be better products on the market this year," said Enders Analysis TV digital expert Benedict Evans, "but disrupting the global TV industry is quite different to disrupting the music business. We don't yet have the right device or the right content."
TheGuardian iPad editionapp has passed the 500,000 downloads mark, three months after launching on Apple's App Store. And 23,000 of those downloads came on Christmas Day, according to parent company Guardian News &amp; Media.The news comes as the appgets a new sectionon Saturdays: the Guardian's Weekend magazine. Articles and recipes from the weekly magazine will be housed within a dedicated section of the Saturday iPad edition of the newspaper."Weekend magazine's stunning photography perfectly suits the form and the clean, modern design of our app on iPad," says Weekend editor Merope Mills."From tomorrow, readers will be able to enjoy a leisurely read of our award-winning longform journalism, flick through the galleries of 'Your Pictures' or watch our brilliant fashion and beauty correspondents Jess Cartner-Morley and Sali Hughes, as they guide readers through the latest lifestyle trends."The app has been free since itslaunch on 13 October 2011, thanks to a sponsorship deal with broadcaster Channel 4. That three-month trial period runs out on 13 January, at which point those first 500,000 readers will be asked to sign up for a £9.99 monthly subscription using Apple's in-app purchases system.Existing six- and seven-day print subscribers will continue to get access to the iPad app for no additional charge, while new downloaders will get a week's free trial before being asked to subscribe.
It was with some astonishment that the world greeted last year's announcement of a South Park RPG. This would be no jokey mini-game collection, but instead a full, epic adventure developed byObsidian Entertainment, a genre veteran with titles like Fallout: New Vegas and Neverwinter Nights 2 under its trusty belt.In November, US magazine Game Informer ran an exclusive preview of the game, revealing that the player would control a new character arriving in the town and determined to make friends with the local kids. Your mobile phone provides the in-game menu system, while a Facebook-like site records the characters you've met and befriended.And now we have the first screenshots, revealing the authentic vision behind the project, which has apparently been written, and closely overseen, by Trey Parker and Matt Stone. And these screens do show a remarkable similarity to the long-running show.They also reveal some of the genre choices Obsidian has made. It seems from the preview article that the game will take – and twist – plenty of elements from traditional JRPGs. There will, for example, be five classes to select from: Fighter, Mage, Thief, Cleric and... Jew. "The Jew is going to be our paladin/monk type character," designer Matt MacLean told the magazine. "The current design is that he's a high-risk-high-reward character. The closer he is to death, the more powerful his abilities become. So you're strongest when you are at one hit point, but you're also just about to die." Okaaaaay.Combat will be turn-based and viewed side-on in the classic style. It seems that you'll be in a small party (with the likes of Kyle and Butters), fighting against two or three enemies at once. Naturally, your foe will reflect the obsessions and prejudice's of the cartoon's cast – hence 'gingers' and 'stupid hippies' figuring highly. Apparently soda pop will be present as a magic potion, while coffee can be drunk to increase speed during fights.The look and feel of the series has been perfectly captured, then, and we're looking forward to seeing how the handdrawn animations add to the authenticity.According to VG247, the studio also created its own dynamic lip-syncing tool so that script changes could easily be incorporated into the game. Furthermore, they were supplied with 15 years worth of art assets and a style guide indicating the correct colours and texture to use.So, yes, it looks like South Park the game will be utilising and no doubt lampooning plenty of RPG archetypes as well as parodying games in general – a la the famed Make Love, Not Warcraft episode. It's definitely the interactive comedic cartoon tie-in that's interested me most since the awesome Simpsons Cartoon Studio, released on the PC back in 1996...South Park: The Game is due out in the second half of 2012 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360.
The next generation Xbox and PlayStation consoles will be unveiled at this year's E3 exhibition in June, industry news source MCV has reported.There have been rumours for months that a successor to the Xbox 360 would premiere at the Los Angeles event, but this is the first reliable indication that Sony is already preparing its own generational leap.The editor-in-chief of MCV, Michael French, told the Guardian that the information had come from a highly trusted source."A lot of people have suspected that Microsoft would show something," he said. "And what Sony has realised is that launching PS3 so long after the Xbox 360 meant that they were on the backfoot. If their closest rival steps up and does this forward thinking stuff, they need to be there too. If not, their industry partners will be asking, well, what about you?"There's also the small matter of Nintendo. The company will be showing its Wii U in more detail at this year's E3 after announcing it at the event in 2011.Although reactions to the machine, which is comparable in power to the current generation PS3 and Xbox 360 consoles and comes with a tablet-style controller, have been mixed, Nintendo came out of nowhere with the original Wii, dominating its hardware generation in terms of units sold. It is not a company to be underestimated.Sony has declined to comment on the report. A spokesmann placed some doubt on the news, claiming that the company's  priorities this year would be Vita and PS3 – the latter is, after all, now a profitable machine after an expensive R&amp;D period and a lengthy inception stage in which it was being sold at a loss.Microsoft was unavailable for comment.Both Microsoft and Sony have also attempted to lengthen the traditional five-year console lifecycle with add-on products such as the Kinect and PlayStation Move."I don't think people are buying into that any more," French said. "Every other piece of consumer hardware has proved that constant iteration is necessary."So far, there have been few rumours emanating from the often rather talkative development community.Last September, Mark Rein of leading Xbox developer Epic Games suggested that the next Xbox may well resemble a tablet PC, and many pundits have theorised that the age of dedicated consoles with optical disc drives is over, to be succeeded by an era of all-in-one entertainment devices, lacking disc drives and favouring digital downloads.In October, Develop magazinespoke to a source within Sonywho claimed that PS4 projects had begun, but that PS3 and Vita would be the focus "for years".The article suggested that Sony was undergoing a long consultation period with key developers to ensure that its next games technology would be easier to work with thn the PlayStation 3; many studios have found that machine's complex multi-core architecture to be troublesome.It is possible, of course, for both Sony and Microsoft to make early hardware announcements at this year's E3 without committing to release dates, thereby giving the PS3 and Xbox 360 extra time.However, any sniff of new console technology is likely to have a major impact on current generation console sales. The prospect of a 2012 E3 involving three major new console formats duking it out on the show floor is a mouth-watering one – but without official confirmation, it's still the stuff of exciting speculation rather than timetabled reality.
Kanye West: apps entrepreneur. Well, sort of. In aseries of posts on Twitter, West has outlined plans for a new collective of creatives and developers called DONDA."DONDA is a design company which will galvanize amazing thinkers and put them in a creative space to bounce there dreams and ideas," wrote West."I am assembling a team of architects, graphic designers, directors musicians, producers, AnRs, writers, publicist, social media experts, app guys, managers, car designers, clothing designers, DJs, video game designers, publishers, tech guys, lawyers, bankers, nutritionist, doctors, scientist,teachers…"He continued: "DONDA will be comprised of over 22 divisions with a goal to make products and experiences that people want and can afford. I want to put creatives in a room together with like minds that are all waaaay doper than me. We want to help simplify and aesthetically improve everything we see hear, touch, taste and feel."West went on to tweet a teaser image of a "new 7 screen experience" being worked on within DONDA, while also trailing a project called 2016 Olympic's [sic]. He also said he wants to "design the MTV awards"."We can collectively effect the world trough design. We need to pick up where steve jobs left off," continued West.Woah there. Keener Apple-watchers among you may have heard a siren going off at that last sentence. Because where Steve Jobs left off was certainly not a company with more than 22 divisions making a blizzard of products.Think back to hisquote during a WWDC keynote in 1997: "Focus is about saying 'No'… And the result of that focus is going to be some really great products where the total is much greater than the sum of the parts."That's not to say West should be running DONDA as a mini-Apple or living his entrepreneurial life according to the sayings of Steve Jobs. A key reason why he's one of the most interesting pop stars right now is his curiosity about new technologies and his willingness to dive into areas outside music, after all.Kanye West hiring app developers? The results should be interesting. And the wider picture here is one of artists starting to engage with apps on a creative level, rather than purely a marketing level.Will.I.Am did it in 2011 with a new company called – prepare to wince –Will.I.Apps– starting with an augmented reality music video app for the Black Eyed Peas.US band Bluebrain have made a couple of location-based album apps where the music changes according to where the listener is in, respectively, Washington's National Mall and New York's Central Park. And yes, there's Bjork's Biophilia, the result of agenuine creative partnershipwith digital artist Scott Snibbe and other developers, rather than a post-recording marketing campaign.This is just the start. Artist plus developer(s) is a potentially powerful formula, and that goes for more than just music artists: filmmakers, animators, authors and others. DONDA and similar partnerships should show that apps aren't just a new way to market art: they can be an artform in their own right.Developers whose interest has been piqued by West's tweets have been invited to emailcontactDONDA@gmail.comfor more information.
A selection of nine apps for you today:Scramble With FriendsZynga has launched the latest in its With Friends franchise, following the ongoing popularity of Words With Friends. The new title is Scramble With Friends, and is a Boggle-esque game that involves finding words in a jumbled grid of letters. The idea is playing against friends or strangers over two-minute rounds.iPhoneBeyoncé Live at RoselandBeyoncé's four-night run of gigs at the Roseland Ballroom in New York? There's an app for that, from Sony Music. It includes videos of performances from the concerts, weighing in at a hefty 676.6MB for the privilege. At £5.99, though, it's cheaper than the DVD.iPhone / iPadDK Dinosaur StickersDorling Kindersley's latest iPad book-app is a virtual dinosaur sticker book, with 64 stickers and 14 backdrops for children to create prehistoric collages on. The resulting images can be saved and shared.iPadCisco Connect ExpressCisco has launched a useful app to help people manage their home Wi-Fi networks, adding devices, handling guest access and tweaking Wi-Fi and router information. The link above is for Android, but you canfind the iPhone version here.Android / iPhoneAmerican Revolution Interactive TimelineA spot of tablet history for you here, with an app from non-profit organisation The American Revolution Center in the US. The app explores the American Revolution with images, manuscripts, videos and other content, arranged around a zoomable timeline.iPadFarm Frenzy 3Alawar Entertainment's Farm Frenzy franchise gets its third game on Android, with levels set across Africa, Russia, the Wild West and the jungle. That means lions, jaguars and bears are trying to run rampage on your virtual farm – not a problem seen in games like FarmVille.Android#politicsApp developer Algorhyt.hm is getting some buzz around its #politics app for iPad, which tracks news and analysis on the US political scene. That involves scanning news, blogs and video sources.iPadAngry BirdsYes, surprisingly there are still a fair few platforms where Rovio's Angry Birds haven't yet flown. Samsung's Bada smartphones have joined the flock though, with a version of the hugely popular game.BadaAR.RescueThis is the latest game designed to be played with Parrot's AR.Drone remote-controlled helicopter. This one blends augmented reality, space rockets and aggressive aliens.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWorld record attempt for most comments on an online news item in 24 hours &gt;&gt; Trefor.netHe was hoping to get 100,000 comments in order to break the world record, but only got 5,457 to 6am on Friday. Still, it should translate into money raised for RNLI. And you can still donate on the page.Ultrabooks? They're just lighter, thinner laptops &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIna Fried: "Intel plans to make sure that if you haven't heard of Ultrabooks, you soon will. The chipmaker, which has trademarked the name, is pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into both the manufacturing and the marketing of Ultrabooks. "Well, I have another word for them. I call them laptops." Party pooper.E-readers: Doomed &gt;&gt; Matt AlexanderMatt Alexander: "The e-reader becoming a 'fringe device' is precisely the point of yesterday's article. The difference is that I used the word 'doomed' (once in the title, once in the body). Why 'doomed' specifically? Well, when I think of healthy, flourishing products, I tend not to think of once-popular "fringe" devices."Moreover, despite the many merits of e-ink in its current form - merits I'vewritten about at lengthin the past - the e-ink display is unquestionably life-limited. There is little that can be done to evolve the technology further. Sure, the current form is good for reading (and only for reading) - I do not question that - but it is very clear to me that there's only so much more that can be done before color and video become involved."New Lawsuit Means All Major Labels Are Suing Grooveshark - NYTimes.com"Grooveshark, a popular digital music service that is being sued for copyright infringement by three of the four major record companies, now has problems with the one big label that it has a licensing deal with. "On Wednesday, EMI Music Publishing filed suit against Grooveshark's parent company, the Escape Media Group, for breach of contract, saying that since striking the deal in 2009, Escape has 'made not a single royalty payment to EMI, nor provided a single accounting statement.'" Grooveshark is toast; all that remains is the question of how long it will take to curl up.Apple pays Elan $5m to license touchscreen patents &gt;&gt; The Next Web"Previously, Apple had defended additional claims that it had infringed on touchscreen technology in a Section 337 litigation, bringing it before the U.S International Trade Commission. Elan sought to block imports of Apple's MacBook products, the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. "The patent - U.S. Patent Number 5,825,352 ("Multiple fingers contact sensing method for emulating mouse buttons and mouse operations on a touch sensor pad") -- was investigated by the ITC in April 2010, but the commission ruled in June 2010 that Elan had failed to prove that Apple had infringed on its patent."Why Ice Cream Sandwich won't be able to save Android tablets | ZDNetJason Perlow, running a modded Ice Cream Sandwich on a Motorola Xoom: "And the notifications? Let's just say that on a tablet, they work damn awkward when compared to the smartphone implementation on the Nexus. Frankly, I think even iOS 5 on the iPad has ICS on the tablet beat. "I was really hoping we'd get pull down notifications instead of that weird "stack" on the lower right hand corner which in my opinion is an exercise in pure frustration, especially if you have a lot of notification events from apps piling up. And jumping into the Settings dialog is still a royal pain unless you make a dedicated shortcut to it on your home screen. "Ultimately, this all boils down to ICS being a less intuitive tablet OS which is harder for the average user to understand than Apple's iOS. On a subsidized smartphone device with 4G LTE technology, an end-user is likely to tolerate these kind of geeky issues, but on a $400-$600 tablet, I'm not so certain. "ICS has done absolutely nothing to make Android less geeky or more user friendly. That alone is worth consideration." He also dislikes the 16:9 screen size, something which is rarely mentioned but seems quite an important point.Italian court denies Samsung motion for preliminary injunction against iPhone 4S &gt;&gt; FOSS Patents"ANSA, the official Italian news agency,just reportedthat Judge Marina Tavassi of the Tribunale di Milano - the Milan-based Italian first-instance court for patent cases - has rejected a Samsung request for a preliminary injunction against the sale of the iPhone 4S in Italy." This means that Apple and Samsung have both pretty much struck out in their attempts to get early injunctions against each others' phones.Microsoft, Windows Phone carriers roll out disappearing keyboard fix &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Microsoft and carriers have started rolling out a service update that fixesdisappearing on-screen keyboards, among other issues reported in late 2011 by Windows Phone Mango users." Also fixes Gmail syncing issue, digital certificates, some email threading and others.Commodore Vic 20 for you to control &gt;&gt; Matt DawsonIt's only a Commodore Vic 20 implemented in Javascript. With preloaded games. Wow, where did the past hour go?IBM assigns 217 more patent filings to Google including wireless phones and Javascript widgets &gt;&gt; SEO By The SeaBill Slawski: "The last week of 2011, Google acquired 188 granted patents and 29 published pending patent applications from IBM, according to the USPTO assignment database, with an execution data on the assignment of the patents on December 28, 2011, in a deal that was officially recorded at the patent office on December 30, 2011."The patents cover a broad range of topics, such as presentation software, blade servers, data caching, server load balancing, network performance, video conferencing, email administration, and instant messaging applications. A number of the patents cover specific internet, phone, and mobile phone technologies as well."Presumably not bogus, these ones.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Well, that's the first working week of 2012 almost over with then. But the important question is, what games will you be playing over the first full weekend of the year? I'll be trying to unlock some more equipment in Battlefield 3 – I've been thoroughly enjoying Wake Island again, thanks to the Back to Karkland expansion pack. How about you?
Rumours are swirling that RIM, maker of the BlackBerry phones, has cancelled two of the three planned handsets that it was to introduce this year – including one showcasing its new BlackBerry 10 operating system.The company is also reported to be struggling to get its key BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) and BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) services to run on the new OS.The only device which presently runs BB10, originally known as QNX, is the PlayBook tablet. That was released in April 2011 but does not yet run BES for email and calendars or BBM, despite promises from RIM that software updates were imminent to enable those services.Onlinereports suggest that the company has decided against making Milan, a touchscreen phone with a slide-out keyboard.Further suggestions say that it has also scrapped a model known as Colt,first mooted last August, which would follow the classic BlackBerry shape by having a full integrated QWERTY keyboard beneath a 3in screen.That would leave only the London model running BB10 which hasonly been glimpsed through concept photos, and which would be a pure touchscreen phone.The Guardian has sought comment from RIM on the reports.The culling of the new models in favour of a single touchscreen device could leave RIM in a precarious position.In December, RIM's chief executives said that the new QNX-based devices would be delayed to late in 2012. But RIM has also said that it sees QNX – the same OS that runs its PlayBook tablet – as key to its future development.Uncertainty over its position hasseen RIM's share price collapsefrom a high of nearly $70 (£45) in February 2011 to $14.50 now, barely valuing the company at as much as its physical assets.Data from smartphone sales suggests that RIM is losing share in former key countries such as the US, while building it in Europe and various Asian countries.But RIM saw a year-on-year fall in the number of handsets shipped in the three months to the end of November 2011, from 14.2m to 14.1m, even as the world smartphone market has been growing, and for the current quarter to the end of February it forecast that it would ship between 11m and 12m handsets, a substantial fall compared to the same period a year ago when it shipped 14.9m handsets.That has made it increasingly important that RIM has an updated OS to compete with Apple's iPhone and the broadening range of Android phones, as well as the rising threat from Nokia with its revamped line using Microsoft's Windows Phone software.
For a one-company man like Andrew House, with 20 years' service at Sony, 2011 must have been a year to look back on with mixed feelings.For Sony as a whole, it was an unmitigated annus horribilis: the electronics and entertainment conglomerate sustained painful blows from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, the much-publicised hacking of the PlayStation Network, the riots in London, which saw its warehouse in Enfield burned down, and the flooding in Thailand. In March, it posted its second biggest ever loss, although the PlayStation side of the business, Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE), posted a profit.But for House, it was a banner year: in September, he was made president and chief executive of SCE. The promotion, which has meant a move to Tokyo, makes him the second Welshman to rise to the upper echelons of one of the world's biggest brands, after Sir Howard Stringer – now chief executive, president and chairman of the parent company, Sony Corporation.Speaking the day before the Japanese launch of the PlayStation Vita, Sony's next-generation handheld console, which comes to Europe and America next month, a jacketed but tieless House proves impressively articulate, as you might expect from someone who spent five years working in Sony's corporate communications team.But he doesn't hide behind corporatespeak or duck tough questions and doesn't duck Sony's problems: "Yes, it has been a pretty tough year, no question. If I draw a positive out of it, I think that has been unity in the face of adversity. We had episodes of great kindness during the earthquake, when one of our plants in Tohoku was affected: people were immediately engaged in rescue efforts. We've had senior executives wading through the water in Thailand to check on the situation at our factories and make sure that employees are doing well. So I think it has had the effect of pulling the company together."And what of his own division? "For the PlayStation business, there was the hacking incident. Not to sound like an excuse, but we're now in very solid company with many other institutions and companies suffering under the same sort of threat. But it galvanised us: we've hired an extremely experienced chief information security officer … There were some very ugly threats going on, and we became the target."House, unsurprisingly, views the arrival of the PlayStation Vita (the UK launch is on 22 February) as a welcome moment of catharsis."It's important for the employee base – certainly here in Japan – that there is something of a morale boost with a great product launch." But although it is a hugely important product for Sony, the Vita has been criticised by some commentators, who claim that mobiles and tablets will supersede more conventional handheld consoles as gaming platforms.House is having none of it: "We would point to two factors. One is content-based: what we're providing – even in the launch line-up – is what's in our DNA: deeper, more immersive, really compelling gaming experiences, with a great sense of realism and strong storylines. Then we've married those with some great network features, but also with a set of interfaces that I don't think really exist right now in any other devices out there."House has ridden the computer-game wave to perfection. Now 46, he first worked in Japan as a teacher after graduating and doing a bit of temping in the City. "As I had always wanted to work abroad, I applied for the Japan exchange and teaching programme run by the Japanese ministry of education. I taught in Japanese high schools for two years while studying Japanese, including teaching myself to read and write the language. I joined Sony in Tokyo immediately after."Since then his career with the firm has taken him to the US and back to Britain, running SCE Europe, before his recent return to Japan. "The challenge for me has been getting back to a point where I'm operating for 90% to 95% of the day in Japanese. I was about two weeks into the job, it was six o'clock in the evening, and I was feeling kind of strange and somewhat tired. I thought: 'What's up with me?' Then I realised I hadn't spoken a word of English all day, since I got up in the morning. The advantage of being able to access Japanese dictionaries online immediately is something that didn't exist when I was here last, and that's been very helpful."As far as the family is concerned, I'm blessed, really, in making this transition. My wife is Japanese and my children are bilingual. Interestingly enough, in my son's case, he's just been like a duck to water. My children are both enjoying life. They are 16 and 12 – not necessarily the easiest age to move countries. And it was their second move, so they're essentially Californian kids – they're going to an American school here. They've made friends – my son has a great social life, which I'm envying, as most parents do."With a high-powered job, you imagine House doesn't manage quite such an active social live for himself. So what does he do to wind down? Wallow in domesticity, it seems. "I run four to five times a week, usually in the early mornings, and my favourite activity is cooking Saturday dinnerwith the family – enjoying the meal with them and sometimes a family movie night to follow."He also reveals that he shares another passion, his support of Manchester United, with Stringer. House doesn't say whether they discuss the recent reorganisation of the company over live feeds from Old Trafford, but he offers insight into the shake-up that Stringer initiated earlier this year, part of which included buying out Ericsson's stake in the Sony Ericsson mobile phone business. "He decided to take all the consumer businesses and house them under one single leadership – my boss, Kaz Hirai. That included the PlayStation division, and any of the other products that have a consumer touch-point. The opportunity, then, is to have a really strong, frequent engagement and interchange between the different business groups. The final goal is to have a much more Sony-esque, integrated user experience."House is proud that after years of losses, the PlayStation side of Sony has finally posted a profit, explaining that, five years into its lifecycle, the PlayStation 3 has reached its most profitable phase: "It now has an installed base north of 55m units worldwide. And on a per-console basis, I'm pleased to say, we've seen people buying more games per console than we've seen on previous generations, and that has a direct impact on profitability."Given Sony's trials in 2011, House is understandably looking forward to 2012: "From the SCE perspective, I think a lot rests on the success of PS&nbsp;Vita. We went through a very tough time in the company in getting to a point of profitability, and I think we're now beginning to enjoy the benefits of that – it gives us some more leeway in being able to look at the future and areas of new investment in terms of new business models and new approaches to gaming. It looks to be a far more positive year, I hope, than 2011, and one that yields great benefits to gamers around the world."CVAge46EducationBA in English language and literature, Oxford UniversityCareer1990-95, corporate communications, Sony Corporation, based in Tokyo; 1995, transferred to Sony Computer Entertainment America; 1996, vice-president, marketing; 2000, senior vice-president, marketing and third party; 2003, executive vice-president, marketing, third party and development; 2005, chief marketing officer and group executive, Sony Corporation; 2009, president, chief executive and co-chief operating officer, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, based in the UK; September 2011, president and chief executive, Sony Computer Entertainment, based in TokyoFamilyMarried; one son and one daughter
The US ambassador in Madrid threatened Spain with "retaliation actions" if the country did not pass tough new internet piracy laws, according to leaked documents.The latest revelation comes amid a fierce debate over America's own plans to pass online piracy legislation that critics claim will damage the infrastructure of the internet and restrict free speech.In a letter dated 12 December and obtained bySpanish newspaper El Pais, US ambassador Alan Solomont wrote to the outgoing Spanish prime minister expressing his concern about the lack of movement on a online piracy bill, known as the Sinde law."The government has unfortunately failed to finish the job for political reasons, to the detriment of the reputation and economy of Spain," reads the letter to José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. The letter was also sent to minister of culture Ángeles González-Sinde, after whom the law is named.Spain would go on to pass Sinde at the start of this year.In his letter, Solomont issued veiled threats, reminding its recipients that Spain is on the Special 301, the US trade representatives' list of countries that do not provide "adequate and effective" protection of intellectual property rights. Spain risks having its position on the list "degraded", and could join the real blacklist of "the worst violators of global intellectual property rights."Spain was among 28 countries put on 2011's Special 301 list, including Belarus, Greece, Italy and Ukraine. Countries deemed the worst offenders are put on a "priority watchlist" and can be subject to "retaliation actions" including the elimination of tariff agreements and a referral to the World Trade Organisation. Last year's priority list included China, India, Israel and Russia."The government of Spain made commitments to the rights owners and to the US government. Spain can not afford to see their credibility questioned on this issue," Solomont wrote."The rampant Internet piracy hurts the economy of Spain and cultural industries," he added.The law creates a government body with powers to force internet service providers to block sites alleged to have infringed copyright. Copyright holders can lobby the government body to close down sites.The Spanish legislation is similar to Protect IP andSopa, the stop online piracy act, two pieces of anti-piracy legislation now being discussed in the US Congress.Art Brodsky, director for Public Knowledge, a Washington-based public interest group that has campaigned against Sopa, said: "It appears as if the US government has been pressuring the Spanish government for at least three years on the copyright issue"It is unfortunate that the US ambassador is again issuing threats to the new Spanish government over the implementation of a law similar to one that is generating quite a bit of controversy in the US and has brought forth opposition from all sides of the political spectrum."In 2010 El Paid published WikiLeaks cables that showed the US government has consistently pushed for Spain to tighten up its online piracy legislation and threatened to put the country on its 301 watch list.In one2008 cable, US officials wrote: "We propose to tell the new government that Spain will appear on the Watch List if it does not do three things by October 2008. First, issue a [Government of Spain] announcement stating that internet piracy is illegal, and that the copyright levy system does not compensate creators for copyrighted material acquired through peer-to-peer file sharing. Second, amend the 2006 'circular' that is widely interpreted in Spain as saying that peer-to-peer file sharing is legal. Third, announce that the GoS will adopt measures along the lines of the French and/or UK proposals aimed at curbing Internet piracy by the summer of 2009."• This article was corrected on 6 January 2012 because it described José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero as a former Spanish president, instead of prime minister.
With more than 30m active users,TuneIn Radiois regularly cited as one of the success stories of the apps era. That said, the company has been around for much longer than the app stores, having been founded in 2002.The service, which enables people to listen to streaming radio stations and podcasts, is now available on more than 150 devices, including smartphones and tablets, but also connected hi-fis, set-top boxes and cars."There had been no marketing, and almost nothing viral about the product itself," says CEO John Donham, who joined the company from Disney in August 2011. "It was all word of mouth. It's the biggest app that no one has ever heard of! And it's a stunning amount of traction for a company like this to have."Director of product Kristin Perkins adds that mobile is now the most popular platform for listening to TuneIn Radio, and that it "dwarfs" the usage on other consumer electronic devices. Factors include regular updates, and increased use of smartphones in cars."A lot of the loyalty we have from listeners comes from the fact that we do product releases every 1-2 months," she says. "Also, what we're seeing lately is that people are using their mobile device in their vehicle while driving, listening to TuneIn in the car."Hence the launch of a new feature for TuneIn's Android app called "Car Mode", which uses voice-control technology. Users can say an artist's name to find a station currently playing one of their songs (or a station that often plays it), or search for a specific country to listen to stations from.Perkins says that this is just the start of a planned swathe of features to help TuneIn users discover new radio stations to listen to."Discovery is a big challenge in our space, and a huge opportunity for us," she says. "We're doing a good job right now, but we could do a much better job of it. Our product roadmap going forward has a lot more features for discovering stations and shows based on your interests."There is already a feature that scans people's music libraries on their phones and then looks for stations whose playlists best match those artists."This is the music you're listening to – your personal playlists – so let's find you the DJs around the world who match your tastes," says Donham. "DJs still play tastemakers. The place that people are still discovering the majority of their music is the radio: this person that's there and hand-selecting pieces of content."If TuneIn's goal is to help traditional radio stations find new audiences, it's fair to say that those stations are also facing competition from new personal radio services like Pandora and Clear Channel's iHeartRadio – the latter started as a TuneIn-style app for Clear Channel's terrestrial stations, before bolting on Pandora-style features in a 2011 revamp.Donham declines to comment specifically on this competition, but stresses that TuneIn Radio is more about guiding its users to the most relevant content on existing radio stations."What's the most interesting thing that's on right now?" he says, as an explanation. "Of the tens of thousands of stations available in the world, a few will be broadcasting something unbelievably compelling to you, and yet you don't know it. You might be a big Adele fan, and there's a really interesting interview with her airing somewhere in the world, but you have no idea. So how can we help with that? It's a tremendous opportunity."Perkins also hints at social features becoming more of a focus for TuneIn in the months ahead."Getting our listeners into conversation with other listeners who are listening to the same piece of content is important to us," she says. "As well as getting those listeners talking to the station and DJs on the other end. We are building a lot of features around that concept."Donham says that TuneIn's approach to social differs from streaming music services like Spotify. How? He suggests that in the technology world, the word "social" has a clear definition meaning sharing something with people on social networks."But there is an old-school definition of social too," he says. "Radio is incredibly social: someone on the other end is talking to you, and you're listening with thousands of other people simultaneously. Radio makes you feel less lonely, and a streaming music service never does that for you."Perhaps not before, but looking at Spotify's current Facebook integration, that's changing, as people start seeing real-time feeds of what their friends are listening to, and – on the social network itself – start spawning chat windows to talk about it.Even so, Donham thinks traditional radio has a role to play here too. "We're taking something already inherently social and magnifying that via social networks, rather than taking something inherently unsocial like a streaming music platform and trying to figure out how to make it social."For example? "Wouldn't it be neat if all the people tweeting about a specific programme could join in that conversation, and everyone could participate from their mobile device, and talk back to the broadcaster?" he says. The equivalent for radio of what Zeebox and GetGlue are trying to do for TV, you could say.Meanwhile, TuneIn is working on other features to help its partner stations make money from their mobile listeners, even if they live thousands of miles away."We want to help monetise a local audience even if you're far away from them," says Donham. "If a Bollywood broadcaster in India has tens of thousands of people in London listening every day, they have no way to monetise those listeners. We can help provide local ads though."He adds that TuneIn is also looking at ways to serve display ads within its apps based on the stations that users are listening to, which may even match the audio adverts running in the station's commercial breaks."If the display ad ties to the audio ad, you can click that button right there and make a purchase from your smartphone," says Donham. "Also, the advertiser can see how many people listening purchased their product. They can see a direct return on investment on it."
My second child is due in March, and I would love to be able to document his development by regularly (at least once a week over a number years) photographing his face. Ultimately, I want to be able to play back a film of his growth by stitching together all those shots. Ideally, I'd like to be able to use either my Canon G12 or my iPhone 4S (although both devices are likely to be upgraded in time) to supply JPegs for the project. I'm rather hoping someone has developed something I can use across both platforms of iOS and a PC.Darran FletcherMost of the programs developed to show a child's development are baby albums-cum-digital diaries such asVirtualsoft's Baby AlbumandPosthaste's Baby's Keepsake Album. You're really creating a time-lapse video with an unusually long interval between the different frames. A search for time-lapse software should help you find something that will do the job. Free examples includePhotoLapse 3andJPGvideofor Windows, andTime Lapse Assembler 1.5.1for Mac OS X. Google's Picasa is another free option. Apple'sQuickTime Procan do it too, though it's frankly not worth £20.In fact, you may already have a more powerful and more versatile program that will create a time-lapse video. Microsoft's Windows Movie Maker and Apple's iMovie are the most common examples, but you can use any video editing program that can import jpg, png, bmp or similar images. I haven't checked, but I assume that's most of them. Tucows has an article,How To Make A Time-Lapse Video, that runs through the process using Windows Movie Maker, but they all work in much the same way.Free, open source alternatives for Windows includeVirtual DubandAvidemux(which has nothing to do with the more famousAvid). Avidemux is also available for Linux, BSD Unix and Mac OS X. If you are more serious about video editing, then of course there are lots of commercial programs, includingAvid Studioand Sony'sVegas Movie Studio, which is certainly worth£19.25.Obviously you will get a more fluid, movie-like effect if all your pictures are very similar: taken at the same distance, with the same lighting and background. This will be hard to achieve. It makes a good case for using the same camera throughout, rather than trying to mix Canon G12 and iPhone pictures. It might be worth dedicating a cheap compact camera to the job. If you're going to reduce all the images to 1280 x 720 pixels (0.9 megapixels) or even 640 x 480 pixels (0.3MP) for DVD then you don't need high quality 10MP originals from a Canon G12.With a dedicated compact camera, you could draw a letterbox shape on the display screen to provide a frame for your child's eyes. A Chinagraph pencil or other wax product will probably do the job, though it wipes off. Make marks that will enable you to get reasonably consistent results over many months, though you may have to adjust some images to get the eyes in the same place on each frame. After that, many graphics programs, includingIrfan Viewfor Windows, have a batch-processing option that will convert all your snaps to the format you want to import into your movie program.You can cheat a bit. For example, if you want some particularly good shots to stay on screen longer, you can duplicate those images a few times. As long as the final images are all numbered in sequence, the movie program won't care.If you are about to embark on a 20-year project, it's worth running a little test first to see how it works out with different frame rates and so on. You could also try shooting short movie sequences instead of still images. I really likeChristoph Rehage's YouTube video,Guy Walks Across China and Grows a Beard, where the background changes in each shot, but not 30 times per second. That might give you a few more ideas.Another option is to use a much smaller number of high-quality pictures and "morph" between them. A good example on YouTube isInfant Girl to Young Woman - Age Progression Morph. It still helps a lot to have consistent head positioning and to make the eyes coincide -- which you can do at the editing stage -- but it is much more forgiving process. (For potential problems, seeMorph of woman ages 2 to 52.)If you take this route, you will probably need some morphing software. Examples for Windows includeDebugMode's WinMorph(good and free), orAbrosoft's FantaMorph 5($29.95 but "try before you buy").Norkross MorphX($1.99) is a cheap example for Mac OS X.Morpheus Photo Morpher v3.01 Standard($29.95) is available for both platforms. A web search will turn up several more.People usually set this kind of sequence to a popular song. However, if you want to include your child's spoken words or any ambient sounds, remember to record them at the time.
Roughly 42m Android devices using Google's services were activated during December, according to calculations by the Guardian using data which suggest that there are now just less than 280m active "Google Android" devices.Correction:The above figures are an overestimate. Google said that it had activated 200m devices on 16 October 2011; given that Andy Rubin, the head of mobile, stated that the rate of activations hit 700,000 per day in mid-December, it would be impossible for the number of activations to reach 280m.The figures also suggest that about 1.7m Samsung Galaxy Nexus devices were sold in the month, as they are the only devices presently available which run Android 4.0, or "Ice Cream Sandwich".Correction:this figure is an overestimate too as the total number of activations will be lower.Benedict Evans, an analyst with Enders Analysis,puts the figure for total devices activatedat around 230m: "Google disclosed 200m activated devices in the second week of November, and Andy Rubin tweeted that there was a run rate of 700,000 daily activations on 21 December. A straight multiplication gets to 230m or so activated devices today – not a very good number (at all!) but better than nothing," he notes in a blogpost.The Guardian used higher [Update:now considered wrong] figures to calculate the number of activated devices, using data made available throughGoogle's Market data about the proportion of deviceswith various versions of Android that accessed the online marketplace in the last two weeks of December. The figures exclude Amazon's Kindle Fire and the Barnes &amp; Noble Nook tablets, which do not access Google's Market.The numbers imply that the number of activated devices grew by 17% in the month.According to the figures, 0.6% of devices accessing the Market were running Android 4.0. On a basis of 280m active "Google Android" devices, that works out to 1.7m Galaxy Nexus devices. Evans, using the lower figure of 230m, calculates that there are 1.3m, with an error range of plus or minus 300,000: "At this scale, it matters that Google is only giving the percentage to one decimal place."When theGuardian calculated the number of devices that had been activated using figures made public by Google in December, it suggested that to the beginning of December there were around 238m Android devices active. (Update:this is sure to be an overestimate, based on the 200m figure given by Google on 16 November at its Google Music event just 14 days before.)Based on those figures, and assuming that the number of devices running older versions of Android such as 1.5 ("Cupcake") and 1.6 ("Donut") have not changed, it is possible to calculate how the number of devices has increased. That gives a total figure of about 280m devices now in use.The data also suggest that there are now 9.2m tablets running Android 3.0 "Honeycomb", compared with about 5.7m at the start of December – which would indicate sales of 3.5m Android tablets during the month.Evans has used the same publicly available figures to calculate that there are 230m active Android devices, and calculates that there areabout 7m Honeycomb tablets in use, and that 4.5m 10in Honeycomb tablets were sold during the fourth quarter from September to December.The data for tablet sales will be disappointing for Google and tablet manufacturers, which have seen Apple and latterly Amazon take huge shares of the market: the Kindle Fire appears to have sold well, with some analysts putting sales in the millions.For the Galaxy Nexus, which only went on sale at the start of November, the figures – which suggest sales of more than 1m – will mark an encouraging start for Google's new device.
Facebook is to encourage users to take their virtual brand into the real world with the launch of a new service enabling them to create personalised business cards based on images and posts from their profile.The new service, called Facebook Cards, is being positioned as a "new model of social-business networking" that "bridges the gap between online and offline".Facebook Cards, which will become available for the social networking giant's 800 million-plus users globally from 5pm on Thursday (GMT), has been developed in conjunction with UK-based digital printing business Moo.com.Moo.com, which is based in the so-called Silicon Roundabout in east London that counts companies such online music service 7Digital as inhabitants, is offering the first 200,000 Facebook users 50 free personalised business cards to promote the service. The standard cost for 50 cards will be £10.The social networking giant believes that the time is right to launch the service because users will be able to make creative business cards thanks to the launch of the new Facebook Timeline product late last year.Facebook Timeline – which founder Mark Zuckerberg called"the story of your life"when he unveiled a preview to developers in September – replaces the Wall each user's profile previously had with the aim of documenting their life from the cradle onwards."Timeline helps people tell their story on Facebook and feature the parts of their life that mean the most to them," said Jillian Stefanki, a spokeswoman for Facebook. "The Moo.com integration makes it possible for people to take the same experience with them offline."Moo.com, launched in 2006 by entrepreneur Richard Moross, said that each of the business cards can feature a different photo image on the front and a favourite quote or saying on the back.The aim, says Moross, is to allow Facebook users to have a unique stock of business cards to pair the "right images for the right business or social occasions"."It is clear that consumer habits of sharing business and personal information are evolving," said Moross. "The lines between online social networking and offline business networking are not just blurring, but vanishing."He described the new hybrid offering as an "offline social business card".Moo.com has raised more than $5m (£3.2m) in venture capital from companies including the Accelerator Group, Index Ventures and Atlas Venture, investors behind internet ventures such as Skype, Betfair, LoveFilm, Last.fm and MySQL.
BSkyB has launched anew iPad appfor its Sky Sports News channel, while also predicting that tablet devices will be increasingly important for its business in 2012.The app is free for existing Sky Sports subscribers, but costs £4.99 as a standalone subscription using Apple's iOS subscriptions system. The app includes live streaming of Sky Sports News, but also enables users to set up to four favoured football teams on its homepage.Video highlights of sporting events can be watched on-demand, and the app also includes streaming Sky Sports News Radio, news and photo galleries.In ablog post announcing the app, BSkyB's director of mobile David Gibbs also reveals some figures from research commissioned by the broadcaster and carried out by Mintel, which explores the demand for TV apps on tablets and smartphones."Despite the generally gloomy economic outlook, the data shows the British public's appetite for mobile tablets shows no signs of slowing down," writes Gibbs in the post, titled '2012: The year of the tablet?'."8% of respondents in our research received a tablet over Christmas, which is on top of the 9% of the British population who already own one (according to Ofcom research released last year). Additionally, 16% intend to purchase a mobile tablet in the year ahead."The survey also finds that "one in three respondents" say watching films, TV shows and other video is a key reason for buying a tablet, behind internet access (67%), listening to music (48%), social networking (48%) and keeping up to date with news (40%).Gibbs says BSkyB has noticed the growth in demand for TV-related apps from its customers."During 2011, as smartphones and tablets became ever more sophisticated, and the quality of the TV experience they can deliver became ever more impressive, we saw an increasing demand from our customers to both watch TV on the move as well as enjoy experiences on companion devices that enhanced their enjoyment of our content," he writes.BSkyB has more than a dozen apps available across iOS, Android and other smartphones. In May 2011, Gibbstold a Mobile Monday conferencein London that the broadcaster's apps had been downloaded 10.2m times on iPhone alone by that point.That number will be considerably higher now, although Gibbs does not provide an update in his blog post. However, he points to BSkyB's strong showing in comScore'sOctober 2011 chart of connected mobile appsin the UK as proof of the popularity of its apps.
"Play to Win" declares the new Weight Watchers slogan, although "Play to Lose" would surely be a more appropriate battle cry to lead those resolved to shed the Christmas pounds in the new year diet game.The UK is the fattest nation in Europe and with the number of obese adults in the country forecast to rise by 73% over the next 20 years, the hunger for diets to counter this unwelcome expansion will intensify.Stiff competition is always a catalyst for innovation as companies vie with one another to stand out in the market and the latest trend to be fixated upon by the Sauron-like eye of the diet marketers is gaming.Gamification, a neologism that has risen to prominence in the past two years, describes the act of taking an activity that is not a game and turning it into a game to increase audience engagement.Proponents argue that gamification can be used to positively influence human behaviour by incentivising constructive activities that humans otherwise can't really be bothered with.It's a bit like offering a child a biscuit if she cleans her bedroom, or awarding a New Year's honour to a Conservative if he gives some money to the government.Gamification is a concept at the heart of the Weight Watchers' new campaign, driven this week by the launch of the websitePlayWeightwatchers.co.uk– although here, the idea is to find a participant and remove their money and biscuits."Weight Watchers is a game we play to lose weight," states the first line of the site's copy in a crisp attempt to move the gruelling work of dieting away from the imagery of self-flagellating, fasting monks to the rotund bounce of Super Mario.Dig deeper on the site to uncover the rules of the Weight Watchers game and details are disappointingly thin on the ground. "Playing" appears to be little more than an obfuscated version of calorie counting."Counting ProPoints is the game that can help you to lose weight without losing out," says the blurb, somewhat optimistically referring to counting as a game. "The rules of the game are easy to learn and follow, so you can get on with enjoying your life while steadily losing those pounds."The game is so easy to learn and follow that we have time to do so now. ProPoints is a virtual currency that must be traded in exchange for food. Different foods cost varying amounts of ProPoints and, when you have used up your daily quota, you must starve yourself till tomorrow brings with it a fresh stash of points.The twist is that bonus ProPoints can be earned by completing activities (quests, in gaming parlance) such as kickboxing or Zumba dancing your way through the current exercise zeitgeist.In other words: go for a walk and you can have another biscuit.In mechanical terms this is about as much a "game" as the concept of having a job is a game. The rules are the same: complete tasks to earn points (a salary). When the points run out, you can no longer consume anything.Critics of gamification argue that in most cases marketers (who, after all, aren't game designers) do little more than appropriate the language and terminology of gaming while ignoring the underlying elements that make games rich and rewarding.This certainly appears to be the case with Weight Watchers, whose copywriters fall over one another to infuse sentences with the illusion of play."Millions of people are playing Weight Watchers and winning at weight loss every day," boasts one line. "Join in the game you play to lose weight with the support of an experienced Leader and a team who will, share tips [to] make playing the game together easier and more fun," says another.Up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, B, A to drop a dress size, perhaps?This isn't to say that the use of points and badges as rewards for human behaviour is a bad thing. Most hierarchical organisations from the scouts to the masons to the army have employed point systems to incentivise members to obey their rules and progress.Point systems are perhaps the most effective way of communicating advancement and assuring a person that the very system in which they operate has noticed the effort they have made.But good games do more than simply monitor effort. They set goals that are intrinsically interesting. This is what sets a game apart from a reward scheme, and it's this key ingredient that is missing from Play Weight Watchers."Go for a walk and you can have another biscuit" is neither fun nor interesting.Weight Watchers has followed the likes of Nike Plus, Wii Fit and any number of other so-called fitness and diet games in appropriating a misnomer.Its marketers want only the frisson of words such as "play", "game" and "win" without any of the true meaning or spirit of their definitions. Completing tasks in order to receive the ability to eat is not a "game". It is not something we "play".For many in the world today it is known as survival.One advantage that Weight Watchers has over many of its rivals in its claim to being a game experience is the existence of a win/ lose condition. It's possible to play along and fail to lose weight. It's possible to fall off the wagon, admit that ProPoints are a virtual construct likely devised by some stick-thin nutritionalist who hates your cholesterol-lined guts and eat the entire pack of éclairs in rude (then regretful) defiance.In short, it's possible to suck at Weight Watchers and somehow that makes it more game-like than many of the other gamified reward schemes that are creeping into our daily lives. In fact, the very business depends on it. Weight Watchers' 2011 Annual Report put the company's significant growth down to "a large influx of returning members who were encouraged by the new benefits of ProPoints." Returning members? Turns out this is a game whose makers really are hoping you'll play to lose.
On Wednesday we postedthe first 15of our 25 new games to look forward to in 2012, eschewing sequels such as Diablo III and Borderlands 2 in favour of originals such as Botanicula, Lollipop Chainsaw and Escape Plan. Now we complete the list with 10 more titles, as well as an extra five outside bets that may well slip into 2013.Put at least one of these on your must-have list this year and you can smugly relax in the knowledge that you're supporting new development in the games industry. Then you can always buy Diablo III as well.NeverDead(Konami, PS3, Xbox 360)Looking very much like a cross between Devil May Cry and Shadows of the Damned, this third-person hack-n'-slasher features immortal demon hunter Bryce Boltzmann who has a novel way of dealing with potentially disabling combat injuries. Whenever some hellish foe lops off one of his arms or legs, he can use it as a weapon before re-attaching it. Boltzmann can even remove his head and roll it into inaccessible areas to check for possible escape routes. I think that's all we need to say, really.ETA:3 FebruaryBlades of Time(Konami/Gaijin Entertainment, PS3. Xbox 360)One of the more visually arresting titles on show at 2011's Tokyo Game Show, Blades is yet another hack-'n'-slash romp, this time from Russian developer Gaijin Entertainment, best known for flight sims such as IL-2 Sturmovik: Birds of Prey. Here, statuesque treasure hunter Ayumi finds herself stranded on a dangerous island with bizarre physical properties, allowing her to rewind time and engage the help of her past selves. Or something like that. The environments – all deadly chasms and rolling jungles – look to have come straight out of a Henry Rider Haggard book, while Ayumi may well have sauntered straight from the pages of Hustler. If there is a large crossover between fans of time travel and statuesque treasure hunters, this should do really well.ETA:Q1, 2012Anarchy Reigns(Sega/Platinum Games, PS3, Xbox 360)The latest title from Platinum Games, the creator of cult favourites Bayonetta and Vanquish is a sort of distant cousin to insane monchrome Wii blaster MadWorld. It's an online multiplayer brawler set in a series of near-future arenas. Combat involves cybernetic ninjas, armoured battle mechs and mercenaries with chainsaws, and we can expect visual subtly to be reasonably low on the developer's list of priorities.ETA:6 JulyAwesomenauts(Ronimo Games, PS3, Xbox 360)The Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) genre – which combines the strategy elements of titles like Starcraft, with team-based action shooter components – really started to hot up last year, with titles like Dota 2 and League of Legends proving immensely popular.  Now, talented Dutch developerRonimo, respnsible for the excellent Wiiware RTS Swords &amp; Soldiers, is entering the fray with this futuristic blaster, pitching up to six players against each other in tactical galactic war. We're promised a huge array of weapons and items, as well as six different mercenaries, each with their own upgrades. And the 2D visuals make a change from the usual isometric view. Set to arrive on PSN and XBLA in February, it's another highly tempting digital treat. And just listen to the theme tune on the trailer – it's like the eighties never ended.ETA:FebruaryThe Last Story(Nintendo/Mistwalker, Wii)Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakaguchi returns with this promising action RPG following the advetures of young mercenary Zael who must navigate the dangerous island of Lazulis and its vast medieval city on a quest to become a worthy knight. We're promised an innovative combat system which includes a cover mechanic and a team-based attack known as The Gathering. Weapons and items are customisable through the game, and there's an online multiplayer mode to accompany the single-player campaign. With Nintendo's focus inevitably shifting to its next console this year, The Last Story may well prove a poignantly fitting title for the old Wii.ETA:24 FebruaryRuin (Sony/Idol Minds, PS3, Vita)Seamless cross-platform gaming is likely to be a key theme in 2012, and this Diablo-style dungeon crawler from the makers of PSN hit PAIN could well be a key indicator of how the concept works. Vita owners are able to hack and slash their way through the isometric levels while out and about, then they can save their progress and pick up again on the PS3 version back at home. There is also Facebook supportandDemon's Souls-style online functionality, allowing players to talk and trade with each other while on a mission. Both versions of the game are expected to be sold together as a package, but no release date has been announced.ETA:Erm, 2012Dishonored(Bethesda/Arkane Studios, PC, PS3, Xbox 360From Harvey Smith, lead designer on Deus Ex, and Viktor Antonov, art director on Half Life 2, comes this fascinating first-person stealth adventure, set in a retro-futuristic industrial city. Mixing elements of Deus Ex and the famed Thief titles, Dishonored revolves around a deadly assassin framed for the murder of an empress and now out for revenge. Players can choose to sneak about and spare enemies or take bloody retribution with a variety of weapons and emergent techniques. With Smith at the helm, it's likely to be dripping in atmosphere and narrative detail, and the combat mechanic, which also lets you use sinister powers to bend time and teleport, should be exact and satisfying.ETA:springRetro City Rampage(VBlank Entertainment, Wii, Xbox 360)It's rare that games even try to be funny these days – it's even rarer for them to succeed. But we have very high hopes for this colourful and painstakingly conceived Grand Theft Auto pastiche, lovingly crafted by Canadian games industry veteran Brian Provinciano and a small team of contributors. Set for release on WiiWare and XBLA, it's a mission-based open-world crime shooter, re-visualised as an 8-bit era home console game, then filled with daft jokes and cunning jabs at the gangsta genre. The indie crossover hit of the year? Could be.ETA:Q1 for the XBLA version, TBC on the WiiWare one.Mutant Mudds(Renegade Kid, NIntendo 3DS)The 3DS line up for 2012 is dominated by sequels and continuations of ye olde Nintendo franchises – and certainly, colourful platformer Mutant Mudds looks like it could have begun life as a NES title. However, this retro-tinged oddity is in fact a total newcomer, created by Texan indie studio Renegade Kid – previously responsible for the implausibly scary DS horror title Dementium: The Ward. There are 40 levels to scorch through, and although the visuals are 2D, players are able to leap between foreground and background platforms adding some depth to the pixelated action. It'll be available from the eShop soon.ETA:Late January or early February, according to the game'sFacebook page.Star Command(War Balloon Games, iOS)Originally conceived as a PC game several years ago, this long-awaited sci-fi strategy sim should finally enter orbit this year – as an iOS title. Your job is to build a spaceship then command your crew on a voyage of discovery and combat, all in chunky isometric visuals. Comparisons are being drawn withKairosoft's excellent Story titles, but this looks to be a deeper, more expansive challenge, allowing you to modify the craft to your play style (be a Picard-style diplomat or a Kirk-esque hothead), and reverse engineer alien technologies. So Game Dev Story meets Xcom via Sim City. Yes please.ETA:Don't hold your breath.And five more games we might not see until 2013...The Last of UsRevealed with much fanfare at last year's Spike Video Game awards, The Last of Us is a post-apocalyptic survival horror adventure, pitting two survivors – 14-year-old Ellie and bearded, wizened hard nut, Joel – against the zombie-like victims of a nightmarish fungal plague. Developer Naughty Dog is promising a much darker, bloodier and more mature experience than Uncharted, while the vision of a post-apocalyptic city, over-run with vegetation, hints at the movies I Am Legend and 28 Days Later, but also Ninja Theory's under-rated Enslaved – indeed, Mark Richard Davies, that game's lead designer, is working on this supposedly genre-defining experience.Fortnite(Epic Games)The latest work from Gears of War creator Epic Games has groups of players scavenging for equipment and fortifications during the day, before defending their compound against enemies at night. Yep, it's Team Deathmatch meets Minecraft, with cartoon-style visuals and a typically large helping of Epic attitude. There are no platform or release details yet, but no doubt we'll hear more at E3 in the summer.SpyPartyVeteran coder Chris Hecker has been working on this ingenious "asymmetrical multiplayer" experience for a couple of years and though a 2012 release is possible, 2013 could be more likely. The setup is simple: one player takes on the role of a spy attempting to carry out covert missions while attending an important diplomat's party; the other player is an assassin, watching the party from another building and waiting for the spy to reveal him or herself before shooting them. It's an incredibly tense game of body language and deduction – calling on interpersonal skills that this industry has rarely ever bothered with. I played for a few minutes at GameCity in 2010 and was utterly engrossed (see my interview with Chrishere). Can't wait, then – but might have to.The Witness(Jonathan Blow, PC)Jonathan Blow's follow up to his agenda-setting indie treasure Braid is a mysterious puzzler set on a richly detailed island. Comparisons have been made with PC classic Myst, though Blow's title is likely to be a much stranger, more interesting proposition. He's a perfectionist though, and working with a very small team, he could well allow the expected 2012 release to slip. Fingers crossed, he doesn't – Braid dragged indie gaming onto the mainstream agenda back in 2008, who knows what The Witness could do.Agent (Take-Two/Rockstar North, PS3)Rockstar's '70s-based espionage thriller was officially announced at E3 back in 2009, promising us a globe-trotting interactive take on movies like the Parallax View and Three Days of the Condor. But then the PR machine spluttered to a halt, with only vague promises and assurances emanating from Take-Two HQ. With GTA V also in development at Rockstar's Edinburgh studio it's possible this one has been shunted along – or evenoff– the development calendar. But we're being optimistic.
