With the announcement this weekend that U.S. menspend more moneyon games than on music, it comes as no surprise that the industry is rekindling its interest in incorporating real-world advertisements into the game space. After all, if a player is forced to interact with a brand within the context of a mission, that brand is more likely to stick longer than one presented via a 30 second TV commercial. I feel so dirty.TheNew York Timeshas an in-depth look at the forthcoming business models which should make the game play experience more immersive/irritate the bejeezus out of gamers (delete as appropriate).However, the virtual world Anarchy Online has come up with a crafty two-tier solution for those who want to eradicate unnecessary messages and those who don't really care. If you don't mind your virtual sword saying "Nike" on the side, subscription charges will bedropped. If you'd rather it didn't say anything at all, the premium rate will apply.Players ofTony Hawkand other console games haveno choice, even though the prices of console games are heading for ahikewith the next generation of machines. Surely this kind of "subsidy" from mega-corps should counteract the financials necessary to bring a title to market?As an aside, Gonzalo Frasca atWatercoolergamesthinks that in-game ads are boring. Would you rather look at an in-game billboard or play with a simulated product? Which is the lesser of the two evils?
Paul Gambaccini, Tony Blackburn and Wes Butters are among DJs backing a revolutionary new service bringing radio to the iPod generation.In a world first, they are to bypass conventional radio to reach listeners and record shows specially for download from the internet.The brainchild of former Virgin Radio DJ Daryl Denham and former Radio 1 chart show host Butters, the shows will cost from 49p and will span music, speech, showbusiness and comedy with travel, sport, topical and specialist interest shows planned ."You can build your own fantasy radio station with shows from legendary names," said Denham."People don't watch the TV the way they used to.    Sky Plus and Tivo allows them to record and watch when they like but radio has not been as flexible, until now. We are offering radio where you want it when you want it.""And these are unique shows, created specially for iPods and MP3 players, not rehashes of something already broadcast on the radio" added Butters.The company, a joint venture between Butters and Denham, has deals in place with Warner Music and Universal.Podcasts will  play only 60% of a song to make sure the service is not used as a cheap method of downloading tracks - 99p will buy an hour-long music show. Every track played will be linked to a download service allowing listeners to buy it there and then."The record companies are realising that they will have to do deals like this but this is the first, and they want to get it right. This is new territory for all of us," said Denham.The podcasting venture takes internet listening one step beyond what broadcasters such as the BBC are doing at the moment. The corporation's "listen again" service has 9 million requests for shows in February and Denham and Butters are hoping to cash in on the same enthusiasm for online radio.Butters puts his Top 40 on the PodAmong the first shows to become available is Butters' Top 40 countdown and a daily breakfast show from Denham, a former breakfast host on Virgin.Gambaccini - one of the UK's most respected broadcasters - will take up where he left off at Classic FM and Jazz FM with classical and jazz chart shows.Podshows.com, the website that will host the shows, will also feature veterans such as Tony Blackburn and Terry Christian, broadcasters who are past their peak but still command interest.Although Blackburn has four radio show contracts, the advantage for him is he can reach a new audience without having to take on a new radio contract. He can fit the recording around his other broadcasts and can look forward to a potentially lucrative "podcast" sideline.Blackburn plays to his strengths as a veteran DJ with his own 70s music show, while Christian - best known as the host of controversial Channel 4 show The Word - hosts a 90s show.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
An Israeli firm that produces cards making it easy for mobile phone users to download music, games and pictures plans to float next month on Aim.Ki-Bi, which wants to raise &#163;10m in a listing likely to value it at about &#163;25m, has already shipped more than half a million cards to Britain over the past six months.The cards work on all networks, though Ki-Bi also has specific deals with Orange and O2. The company is raising cash to launch them in other   European markets and the Unite States. It is also working with music firms to produce "mobile CDs" it hopes will boost music downloading.Industry experts estimate the mobile content market was worth about $8bn (&#163;4.2bn) last year - and that figure is expected to grow dramatically.However, one of the barriers to customer take-up has been the difficulty many users have in finding the content they want. Mobile phone firms have spent billions building fast 3G networks and desperately want customers to use them.Ki-Bi has developed a plastic card that is sold through phone and music stores. The electronic card has buttons on it, corresponding to types of content. Mobile users activate the card by dialling a special number, allowing them access to downloadable content.The content is not on the card but the mobile phone network. The concept of the card is to encourage users to download content by giving them something tangible to buy."When you go to a record store you can buy your CDs but there is no physical form of mobile music," said a company spokesman.As the content is stored on network servers, the card can be updated. A &#163;7 card Ki-Bi has produced for TV music chart show CD:UK, for instance, gives the buyer an initial three chart ringtones and can be used again to download more chart songs in the future - for an additional sum that is debited from the user's account.Ki-Bi is also working with English rugby's governing body, the RFU, to produce a card allowing members to receive news and fitness tips via phone.
You can judge a driver by how comfortable they make their passengers feel.My grandfather was able to leave you with as much composure as blancmange before he'd even hit third gear (he believed in saving his brakes, and avoided using his mirrors for fear of being accused of vanity). And I think I may have inherited his driving genes.Richard Medcalf, who clearly drew the short straw in the staff canteen that morning, is sitting beside me in a factory-prepared Peugeot 206 rally car in a muddy wood in Kent. Sweating slightly and nervously fingering his throttle-override switch, he's clearly amazed I have managed to lose control of the car while driving in a straight line. 'Well, the road is very greasy,' he reflected patiently. Which was true, I've had kebabs that were easier to hold on to. After a gruelling 30 minutes, Richard summed up with a few pointers: 'It's probably best,' he concluded, 'if you don't let go of the steering wheel when cornering.' Advice even my grandfather didn't need.Richard is one of the many expert tutors involved in a driving-experience package set up by the doctor-turned-Formula 1 driver Jonathan Palmer. His new venture, Motorsport Vision, is based at Brands Hatch in Kent and Oulton Park near Chester, and it offers you the chance to drive at the absolute limit of your ability (in my case that's not saying much) in a variety of challenging settings. There's the rally course, a 4x4 track, a 'sprint' section which lets boy racers and ageing speed freaks perform rubber-burning 'donuts' to their hearts' content, and an innovative young drivers' package which lets novices get to grips with the basics in a traffic-free situation - there's only so much you can teach your 17-year-old in a deserted Tesco car park.The icing on the cake, however, is the RaceMaster course. This takes you as close as you're going to get to experiencing the thrill - and terror - of driving a Formula 1 car. After a crash course, so to speak, in racing lines, pit-lane etiquette and identifying safety flags, you get to drive an authentic single-seater around one of the most historic tracks in the country.Brands Hatch was where the legendary Jim Clark won his first British Grand Prix, and the tarmac has played host to everyone from James Hunt to Nigel Mansell and Niki Lauda. And, for a few precious minutes, me too.Donning my full-face helmet, the track crew helped me slide snugly into the purpose-built Formula Brands, powered by a 1.8-litre Audi engine. The car will do 0-60 in a buttock-clenching 3.4 seconds and has a top speed of 165mph - though, mercifully for my own safety, it was limited to about 100.Glancing at Richard, who seemed very relieved that the cars are single-seaters, I gunned the engine and pulled jerkily out of the pits. Down Brabham straight and into the high-speed Paddock Hill bend, foot hard on the throttle up towards Druids ... If only Grandpa could see me now.&#183;Prices start from &#163;145. Call 0870 850 5015, or go towww.motorsportvision.co.uk
My vehicle is new. It has no central locking, electric windows or mirrors, power steering, air con, satnav, CD player, low-profile tyres, fuel injection, turbo, four-wheel drive, over-drive, hide upholstery, walnut dash, rear-wash wipe, sunroof, tinted glass, spoiler, chrome trim, cup holders, bull bars, spotlights, rev counter, catalytic converter, seat-belt warning light, automatic gearbox, metallic paint or personal plate. So none of those can go wrong, break, fall off or make one look ridiculous.It has got one of the toughest diesel engines made, 1.9 litres and well capable of 200K-300K. It will do about 90mph tops in a country where the limit is 70mph. It turns in about 50mpg. It'll carry over half a ton. It was introduced in 1984 and has barely changed since. You can take it anywhere in Europe and North Africa and find parts and labour. It'll never get nicked. You can sleep in it at a push. With two dogs.It cost under &#163;5,000 new, plus VAT, and I'll keep it for years. It replaced an 11-year-old one that I ran for eight years that's still used on a farm in Wales. It's the artisans' vehicle from Munich to Marrakesh and fully deserves modest cult status. The Citroën C15 van. Ready for the new frugality.&#183;Love your car? Contact us atmy.wheels@observer.co.uk
When 25th-century historians consider the figures who shaped our lives, will they turn to politicians, popes - or the captains of hi-tech industry? George W Bush versus Bill Gates? Among those competing with Gates and Michael Dell to have their features one day carved into a digital Mount Rushmore is Craig Barrett, chief executive of Intel, which as the world's biggest maker of microchips has made an impact on the life of anyone who ever sent an email.'Every 50 years there is an industry which changes the world,' says Barrett who, aged 65 and about to be 'kicked upstairs' to chair the Intel board, has cause to dwell on the past - but not for  long. 'You go back to the 1850s to the 1900s, to the time when the steam engine and steel changed the world, and you look at the 1900s to 1950s when it was the automobile, the airplane and the TV.'If you look at the 1950s onwards, you might find two categories: biotechnology, the health sciences' equivalent to the physical sciences; and computers, microelectronics and the integrated circuit, which made electronic functionality do things you couldn't possibly imagine.'Being a part of an industrial effort that changes the way the world thinks, looks, acts, plays, does business, educates itself, entertains itself, communicates between ourselves - you can't be in a better place at a better time.'Barrett has been described as a travelling preacher of technology and, despite making way for Paul Otellini as chief executive next month, shows little appetite for slowing down, although  there is perspiration on his brow and he looks as though he could do with an afternoon nap if time permitted. He is in London's fashionable Metropolitan Hotel on a flying visit during a tour which takes ina  country a day - 'starting and finishing int he Middle East to take advantage of Sundays at both ends'.As chairman, he will continue to play this ambassadorial role for Intel, which does businesws in 150 countries and rivals Coca-Cola, McDonald's and Microsoft and Sony in lists of the world's most recognised brands.Anyone interested in crystal ball gazing would be better off asking Barrett than Mystic Meg or Jonathan Cainer. He's seen the future and it's small. Last week Intel announced plans to spend nearly £2.7 billion on upgrading its plants to produce 65-nanometre chips - a fraction of the size of a pinhead - with even smaller chips to follow in another two years.Where is it all leading? Barrett is most excited about healthcare. 'You could use technology to cut medical costs for home care, especially for older people in terms of remote monitoring. You're starting to see a lot of these simple home diagnostics. For example, if I have diabetes it's sugar level in my blood, or if I have heart problems it's respiratory rate and heart beat. A lot of those simple diagnostics could be done at home with a simple piece of equipment which could download the information to your doctor, who could look at it once a week and say,  "Mrs Jones is doing fine. No need for her to come and see me." So you cut the cost.'Another example is bespoke treatment. 'You have a disease; there's 'a standard treatment, which may or may not be best for you. With more computer power, I could tailor or personalise it. Your individual make-up is probably different from somebody else with the same illness.'So if I wanted the most effective treatment, I'd analyse your human genome and your DNA and say OK, this is how you are, on that basis this is how you'd react to this disease &#91;so&#93; this is how I should treat the disease.'Most sci-fi of all is the prospect of minuscule transistors in the bloodstream which could emit a warning signal at the first sign of a disease such as cancer, crucially allowing it to be treated  far earlier. 'There is a lot of exciting diagnostic work going on using microelectronic structures. The transistors we make happen to be smaller than the proteins, the disease markers you're looking for. So if you can somehow use that structure to help analyse the disease and determine it at very low concentrations, you can treat it early and have success.'The next step, if you use those structures to detect it, is that you can also make very simple closed-loop systems for detection and drug delivery. So the best way to treat your illness is to always have X milligrams of whatever in the bloodstream on a little patch with a wireless capability - something that can sense what is going in your body chemistry and have a feedback loop with a drug delivery system. All those things people are talking about today; five  years from now, they could be be like the internet. You could go from a scientific oddity to mainstream almost overnight.'Like other titans of the technology industry, Barrett still has in his eyes a schoolboy shine of enthusiasm for 'cool shit' - his words. He has a 333-acre ranch in Montana, where he rides horses and hikes and has a home media centre incorporating VHS, DVD, jukeboxes, satellite receivers and other shiny gadgets. He and his wife, Barbara, a lawyer, have another - main - home in Arizona.Before joining Intel in 1974, Barrett was an associate professor at Stanford University, and he has never lost his passion for education. Just as Microsoft wages war on Third World poverty, so Intel is spending about £53 million a year supporting schools and university research  around the world. Barrett had been in talks in London with the government prior to its launch of a 'Digital Britain' strategy to improve internet access in schools and spread the gospel of broadband for all.'It is very much a way to give something back to society. We don't do sporting events; we do education stuff. We train teachers around the world to integrate technology in the classroom. We do computer clubhouses. We do a bunch of things to try to get kids exposed to  technology, maths and science. And it's in a sense related to our business, because we hire engineers and scientists, and we would like more and more people to be interested in that. But our primary motive is our contribution back to the system.'Governments are all too grateful to when the benevolent Barrett parachutes in, but does that mean Intel - which made net profits last year of £3.9 billion - is now more powerful than many a  nation state?'I think that would be stretching it bit,' he says. 'We tend to have a big research and development budget that might be a lot bigger than a lot of nation states and we can help people build their infrastructures, but I would prefer to think that any activity we have has to  fall under the general guidelines of a win-win public-private partnership -not an "Intel is in charge" or "Intel is pulling the strings"or "Intel is telling the government what to do". Every time I have seen any IT programme succeed it involves the public sector.'He jokes: 'We don't have our own army and air force.'As China, India and other competitors devour information technology, Barrett warns other economies to keep pace - including America. 'To some degree the US government has left it to the private sector, and maybe it is preoccupied by other matters. There is a lot of discussion  in the US and the UK about budget deficits, the war in Iraq, national security and things of that sort.'The prospect for the US could be that it stays stagnant while other people grow and get closer to it. You've seen some examples of established economies having problems. The Japanese had problems for about the last decade for a variety of reasons. One of them, I think, was  rather ineffective, low penetration use of IT from a private-sector standpoint.'The prophet of the digital age has spoken. Bush and Blair, wrestling with health and education and striving to put their own stamp on history, should take heed. It's the technology, stupid.ProfileNameCraig BarrettBorn29 August 1939, San FranciscoEducationStanford University, BSc, MSc and PhD, in materials scienceCareerNato postdoctoral fellow at the UK National Physical Laboratory, 1964-5.Taught at Stanford, where he rose to associate professor. Joined Intel in 1974 as a technology development manager, became a vice-president in 1984, senior vice-president in 1987 and joined the board in 1992. He was appointed chief executive in 1993, and will become chairman in May. Has written more than 40 technical papers and a textbook on materials science,  Principles of Engineering Materials . He is chairman the US National Academy of EngineeringFamilyWife Barbara, two grown-up children and four grandchildrenLeisureSkiing, horse riding, fly fishing and hiking on his ranch in Montana
So how will the internet affect the election? The short answer is: more than you'd think, but not in the ways the political parties expect.The long answer takes us back to Howard Dean's ill-fated bid to become the Democratic candidate in the US presidential election. Early on in his campaign, Dean enlisted Joe Trippi, a Silicon Valley veteran, as his internet guru. Within a few weeks, Trippi and his team had set up an innovative, web-savvy online operation that raised astonishing amounts of money, garnered widespread activist support and gave their candidate a head start in the primary races.In the end, to the unconcealed glee of the media and political establishments, Trippi's creation failed to generate enough traction in the trenches of Ohio and other parts of middle America - and Dean self-destructed. It turned out that there was a critical gap between the excitement of the online world and the footslogging reality of ward politics.But those who were encouraged by the failure of the Dean campaign to write off the potential of online politics were, I think, mistaken. Trippi's problem was not that he was wrong but that he was ahead of the curve.In traditional TV-oriented campaigning, which is based on the notion that voters are dumb targets for massive amounts of advertising propaganda, effective campaigns are built on simple (usually negative) messages, relentlessly repeated and centrally controlled, and backed by massive logistical support on the ground.Trippi realised this 'advertising-push' model wouldn't work on the net. He didn't   have the money to pay for footsoldiers. Instead, he figured that Dean had to treat potential supporters as intelligent, autonomous beings who needed to be engaged.That meant they couldn't be bludgeoned into staying 'on message' but could be encouraged to use their ingenuity and enthusiasm to devise ways of supporting the general thrust of the campaign. And Trippi used the connectivity of the net - particularly the meetup.com system, which helps people find other like-minded folks in their neighbourhood and link up with them - as a way of   compensating for the absence of paid campaign employees.In a way, the Dean campaign was simply matching the method to the medium. The net is a self-organising system; Trippi created a self-organising campaign. In some respects it was very effective. It raised huge amounts of money from small donations; it generated energy and enthusiasm; and wherever Dean went he was greeted by the kind of crowds even Tammany Hall would have had trouble mustering. But in the end it foundered on the fact that most voters weren't getting their political messages from the net.The UK party system means the Trippi approach wouldn't have the same lever age here. But there are still lessons to be drawn from it. One is that the unrestrained connectivity enabled by the net empowers enthusiasts in ways that are beyond the control of the established parties.In Britain, most of these will be single-issue campaigners. So opponents of the Iraq war, the pro-hunting lobby, civil libertarians, anti-abortion campaigners, and racist and xenophobic organisations will make good use of the net in the next few weeks. We may also see text messaging employed to convene 'flash mobs' to disrupt campaigning by leading politicians.The net also plays into the Tories' hands by facilitating the 'dog-whistle' campaigning at which Michael Howard has become increasingly adept. Just as a dog-whistle is inaudible to humans but is heard by every canine within miles, Howard has been beaming messages at targeted groups - anti-abortion campaigners, and people hostile to immigrants, gypsies and asylum-seekers - which, if broadcast in the normal way, might repel the majority of voters. Because the target audiences are especially sensitive to the messages, they receive them loud and clear. As the quintessential narrow-cast medium, the net is just perfect for building on this approach.None of this is good news for Labour, partly because its politicians will be the target of much dissent, but mainly because it is the party most locked into the old campaign methods. The party came to power by dominating the broadcast media agenda and by ensuring that everyone sang from hymn sheets crafted by Peter Mandelson and Alastair Campbell.But these arcane competencies may prove to be a diminishing asset in a narrowcast world. And just to underscore the point, there is sonowwhodowevotefor.net, a site set up by John Harris as 'a resource for dismayed Labour voters' which is using the net to identify which Labour MPs are worth supporting. With friends like these, Tony Blair needs no enemies.www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
As we discussed in this week's lead feature ongeodataand Jack pointed outpreviously, open source information really lets you do some amazing things with mapping information.This, which I spotted this morning but was also pointed out by commenter Robert Andrews, is a classic example: an interface that hooks upGoogle's geodata with house adverts on Craigslist. Just fantastic, and a perfect example of why the UK's lack of open data is a problem.
If you don't get theweekly b3ta emailon Fridays, then you're missing out; never has there been a better repository for all of the web's weirdness.This week is no different; my favourite link is a little number for all the Nintyheads out there. If you ever thought you spent a bit too much time playing games - something I'm sure ourgamesbloggerswonder about from time to time - then worry no more.Surely you can't be as obsessed as Gibby, who has a"Game Room"of stupendous proportions. There's even what appears to be a seating area in the style of a NES... this deserves some kind of award. Or incarceration.
If you've got an iPod and a computer then you've got all the kit you need to enter the all-new, slightly geeky world of podcasting - in essence radio shows that download to your iPod that you can listen to at your leisure. To begin you need software fromipodderx.comfor Mac users oripoddernet.sourceforge.netfor PC people. From there you subscribe to the shows you want. A number of radio stations like California's excellentkcrw.comoffer podcasts, while the BBC has experimented with Christian O'Connell's show on Five Live, but the bulk of the action is from amateurs putting together programmes on everything from shoe design to 1980s hair metal. Visitipodder.org,www.podcastbunker.comorpodcast.netto discover what's there. Meanwhile sci-fi novelist Scott Sigler (www.scottsigler.net) is launching the world's first podcast-only novel.
Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell:Chaos TheoryPS2, XBox, Gamecube, PC &amp; N-GageVoiced by Starship Troopers' Michael Ironside,husky secret agent Sam Fisher returns with sarcasm and a lethal new range of weapons and gadgets.Saving the near-future world from a conflict involving North Korea and China,Sam 's new moves and the ability to choose your equipment before each mission let you choose how to approach each situation, doing away with the strict and sometimes infuriating trial-and-error gameplay that characterised the first two Splinter Cell games. Looking utterly beautiful, Chaos Theory 's other big draw is the enhanced spies v mercenaries multi- player mode and superb co-operative missions.If you like sneaking up on people,this will let you do it without any worries about restraining orders.Nick Gillett&#183;Ubisoft,£35-£40DemgamesPC, MACWith the general election coinciding with financial year end,politics starts to get very strange as money gets spent in a hurry.One of the more peculiar uses of cash levied from tax payers is a set of online games designed to help children understand how local government works. The problem with edutainment is it often neither entertains nor educates,and those experiencing Demgames will wonder at the pointlessness of Captain Campaign.But even more surreal is Councillor Quest II,featuring a set of stultifyingly prosaic local governance issues. That the current high score holder calls themselves Dictator is more prescient of New Labour policy than may be comfortable.demgames.orgDevil May Cry 3PS2Dante,the uber-cool star of past Devil May Crys,is joined in this prequel by his equally unflappable evil twin Virgil,for more effortlessly stylish destruction meted out via sword,guns and vast special moves.The game 's heartless difficulty level is mitigated immediately by an Easy Mode that becomes available after your first few humiliating defeats which,unlike the vicious Ninja Gaiden,lets even new players see more than just the game 's kindergarten levels. Stylish,elegant and capable of releasing dangerous levels of adrenaline,the third Devil May Cry is a deeply satisfying return to form after the slightly lacklustre second outing.&#183;Capcom, £40
It's been another busy week on Gamesblog - catch up below..MondayYou playNGJ hits the NYGPSPs around the worldTuesdayIndie game destroys New YorkDo we want to play interactive stories?Interactive stories or Yoshi?WednesdayRaiders of the lost tombBeautiful Japanese developers seek Western suitorsThursdaySony smellsLets play togetherSCEIDOSPSP UnleashedFridayLib Dems target mobile usersFoul Play
Therebrandingof mobile games company Digital Bridges, now known as I-play, has run into a spot of bother. Budget console games publisher PlayIt has announced that it is talking to lawyers about a possible infringement of its identity. As PlayIt CEO, Mark Cale, explains in a terse press release:"We are absolutely shocked to see Digital Bridges' rebranding based around the word "Play", a red ball on which is printed the "label" name and an animated sequence involving the red ball in motion to a similar jingle. Indeed, the home page of their website is splashed the slogan "You name it, I play it" – incorporating our very name. We find it very hard to understand how another games company in this business could be unfamiliar with our distinctive branding. Our lawyers, Clintons, have accordingly been instructed and we intend to take every step available to us at law to fully protect our name, brand and logo. If this means an application for an immediate injunction to restrain further use by Digital Bridges of their new logo, then so be it."I approached I-play CEO Brian Greasley for a response and he provided the following:"Whilst we believe it is inappropriate to comment about legal matters in this forum, we must make clear that we have been advised by our lawyers that we are not in any way infringing the rights of 'Play-it' and that we will be vigorously defending any claim that is brought."Looks like a fight might be on, then.It's an interesting one. The logos (hereandhere) do share the word Play and the red ball motif, but is that enough to constitute an infringement? Decide for yourself after readingthishandy feature...
The blurb for Gawker Media'sSploidsays:Sploid mines the web for the best and newest in non-mainstream journalism - whether it's a tourist's digitized video footage of a natural disaster, first person reports from observers inside the Supreme Court's galleries, or leaked audio files from newsrooms.Always distrustful, never partisan, and quick like an amped-up bunny (but much more reliable), Sploid cuts out the big-media middleman between you and the real news.Not sure what's "non-mainstream" about AP wire stories etc, but Sploid is an exercise in "tabloidisation". For example, the ABC News headline on one AP story is: "Gay U.S. Soldier Wants to Serve Openly". On Sploid, this becomes:Similarly, Court TV's: "Former Neverland guard says he saw Jackson molest boy" becomes JACKO BLOWJOB STORY HEARD IN COURT.
Here's a Web site that could produce a drop in UK productivity, even on a Friday afternoon:Google Sightseeing. Current sights include the Hoover Dam and the Neverland ranch.The pictures come from Google's purchase ofKeyhole.
The Open Source Initiative is going to try to stop the pointless proliferation of different open source licences which the group says "has become a significant barrier to open-source deployment", reportseWeek. In future, "Approved licenses must meet three new criteria of being a) nonduplicative, b) clear and understandable, and c) reusable."The problem is that code developed under different licences all gets mixed together in implementations, producing a legal quagmire. OSI says:"The hard truth is this: In order to address the problem of license proliferation effectively, both sides—both partisans of a particular license and companies—will have to give up their vanity projects. The day of the open-source license as tribal flag or corporate monument will have to come to a close."Comment:This move is at least four years overdue and is a belated attempt to shut the stable door long after the horse has bolted. The irony is that the Open Source Initiative is basically responsible for creating the problem: if Eric Raymond had stuck to his GNUs and kept faith with Richard Stallman's GPL, it wouldn't have happened.Of course, almost all commercial software producers -- such as IBM, Sun and Microsoft -- find the GPL unpalatable, so the open source movement would have been slower to develop. But it would have avoided the current situation, where a lot of "open source" code uses licenses that areincompatiblewith the one used for GNU/Linux.
This is slightly off-message, but interesting nethertheless. The Liberal Democrats have launched amobile phone applicationthat invites users to re-assign the £5bn spent on the Iraq war to other areas such as health, education and the environment. Once you've completed your alternative spending plan you can text it in to an online poll."Making use of new technology is a good way to engage a section of the population who are used to mobile phones and texting, but don't find most political campaigning of interest," says John Howson, Reading East's prospective parliamentary candidate for the Liberal Democrats.Obviously this is just a slightly more compelling means of polling the electorate, but the interactivity involved in creating your own budget is actually a very simple form of strategy sim. Perhaps the Iraq War Calculator hints at a future where parties use downloadable games to introduce election issues to apathetic, technology-literate youngsters. It's certainly something that the major charities are investigating - Unicef, for example, has a great littleFlash games sitewhich communicates its work to younger audiences.And of course, the next logical step is voting by text. Indeed, research company Mobile Youth has recently issued a press release on this very subject:New research form mobileYouth has found that UK teenagers are currently sending over 22 million text messages a year, and with the successful convergence of TV and messaging in formats such as Big Brother, there looks set to be an increase to well over 24 million messages. That's on average of 5 text messages per youth a day.The ease of mobile messaging and its mass market appeal has not gone unnoticed with companies such as MTV, BBC and ITV having already incorporated the idea of 'text voting' into their TV shows. Politicians may also find that mobile messaging will enable them to reach directly to the youth population, and harness in those who are able to vote but still do not have the motivation to do so.It is precisely among young voters, aged 18-19 where activity peaks and messaging becomes an essential tool for social activity. Around 77% of boys actually considered themselves 'heavy texters' compared to around 23% of girls, who all routinely send more than 15 text messages a day. On average a UK teenager will spend 20 pounds a month on messaging alone.I'm slightly concerned about giving teenagers the idea that voting for the next government should be viewed in the same context as voting for the next Pop Idol. However, maybe this is the logical conclusion for a political culture based around sanitised sound bites and shameful pantomime performances at Prime Minister's question time.
Wired.com has an interestingarticlelooking into the PSP's burgeoning homebrew coding scene. Someone has just written an IRC client allowing PSP users to chat via wi-fi hotspots, plus loads of people are now viewing Tivo recordings on their Sony handhelds, thanks tothisrather complex guide. In the past, Sony has encouraged the bedroom programming community, most notably with itsYarozeconsole. It's probably just as well they feel that way - as videogame hardware becomes more multifaceted and connective, so hackers will dream up ever more ingenious modifications.While I'm on the subject, checkthisout: how to convert your ancient consoles into cool portables!
OK, so I nicked that headline from an email that wended its way into my in-box, but for those who were following the storylast monthand are unable to read between the lines, EIDOS has accepted British publisher SCi's takeover bid. For the moment,Lara'sstaying at home.However, as the announcement onCVGsays,"...for the financially illiterate of us, this only means that SCi is in a stronger position than Elevation, and this doesn't actually mean that Elevation is out of the running just yet. If Bono pulls just a few more coins out of his 'feeding starving Africans' fund, the American firm could still walk away with the house Croft built."The Fly may get his claws (mandibles?) into her yet...
For the last few days I've been playing Doom 3 on Xbox. It's released tomorrow but the review isn't till next Thursday's paper, mainly because I only got the game on Monday. Usually when you get code late it means the PR operation is in damage-limitation mode, which reminds me, I still haven't seenChampionship Manager 5. Ahem.Doom 3though, is great fun – the Xbox conversion is as claustrophobic, tense and dumb as the PC original. But what makes it an essential purchase – if you have Xbox Live – is the co-operative online mode. This allows two players to work together rather than shoot at each other. Grab a friend and it becomes compelling, as you both sneak through the darkness. Teamwork is essential and the feeling of comradeship is surprisingly strong. Throw in the splendid co-op mode on the recent Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory and you come to an obvious conclusion. Co-operative play is the best way to broaden the appeal of online gaming and is essentially the future.Online gaming is great. In fact once you get used to playing against human opposition it can be tough going back to singleton gaming. Take Halo 2 on Xbox Live for example. Easy to setup with plenty of ways to group with friends – this is polished action. And there's no doubt that Halo 2 is an exhilarating blast. But once the initial thrill wears off what are you left with? Being regularly slaughtered by 14-year oldsbuzzing on colasoon becomes tiresome. Wouldn't it be great if you could play through the single-player game online with a friend? Sure the plot wouldn't make any more sense, but at least it would offer something a little meatier than deathmatch. But you can't, at least not online anyway. This is isn't a problem unique to Halo 2 though. The majority of online games, not just first-person shooters, suffer from these high barriers to entry which keeps the majority of gamers offline.What's the answer? Simple, make more online games co-operative rather than competitive. Take the fabulous Rainbow Six 3 for example. Here players can team up and to take on virtual enemies while enjoying an experience than you'd have in a competitive online battle. Other examples includeFull Spectrum Warrior, which was far better in co-op, and the inventive and original Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory. Even the first Xbox Live footy game, England International Football, allowed two players to play on the same team, a feature sadly lacking from Pro Evolution and FIFA.And look at the phenomenon that is World of Warcraft. Yes, much of the action is centred on PvP (players versus player) but the vast majority of the game involves teaming up with other players to achieve an in-game goal.So why isn't there more co-op gaming? You could argue that it's a cultural thing - the US competitive spirit against the more reserved Europeans. A lot of the best examples of co-op gaming– Splinter Cell, Rainbow Six – are published by European companies. Halo 2 was the published by Microsoft. Personal experience of Microsoft press events suggests there is some truth in this. After all, does anyone in Europe want to "trash talk" even if they knew what it meant? It could also be down to age – gamers in their 30s may not have the reflexes of their teenage competitors.Whatever the reason it's clear that the lack of more imaginative ways to play online is hampering growth, especially with the huge emphasis on it expected in the new generation of consoles. People want to play the latest games, but they want to experience them together – co-operation is the future of online gaming.
The government's big IT target for the next term &mdash; if it wins the election on May 5 &mdash; is to persuade society's have-nots to get on the web. A comprehensive IT strategy unveiled last week sets a target of eliminating the digital divide among families with children by 2008. The aim is "to create a country at ease in the digital world". We achieve this not just by handing out more free computers or broadband connections, but by changing the middle-class character of the web.Schools, local councils and the NHS will all play their part in the master plan, Connecting the UK, drawn up by the prime minister's strategy unit and the Department of Trade and Industry. For the first time, it suggests overtly that citizens will one day be compelled to deal with government electronically.According to the strategy, 44% of households with children do not use the internet. The problem is not access &mdash; nearly everyone knows somewhere they can go online &mdash; but motivation and lack of perceived need. "Cost is not the only or even the main barrier to take-up," the strategy says, and it confirms previous research suggesting that this lack of interest often reflects social class. People from the top two socio-economic groups are three times more likely to have the internet at home than those from the bottom two. And this gap is not closing &mdash; the rate of connection among DE households has been stuck at 20% since 2001.Government should be worried, says the strategy, because IT should be closing social gaps, not widening them. It points to studies showing that computers can reduce social despair among older people and sufferers of chronic diseases. For other socially excluded groups, such as young runaways and people leaving institutions, the ability to send emails via personal internet accounts provides a way of re-establishing contact and maintaining relationships with friends and family.When aiming at the socially excluded, content is the key, not connection. The success of digital television and mobile phones shows that people will go digital when there is something in it for them. "These changes have permeated popular culture," the strategy says. However, it bemoans the fact that "driven by the market, the internet is full of content aimed at affluent consumers targeted at middle-income groups".The challenge of developing compelling content should be taken up by public services being e-enabled by other strands of the government's IT strategy. Three public services will take this lead. They are:Education.Unphased by the Royal Economic Society's recent finding that computers can hinder children's education, the strategy reaffirms the government's commitment to putting IT in schools. By 2008, "all learners will have their own virtual learning space where they can store and access their work. We will also aim to give secondary school pupils &mdash; including those from low-income backgrounds &mdash; the opportunity to access ICT at home." The "haphazard" system of allowing individual schools to buy their own IT will be replaced by a "national procurement scheme", along the lines of the NHS national programme for IT. The strategy stresses that education does not end with school &mdash; people will carry their virtual learning spaces into adult life, creating continuity in learning as well as a continued reason to keep using the web.Health.The strategy cites the &pound;6bn National Programme for IT in the NHS (since renamed Connecting for Health) as evidence that the government is committed to using broadband to deliver services that are led by content, not technology. By 2008, every NHS patient in England will have a personal electronic health record, accessible at any time, day or night, to enable precise, personalised, care.Criminal justice.Another IT-based reform "at the heart of public service delivery" is the &pound;2.2bn criminal justice IT programme. By 2008, this will "allow information to flow throughout the system and deliver faster, more reliable and more accurate services to frontline workers, victims and witnesses."Local authorities, meanwhile, will be encouraged to come up with innovative electronic public services by a new Digital Challenge award. The idea seems to have been borrowed from the Stockholm Challenge, an international competition hosted by the Swedish capital. The first national winners, from local authorities and their private sector partners, will receive platinum medals next year.Finally, the strategy reveals that the Cabinet Office's e-Government Unit and the new Council of Government Chief Information Officers are "drawing up a cross government vision of public service delivery transformed by modern technology and a strategy for achieving that vision". This will include considering whether some government services should be moved to a "wholly digital environment" &mdash; Whitehall jargon for shutting down the option of processing them on paper, or face to face. However, the strategy promises that the "switchover will only happen as the conditions become right for each service; no one will be denied access to services because they are delivered electronically".LinksThe digital strategy&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails to online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Marta Leskard frowns at an old punch card reader, part of the Science Museum's vast collection of historic equipment. Something's wrong: the date in the museum's catalogue is different from the date on the machine.Leskard is inside a cavernous aircraft hangar, one of 10 on the museum's overflow site &mdash; an abandoned airfield at Wroughton in Wiltshire. It is not a display, but a warehouse: huge racks that reach towards the ceiling hold objects from amphibious cars to the first tubular knitting machine. Behind her is the Wood Press: the only surviving printing press from the glory days of Fleet Street. It is as big as a house.When she spots the mistake, Leskard does something that is, in its way, as historic as the objects that surround her: she updates the catalogue.A few weeks ago, she would have had to write a note on a piece of paper and drive half a mile across the airfield to her office. Networking the hangars was out of the question, says the museum's head of development, Sally Petipher: "Digging holes for cables, or setting up wireless links, was prohibitively expensive."Today, Leskard can access the internet, her email, and all the museum's catalogues using her HP Tablet PC, which talks to Wi-Fi access points in the roof. From there, the signal is carried by WiMax, an emerging technology that could get broadband to a lot of places that would otherwise have to do without.WiMax uses radio signals in the range from 2GHz to 11GHz to provide a "wireless local loop", delivering broadband to people without the need for telephone lines.Fixed wireless signals can travel 30 miles where there is a line of sight between two masts, and five miles where there isn't. In that five-mile radius, it can provide something like 50Mbps. That could bring broadband to people outside towns, but most of the companies that have tried it &mdash; such as Ionica, in the UK &mdash; have failed."The problem with fixed wireless access wasn't the technology," says Gordon Graylish, Intel's director of marketing in Europe. "The problem was that it was not standard, so systems were made with semi-custom chips. There was no economy of scale."Wireless local loop now looks more practical, with Alvarion, a hardware manufacturer, supporting 30,000 subscribers in a network run by Irish Broadband, and taking part in BT trials. But this is nothing compared with what people expect in future, thanks to WiMax standard, and support from major players such as Intel.The chip giant has been promoting WiMax for two years, and networked the Science Museum's storage site to demonstrate the potential. The museum is only 5km from Intel's UK headquarters near Swindon, so it was able to set up a fast link from a base station on its building to receivers on each of the museum's hangars.The benefits are more than a simple data connection. The site is so out of the way that it doesn't have good mobile phone coverage. Now Leskard can use an internet application such as Skype on her laptop to make voice calls."WiMax could link up rural Africa, and provide disaster recovery in the developed world," says Graylish. In cities, it will let people pack up and move without changing ISP: a service provider called Yozan plans to provide WiMax throughout central Tokyo by next year.This kind of marketing can get a bit breathless. "WiMax is just reaching the peak of its hype cycle," admits Gartner analyst Ian Keene. "It's one or two years from full deployment, but I'm optimistic it will get there." He has three reasons to be cheerful.First, WiMax doesn't rely on one application: it aims both to supplement ADSL and to offer mobile data. At the moment, users need expensive antennas to receive WiMax broadband and, as with early ADSL services, an engineer has to install it. But there will soon be self-install equipment that can find the signal, even if you turn it on indoors.Supporters predict a second wave of mobile WiMax will then appear, built into laptops the way Wi-Fi is today, so that people will get fast wireless data almost wherever they are. The mobile standard, IEEE 802.16e, is almost finished, and Intel reckons it will have silicon for it by the end of next year.Second, "WiMax is based on a worldwide standard, so prices will come down," says Keene. Seventy companies have joined Intel, Alvarion and others in the WiMax Forum, lobbying hard to get open access to the same spectrum bands round the world.A uniform market will lower costs. "Fixed wireless equipment is still too expensive," says Keene. "Most outdoor equipment costs $500: we want $200 indoor equipment, by next year."Finally, WiMax uses cheap bandwidth. While 3G operators paid billions for the spectrum to create networks, WiMax can start in small pockets using spectrum such as the "light li&shy;cence" 5.8GHz band, where providers pay &pound;1 per site, or a maximum of &pound;50.Not everyone is optimistic. The telecoms operators are rolling out HSDPA, an upgrade to the 3G networks that promises users several megabits per second. This could be available everywhere 3G is delivered (seeA race against time, March 3). There is a danger that HSDPA could beat WiMax to the punch, but Keene doesn't think so. "I don't buy the hype," says Keene. "If the operators use it to give bandwidth to data, they have to take that bandwidth away from voice customers."He is more concerned the mobile operators may stifle WiMax by politics. "3G companies have a lot of lobbying power. Nomadic broadband on WiMax could be deemed illegal. But I think the 3G service providers' cries will fall on deaf ears."Whatever WiMax's fate, it is making Leskard happy. Standing in the shadow of the mighty Wood Press, which once turned out 50,000 papers an hour for Lord Northcliffe, she looks back on her pre-WiMax days: "Sometimes I felt like I was using parchment and a quill. Now a lot more work will get done."LinksWood Press&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails to online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Safety firstWindows Server 2003 Service Pack 1 (SP1) is available for download from Microsoft. As with desktop Windows XP SP2, the server upgrade focuses on security and includes a built-in firewall, Network Access Quarantine Control (NAQC), and a wizard that blocks services and ports not required by the role of the server. NAQC allows an administrator to allocate configuration specifics for remote computers and to block non-compliant machines. Installing SP1 also improves Server 2003's performance. Microsoft hopes users will adopt the SP1 upgrade quickly. However, a study of 136,000 corporate desktop PCs by asset tracking firm AssetMetrix reports that more than a third are running Windows XP, but only a quarter of them have SP2 installed.Microsoft Windows ServerWorth its weightHitachi Global Storage says it expects to release drives with more than double their current capacities in 2007. The key will be perpendicular storage, a technology pursued by Hitachi, Seagate and Toshiba. Perpendicular techniques store in depth as well as longitudinally, similar to multi-layer DVD discs. By extending magnetic storage in three dimensions, a one inch drive could hold 20GB and a 3.5in desktop drive would hold 1TB. Initial production units, which are expected to appear later this year, will probably deliver only half this.Hitachi Global StorageRivals in 3G raceThe future of 3G wireless telephony is still undecided. In France, Orange is testing a faster 3G technology that could be a rival for the wide area WiMax standard (see page 16) and for the HSDPA supported by O2, Ericsson, Nortel and others. The Orange system is based on technology from IPWireless. Current 3G services transfer data at 384Kbps, but the Orange system could support downloads at 12Mbps. HSDPA has been demonstrated at 9Mbps but has a theoretical maximum of 14Mbps. Now the battle is on to woo company data traffic into the fast lane.www.ipwireless.com/news/press_033005.htmlVirtually thereMany companies like to use one server to run multiple operating systems in separate partitions &mdash; a process known as virtualisation. Usually this is done wholly in software, using programs such as VMware and Microsoft's Virtual PC. However, in collaboration with the companies, AMD is planning to add support at the chip level through its Pacifica technology. AMD64 64-bit chips incorporating Pacifica features should be available early next year.www.amd.com/enterprisePhishing floundersThe Anti-Phishing Working Group's monthly report says researchers found 13,141 new, unique phishing email messages in February, which was only 2% more than in January. This contrasts with the 26% average monthly growth rate since July 2004. The number of phishing websites supporting attacks also held steady, rising by 1.8% from 2,578 to 2,625. The report says the most common attacks are based on changing the victim's hosts file to divert requests for real sites to fake sites (called "pharming"), and using Trojans for key-logging. Fake sites are, on average, online for 5.7 days, up to a maximum of 30 days.http://antiphishing.org/APWG_Phishing_Activity_Report_Feb05.pdfPlane talkOnAir has announced it is working with the Airbus factory in Buxtehude, Germany, to install and seek certification for the world's first mobile phone system for commercial use on board aircraft. Each plane will have a small GSM pico-cell that will be connected to the telephone network via a satellite link. It is expected to appear in Airbus A320 aircraft in western Europe next year, OnAir said at this week's Aircraft Interiors Expo 2005 in Hamburg. Although OnAir is a joint venture with Airbus, it aims to retrofit GSM systems to both Airbus and Boeing aircraft.www.onair.aeroMight of MabirSymbian Series 60 mobile phones have been targeted by an improved version of the Cabir worm, which security company F-Secure has dubbed Mabir. Like Cabir, the Mabir. A worm tries to send infected files to other phones it finds via Bluetooth. However, "instead of just reading all phone numbers from the local address book, Mabir.A listens for any SMS or MMS messages that arrive to the phone," says F-Secure. "When a message arrives, Mabir sends itself as MMS message to the sender's phone number, posing as a reply to whatever message was sent to the infected phone." F-Secure, which publishes a Mobile Anti-Virus product, has put a description on its weblog. Note: Mabir has not been found in the wild.www.f-secure.com/weblog&#183;Contributions from Eric Doyle and Jack Schofield
The future's ShinyWhile Shiny Media &mdash; set up by Online writer Ashley Norris &mdash; has not reached the size of US commercial blog publishers Weblogs Inc and Gawker, it is leading the way in the UK scene of what is becoming known as nanopublishing. Last month, Shiny secured an advertising campaign from Dyson's, and has added two more blogs to its portfolio. Hippy Shopper is a green consumer blog aimed at UK readers, while Bayraider features the highlights of the wilder reaches of eBay, covering everything from tacky royal wedding memorabilia to life-sized Yoda models.Hippy ShopperBayraiderTreehuggerRummagingCast of millionsNew research claims almost a third of Americans who own MP3 players have tried downloading podcasts, just a year after the concept was devised. A survey of 2,000 adults by the Pew Internet and American Life Project found about one in 10 owned an iPod or other MP3 player. Of those, 29% had listened to the web-based broadcast medium. Among 18 to 28 year olds, that figure goes up to nearly half, which amounts to a remarkable6m Americans having sampled podcasting. But not everyone, including Pew, is convinced &mdash; NewsFactor reported that Pew research director Mary Madden "believes the numbers of people actually using the internet to broadcast and/or download pods is smaller than the 6m figure cited". None the less, podcasting is sure to ride the zeitgeist after socialite and reality TV star Paris Hilton starts a series of podcasts about her new film, House of Wax, later this month.Pew Internet reportNewsFactor on podcastingThe Paris Hilton podcastTown criersA new citizen journalism project in South Carolina is giving town residents their own blog and photo gallery in a bid to make news from the ground up. Launching Bluffton Today last Friday, internet strategist Steve Yelvington said the project is "an internet-powered interactive community centre that is designed to flow content to print, rather than vice versa". There are a handful of successful North American grassroots media projects that already use blogs to encourage communities to set their own news agendas, including Greensboro101 in North Carolina, Coastsider in California and Urban Vancouver. But Bluffton Today is the first of these "hyperlocal" news sites I have come across that uses editors and journalists to turn that online community into an offline, tabloid daily paper. Will it work? Success hangs on convincing a diverse community, with a varying knowledge of weblogs, why they should bother getting involved. But there's no doubt more and more people &mdash; perhaps inspired by Dan Gillmor's book We the Media &mdash; will experiment with blogs as a way of recruiting citizen journalists.Bluffton TodayGreensboro101CoastsiderUrban VancouverWe the MediaPapal postsThe death of Pope John Paul II prompted an outpouring of comment and remembrance on blogs. PR strategist Steve Rubel reports on his blog, Micro Persuasion, that the day after the Pope's death, 22,000 blog posts were published, compared to the 35,000 stories written by mainstream media organisations as calculated by the Associated Press. Undoubtedly, the most comprehensive list of links and other information was put together by American Jeff Jarvis on his BuzzMachine blog. The Pope Blog, set up last June, also won plaudits for its coverage of news from the Vatican.Micro Persuasion on blogging the Pope's deathJeff Jarvis's Pope linksThe Pope BlogSix of the best wine weblogsVinographyHuge Johnson's World of WineWineanorak blogCultured WinoSpittoon.bizFermentations&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails to online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Jonathan Miller, chairman and chief executive of online giant AOL, recently announced a service that will allow its users to make telephone calls over the internet. Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) has been seriously discussed for almost a decade, and was offered by companies such as Net2Phone (http://web.net2phone.com) as early as 1996.But now, says Miller, "this is the right time" for VoIP. The spread of broadband networks, powerful personal computers and cross-platform VoIP services have all contributed to the interest. VoIP services are also now capable of making calls to traditional phones as well as between existing users. There are even hardware adapters that allow traditional telephones to be plugged in and run VoIP behind the scenes, rather than from your computer screen.The choice for users now comes between using software or hardware-based solutions. So-called "softphones" run from your desktop and are usable whenever and wherever you are online, integrating with an existing electronic phone book. The most successful software service is Skype (www.skype.com), which is available for Windows, Mac OS X, Linux and PocketPC-based handhelds. BT offers a similar product, BT Communicator, based on its partner Yahoo's Messenger client, as does Callserve (www.callserve.com) with its Internet Telephone. Both are Windows-only.Although VoIP voice quality is generally good, softphones really need to be used in conjunction with a USB (or possibly a Bluetooth) headset, as microphones built into a computer pick up too much ambient noise &mdash; and may even feed back through the computer's speakers.Software solutions are very easy to use &mdash; something that is often forgotten. Skype, for example, is simple, particularly for finding other users and setting up conference calls.Hardware-based VoIP solutions &mdash; traditional-style phones that run across a VoIP network &mdash; are more pleasant and easier to use for basic calling, since putting the receiver down is hard to beat as a way of ending a call. They can also be mobile if a cordless or Wi-Fi phone is plugged in. Such solutions allow you to have multiple numbers so you can have a virtual New York office, or call Manhattan from the UK at local rates.The most successful of these is Vonage, which is available to north American and British customers, although BT was early to the UK market with its Broadband Voice service (www.btbroadbandvoice.com), which only works on BT connections.Pipemedia (www.pipemedia.com), owned by Lancaster-based ISP Business Serve, recently launched its Pipecall service, and Wanadoo's Livebox broadband modem, supplied with its Wireless &amp; Talk service, supports VoIP.The complementary Xten software supplied by Vonage and Pipemedia is clumsier to use than its rivals, has limited support for address import, and doesn't even allow pasting in a number from the clipboard. And, as with any piece of hardware, set-up and trouble-shooting can be difficult.There are wider practicalities for both hardware- and software-based VoIP solutions, which tend to be ignored. One important issue is that some countries simply can't be reached via VoIP. Another downside is that most services don't allow users to call special numbers (including directory inquiries), and most don't recommend or support dialling emergency numbers. In an emergency in which the power was out, VoIP phones wouldn't work anyway.Services that support incoming calls also limit your choice of phone numbers. Vonage and Skype only sell 020 numbers in the UK, while BT Broadband Voice numbers have 05 prefixes, and Pipecall assigns 0845 lo-call numbers.For years, voicemail has been an integral element of telephony, but is easy to forget about when considering VoIP telephony. Most of the hardware-based services offer voicemail, and with the Vonage service, voicemail notifications with the voice message attached can be forwarded to your email. Vonage also supports caller ID and call redirection.High-quality customer service is not guaranteed. Sometimes, it is accessed via email or web-based support pages, although support from online user discussions exceeds what you will receive from formal customer support.Though many services offer free calling between people using the same software, and most hardware-based services offer unlimited local calls, VoIP costs aren't always lower than traditional telephony. The level of competition in both local and international telecommunications has led to price levels that are, in some cases, below those of VoIP services &mdash;and that is without taking into account the hardware some VoIP users will have to purchase to get started.VoIP could financially benefit those who regularly call abroad to a limited number of people who are typically at their computer, or those who make a lot of local calls. But in the medium term, the benefits will be measured in terms of flexibility, features and ease of use.The general trend, as Jonathan Miller observed, is that after years of dominance by traditional telecommunications companies, VoIP "puts the power back in people's hands".&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
"Telephone tag" costs British companies more than &pound;20bn a year. You can't reach the person you want and leave a message; they call back while you are at lunch &mdash; or when you don't want to be interrupted.Email is less intrusive, but you don't know when it gets read, and it isn't always the best tool for agreeing decisions. When misunderstandings are going back and forth, instant messaging can be a compromise: you know if the person is there, and you can get your answer straight away. But the immediacy of IM makes for interruptions, and even if you set your status to "busy", you will still get messages asking if you are too busy to talk. It does not help if you're out.It would be useful to know where people are and what they are doing, but this common sense idea is hard to achieve. It usually means integrating information from many systems that don't normally talk to each other. But with some new versions of its real-time collaboration tools, Microsoft is trying to put some of that common sense into its Office suite.Outlook has offered integration with MSN Messenger for a while, so you can see from an icon in the email message if the person you are emailing is online. The new service pack for Live Communication Server 2005 adds access to your buddies on AOL Instant Messenger (AIM), ICQ and Yahoo Messenger, so you can keep an eye on far more people.You have to pay extra for the public instant messaging connectivity, but at the moment, it is the only official way to see people on all the main IM networks. (The AOL integration in Lotus Sametime has run out, and unofficial multiple service clients such as Trillian and GAIM need frequent updates to stay connected.) But if you don't need Yahoo, AOL's new AIM Sync tool lets you link people in your Outlook contacts folder to AIM screen names and see if they are online.Next, the new Office Communicator 2005, a replacement for Windows Messenger, tells you more than whether someone is signed on to IM: you can see if they are on holiday, out to lunch, or when they are free for a meeting. You can type in a note to explain you are at home waiting for the repairman. If you don't want to talk, you can turn on the Do Not Disturb mode. That shows you are online but doesn't let messages through. You can also block people from seeing your presence.Communicator 2005 looks at your Outlook calendar and automatically marks you as busy whenever you have a meeting scheduled, adding the time when you will be available. If you have set an out-of-office message, people can see that straight away, rather than sending you an email and finding out you are away.All this presence information shows up when you look at an email in Outlook or at a document on a SharePoint site, so you can use it to reach colleagues you don't know as well as people you already deal with.And you don't have to have everyone in the company on your buddy list. Communicator can pull the details from Microsoft's Active Directory software as you need them. Also, administrators can give users buddy lists that automatically include everyone in their group.Phone integration means being able to look up a phone number while you are chatting in IM. If you have the right PBX (private branch exchange) &mdash; one that supports standard SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) or the Siemens Gateway &mdash; you can also dial from Communicator. You can see who is calling you on your PC screen before you pick up, and divert them to your mobile phone, if that is more convenient. If you miss a call, you get an email with the details.Taylor Collyer, of Microsoft's Real Time Collaboration group, says the plan is to give you more details about who is calling. In the future, you will see something like the activity pane in Outlook, which will show you all the IMs, phone calls and emails you have received.That will involve more integration with Office applications, and Bill Gates is promising more real-time capabilities in the next version of Microsoft Office. "It has to be very intuitive how you set up and how you control the visibility of that. Any place you see the name of a user, you should hover to see that presence data and simply right-click for whatever type of communication you want to connect up to," says Gates.And it is not just people who find presence information useful. Workflow applications could use it to decide whether to send you a report by email, or text you the address for your next appointment. But that is in the future.The service pack will be available next month, as will the new version of Microsoft's Live Meeting web conferencing service. Communicator 2005 should be out by June, with Microsoft Office 12 arriving sometime next year. After that, Microsoft will be trying to tie it all together with its latest acquisition: Groove.Groove Virtual Office, the brainchild of Lotus Notes creator Ray Ozzie, is a peer-to-peer program that integrates into Windows and is used for building workspaces where small, distributed teams can share information and documents securely. Some Tsunami aid teams used it to coordinate their efforts earlier this year.With Groove's tools you can see who is online and who is working in the workspace; you can chat and share documents. According to Microsoft vice president Steven Sinofsky, the difference between Groove and Microsoft's existing collaboration tools is that you get "an ad hoc, peer-to-peer workspace, without additional infrastructure".Groove eliminates the cost of extra infrastructure by using the internet to create networks of connected workspaces you can use on and offline.Microsoft plans to integrate Groove Virtual Office capabilities into other programs to create alternatives that should cover most of the options for collaboration: sharing documents with server-based SharePoint; online meetings through Live Meeting's real-time collaboration; and Groove's asynchronous peer-to-peer virtual workspaces.Microsoft Research has even come up with a Harry Potter-style clock that shows which family members are at work or at home.The challenge for Ozzie will be to make all that into a seamless platform where presence indicates what you can do to collaborate with your colleagues, and context shows how you want to do it.There is plenty of competition. Live Meeting squares up against WebEx and Macromedia's Flash-based Breeze. For presence-based real-time communications, applications can use the open source Jabber XMPP protocol to communicate with each other and end-users, using presence notifications to control what information gets sent where. AOL also has a range of business offerings based around AIM, including a VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) service, and an AOL-branded version of WebEx.For Microsoft, however, the aim is to make these communications facilities easily accessible from Office, used by tens of millions of knowledge workers. This could not only make Office more useful, it should also make it harder to displace.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
If there is any justice in politics, Labour should be certain of one constituency's vote on May 5. Under this government, IT suppliers have never had it so good.Government has dominated the market in big IT contracts for the past three years. According to market researcher Ovum, the public sector spent &pound;6.7bn on IT in 2004; that figure is growing at more than twice the rate of private spending. And we have hardly started the biggest programme of all &mdash; the national biometric identity card.This enthusiasm for IT-enabled reform has been a godsend for an industry bruised by the dotcom crash and suffering downturns in traditional markets.Even more striking than the spending, however, is the impression of industry and government following a common agenda. With the arrival of new highly paid chief information officers in Whitehall, the revolving door between public and private sectors has never run more smoothly. Both sides speak the same jargon, of outcome-based citizen-centric joined-up deliverables, going forward. Most of the big ideas soaking up spending &mdash; customer-relationship management, handheld computers, electronic case files &mdash; were heavily promoted by the IT industry.This is not to suggest that some cabal is pulling strings in Downing St. Lobbyists are employed to listen as well as talk; smart companies seed ideas into government, but are just as quick to pick up new political orthodoxies and take the language on board. Companies spent huge sums last year rewriting corporate brochures in the terminology of the Gershon efficiency agendas.And just because an idea comes from industry doesn't necessarily make it a bad one. With the state of information handling in criminal justice and the NHS, almost any innovation from Seattle or Silicon Valley is worth a try.What is worrying is the assumption that government and the IT industry are on the same side. It crops up all the time in announcements of "partnerships". When the prime minister launched his digital strategy last week, he was accompanied in Downing St by representatives of the IT industry association Intellect. If the government had been unveiling a transport strategy, would it have been quite so willing to acknowledge the input of oil companies?Industry friends will protest that this reading of the relationship ignores a brutal reality: that the government, desperate to avoid further project scandals, is screwing tough new terms and conditions from suppliers. That the new chief information officers, far from cosying up to their former colleagues, are there because they know just how far they can push companies before the pips really squeak. That the concept of "partnership" places a burden on suppliers to stick with projects when it would make better commercial sense to walk away.No doubt there is some truth here. However, if the government's terms are really so onerous, computer firms can decline to bid for public sector work. There is little sign that this is happening. The IT industry assumes that, in New Labour, it has a friend.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In one of Nairobi's notorious slums, Aquinas Secondary School for Boys is an unlikely location for a pioneering IT education project. Aquinas is one of 120 schools benefiting from the donation of computers and training from Computers For Schools Kenya (CFSK), a Nairobi-based charity helping to produce a new generation of computer-savvy young Kenyans.This month, Aquinas became one of five pilot schools that have gone online thanks to a wireless internet connection. "School children who don't have IT knowledge are at a disadvantage," believes head teacher George Muthee. "Many of our pupils come from severely disadvantaged backgrounds, but by being able to offer IT classes, students stand a much better chance of getting a job or going to college."Despite having no mains electricity at home, student Peter Chada is aware of the importance of an IT education. "Everything is becoming computerised and if you're going for a professional or office job the first thing an employer asks you is whether you are computer literate," says the 18-year-old, who aims to become a computer engineer.A skilled and computer literate workforce is now widely recognised as being a key factor in Africa's ability to boost its productivity and attract investment."Information communication technology has been identified by the UN as a driving force for development," says Tom Musili, executive director of CFSK, which launched in 2002 and now has a staff of more than 30."The Kenyan government, industry and civil society all recognise that for Kenya to remain competitive in today's knowledge-based economy, more must be done and done urgently to increase access to ICT skills training."However, with a vast number of Kenyans unable to afford to finish secondary school education, access to school computers and ICT skills is still restricted to the lucky few."Most Kenyan schools lack even the most basic ICT resources because of the cost. The result is that the vast majority of Kenyan schoolchildren leave school without having seen a computer," says Musili.Certainly George Muthee recognises how lucky his school has been in receiving 20 PCs and the ICT training that he and ICT teacher Charles Nganga got from CFSK."When I first heard of them, I ran very fast to ensure Aquinas was at the front of the queue," says a beaming Muthee. "It was a golden opportunity for us. We would never have been able to buy 20 PCs."CFSK has embarked upon an ambitious programme of rolling out PCs to Kenya's schools. "Our vision is quite simple," says Musili. "By 2009, we aim to place almost 15,000 PCs in nearly 600 schools, provide the necessary training and support, as well as boost internet usage and access."Crucial to this vision are the supporters from within Kenya and overseas who help fund the program.One of its most important partners is UK-based Computer Aid International (CAI), which supplies CFSK with most of its computers.An estimated 3m PCs are decommissioned every year in the UK by thousands of companies who upgrade and change IT systems. However, many are in good working order. Since 1998, CAI has placed 45,000 computers in the developing world."End-of-life PCs are worthless to most companies but invaluable to schoolchildren," says Tony Roberts, director of CAI. "Companies see getting rid of old kit as one big headache. We can take care of their headaches while ensuring the PCs go to good causes."Roberts rejects criticism that with so much poverty in Africa, priority should be given to basic educational resources such as books and desks."Computers are no longer an optional extra. Without appropriate vocational training and skills development, young people will remain locked into a cycle of poverty and marginalisation," he says."Governments in Africa are not trying to decide if they should invest in ICTs, they're focused on determining how much they can invest and how soon. It's a matter of great urgency."Unless developing economies such as Kenya are enabled to break out of the cycle of poverty they will always remain dependent upon aid," argues Roberts."This endless cycle will only be broken by rich countries providing aid that will impact directly and positively on people's livelihoods by developing marketable skills and increased options for better jobs."Back at Aquinas, Charles Nganga winds up another double period of ICT. "While many of our pupils come from poor and disadvantaged families, we work hard at instilling in the boys the idea that they can achieve anything if they work hard at school," says Nganga. "The continuing success of CFSK is a crucial part of this process."LinksComputers For Schools Kenyawww.cfsk.orgComputer Aid Internationalwww.computer-aid.org&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A few years ago, the iSociety noted that the supply side of British broadband &mdash; which this week claimed 5m customers &mdash; was working OK but the demand side was "broken". It was right then and is still right today. The demand side is still about content. Yet content has not been a broadband driver, except in the case of peer-to-peer content. This reinforces the results of ethnographic studies that seem to indicate that broadband "wow moments" are linked to social networking: email, instant messaging and file sharing.So you would think that net service providers would offer premium services around social networking: secure instant messaging, digital signatures, protected chat rooms and so on. But the premium services my ISP offers are basically "hello 1936" broadcast services: TV on your internet. For a few quid a month I can access "premium content" (music videos and so on). Premium content to some, but not to me.For me, premium content is social networking content. It is content about me, my family and my friends. Here is an example. Within a few hours of Peter Shorthouse leading his under-8 charges at Woking Boys Athletic to victory in the semi-final of the Surrey Primary League Lower Cup, I had sent him the video clips of key moments in the game (the winning goal being scored by one Aaron Birch!), put clips on our private family blog and emailed clips to friends and colleagues.This is what broadband is all about: it took no more than a few minutes to run the digital video into iMovie, edit the clips that were wanted, add slow-motion replays and then blast them out to the social network.Everyone got the clips except the people who wanted them most &mdash; Grandma and Grandad. They are not among the UK home internet users on broadband (about 11.5m of about 20m+ home users are on broadband). They have a PC and dial-up internet access but rarely use either.Viruses and spam engulfed their PC last year and it has never recovered. And they are not going to tie up their phone for a few hours to download video clips, and then spend hours more on the phone to technical support (me and my brother) trying to figure out how to play them.But suppose I could have sent the clips to their Sky+ box? They understand how to use that. The clips were in MPeg-4 format so there is no obvious reason why I couldn't have sent them to Sky, where they could be sent over the satellite to the grandparents' house. When they turned on the TV in the evening, alongside the recorded episode of Countdown could be a video of their grandson in action.You will never get Grandma and Grandad to subscribe to sports channels, movie packages, music videos or any other premium content. But you would get them to subscribe to their grandkids and this reinforces the general point: people are far more interested in each other than in third-party content. Which is why broadband strategies should be about facilitating inter-personal connectivity and not "dumbing down" interactive channels to mimic broadcast television.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Not too long ago, a company developed an innovative personal audio player, supported it with a superb marketing campaign and consistently improved on the product to ensure it stayed one step ahead of its rivals.How ironic, then, that Sony, inventor of personal audio through its Walkman brand, is now discovering how Panasonic and JVC must have felt two decades ago as it tries to claw back market share from Apple and its ubiquitous iPod.The tale of Sony's attempt to take on Apple in the personal audio market may end up as a case study in a book about business disasters.Hamstrung by its music industry division, which was perhaps rightly paranoid about piracy, Sony's hardware entity spent the best part of a year dithering over a response to the iPod, enabling Apple to dominate. It then tried to deliver Flash memory players and audio/video hard disk players. When they stalled, Sony decided to reinvent its MiniDisc format to play MP3 files. Finally, last year it launched the NW-HD1, a hard disk player that was impressive but compromised by poor software and limited compatibility with MP3 files.Yesterday, however, Sony finally gave Steve Jobs something to think about with the arrival of the NW-HD5 20GB hard disk player. For the first time, Sony has not just delivered a personal audio player and expected people to buy it on the strength of its Walkman branding. Rather, it has taken on Apple at its own game.The NW-HD5 looks impressive. It is lighter and smaller than its Apple rival (it weighs just 125g) and has far superior battery life, offering 30 hours of MP3 playback (40 if the owner uses Sony's proprietary ATRAC3Plus format at 48kbps), compared to the equivalent iPod's 12 hours. The battery is easily replaceable, too.The impressive display can show seven lines of text and be viewed horizontally or vertically. It sports an apparently intuitive interface. The player, available in black, silver, and red, goes on sale next month. A 30GB version in silver follows in June.Perhaps the biggest story is that the NW-HD5 will retail for &pound;199 in the UK, &pound;10 less than the 20GB iPod. Apple is sure to respond and consumers may benefit from a price war.On paper, Sony looks to have got everything right, and unless Apple has a new 20GB iPod up its sleeve, Sony will have the lead in hardware.Luckily for Apple, buying a hard disk music player isn't all about battery life and size. Apple still has two aces: the iPod's brand values and the way players link with Apple's iTunes music store.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The online role-playing world is often preoccupied with heroic fantasy games and consequently fails to offer much to those who would rather not spend their time running away from angry orcs. But a new British-developed massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) is about to offer players the chance to leave the dungeons and dragons lifestyle far behind, and try their hand at surviving in the burgeoning Roman Empire.Roma Victor, which is due to enter open beta testing at the end of this month, has been developed by Red Bedlam studios in Brighton. The game is set around 180AD, when most of Europe was under the influence of Rome and its Emperor Commodus. Players enter the game as either a slave within the walls of Rome, or as a barbarian outlaw in the wilderness outside. Slaves have to work hard to attain their freedom, which can be achieved in many ways &mdash; being a successful merchant, labourer or gladiator, for example. When they achieve citizenship they can become involved in politics or join the Roman Legion."Players that select the life of a barbarian may find themselves in a pretty lawless and dangerous society," explains Kerry Fraser-Robinson, president and managing director of Red Bedlam. "Most players will seek to join a tribe of other players or perhaps even try and set up their own. If these tribes cooperate, then the hand of Roman oppression may be kept at bay &mdash; but that's no small matter in such a harsh environment."This idea of creating virtual history books has been successfully developed on the other side of the pond by eGenesis, which created and published A Tale in the Desert. This ancient Egypt-based MMORPG, now in its second incarnation, has been surprising &mdash; not least because of its non combat-orientated gameplay, but also for giving players the ability to make their own laws and political system.Andrew Tepper, founder of eGenesis, explains: "Eventually, most players will encounter someone who is a thief, or otherwise behaves badly towards them. How society deals with such people is a theme I wanted players to explore in A Tale. They have a number of tools to police themselves, including ways to permanently ban others from the game."But with the likes of World of Warcraft and EverQuest II grabbing the subscribers, what new experiences can niche historical games offer? "First, we strongly believe that mature, educated gamers &mdash; women in particular &mdash; are being largely overlooked by the existing crop of MMORPGs," claims Fraser-Robinson. "Many people are tired of being patronised and yearn for intellectually challenging and socially driven interactive entertainment."Tepper agrees there is a need to provide real alternatives to the common hack'n'slash formula. "Look at any online discussion board and you'll find people who want to be a part of a gaming community, but are complaining that either the games are all the same, or they are 'level-treadmills'. Loads of people want a community to call home, but haven't found one that grabs their attention."Online gaming has become one of the big focus areas for games development over the past few years and the trend looks likely to continue. While World of Warcraft has opened up traditional fantasy gameplay to casual players, historically-themed games such as Roma Victor and A Tale in the Desert are seeking to capture those who are still slipping though the net. For every gamer that wants to slay a dragon, there is one that wants to build a pyramid, join an army or even just build a smallholding and raise a few camels.LinksSurviving empireRoma Victorwww.roma-victor.comA Tale in the Desertwww.atitd.com&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Rather than visit the same set of sites, I try to get "lost" in the network, which is what led me to Mozilla in the first place. One of the few sites I do read regularly is paulgraham.com (www.paulgraham.com).How did you get involved with Mozilla?br&gt;I stumbled across the Mozilla project in early 2000. My first Mozilla fix was humble: I moved a button over a few pixels. But the ability to influence a product used by millions was addictive. My work led to an internship with Netscape (www.netscape.com).It was a trying experience. From where I was sitting, I found there was little innovation &mdash; only what seemed to be the pursuit of money. I jumped ship before the powers that be thought about charging a nickel to click the Back button.Thus Firefox?Firefox (www.mozilla.org/products/firefox) was born of this frustration. People ask how we got it right in Firefox, but doing good re&shy;quires only that you understand what's bad. We took everything we learned at Netscape and ran in the opposite direction. Firefox's legacy will be that it gave a voice to the silent majority. The Mozilla Foundation (www.mozilla.org/foundation/) is non-profit, so revenue goes back into improving the web.Was there a temptation not to make Firefox open source?No. Firefox has its roots in the open source Mozilla project and wouldn't exist without the efforts of thousands of volunteers. It would have been unconscionably disrespectful to build on those efforts without contributing the code back, even though the code licence permits it.Is open source making inroads on the Windows/Macintosh duopoly?Not in the consumer marketplace. I don't use Linux (&lt;A HREF="http://www.linux.org""&gt;www.linux.org) and would not recommend it in its current state. Every Linux distribution I've used feels like it is tailored to the people who made it. There is nothing wrong with making software you love to use, but you have to acknowledge that the world has different needs. Getting people to switch is not impossible, though. People are giving up Internet Explorer and that's the most frequently used application. But Linux vendors need to deliver something worth switching to first.Where do you see the browser in 10 years' time?Five years ago, the world delivered the browser's eulogy, now everyone wants to know where it will be in a decade. Browsers will be around for a while, but hopefully Firefox will jumpstart enough innovation that we won't recognise them in 10 years. Browsers are still too "dumb". They offer a generic window to the world without regard for the scenery. Whether I'm shopping, blogging or searching, I can only do the same five things &mdash; go back, go forward, reload, add a bookmark or print. It's like an old text-based adventure game.Was it important to make Firefox blog-friendly?Absolutely. We used blogs to spread the earliest Firefox releases when mainstream media had never heard of us, and our first users were bloggers. It is a great relationship, and we work hard to maintain it.Where do you see blogging going?I can see people blogging for limited audiences, but I don't think any service has exploited this kind of networking. Most services try to feed me new technology to "help" me do things I can already do with tools I'm familiar with. People will blog if doing so solves a problem.Visit:www.blakeross.com&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
One of Germany's most successful authors, Frank Sch&#228;tzing, was facing the claim yesterday that he lifted large chunks of his latest blockbuster from the internet.The book, The Swarm, is an apocalyptic eco-thriller which tells the story of how a mysterious undersea being known as Yrr incites the natural world to revolt against humans.It has been an extraordinary success, selling more than 700,000 copies in Germany. It 
 has even been credited with saving the lives of several German holidaymakers who fled to safety after reading its vivid description of how the tide goes out before a tsunami.Yesterday, however, a German biologist accused Sch&#228;tzing of "plundering" much of the material used in the book from his scientific website, &lt;A HREF="'http://www.ozeane.de."Thomas'&gt;www.ozeane.de.ThomasOrthmann, a marine biologist and journalist, claims that dozens of passages in The Swarm have been lifted "word for word" from his research."I began reading the book in 
 January after someone gave it to me for Christmas," he told the Guardian yesterday from his home in Hamburg."At first I started thinking, 'This is uncanny. This is the kind of stuff I could have written'. After reading a couple of hundred pages it dawned on me that I had in fact written it."He added: "I can see how it can happen. Mr Sch&#228;tzing admits that he did most of his writing in the evening because of his busy schedule."There aren't many people to talk to in the evening. Instead you pour yourself a nice 
 glass of wine, click a couple of times with the mouse, and download everything you need."It's a great book. But the experience of reading was diminished after I realised this was my work."The biologist is demanding &euro;15,000 (&#163;10,270) in compensation and has said he will take the case to court unless Sch&#228;tzing apologises.So far, the author has refused to pay up. He has, however, agreed to acknowledge Dr Orthmann in the next edition of his book, which is due to ap pear in Britain and the US later this year, and is the subject of lucrative negotiations for Hollywood film rights.Yesterday Sch&#228;tzing's German publisher, Kiepenheuer &amp; Witsch, denied that their author was guilty of plagiarism."Frank Sch&#228;tzing hasn't done anything more than use scientific facts in his novel which are freely available for everybody," the publisher said in a statement. It added: "He used lots of different sources for his novel. But they are all worked into the plot."Dr Orthmann, though, was 
 confident he would win a court action. The evidence was "overwhelming", he said.Sch&#228;tzing is not only a best-selling writer but is also the head of an advertising agency and music production company. He has written several novels.Critics gave The Swarm, which begins with a marine biologist investigating the behaviour of sea worms and depicts whales attacking ships, an enthusiastic response.One even suggested that Sch&#228;tzing had "saved the German thriller".
Mobile phonesIdentify itPhone manufacturer Motorola has announced a partnership with Shazam, the audio recognition service that lets you identify songs simply by letting your mobile hear them. Shazam will be incorporated free into a number of Motorola handsets, allowing users to identify tracks with a simple one-touch mechanism rather than dialling the usual 2580 number. Once a song has been identified, the information is stored, allowing customers to purchase ringtones, CDs and downloads of the music at a later date. Costs vary depending on the network.www.motorola.com/ukThe force of OrangeThe force is with Orange as the mobile phone network has just unveiled a host of Star Wars branded items. On sale for &pound;89.99 is the Star Wars Episode Three boxed set, which comprises a Nokia 3320 mobile phone, a Darth Vader phone holder, a furry Wookie phone pouch, free Yoda wallpaper and a limited edition Yoda pay-as-you-go card. The network is also offering Star Wars-related content via its OrangeWorld site. It has launched an avatar service for subscribers who can enlist video versions of characters such as R2D2 to read the text messages when they arrive on friends' mobiles. Sending messages costs 50p.www.orange.co.ukBudget buyNokia's budget Series 60 smartphone, the 3230, goes on sale in the UK this week. The new handset sports a candy bar-style design that pairs a large 176 x 208 pixel, 65k colour display with a standard numeric keypad. The 3230 has a raft of multimedia features, including a 1.23 megapixel camera, up to an hour of video capture and an MP3 player. The phone features POP3 email, instant messaging and push-to-talk facilities, and has both XHTML and HTML web browsers for viewing Wap and full web pages. It is available now from Orange for about &pound;30.www.nokia.co.ukHit paradeOn top of its Star Wars launch, Orange has been trumpeting its new music services, including a link-up with gigsandtours.com to let subscribers get free text alerts and buy concert tickets through their mobiles. The network is also supporting a number of music-optimised handsets that come pre-loaded with Orange's Musicplayer and Fireplayer software, as well as a branded Faithless phone to coincide with the dance act's upcoming greatest hits release. In addition, Orange has become the first operator to have its full-track downloads included in the Official UK Download Chart, with each of its &pound;1.50 downloads counting towards the top 40 countdown.www.orange.co.ukVideo camerasStandard C4Sanyo has unveiled the latest in its series of Xacti Flash memory-based video cameras. Like its predecessors, the C4 can capture still images (of up to four megapixels) and video, which it stores on a Secure Digital (SD) card. Moving images are recorded in MPeg4, with playback at the VGA standard of 30 frames per second. Up to an hour of video can be stored on a 1GB SD card. Other features include a 1.8in LCD monitor, a 5.8x optical zoom, a 10x digital zoom, an auto-focus system, a self-timer and a flash. The C4 goes on sale in June for about &pound;500.www.sanyo.co.ukHardwareChoosier accountBurnside Telecom has unveiled a home/office phone routing device that enables the user to choose the cheapest way to make a call. They can opt for the landline or, if a Sim card is added, their mobile phone account. The Desktop Mobile Pathfinder also features an integrated forwarding system, with callers greeted by a response that offers them the option of speaking to various people. If the person is not at that location, the phone automatically routes the call to their mobile. The device will be on sale in the next few months for about &pound;350.www.burnsidetelecom.comMusic playersRecord a dealMustek is upping the ante in the UK personal media player market by releasing the PVR H140, a highly specified, yet competitively priced, device. It will go on sale imminently via online retailer Boys Stuff for &pound;259.95 and features a 40GB hard disk and a 3.6in colour TFT LCD screen.It is compatible with both MP3 and WMA audio formats and will play MPeg4 video at the VGA standard. Other facilities include a SD/MMC card reader, a USB2.0 connector and an AV output that enables the player's video files to be viewed on a TV screen. Unlike some rival personal audio players, it can also be used to record images directly from a TV set.www.boysstuff.co.ukStat of the week Internet advertising jumpsThe online advertising market took a tumble during the dotcom crash, but last year it grew by more than 60% to overtake radio advertising for the first time. Research shows that more than &pound;653m was spent on internet ads last year, with forecasts of a further 30% growth.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In February, Google unfurled its latest big idea: an online map of the entire surface of the United States and Canada that you can search. Google Maps is simple, intuitive and free of charge. It links the mighty search engine to an inventory of postcode data, letting you scroll across almost an entire continent while searching for the nearest neighbourhood coffee shop. Americans can now use Google to search local, as well as global, net listings, and Google Labs' new RideFinder service even maps the location of moving taxi cabs.Sadly, there are no plans to do the same to the streets of Europe just yet, but it could be just a matter of time. Not since the 16th century has the production and use of maps changed as rapidly as it is changing today. Real-time property information, the routing of business deliveries, and the technology underpinning 3G mobile services means it is boom time for cartographers.For this we can thank the Clinton administration and its decision to descramble the global positioning system (GPS) in May 2000, which allowed the first civilian use of military satellites. Government mapping agencies have long used these satellites to produce three-dimensional sets of "geodata". In doing so, they exchanged the parallel universe of gazetteers and card files into a global topology of zeros and ones.And so, almost unnoticed, mapping has become a massive global business. According to one independent estimate, the data supplied by Britain's Ordnance Survey (OS) adds an annual value of more than &pound;100bn to the UK economy. Moreover, the digitisation of mapmaking means maps can be produced in far greater detail, and cease to be static objects. At their best, some maps, such as dashboard navigation systems, are now live events that constantly update people in a way paper maps never could.Mapping systems are developing rapidly. Last week, Microsoft announced it is developing an application that will offer travel directions, details of traffic conditions and live images of destinations to mobile devices &mdash; a world away from a carefully folded piece of paper.This five-year boom of digital cartography means more than big business. Maps also shape our view of the world. The art of mapmaking predates the written word by several millennia and provided humankind with the first opportunity to read and write. When our maps change, our world view changes.About the time of the French Revolution, the science of cartography became a responsibility of government and a duty of the military (hence Ordnance Survey). But the compass has revolved 360 degrees, and a combination of the internet, cheap computers and even cheaper GPS units promises to turn ordinary citizens into mapmakers once more.It is tempting to call it the march of amateur mapmakers: armed with cheap satellite-tracking handsets, teams of civilian surveyors are out in the field recording casual journeys and sharing geodata with each other to produce their own maps. Their aim is to build a set of people's maps: charted and owned by those who create them, which are as free to share as the open road.There are at least a dozen free maps in Britain. The London Free Map, for instance, covers 30 sq miles of the capital. Compared with the A-Z it is no more than a skeletal sketch, but one that is developing swiftly. And because anyone in London can make and maintain the map, it has the potential to become even more useful. You can't, for example, find a map of the best pubs in London in the A-Z. With the London Free Map, however, you can. Other free maps &mdash; for towns and cities, such as Banbury, Birmingham, Bristol and even Wokingham in deepest Berkshire &mdash; are also being built by amateur teams of community cartographers.Steve Coast, a London-based programmer, is making a free map of his own. It's easy, he says, just a matter of placing a GPS handset in your pocket and going for a stroll. The ideal time is between 7 and 9pm, when three satellites are overhead and GPS coverage is at its peak. "Even with a cheap &pound;25 handset, the accuracy is about 10 metres," Coast explains, "roughly the same width as an average street."To get more extensive data, he cycles around central London, taking alternative routes where he can. When he gets home, he connects his GPS to his laptop and the handset uploads the latitude and longitude coordinates of his journey. He then posts the data on the internet and his peers share his routes and add to the growing database of information that communally is creating a free map of central London. But, he explains, there's still work to do. "You pick up the lines of the streets with a GPS, but someone has to manually input the street names," Coast says.So why would anyone want to make their own map, especially when abundant geodata already exists? The main reason is cost &mdash; geodata is expensive. With the exception of the US and Denmark, all the world's major mapping agencies copyright geodata. In Britain, all government documents are controlled by crown copyright. The weblogs of community cartographers are calling for Britain to adopt a mapping strat&shy;egy similar to the US, where the government publishes all non-classified documents in the public domain, including highly accurate geodata.And although it might take the fun out of community cartography, many think that the OS of Ordnance Survey should, in fact, stand for open source."In the US, you can download road segments for most of the country, literally gigabytes upon gigabytes of road data," says Schuyler Erle, co-author of forthcoming book Mapping Hacks. He thinks there is a hard economic argument to be made for open geodata: "Over the next few years, the economic benefits of freely available, high-precision geographic data will be amply demonstrated. Free markets rely on the flow of information, and anything that provides better information to market players, consumers and businesses alike, makes that market more efficient."So why now? "The art and science of cartography have traditionally been the sole domain of a few experts, people with advanced degrees in geography or cartography," says Erle. "Because of the advantages in computing power, suddenly cartography has gone from a read-only medium into being a read/write medium."Although government-owned, OS has transformed itself into a cutting-edge public sector trading fund. Last year, it turned over &pound;116m and added a surplus of &pound;5.4m to the exchequer's purse. OS does this by licensing mountains of geodata to local councils, schools and businesses. The financial question posed by the rise of community cartography is whether opening up UK geodata would provide an even greater boost to the UK economy."There's a huge issue of quality assurance," says OS's Scott Sinclair. "We make an average of 5,000 changes to the database every day. It's very high quality data and someone has to pay for that. If you were to give that data away, you would have to change the business model and the only alternative would be a tax-funded model."According to Jo Walsh, co-author of Mapping Hacks, mapping agencies face greater uncertainty in the long run. In her essay, What to do if your government is hoarding geodata, she says maps are an "an essential public service &hellip; along with roads, streetlamps and schools &hellip; But mapping agencies are squeezed by commercial pressures; because they have a clear potential revenue model, they are liable to be privatised."Citizens who paid handsomely in taxes for the initial data collection now pay to have it sold back to them piecemeal, without access to or means to contribute to the raw data from which the maps are generated."Ordnance Survey continues to develop its OS Master Map, described as the "definitive digital map of Great Britain". This map is so detailed that it can display individual bay windows on houses. But an even more detailed map is under discussion in Strasbourg.The Inspire Directive, adopted by the European Commission in July, aims to establish a "spatial information infrastructure in Europe". Essentially, it is the stitching to bind all the geodata from each of the EU's national mapping agencies. If the directive becomes law, every house, lamp-post, phone mast, roundabout, river, mountain &mdash; you name it &mdash; will be connected with data on transport networks, names of places, postcodes, population statistics and environmental indicators.Critics are already arguing that the directive gives too much power to central government agencies, and will impose huge and unnecessary costs that will benefit the state rather than ordinary citizens. But if the Inspire infrastructure comes into being, it could even rival the mighty VMAP1, classified by US intelligence as the most detailed map ever drawn.It takes only a small leap of the imagination to consider an even more detailed map in the future. Such a thing has long existed in fiction &mdash; Lewis Carroll invented a map whose scale was a mile to a mile in his short story Sylvie and Bruno Concluded.It was, so the story goes, never unfurled: "The farmers objected: they said it would cover the whole country, and shut out the sunlight!"&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Slay your demonsConstantine XboxPlayStation 2, PC, &pound;39.99Bits Studios/SCi, *** starsWhen he first appeared in a starring vehicle of his own (the Hellblazer comic books), chain-smoking demon-hunter/exorcist John Constantine was a Liverpudlian. Sadly, Keanu Reeves, who plays him in the eponymous Hollywood film, resisted the temptation to essay a Scouse accent, but his British origins live on in one respect in the game of the film: it is published by Britsoft outfit SCi.The videogame version is modelled closely on the film, so the setting is America. You control an impressively rendered digital version of Reeves.Constantine is a conventional mix of action adventure and third-person shooting: it has a modicum of puzzle solving and exploration, coupled with much dispatching of demons using various weaponry and visually impressive spells. Constantine occasionally descends to hell and switches to alternative planes, so the game feels like a more sophisticated Legacy of Kain. This won't win it awards for originality but it has been put together impressively.The graphics and art direction are very good. The creepy atmospherics, character movement and targeting are spot on and all the cutest touches from the film &mdash; such as the screech beetles that distract hordes of attacking demons &mdash; have been employed.In one respect, the videogame is superior to the film. Vicious editing rendered the film's plot all but incomprehensible, whereas in the longer videogame, the plot is allowed to unfold so it makes some sense.Steve BoxerSadistic nonsenseDevil May Cry 3: Dante's AwakeningPlayStation 2, &pound;39.99Capcom, *** starsAfter a disappointing sequel, Devil May Cry is back on form with this third instalment, but you may not realise it for the first hour or two. Difficult is one word to describe the swashbuckling action, but you may think of a few four-letter alternatives.However, you should persevere, because this is another example of endorphin-rush gaming. You may not always know what you are doing as you pound the joypad, but it looks great. Of course, progress isn't straightforward. Although things level off a little after the stressful opening, DMC 3 is never easy or relaxing.There you are, thinking you have mastered this combat lark, when another tricky enemy lurches into view. You wouldn't buy a game like this for the plot and with good reason. This is comic-book nonsense that only slightly tries to contextualise the violence. But that is probably a good thing. We know what we have to do &mdash; kill stuff &mdash; so the game lets you get on with it.The only problem is that, ultimately, this isn't enough. The buzz soon wears off and there isn't a massive amount of variety. The odd puzzle and small element of exploration don't really contribute a great deal, and the sadistic end-of-level boss battles can put you off. But it is a bit of a looker, and doesn't sound too shabby.Greg HowsonSprung badlySprung: The Dating GameNintendo DS, &pound;19.99Guillemot/Ubi Soft, ** starsDespite its popularity in Japan, the dating game genre has not really caught on in the West and, if this title is anything to go by, it is probably not going to, either.Sprung sets itself up to be an adventure game revolving around dating, but we are talking more of a choose-your-own adventure book in videogame form than a Leisure Suit Larry for the Hollyoaks generation.Players assume the role of the nice-but-dim Brett or the archetypal blonde bimbo Becky as they negotiate life and love on a skiing holiday. While the body and facial animations of the cast are pretty good, the characters feel like they have been cobbled together by someone who watched far too much Happy Days and Scooby Doo. There is no voice acting, which means the basic gameplay involves working your way through menu upon menu of text dialogue options, which quickly becomes pretty boring.The fact that this title is on the DS is a little perplexing, too, since Sprung makes virtually no use of the DS's special abilities. There is a nice touch of being able to watch a character's body language to gauge an appropriate response, but most of the time you are longing for some kind of mini-game break (akin to the surreal Project Rub) to escape from the tedium of menu prodding.There are occasional humorous moments, but these are few and far between. The DS is all about fun and interaction, but unfortunately Sprung isn't.Rhianna Pratchett&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atwww.blogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesTop 5 gamesNintendo DS1Super Mario 64 DS2WarioWare Touched!3Asphalt: Urban GT4Rayman DS5The Urbz: Sims in the City&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, (C)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
If you thought 3G phones were brash beasts weighed down by huge batteries, think again. O2 has launched a branded X4 handset, offering 3G on a budget (or free on contract) in a comparatively small clamshell phone. The trade-off is that you can't make video calls, even though you can access O2's 3G video content such as sports and music clips.The 1.3 megapixel camera is a real step up from the one megapixel snapper on the X3, the phone's predecessor. It can also archive video, with maximum resolution of 176x144 pixels. The phone is fairly easy to use, courtesy of an intuitive icon-based interface.It loses points for its recessed numeric keypad, which won't enable users to break any texting records. It boasts three reasonable-quality games, an MP3 player and limited web browsing. There is no Bluetooth or POP3 email. For O2 subscribers on a budget who want to experience 3G, it is worth a spin.www.02.co.uk&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
At the start of the academic year, Duke Universityhanded out 20GB iPodsto all of its new students in an attempt to help them out in a variety of ways.Next year they'll bescaling back the project, though:Rather than handing a 20GB iPod to every incoming student, as it did this year, only those attending courses that have integrated the device into the study programme will be furnished with Apple's music player.Considering that only 16 out of the 1,000 courses at Duke were using the iPod, the decision to cut back on the seeding of the device is perhaps not surprising.Provost Peter Lange said: "We weren't sure what to expect when we launched this project, but we've been pleased by how it's succeeded in encouraging many faculty and students to consider new ways of using the technology in fields from engineering to foreign languages."The experiment was costly (half a million dollars apparently) and less than 40% of students were in classes that used the iPod.But still, it's not ditching the programme completely.
As another Thursday morning rolls around and I once more overdose on coffee, it's time for the obligatory run-down of what's in this week'sOnline supplement.We start with an article on thenew trend for citizen mapping- people using technology to make maps on their own. In Britain, where most geographical data is owned by commercial interests, this is increasingly important: "Armed with cheap satellite-tracking handsets, teams of civilian surveyors are out in the field recording casual journeys and sharing geodata with each other to produce their own maps. Their aim is to build a set of people's maps: charted and owned by those who create them, which are as free to share as the open road."With the general election looming, Michael Cross examines the government's newgovernment's new digital plansand wonders whether the IT industrywill be voting Labour. Outside of party politics, we travel to Kenya to take a look at an initiative torecycle Britain's used computers, placing them in schools desperate not to miss out on IT training.As promisedyesterday, Ashley Norrisaskswhether Sony's new NW-HD5 is a worthy rival to Apple's iPod.Elsewhere Dave Birch talks about the"wow" moments that broadband should rely on, we examineWiMax, controlling yourpresenceand much more. Clickherefor the complete listing.
"Microsoft's MSN division moved its newest instant-messaging and Web-logging software out of test mode yesterday, adding new communication features and advertising gimmicks aimed at turning the programs into revenue generators," reportsThe Seattle Times."MSN also took MSN Spaces, its Web-logging program, out of test mode and is boosting photo storage to 750 from 250 photos. Spaces has been the fastest-growing service at MSN, executives said, with 4.5 million users registered since the test version launched Dec. 1."Comment:MSN Messenger (like many similar programs) has offered video chat for years. The big new thing is that it now does it, as the article says, with "full-screen video".
"In the independent study [by Yankee Group], 88% of respondents said that the quality, performance and reliability of Windows was equal to or better than Linux," reportsReuters."In terms of security, Yankee Group's survey showed a sharp rise in companies' assessment of Microsoft's security level, bringing it closer to perceived security level of Linux."On a scale of 1 to 10, companies rated Microsoft's security at 7.6, double the rating in a similar survey conducted last year. Linux's rating was mostly the same at 8.3."
Saving VHS ...Inspired by your Saving VHS article, I bought a Panasonic DIGA HDD DVD recorder and am transferring my old homemade tapes. But I have found I cannot transfer a number of the pre-recorded tapes. All I am trying to do is save films I have bought legitimately.Chris ShoveltonJack Schofield replies:Most pre-recorded tapes include Macrovision copy protection, designed to prevent tape-to-tape copying. This can be circumvented by using a "digital video stabilizer" or similar device &mdash; these are readily available in the US; I don't know about the UK &mdash; or by copying the tape to a PC via an input capture device, such as a Hauppauge WinTV or PVR card or USB add-on.Considering the extra cost and time involved, and the probable quality of the result, it might be cheaper and better to buy the films again on DVD. If they are not available, you could try searching for them on a file-sharing system such as BitTorrent &mdash; it's just another step down this slippery slope.Copying pre-recorded tapes may be at best a grey area, but making a back-up could arguably be considered "fair use". I can't see that it's more reprehensible than, for example, copying a CD you own to tape so you can play it in the car, or ripping it for use on a portable music player &mdash; not many people seem to have ethical objections to those.... and SVHSDid your research come up with recommendations for copying SVHS tapes to DVD? All the tapes I care about were recorded on SVHS.Mike CowlishawJS:Unfortunately not. Again, can readers help?Burning questionCan I convert the QuickTime video into a form that I can then burn on to CD, in VCD format, and thus play in on my DVD player?David LundJS:The Video Help website reckons it can be done using a wizard in TMPGEnc. Seewww.videohelp.com/tmpgenc.htmfor details. You can try downloading a free version of TMPGEnc fromwww.tmpgenc.net, but I've never owned a PC that this program could not bring to its metaphorical knees.Google time bombA friend told me to Google the word "fuckwit" and look at the top hit. How on earth did that happen?Matt BaylissJS:Last month, the first hit for that search was a page about John Prescott, and there have been lots of similar examples. They are produced by a technique known as Google bombing. Basically, the search word or phrase doesn't have to appear on the site if enough other sites use it when linking to it. A fuller explanation (now three years old) is atwww.microcontentnews.com/articles/googlebombs.htm.Background noiseI have just noticed that a process called CFD is running in the background in my Windows 98SE. If I use Task Manager to end the process, my PC operates more efficiently. How can I get rid of it?Deepak MukerjeeJS:CFD is probably BroadJump Client Foundation software, which is used by some internet service providers for trouble-shooting an ADSL or cable modem installation. If so, you should be able to find the program at C:\Program Files\ BroadJump\Client Foundation\ CFD.exe. You can probably stop it from running by using Microsoft's System Configuration Utility: go to Start, select run, and type msconfig in the box.Alternatively, William Yang's StartUp Inspector for Windows (free fromwww.windowsstartup.comdonations welcome) provides a very easy way to control the things that get loaded in the background in various versions of Windows. While online, you can click the Consult button to find out about these background apps, but Paul Collins has compiled an even more comprehensive guide atwww.pacs-portal.co.uk/startup_content.phpBackchat&#183;Mike Fraser was looking for an online bookmark manager to replace Backflip, and last week I suggested MyHQ (www.myhq.com) among others. My old friend David Brake responded: "I was surprised you didn't suggest del.icio.us &mdash; the geek's choice." There were other responses along similar lines. Well, I have mentioned Delicious (http://del.icio.us) recently, and consider it well worth a look, but I still don't think it's the most obvious replacement for Backflip.&#183;Following my mention of the About: Blank home page hi-jacker, Geoff Hallsworth comments: "I thought that was one of the settings." True. To be clear, you can set Internet Explorer to have a blank home page by going to Tools|Internet Options and clicking the button for Use Blank. The About: Blank hi-jacker, a variant of Cool Web Search, sets and resets it to blank whether you like it or not.
How will it wash?Bobbie Johnson hit it on the head about why truly high-speed broadband is revolutionary (Making up for lost time, March 31). It isn't necessarily what you use the web for but how smooth, fast and stress-free it makes whatever you are doing. Think of dial-up as hand-washing clothes, and fast connections as the latest high-spin, high-speed automatic.I was bemused, though, that you omitted two service providers, Freedom2Surf.net and Eclipse.net, which offer 2Mbps DSL monthly contracts from &pound;14.99 per month. These deals are not only significantly cheaper than their nearest "capped-service" big-name rivals (Tiscali, Wanadoo, BT Basic, BT Yahoo) but just what newcomers to broadband need.Steve StannardLondonBeyond beliefBobbie Johnson should try asking BT for a 2Mbps broadband connection from my local exchange, and when it plans to make broadband available from this exchange. He also might consider asking the BBC when it intends to provide digital TV/DAB to this valley. Where is this village that is so far off the beaten track? Well, it is 17 miles west of Sheffield and 25 miles east of Manchester &mdash; hardly the back of beyond. Government policy on rural provision of broadband is a joke and BT is only interested in providing a service when it can extract profits from the hard work done by others.Ken CokerEdale, DerbyshireRemote possibilityI live in a relatively remote rural area and the small rural exchange to which my line is connected has been enabled for ADSL. Apparently, this means I have "access" to broadband. The reality is there are just three copper wires delivering services to the five telephone lines for four houses. Four lines have to be bundled on to two wires using line-sharing technology &mdash; ADSL doesn't run over this, so only one line of those five can carry broadband. My neighbour was lucky enough to be the first to ask for ADSL and he got it. BT has rejected my request as being "out of cost". What is worse is that our line is shared, so our maximum modem speed is almost halved.Colin BlackburnDurhamUpward motionThe article would have been even more interesting if Bobbie Johnson had compared upload speeds.Gordon PoleEdinburghBasic securityHaving just bought a new Dell desktop, I registered the pre-installed McAfee anti-virus and firewall with the McAfee website. Despite several reminders, McAfee didn't send the confirmation email to my registered email account. When I tried to download the latest security updates from its website, it wouldn't allow me as I was using Mozilla Firefox. McAfee insists you use Internet Explorer. It doesn't impress me as a credible computer security company if it insists you can only use what many think is the least secure browser. Needless to say, I have uninstalled McAfee and installed an alternative antivirus and firewall.Eugene MillstopEpsomNo competitionYour piece on the BrainShare conference (It's a race against time, March 31) states: "Novell executives give the impression that the Gnome and KDE open source desktop environments are not quite up to competing with Windows." How true. Why should they compete with an inferior product? Having used KDE for about a year, Gnome occasionally and Windows for more than a decade, I know which I prefer. In a Linux environment, I no longer have to click a Start button to halt my machine &mdash; just one example of its superiority.Steve WoodsBristolBlogback reaction from the webI'm a tremendous fan of Ben Hammersley (Second sight, March 31), but I think Google isn't really in danger of losing its superior footing. Just open Google's home page; now open Yahoo's. What do you see? Yahoo lacks the purity of purpose that is Google's strength.http://blog.digitalparade.comWe have fairly small incremental moves in the web space, with two megaliths (three if you include Microsoft) going in very similar directions. All have a token developer-friendly API, but the core applications are largely walled-garden systems. There's very little real innovation.http://dannyayers.comIt's a great feeling knowing you never have to delete any emails (One year on, what has Gmail done for you? March 31). I never receive spam either, which has been a breath of fresh air.James Surryblogs.guardian.co.ukMany people refuse to return even personal emails sent using Gmail because of the software that reads the contents of the Gmail. I think people might have accepted this five or six years ago, but people are too savvy now.Dougblogs.guardian.co.uk
Do you wish you could smell, touch or even taste the action in your favourite games and movies? According toNew Scientist, Sony has patented a technology that transmits sensory data directly into the human brain via non-invasive ultrasound, allowing just such a bizarre scenario. It's all wildly theoretical at the moment, and smacks of pre-PS3 hype, but this is from New Scientist not awesomegamerznewz.com so there's a grain of plausability in it.But do we really want to experience total sensory immersion? I'm not sure I want to breathe in the aftermath of a GTA shoot out against junkie gangsters. And will this give rise to a new form of videogame journalism where writers have to savour the aroma of a new release as well as the graphics, sound and gameplay. "Ah yes, I'm getting a rich explosion of rotting flesh, and subtle undertones of musky sweat," goes the review for Resident Evil 10.Having given this a considerable amount of thought, I have decided that the only current game I would like to smell is Dead or Alive Ultimate. Or possibly Rumble Roses. I think I've written too much.
The number of BlackBerry addicts more than doubled last year, the Canadian firm behind the wireless email device said yesterday.Research in Motion, based in Toronto, said the number of BlackBerry subscribers rose to 2.51 million in its fourth quarter, up from 1.07 million at the end of the last fiscal year. Jim Balsille, RIM's chairman and chief executive, said the firm had enjoyed a landmark year, noting also that revenues topped $1bn (&#163;530m) for the first time.Fourth-quarter revenues grew from $211m to $405m. Stripping out the cost of settling a patent dispute and other one-offs, RIM's profit was $140m, up from $41.5m.However, the figures still disappointed Wall Street. The firm has been one of Nasdaq's hottest shares, with the value of RIM soaring to $14bn. Shares fell 97 cents to $73.43 in midday trading yesterday.The company agreed last month to settle a patent lawsuit with NTP, a firm in Virginia, for $450m.
Mark Hurd, a 25-year veteran from NCR, has just become chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard. He replaces Carly Fiorina, who was forced to resign two months ago.Since he has barely started, Hurd has wisely declined to say what he's going to do. "I can't give you guarantees of anything," he said at his first news conference. He will talk to his new staff for a couple of months while he figures that out.However, it is a pretty safe bet that he is going to make a lot of cuts, for two reasons. First, that worked for him at NCR. Second, HP probably does have departments that need trimming, if not killing.Today's HP is a giant corporation, with a turnover of $82bn and more than 150,000 staff. But it is no longer the result of organic growth. It is, rather, the result of taking over rival Compaq &mdash; a move masterminded by Fiorina. The new HP therefore includes the remains of Compaq, Digital Equipment Corporation, and Tandem &mdash; companies with long histories and their own strong cultures. It is unlikely that all the overlaps have been eliminated, or that all the new staff have been converted to doing things the HP way.Hewlett-Packard was, of course, the original Silicon Valley company: it was started in a garage by two Stanford University graduates, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, in 1938. They had $538 in working capital, which included a secondhand Sears-Roebuck drill press. By 2000, before the Compaq takeover, it was a $48.8bn corporation with 85,500 employees, and "the HP way" had become the primary force in valley culture. How much of that survived the takeover, and Fiorina's reorganisation of HP, is another matter.Either way, Wall Street would like to see HP broken up, probably into three companies. These would handle PCs, business systems and services, and printers. Fiorina wouldn't stand for this, but Hurd hasn't ruled it out.However, it is unlikely to happen, because it would threaten the survival of HP's personal systems business. This is the biggest part of HP, with a turnover of around $24.6bn, but it makes slim profits at best ($210m last year). Its misfortune is that it has to compete with Dell, which is far more efficient at manufacturing and selling direct.Spinning off the server and services businesses might also create a company with more problems than it could handle. In this case, the result would be a $32bn business that would have to compete with a rival three times its size and deeply entrenched: IBM.While they remain part of HP, however, the future of both businesses is underwritten by the printer division. This has a turnover of around $24.2bn, and generates the bulk of HP's profits: imaging and printing made $3.85bn last year.The strength of HP's printer division is what gives Hurd time to decide what to do. It also gives HP's non-printer businesses time to become competitive enough to stand alone. Whether Hurd can actually get them to do that is the $64bn-a-year question.LinksMark Hurdwww.hp.com/hpinfo/execteam/bios/hurd.htmlHP History and Factswww.hp.com/hpinfo/abouthp/histnfactsHP: key statisticshttp://finance.yahoo.com/q/ks?s=HPQ
SN Systems, the company that produces development tools for PlayStation, PS2 and PSP, has branched out into inter-continental match-making. No, they're not running a Russian brides agency - the company's Japanese office is setting up a service to link Japanese developers with Western publishers. Apparently, the games industry has changed quite a bit in Japan recently, with smaller developers now keen to gain an international audience rather than concentrating on the domestic market. Check out thepress releasefor yourself.Of course, we're all familiar with the works of Capcom, Namco, Konami, Sega and Nintendo, but there are hundreds of Japanese studios that we've barely heard of producing games that we never get to see in the west. A lot of stuff is going to be lost on us - dating sims, hamster games and beetle beat 'em ups among them - but surely this can only be a good thing for the Euro gamer sick of the same old game series'.Incidentally, SN Systems isn't the only company attempting to bridge the gap between non-mainstream Japanese development and western audiences. New publisher Rising Starspecialisesin making lesser known content from the East available in the West, beginning with hack n' slash adventure Sword of Honour, Space Invaders Revolution, an updated version of the coin-op for the Nintendo DS, and new iterations of the fabulous Harvest Moon series.
Just spent an hour or so meeting up with homeless charity Crisis, the Hansard Society and blogging MPRichard Allanto talk about a new blog on homelessness calledJamie's Big Voice.This is really interesting stuff: it's written by Jamie McCoy, aformer homeless manwho will be documenting his own experiences and those of the homeless people he meets.Jamie told me what he wanted out of the project - essentially to make people take notice of what homeless people think, and to give a voice to the hidden homeless who are ignored by pretty much everybody.He's accompanying a Crisis election tour around the UK to tell the world what he sees while he's on the road, and hopefully that will raise the profile of the issue in the run up to polling day.With any luck I'll be following this meeting with a longer story... but keep your eyes peeled onJamie's Big Voice; if this goes right it could be a really important contribution.(clickhereto find out more about Crisis)
Sony today unveiled its new NW-HD5 hard disk player, which seems the firm's best attempt so far to take on Apple in the music player market.Not thatthat'ssaying much - most of their previous tries have been pretty flawed one way or another.They've ditched the adherence to the awkward Atrac proprietary DRM format and the unit comes in with a 20GB hard disk for under £200 - something which could make it fairly competitive. But even if the HD5 is a moderate success, it wouldn't get rid of questions about why Sony has got its policy so wrong on music players, especially when the PSP looks to be such a well-regarded piece of kit.If you fancy more analysis then tune in to tomorrow's Online, where Ashley Norris will be taking a look at what this release could mean for Sony.
So Lara's back then. Eidos have revealeddetailsof the latest Tomb Raider game - Legend. "We took ourselves back to Lara's origins, asked ourselves the hard questions and challenged ourselves to think differently," said Chip Blundell of Eidos. And after the horror that wasAngel of Darkness, they certainly needed too.Toby Gard, the original character designer is back on-board and the game promises the usual mix of guns, gadgets and exploration. But lets face it - do we care anymore? Can Lara make it in the post-GTA gaming world?
