Don't let Marissa Mayer worry you, but she would like your camera, phone and surroundings to tell Google a bit more about you and the world around you – and do it more often. As vice-president of "search product and user experience" at the search giant, she thinks we've only just got started on search – and that sensors, such as those built into those objects you may own, are the way forward.Presently, search is limited to what is strictly online, put there by people: "What we offer today is very different from, say, [what] a friend of yours who might have access to a lot of facts or information [could], so the interaction is a lot less human and prompt and responsive," she explains. The first stage of search involved text on web pages; the second stage, which we're in now, does involve humans, who are helping identify images and adding context to web pages, which makes the web appear knowledgeable.Mayer, 34, gives an example of the latter: "We're starting to see things [in search] that appear intelligent but actually aren't semantically intelligent. So, for example, if you type GM into Google, you'll probably get General Motors. But if you type GM foods, we actually give you pages about genetically modified foods and General Mills [the US food company that was a key player in the GM debate]."But there's a potential third form of search, she explains, which uses the sensors built into devices around us. "I think that some of the smartphones are doing a lot of the work for us: by having cameras they already have eyes; by having GPS they know where they are; by having things like accelerometers they know how you're holding them."Buildings and infrastructure typically have sensors built in too. Strain gauges on bridges tell how well they are handling the stresses of their everyday existence; there are temperature sensors on cars, while rain gauges and gas samplers at any location will give you a picture of the world.Real-time revelationsWhich leads us to real-time search – a space where Twitter, in particular, has pulled ahead of the bigger company. Although it's emphatically unsaid, it's clear from studying the reactions of Mayer – and other senior people at Google – that the little company has unsettled its bigger, broader rival.Of course Google had its own attempt at real-time many-to-many messaging: Jaiku, which it bought in October 2007. But Twitter was already riding the rising wave, and Jaiku quickly fell by the wayside; its developers open-sourced the code in March and have moved on to other things. Which, until those phones, cameras and gauges start announcing their data over the web, doesn't leave many sources of real-time information.Mayer acknowledges as much while hymning the virtues of the idea: "We think the real-time search is incredibly important and the real-time data that's coming online can be super-useful in terms of us finding out something like, you know, is this conference today any good? Is it warmer in San Francisco than it is in Silicon Valley? You can actually look at tweets and see those sorts of patterns, so there's a lot of useful information about real time and your actions that we think ultimately will reinvent search."Spot it? "Tweets". It's the only time in the conversation, and the half-hour talk Mayer later gives to an audience of entrepreneurs, where she mentions by name any rival product or brand. (General Motors and General Mills are illustrative, though she does mention Apple and the iPhone – though you'd hardly call it a rival.) She never says Microsoft or Bing or Internet Explorer when asked about the rival's search or about browsing. Tweets implies Twitter, the company Google is often expected to be sniffing around to replace its missed chance with Jaiku.Making tweet music together?So is Google talking to Twitter about integrating real-time search, which Twitter got by buying Summize last year? "I can't comment on any discussions that we may or may not be having between the companies," Mayer stonewalls. "I can say that we think that real-time search is very interesting."Mayer would know. She's a key player at Google: one of its earliest employees, who talks about her sense of wonder at how it has grown. "I went to this year's Google summer picnic and there were more people in the queues than were in the company when I joined it."But the company tries to keep its teams small: "by keeping smaller you avoid a lot of that bureaucracy that tends to snuff out an idea early."But there's also the fact that Google is stuffed full of people who just love to experiment on its users. For instance, Google Mail uses a very slightly different blue for links than the main search page. Its engineers wondered: would that change the ratio of clickthroughs? Is there an "ideal" blue that encourages clicks? To find out, incoming users were randomly assigned between 40 different shades of links – from blue-with-green-ish to blue-with-blue-ish. It turned out blue-ness encouraged clicks more than green-ness. Who would have guessed? And who would have cared? Google, of course, which wants to get people clicking around the net.Clicking, of course, ideally using its browser, Chrome, launched last year. Launched why? "Our engineers noticed that browsers didn't seem to be evolving very much any more. No one was paying any attention to Javascript, even though pages were using more and more Javascript." Chrome focuses on running Javascript (such as you find in Google products..) really quickly.So has it lived up to expectations? "Ah, very much so. Our user base is growing very quickly." What were those expectations? "We have our goals in terms of users, numbers of versions." And has it met them? "Yes." Exceeded them? "It's been pretty much on par. We've become pretty good at predicting how users will respond to something with original installs and downloads."Recognition factorAnd finally – given that she studied artificial intelligence at university – is she surprised by how slowly image recognition (and accompanied search) has evolved, given the effort put into it, compared to voice recognition? After all, Google Image still asks for human help. Why haven't the computers figured it out yet?"For voice, language is language. Sometimes a new word crops up and then you have to figure out how to recognise that. With images, the problem is fundamentally changed. Twenty years ago, all you needed to do was be able to recognise the million celebrities who are likely to show up on the evening news. Now, with the dawn of YouTube and digital photography and 100bn images being uploaded to the web every year, you actually need to be able to identify all 6 billion people. The problem is that in those 6 billion people there's an awful lot of people who look a lot like Tony Blair or Cindy Crawford."What's also lost in a still photo is the contextual information – movement, location, voice – that reality offers. "With a still image all you have are the pixels, and those pixels might look a lot like a photo of someone else, so I do feel for the image recognition people because their problem has become significantly harder in the internet age. We're not getting closer to a solution. tThe solution just moves further away."Indeed, the areas of success are where photos get metadata – geotagging – or where humans help: "You take one picture of your family at Christmas and tag this little red spot as 'Meredith', and the system says: 'Every time we see something that's the same shade of red intensity, in all of their pictures, those are Meredith.' A lot of people think that's cheating, but I don't really think it is because that's what humans do."So, image recognition is really trying to harness those things; and the sensor revolution we're seeing – GPS that's attached to your phone, to a camera – really can help us develop image technologies that work a lot better. It means we make the problem simpler."(The full text of the interview on which this article is based can be readhere.)
We were speaking before about the quality of videogame courses at British universities. There are some institutes that have particularly close relationships with the industry – the three big ones in the North East, for example...TheUniversity of Teessidehas been fantastic in that they've really stuck with what was a less than fashionable medium for a long time – I think they showed real vision and are at last being rewarded for it.They're doing some interesting things there, incubating graduate game development studios, and housing theInstitute of Digital Innovation, where several game developers have started out...They are, but you also need to take a look at the at the East Coast Scottish universities. Not justAbertaybut Dundee and one or two others – there are doing some fine work up there.Would you like to see more of that throughout the country?Yes, I would because, a) I'd like to see it for its own sake creatively, because these are really worthwhile and satisfying jobs, and b) if you've the remotest interest in Britain's industrial future this is an area in which we'd better get our act together.How have politicians reacted then, when they've found out about the situation in Canada, with tax breaks, etc? Have they been stirred into action?Well, we've just lostTom Watsonwhich is a pity because he genuinely had got the plot; I'm told that Peter Mandelson has an interest and I certainly thinkStephen Carterunderstands the potential of the sector. Among the Opposition,Ed Vaizeyhas been showing a very healthy interest for quite a long time.The problem is that our extremely fragmented departmental system means you can successfully persuade two or three ministers only to wake up the next morning and discover that they've all been scattered to different departments and you're back to square one. Any country that's serious about having a successful industrial policy in the 21st century will have to develop it on the basis of a very different set of Governmental structure than those which currently bedevil us!Do you think things will change next year with, potentially, the arrival of a new government?It's an interesting question. Here is a thought worth looking at – whether it's merely a straw in the wind I don't know. I've been extremely impressed over the past 18 months at the quality of the people arriving at the dispatch box in the Lords. I've already mentioned Stephen Carter, Mark Malloch Brown in foreign affairs would be another; people who bring with them a deep knowledge of their subject.I'd be surprised and a little disappointed if the opposition hadn't noticed the fact that they're dealing with people at the dispatch box who really know what they're talking about. I would love to think that the more rational of those who look at constitutional and parliamentary reform will say to themselves 'you know what, we should have more of this, not less.'Now, what structure that translates into, and how you legitimise it I'm not sure. The Americans have a Cabinet some, but not many of whom come from the Senate or Congress – which they then leave in order to take up the Cabinet positions; by this means they've given themselves a system which allows them to bring expertise into the Government. We don't. We entirely rely on the possibility that some of our elected representatives might actually know something about the job they are asked to do; but there's absolutely no certainty in that. These are thoughts that are unlikely to win me many friends Parliament!As part of the all-party group will you be in any position to bring more experts into the fold?Well, for the reasons I've just laid out that's a difficult thing to do.It would be very interesting to interrogate the actual depth of knowledge of the all-party group, but in fairness you can't criticise people who join the group because at least they're showing an interest. On balance, you have to congratulate them for that, and hope that by being on the Committee they effectively put themselves through a process of understanding what the really significant issues are.It seems to me that part of the problem is that politicians often have the concerns of middle England paramount in their minds. They read the Daily Mail's annual 'ban this sick filth' stories and feel this is the best angle to associate themselves with. Keith Vaz is a familiar culprit; and Boris Johnson railed against PlayStation Culture a while ago. Can anything be done about that?All they're doing is exposing their own ignorance - you've got to hope that sensible and better informed people end up simply ignoring them – and I think in those particular cases they did.But you're right, this is a real problem. I mean, just to rub some salt into the wound, my experience with many, many MPs is that they will always prefer 'attitudes' that they think might resonate with the electorate, over the complexity of 'facts'. Whenever fact gets in the way of simplistic attitudes, they will almost always associate themselves with the attitude.I came into Parliament in '97, having worked for six or seven years prior to that developing policy on the understanding that what we going to do in power – and this was something of a mantra for us – was bet our future on 'evidence-based policy making'. Within a few weeks of being in power, that much went straight out of the window!And you have to ask yourself, why? No-one has ever adequately explained it to me. I'm left with the impression that the question itself is thought of as naive because, in essence I'm not nor do I think like, a politician.Isn't it just about the fear of losing power?The problem is that when good governance collides with power you've always got a problem – it's truth and common sense that loses out.What did you think of the Digital Britain report, and what impact do you think it'll have on the UK's creative industries?I think it's a well informed document; it's also one of the best written reports I've ever come across. It's represents a well researched and knowledgeable basis from which decisions can begin to be made. I've been... appalled is too strong a word... I've been more than disappointed by the quality of the media coverage the report has received, it's been extraordinarily superficial. You are forced to question how many of those in the 'media commentariat' have actually sat down and read beyond the Executive Summary...One element that's come out of the report, and is reflected in theTIGA Play Togetherinitiative is that Britain's creative industries need to work together to flourish in the digital age. Do you agree that this is important?Yes I do, but the disappointing thing – in fact the subtext of much of the conversation we're having – is that in so many cases this is being done despite and not because of government action.That's it. The games industry has had to forge these links by itself.Yes. Some Tories would argue that's the way it ought to be happening – that's getting government out of the way. I don't happen to agree, I think Government can be the most tremendous supporter and stimulant – that's my vision of politics – that's why I'm in the Labour Party.
I got my hands on thePalm Preyesterday – a smooth, black smartphone that has been likened to a "polished riverstone".Don't try and skim it, I was advised.Three years in the making, the Pre represents Palm's attempt to get back to the top of the smartphone league, after being left behind by Apple's iPhone and the Blackberry.The company popularised personal digital assistants in the 1990s with product such as the Palm Pilot.The Pre comes with a lot of the nifty features you've come to expect from a smartphone.Aside from 8Gb of storage and the 3 megapixel camera, the full qwerty keyboard is worthy of note.And it has a clever way of charging – you put it on a so-called Touchstone and it charges through magnetic induction.Palm yesterday confirmed my colleagueRichard Wray's story last weekthat O2 will be its exclusive partner in the UK.O2, which already has an exclusive deal for the iPhone, hopes the Palm will lure new customers as well as tempting existing ones to upgrade.There are no details on pricing yet, but the Pre will be on sale in time for Christmas.O2's parent company, the Spanish group Telefonica, also has deals in Ireland, Spain and Germany.The Pre has been available in the US since last month through the Sprint network, but no other deals elsewhere in the world have been announced.
Large parts of the UK cannot access the internet through the country's mobile networks, according to maps published today by communications regulator Ofcom.The gaps in third-generation (3G) mobile coverage are mostly found in rural areas in Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and the north of England.Ofcom's maps – which show where calls can be made and received outdoors over the various 3G networks – also show significant "not-spots" in the southwest of England and in East Anglia.Mobile phones are increasingly used to access the internet, with more than 2m new connections to mobile broadband made between February 2008 and February 2009.The government has proposed making more mobile spectrum available for mobile broadband as it looks to achieve universal broadband coverage by 2012.Ofcom said today it would assist with this, as well as undertaking new research into the quality of service received from mobile devices.The watchdog will also investigate the causes of some of the persistent "not-spots" and work with public bodies to solve the problem."Mobile network coverage in the UK is generally good but some problems persist, particularly in rural areas," Ofcom said."Ofcom is focusing on persistent so-called 'not-spot' areas and working where it can to facilitate better mobile coverage."There is no obligation on the UK's five mobile networks to extend their geographical coverage.However, under the terms of the 3G licences they acquired in 2000, the networks were told to reach 80% of the country's population by 2007.Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile and 3 reached this target by the end of 2007, with O2 following a year later.Ofcom has not broken out how much of the country each of the networks are now serving, although the maps suggest that 3 and Orange have the greatest geographical reach."The intrinsic nature of cellular technology makes it extremely difficult to provide seamless, 100% coverage across the country," Ofcom said."Put simply, coverage issues are complex and aiming to solve all of them may be unrealistic. However, we do believe that commercially-driven 3G roll-out in particular can still go further than it does today, despite these challenges."Ofcom also published research today showing that increasing numbers of people are relying on mobile phones for all their telephone needs and no longer using land lines.The regulator said that mobile calls increased by 11bn minutes during 2008, while the number of minutes on fixed-lines fell by 8bn. The number of households with fixed lines has fallen to 85% in 2008 from 90% in 2007.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Great piece of amusing academic research courtesy of internet journalFirst Monday. A paper by called"You looked better on MySpace": Deception and authenticity on Web 2.0looks at the phenomenon of social networkers who make themselves look more attractive online than they are in real life. In particular, it takes a look at the so-called "MySpace Angles" - thosedistinctive end-of-the-arm photographs that we've all seen. Those photos, it turns out, end up being heavily policed by other users who are concerned about online misrepresentation. Or, as the paper puts it, "as King Henry VIII felt disappointment upon meeting his fourth wife Anne of Cleves after selecting her to be his mate on the basis of her portrait, SNS users now worry that the person they fall for online may not live up to their impressions".Photograph bySarah Jansen, used under Creative Commons license (and in no way implying that she is ugly - it's just a typical MySpace angle)
It is the longest, most-expected parking of tanks upon a lawn. Google's announcement that it will introduce an operating system for computers, the long-anticipated "GoogleOS" - though it prefers to call "Google Chrome OS" - means that the irresistible force of the online world is going to go head-to-head with the immovable object of personal computing.Observers have been expecting Google to launch its "Google OS" literally for years. But the search giant has held back, denying any such plans. But the launch last year of its Android operating system for mobile phones made it clear that its intent was broader than just search.And PC manufacturers who want to sell more netbooks - the light, cheap sub-laptops that have seen explosive sales growth in the past year - will be cheering, as Google's announcement means they suddenly get a very big bargaining chip in talking to Microsoft about prices they pay for Windows licences.Google, announcing the move through - inevitably - ablog post, which has become the web version of a press conference, says that "the operating systems that browsers run on were designed in an era where there was no web" and that its Chrome OS is "our attempt to re-think what operating systems should be".A certain amount of reality-checking is already required. Windows 95, Microsoft's first operating system that was used when the internet became available to the majority, certainly wasn't designed in the era of the web (its connectivitiy was hastily bolted on, which led down the years to disastrous networking-inspired security holes), but its more recent products, especially Windows Vista and the upcoming Windows 7, post-date the web very substantially. Microsoft's problem is simply that it's tied to the "legacy" code of the past - although Windows 7, which will be officially released this October, tries to shuffle off that history, and is Microsoft's best effort to date to deal with the reality of the web - which includes the constant attempts by hackers to break into the user's computer.It's that security angle that has been Microsoft's achilles heel from the inception, leading many Windows users to run at least one piece of security software. Vista, released in 2007, has also given people a creeping feeling that the computer gets in the way too much - as security dialogs warning of risky moves keep appearing.Hence Google's emphasis that "speed, simplicity and security are the key aspects of Google Chrome OS". It is promising a quick start ("a few seconds") and "completely redesigning the underlying security architecture... so that users don't have to deal with viruses, malware and security updates." A clear dig at Microsoft.The operating system, of course, is the basic set of programs that tell a processor how to behave: the same set of hardware can run Windows or Apple's Mac OSX, and it's only the operating system that makes it function like one or the other. Almost all PCs ship with Windows pre-installed; companies that want to sell PCs with Linux, the well-known free operating system, often get a hard time from Microsoft, and have to demonstrate that they aren't shipping pirated Windows copies. Only Apple machines ship with Mac OS X installed.Basically, the Chrome OS will be Linux with Google's own code stuck on top. Quite how that gels with "completely redesigning the underlying security architecture" isn't clear, since Linux's model is well-known: it's relatively safe, but not impregnable.More to the point is what Google's commercial model is here. Obviously, it can offer Chrome OS as an option to PC manufacturers who might otherwise be putting Windows 7 on their machines. Why now? Because Microsoft has left a significant weakness on its flank with its plans to limit how many applications can run on Windows 7 installed on "netbooks" - the light, cheap form of laptops that have seen explosive sales in the past two years.Microsoft has already had to extend the life of Windows XP. It officially killed it off for regular PCs in June 2007, but  had to extend its life for netbooks until January of this year - and then beyond - because Vista is too big to fit on netbooks' limited hard drives and RAM. And netbook makers demanded XP - or else they'd put Linux on board.So for Windows 7 - which will finally kill off XP - it announced that it would limit netbooks to running only a few applications at once, such as browsing, email, and three others. If users wanted to do more, they'd have to pay to upgrade the Windows licence. That kept the price of the original Windows licence down for the manufacturer, while for Microsoft it meant netbooks didn't pose too much of a threat to better-paying manufacturers making larger machines.It's a rough deal for the netbook customers, though, since their machines are capable of running the whole product. But Microsoft has been hurt by netbooks: their growth has led to itsfirst fall in revenues, because manufacturers have been buying cheap Windows XP licences instead of pricier Windows Vista ones.Windows 7 was going to be the saviour of the Windows franchise. And so it would be, if it hadn't been for those meddling kids at Google.Chrome OS is being aimed up and down the computer scale, from small mobile devices (it could run on the chips that power Apple's iPhone, for example) right up to desktop machines. Google will configure it so that the system ties you into its Google Mail and Docs services, while also allowing local storage for those (increasingly unusual, in its world view) times when you're offline: "Chrome OS is being created for people who spend most of their time on the web", as it says.Don't hold your breath, though. Chrome OS isn't expected until late next year. Even so, that's enough to upset Microsoft's plans with Windows 7. The company may even have to go back on its restrictions for low-end hardware. Microsoft's biggest problem is that Google probably won't be charging for Chrome OS. If it proves at all popular with users, Microsoft's entire business model - charging for operating system licences - comes into question.And netbooks, which started out being Linux-based but quickly shifted back to Windows when ordinary users couldn't troubleshoot them, will definiteiy gain fresh impetus. The weakness of the Linux "brand" of operating system is that it hasn't had a single brand; there have been competing versions (Ubuntu, Fedora, Red Hat.. the list goes on). But Google will provide a rallying flag for developers, who will be able to pitch into the evolution of the product. It will be interesting to see whether Ubuntu's developers throw their lot in here, to strengthen it, or continue to plough their own furrow.The point always to bear in mind is that Google's overall strategy is to get everyone on the web more and more of the time, until the boundaries between what's on their local system and what's on the web blur completely - or, even better, storage in the "cloud" (where Google can search and index and sell ads against it) becomes the rule, and the computer you hold just the extension of the web. It didn't seem to matter before if Microsoft was the means by which people went onto the web; Google made money from them once they were there. But now, it is going for the jugular - perhaps spurred into the announcement by Microsoft's recent moves in search with itsrevitalised search offering, Bing.On that basis, Google - and the web - long since won the fight: when was the last time you heard someone say "It's a fantastic, must-have program. Only available on Windows, of course"?Actually, there is an answer to that: Google's Chrome browser, released last autumn. Mac users are still waiting for a proper working version.Even so, it won't be a comfortable time today at Microsoft's Redmond headquarters. And you can be sure that there will be some interesting meetings between Microsoft's sales people for Windows licensing and PC manufacturers over the next few months as more details of the Chrome OS emerge.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Forget Modern Warfare 2, the biggest selling game of 2009 is likely to beWii Sports Resort. The sequel to Wii Sports is launching on July 24th and is likely to crush all who stand before it, especially over the summer months. This is partly, of course, thanks to the inclusion of theWii Motion Plusaddon. I've been using this with the latest Tiger Woods game and it really does make a noticeable difference.Usually if the choice is between a Wii version of a game or the 360/PS3 I'll always go for the latter. HD is a hard habit to break. But with Tiger Woods 10 it's the Wii version that wins out, simply because the Motion Plus makes it so much more enjoyable to play. And because of this it means I've got high hopes for Wii Sports Resort. Code is arriving any day so impressions soon but in the meantime if you want to find out what Miyamoto thinks about the game, plus numerous other WSR facts, then the official Wii site is running ascarily in-depth interview.Wii Sports Resort then. Must buy? Or is one Wii Sports enough?
Google has issued its clearest challenge to rival Microsoft so far, by announcing its plans to create a new computer operating system aimed at laptop users.The Californian internet company said it is working on a lightweight system that is based on the Chrome web browser it launched last year."It's our attempt to re-think what operating systems should be," said the company on theOfficial Google Blog.The first version of the system, which will be targeted at netbook computers - the small, portable laptops that have become popular in recent years – is due to be made available in the second half of 2010."Speed, simplicity and security are the key aspects of Google Chrome OS," said the announcement. "We're designing the OS to be fast and lightweight, to start up and get you onto the web in a few seconds. The user interface is minimal to stay out of your way, and most of the user experience takes place on the web."It added that there would be a heavy focus on creating a system that would not require users to worry about security holes and virus warnings."As we did for the Google Chrome browser, we are going back to the basics and completely redesigning the underlying security architecture of the OS so that users don't have to deal with viruses, malware and security updates."Although the company was keen to keep expectations low by suggesting a focus on netbook computers, it will undoubtedly be hoping that it can make inroads against Microsoft, the software giant that has dominated the operating system market for more than a decade with Windows.Although others have attempted to take on Microsoft over the years – with rival software such as Apple's Macintosh OS as well as the open source Linux system – it has proved impossible to erode.According to figures from Net Applications, Windows currently runs around 90% of computers worldwide, with Apple's OSX trailing in second with 8%.Speculation about the possibility of Google working on such a project has been rife around the hi-tech industry for some time – and the internet giant has made few attempts to hide its ambitious plans.In 2007, the Silicon Valley giant said it would be creating a new system to run mobile phones called Android, which was installed on handsets for the first time last year.The company has also rolled out a series of web-based office applications targeted at Microsoft's popular Word and Excel products – but perhaps the biggest signal of Google's ambitions camewhen the company launched Chrome last September, a move which surprised the technology industry as an attempt to gain a foothold in the highly competitive web browser market.The Google Docs suite has made some progress since launch, but neither Android or Chrome have yet to make a significant impact on their respective markets – with only a handful of Android phones released and Chrome commanding just 2% of web browsers.
&bull; After Bebo chief executive Joanna Shieldsstepped down in May, stand-in boss Kate Burns ismoving to a wider role at AOL, reportsPaidContent UK. That leaves the social network - bought for $850m less than 18 months ago - without a clear leader for the time being.&bull; It seems we can't get enough of antitrust cases this week, withBloombergreporting that Microsoft isin talks to end two more EU antitrust cases. The reports suggest that the software giant is keen to finalise cases involving Internet Explorer and Microsoft Office before current European competition commissioner Neelie Kroes leaves office.&bull; Here's a shout out to some fun work that our colleagues are doing at the Guardian. If you've been mesmerised byAntony Gormley's One &amp; Otherart experiment in Trafalgar Square (described by some wags as a middle class version of Big Brother), why not try followingour Plinthwatch Twitter stream, which picks out the best bits from around the web.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
As the media world's most powerful figures gather in Sun Valley, Idaho to discuss the state of the industry the topics are likely to range far and wide. But aside from subjects like the economy and the influence of the internet, one question is likely to dominate conversations among the event's moguls and millionaires: will anyone broker a deal to buy Twitter?The hyped internet company's chief executive, Evan Williams, is one of hundreds of faces attending the shindig - a high-profile but secretive event organised by investment group Allen &amp; Co. The fact that his fellow attendees reads like a Who's Who of the internet industry - including Google boss Eric Schmidt, Amazon's Jeff Bezos, new AOL chief Tim Armstrong, and media magnates Barry Diller and Rupert Murdoch - has lead some to speculate that an acquisition could be on the cards.Among those who believe a deal could be brokered at Sun Valley is journalist and entrepreneur Michael Wolff, who believes Murdoch could be ready to make a play for the San Francisco startup.Talking to Yahoo, Wolff said that Murdoch showed no evidence of regretting the purchase of MySpace, the social network he bought in 2005 thatrecently underwent severe cutbacks."I don't think he feels that he was burned badly," he said. "They made a good deal and then the company soared to a theoretical valuation of $15bn. Where is it now? Certainly not at $15bn, but I think it's probably over $600m - though maybe not too much."Wolff, who wrote a biography of the 78-year-old and now runs a news aggregation website, said that Twitter could add substance to Murdoch's online empire."I think they would say that they were caught," he said of the MySpace acquisition. 'They didn't have the technological heft to support this kind of company. Could they get that technological heft by adding Twitter to their formidable new media assets?"Others agreed that Twitter would demand serious attention during the week's events."Ev is going to be the belle of the ball,'' Mark Pincus, founder of online games company Zyngatold the Associated Press. Pincus, who will also be attending the conference, said that the web industry could have something to teach the rest of the crowd.''Maybe there is something the offline media can learn from the online media about monetising their users differently,'' he said.In the past Twitter - which has more than 30m users worldwide - has turned down offers from a variety of companies, including an approach from Facebook valued at $500m.Speaking to the Guardian, Twitter board member Bijan Sabet - whose venture firm Spark Capital is one of the company's backers - confirmed the company held a high-level meeting on the eve of the conference, but said Twitter did not comment on rumours."It was just a regularly scheduled Twitter board meeting," he said, adding that the company is sometimes the subject of speculation. "There are often questions about these things from the media."The Sun Valley meeting was due to begin on Tuesday night, after a barbeque to welcome a parade of senior industry figures and media superstars. Murdoch is set to attend with a phalanx of other News Corp faces, including son James and lieutenants Jonathan Miller and new MySpace chief Owen Van Natta.Elsewhere, attendees include billionaire investor Warren Buffett, Sony boss Sir Howard Stringer, Vivendi chief executive Jean-Bernard Levy and Bob Iger, the president and CEO of Disney.It is the 27th year of the conference, which is run by boutique investment bank Allen &amp; Co - a group with close ties to Hollywood and the technology industry.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 9 July 2009The article below called the censorship from Twitter of the hashtag (equivalent to a subject line) "Mrs Slocombe's Pussy" the worst outrage against freedom of expression ever. We should have noted the explanation provided by Biz Stone, the founder of Twitter, for the problem users encountered searching for #MrsSlocombesPussy: a programming bug means that Twitter's search function does not work on hashtagged words of more than 16 characters. MrsSlocombesPussy is 17.Of all the outrages against freedom of expression ever, this is the worst. Twitter has banished the phrase "Mrs Slocombe's Pussy" from its hash tag tweet list.For those of you who read the last sentence and thought, "You what?", let me explain. Shortly after last week's death of Mollie Sugden, the comedy actor who played Mrs Slocombe in the 70s sitcom Are You Being Served?, the hash tag #MrsSlocombesPussy became the second most popular on Twitter. The idea is you stick a hash - # - before a phrase and thereby generate a community of Twitterers wittering on the same theme. Hash tags have thus become indices of popularity.For a few hours, grief-stricken Sugden fans tweeted such bereavement-wails as "Oh, nooo: now Mrs Slocombe is dead! Who will attend to her pussy now?" At one point "Mrs Slocombe's Pussy" overtook Michael Jackson and Iran elections as the most used Twitter phrase.And then, suddenly, and totally unacceptably, the tweet-grieving, which had brought solace to so many, stopped. Click now on the hashtag now and Twitter replies, "No results."This annoys me because ages ago I wrote what a leading periodical last weekend called the "classic" book, Mrs Slocombe's Pussy: Growing Up in Front of the Telly. Pop quiz: which leading periodical was it? a) Le Monde Diplomatique or b) The Mirror. Those of you who chose a) are, like, sooo sweet. But sooo wrong. And now, as a nascent Twitterer, I feel my freedom of expression has been compromised. You know?If there is a serious point to be made in all of this - and, trust me, there isn't - it is that American tastes dominate the global micro-blogosphere. Twitter is run by Americans and those puritanical censors of British culture's Rabelasian rudery don't dig double entendres, especially when they relate to a woman's genitals. As a result, they acted to silence the tweet-grieving. There is another theory: the barrage of tweeting pussies may have been a virus aimed at ransacking the service - and it was for that reason Twitter decided to kill them.So far no one from Twitter has responded to my tweeted outrage or to confirm either of these theories about Pussygate. And, if they have any sense, they never will.
Microsoft has published aSecurity Advisory (972890)for an unpatched flaw in a Video ActiveX Control that was being exploited in China as long ago as June 11. The exploit was reported byIBM's ISS X-Forceyesterday, and Microsoft published a workaround that unregisters that bit of code.All Windows XP users have to do is go to the support page at972890, find "Enable workaround" on the left hand side (50287) and click the button that says Fix It. There's also a "Let me fix it myself" section.Windows Vista and Server 2008 are not affected, but "Microsoft is recommending that Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 customers remove support for this ActiveX Control within Internet Explorer using the same Class Identifiers as a defense-in-depth measure."The attack code has been hosted on a small number of websites in China, including schools and community clubs.McAfee comments:During research, one of the things we found interesting was the web exploit toolkit explicitly checks that the origin of the hyperlinked references do not come from the ".gov.cn"  and ".edu.cn" domains, which are used by Chinese government and education sites.  If the references are not coming from any of these domains, it starts sending a cocktail of exploits.If you do get attacked, McAfee notes that the site attempts to compromise other applications -- "Internet Explorer 6 and 7, DirectShow ActiveX, RealPlayer, Baidu Toolbar". The attackers simply want to download a Trojan, and they really don't care whether the vulnerability is in Microsoft's code or somebody else's.On the good side, if they had managed to install their Trojan, anti-virus software should have detected it. Also, McAfee and presumably other vendors have already added detection for the zero-day exploit. However, there's always a risk that other attackers will make better efforts to exploit vulnerable PCs, and do it over a much wider geographical area. Today,McAfee reported a new variantappearing in queries from "Korea, Japan, Australia, Singapore, Taiwan and the US in very small numbers".
Mario and Sonic may be the more famous gaming heroes of the early '90s butGuybrush Threepwoodis right up there. The lovably inept pirate was the star of the classic point and click adventuresSecret of Monkey Island 1 &amp; 2. A weaker third and fourth in the series appeared in the late 90s but the reputation of the original two games remains intact. A remake of the first game is launching on Xbox Live and PC next week but for the future of the series look no further thanTales of Monkey Island. This is a five-part episodic affair - it costs 34.95 dollars for the lot - with Episode 1launching today.From the off you feel on familiar territory with Guybrush and wife Elaine facing up to old pirate foe Lechuck. A smidgeon of comedy followed by some quick item combination and the game kicks off, leaving Elaine and Lechuck missing presumed dead and Guybrush washed up on a nearby island. From then on the game follows a familiar pattern of puzzle solving and conversation with the locals.It's at this point that fans of the original may miss the simple on-screen controls from back in the day.  While not technically a point and click game – you move Guybrush via the WSAD keys – you are able to move around via the mouse. But don't bother. Mouse control is generally frustrating and fiddly. Keyboard control is much more intuitive.Still, the game does look a lot better than the original two, with a cartoon style that is always engaging. The graphics will hardly test your PC's graphics capabilities but the art design at least helps give Guybrush some personality. The same can't be said for the other character models, which lack variety. You often feel you have already met a new character already. Luckily the voice acting across the board is sparky enough to ensure you won't throw your keyboard through the monitor when listening to repeated vocal passages.Humour and puzzles have always been the key Monkey Island elements and the developers Telltale have got it about right here. There are some genuinely amusing moments – a rarity in modern gaming – while the puzzles are generally logical and satisfying to solve. Some do feel undercooked though. A map-reading jaunt around the jungle is not particularly fun the first time round and certainly not when a similar mechanic is used later. But there is nothing as obscure as some of the conundrums in the original game and even newcomers to the series should get by. An in-game hints system helps to a degree but the lure of online guides will be strong for many. Which is a shame as solving a puzzle is always satisfying, especially when you were trying – as in my case – to get on board a ship for about 45 mins. Ahem.What else? Well, loading screens crop up more often than you would like or expect. And the plot – think voodoo, pirates and a possessed hand - while thin does enough to keep you interested. The same can't be said for a couple of over long cut-scenes.  There are also some nods to the original game – occasional references toMelee Island– which help evoke some pleasant nostalgia.  The inclusion of the original theme tune will be enough to take many veterans back to those heady days of Amiga disc-swapping.Nostalgia is important here but Tales of Monkey Island stands up on its own. Even the often criticised episodic format feels right here. The game took me about 4-5 hours to finish and a month isn't too long to wait for the next episode. What with Tales of Monkey Island and the HD remake of the original game this is a good time to be Guybrush.
The Official Google Blog now proclaims:Google Apps is out of beta (yes, really). And Matthew Glotzbach, director of product management for Google Enterprise more or les spells out that the decision has been taken for marketing reasons. The beta label sends out the message that software is "not ready for prime time," and Google is keen to sell Google Apps to business users.In a separate post on the Official Google Enterprise Blog,Paving the road to Apps adoption in large enterprises, Google Apps' senior product manager Rajen Sheth says: "We're taking the beta label off of Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Docs and Google Talk to remove any doubt that Apps is a mature product suite." Google is, after all, pitching this stuff against Microsoft Exchange and IBM's Lotus Notes.There doesn't seem to be any obvious change in the software or the terms of service, and Gmail has actually been flakier over the past year, in my experience, than it was two or three years ago. However, Sheth points to: "live replication of data to other locations for near-instant disaster recovery, and special handling of business users' data in our data center operations." He also says:And to help customers comply with regulations that may exist specific to their industry, we're adding email retention so that IT administrators can set up policies to determine when email will be purged. Both retention and delegation are in testing with customers, and will start rolling out to all Premier edition domains over the next weeks.Presumably Google now feels it can better enable enterprises to meet the accountability requirements of US regulations such as theSarbanes-Oxley Act.Glotzbach adds that "for those who still like the look of 'beta', we've made it easy to re-enable the beta label for Gmail from the Labs tab under Settings". There's no indication of how many people really are that sad.
In this week's Tech WeeklyCharles ArthurmeetsChris Anderson. His day job is the editor of the US version of Wired, but is famous for his internet theory in his book The Long Tail. His latest book Free discusses the notion of content being freely available online, and how that business model works for the content creators.In the studioAleks Krotoskiis at the controls for the last time before a couple of months off for study duties, but she welcomes Robert Andrews from PaidContent UK into the studio. She also plays host to John Rogers - course leader of Product Design at Dundee University. His students are about to display their work at anexhibition in Islington, so he explains some of their projects including a GPS machine that gets you lost and a coffee machine that makes you the perfect cup of coffee. The team also discuss the point of product design, and how useul these products will eventually be.All this and some highlights fromPaidContent's blogand our gamesblog.
A couple of weeks ago, the BBC broadcast a reality TV series, Famous, Rich and Homelesshighlighting the very difficult lives of homeless people. It was a worthy endeavour but given that they made the Marquis of Blandford – owner of five homes and heir to Blenheim Palace – live on the streets, I suspect viewers experienced more schadenfreude than empathy with the plight of the homeless.It was also in stark contrast to another tale of homelessness, which has been more affecting and fascinating because it takes place entirely within the confines of a computer game.Robin Burkinshaw, a games design student at Anglia Ruskin University, has created a blog –Alice and Kev– detailing the experiences of a homeless father and daughter that he created in the game The Sims 3.The blog's story is often incredibly moving. By setting "personality traits" in the game, Burkinshaw has made the character of Kev mean-spirited, quick to anger and with a dislike of children. His only daughter, Alice, tries hard to be good, but she's clumsy and unlucky. Kev is violent towards Alice. Alice tries to make friends with children at school, but they don't like the way she smells or that the exhaustion means she's always falling asleep during the day.Burkinshaw's skill at telling the story is an obvious part of its appeal. His writing is witty and he sometimes influences events to make his narrative more interesting. But part of the fascination of the story is its unpredictability: like a reality TV producer, Burkinshaw can only ever be partly in control of events.In aparticularly heart-wrenching episode, Alice gets a job and decides to give the money she's earned to charity. Burkinshaw says on his blog: "What does it mean when a character you've created makes you re-examine your own life through their astonishing selflessness?"It's interesting too that The Sims clearly wasn't designed for this sort of story. There are no social services to worry about Alice, no mental health facilities to treat Kev's insanity. The game is designed to be about middle class people living fairly orderly, useful lives. That it can be used to tell a very different kind of story is intriguing.What Alice and Kev highlights for me is the growing importance and flexibility of computer games. It's often been noted that team sports can be a proxy for more violent conflict: the World Cup is a friendly expression of national rivalries, a way of testing our mettle, which is at once taken very seriously and understood to be intensely trivial.In a similar way, the importance of computer games is that they allow us a space to do things that in real life we either can't or wouldn't. The cliche about computer games is that they're all hyper-violent, involving blowing things up and punching people in the face. And, of course, imaginary violence is infinitely preferable to real violence.As Charlie Brooker said: "Thank God these games exist, or I would be taking it out on real people."But Alice and Kev show that there's another side to gaming: it can take us to places we'd never want to go. We can, safely, attempt to inhabit lives that are harder than our own. Burkinshaw has puta link on his blog to various homeless charities, which he knows has had 10,000 page views. Even increasing empathy can, perhaps, make a difference.
EA has avoided tennis games for a while but the new Wii Motion Plus seems to have renewed its interest.The premium version of Grand Slam Tennis comes complete with the controller, providing the perfect excuse to give it a twirl. The results, however, are something of a mixed bag.First things first, and it does pack a fair number of star names, tournaments and venues, with 23 star players including the likes of Borg, Williams, Murray and McEnroe making for some amusing past v present tussles. Yes, on the Wii they look a bit like squishy, Lego versions but they do feature some recognisable moves, such as Roddick's blistering serve or Nadal's mighty forehand, and you get to add these strokes to your arsenal once you conquer their original masters in a match.Speaking of which, for single players there's three main playing modes that allow you to play casual party games, exhibition matches and the full Grand Slam Career mode that focuses on the four major tournaments. Curiously, to enter the slams you have to go through a series of practice, doubles and exhibitions before the proper 5 rounds begin. However, given the lowly abilities of your custom-built player, you'll need this experience if you're going to make any progress against the increasingly high seeds you'll be facing.Graphically, it looks good, with refreshingly little lag during online play – although the repetitive commentaries soon begin to grate on the nerves. So how does it play? Well, it depends on how quickly you master the punishing learning curve. With a practice mode that only pits you against a machine (a more structured tutorial might have helped), the Motion Plus merely exaggerates your ineptitude as it punishes every missed angle or approach with the AI opponents making few of the same mistakes.Yes, it's a lot more responsive than the traditional Wiimote/ Nunchuk, but given the difficulty that's not necessarily a good thing. Of course, this is less of a problem if you're playing with other real players, either off or online, where you can laugh at each other's mistakes or aim to become one of the top ranking players in a variety of entertaining multiplayer modes. All in all, tennis fans looking for a cartoony version that plays like a pro won't be disappointed. However, Grand Slam Tennis is nowhere near as much fun as it could have been.
Fight Night Round 3 was one of the first games to show the true potential of the next-gen systems, with its realistically modelled boxers, complete with convincing sweat and facial deformation when glove connected with chin.Round 4 looks and feels even more state-of-the-art but, crucially, it adds responsiveness and playability and an impressive structure to its good looks. A revamped control system means that different right-stick movements launch different punches with each hand – and this time, with no lag.Tempting as it is to go in all guns blazing, you need to preserve your boxer's stamina, and the best way to land a really damaging punch is to sway way from or block an opponent's effort, then hit him on the counter. Structurally, Fight Night Round 4 also impresses: in Legacy mode, in which your boxer works his way up the ladder of a pro career, you schedule fights and training sessions which slowly upgrade his attributes. Incredibly, even the training mini-games are fun.When you get knocked down, there's a mini-game to help you beat the count.A great hip-hop soundtrack and the presence of Mike Tyson – you can jump straight into a fantasy Ali v Tyson match-up – complete an absolutely unimpeachable package. This is, by some distance, the best ever boxing game. The artificial intelligence forces you to adjust your approach when, for example, you are faced with great hulks whose reach is much longer than yours (you need to step inside and nail uppercuts and haymakers) or Tyson-style body-punching whirlwinds. There's a modifier button that lets you wind up and launch more powerful punches, but you generally lay yourself open to counters, so this is best used when your opponent is struggling and resorts to grappling.The sheer satisfaction that your first knockout brings (given that some guys have concrete chins, and you might have to knock them down four times in a bout) is pretty much worth the purchase price alone. There is one drawback: because of the constant stabbing on the analogue sticks, Fight Night Round 4 is a recipe for blistered thumbs. Although that seems oddly appropriate, given that it's one of those games that lets you vicariously experience a sport without the risk of injury. An essential purchase for boxing fanatics and devotees of sports games alike.
Throughout the 80s, David Puttnam was one of Britain's most powerful and successful film producers, responsible for a string of hits including Chariots of Fire, Midnight Express and The Killing Fields. However, during the following decade, he became increasingly frustrated with the pressures of popularism, penning the incendiary The Undeclared War about Hollywood's grip on the movie business and effectively retiring from the film industry in 1998.He has since become a highly active campaigner on behalf of Britain's creative industries – including videogames. Having chaired independent funding body,NESTA(National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts) through the 90s, Lord Puttnam has recently teamed up with games industry trade associationTIGAto help withPlay Together, an initiative that seeks to foster collaboration and communication between the games industry and other creative industries, including film. Lord Puttnam is also vice-chairman of a recently established All-Party Parliamentary Group, supported by TIGA, which aims to, "raise and discuss key [videogame] industry issues amongst interested Parliamentarians".A key ambition is to push for the sorts of tax initiatives currently benefitting games makers in other countries, notably Canada. It would seem the group has already been modestly successful, with the news last week that the government has asked TIGA to provide evidence to support a 'culturally British' tax break for UK games production.Lord Puttnam spoke to me about his interest in videogames, and about how the government must act to ensure the ongoing health of the UK industry. Here is the first part of that interview ...How did you get involved with NESTA?I was involved from about 1992. I was working on the Labour party manifesto for the "creative industries" as they became known, and what emerged time and again was the lack of connectivity between arts, science and technology. We were in a sense revisiting CP Snow's thesis that art and science were in some respects incompatible, whereas in reality, looking at the likely challenges of the 21st century economy, there was an overwhelming need for them to be increasingly connected. So we set out to see what could be done to bind these two together, and what emerged was NESTA.In fact, NESTA started out as NESA – technology was added rather at the last minute – but it was always intended to be a way of drawing together the arts and the sciences based, to an extent on what I had experienced during my brief stint on the ESRC. It was there I became aware of how damaging and unnecessary this separation could be. Immediately after Labour won the 1997 election it quickly moved from being an idea to a policy commitment; and from there to a reality within 18 months. I was then summoned back at the last minute – the original nominee having became unavailable – to become the inaugural chair, where I remained for the next five years.What were the practical aims of NESTA from the beginning?Well, the first big negotiation obviously was how to legislate for an "endowment", Britain had never had one so we were the very first. The treasury has always been, and probably still is, extremely resistant to the notion. In America they are almost the norm, but HM Treasury do not see endowments as the best possible use of money – although I think that's an attitude that has more to do with a "loss of control" than anything else.So first of all we had a job to do on the treasury, then there was an issue of how significant the endowment should be – it was eventually delivered in two tranches. And then there was the business – the very interesting exercise – of setting something up from scratch; the nature and powers of the trustees, and all the rest of it. In the end a short Bill went through parliament creating NESTA along with one or two other statutory bodies.It was an exciting, and in hindsight a really rather remarkable time.You're also very much involved with the videogame side of thing – you believe that the videogame industry should be more heavily supported by government?My own belief is that the sector should get significantly more support, particularly at the entry and training level – that's where I'd like to see most of the support concentrated.I'm also trying to persuade people within the interactive entertainment industry that the role they are playing, and the role that the games they develop are playing, could be far more significant in British cultural life. By its very nature, the potential of "interactivity" within the entertainment and the learning space is enormous. It seems to me that at present we are only scratching the surface.Obviously there's a growing interest in serious games and I take it that's the sector that interests you?"Obsessed" would be a more accurate way of expressing it!A few established game publishers, Blitz Games in Leamington for example, have already embraced this sector, haven't they?This is a world that's slowly moving in from the fringes to become quite mainstream. When I first went to see Sony about the possibility of them getting more involved in education through the development of serious games, I was all but thrown out of their office. I think Ray McGuire would confirm what I'm telling you. Happily, today he's one of the leading proponents of the potential of serious games.What was his original resistance to the idea?Oh it was very simple – I remember the conversation very well.He patiently explained that games are what people do when they get out of school! "They can't wait to get out of school in order to get their hands on 'games' – we don't even want to mention school – we are the antidote!"So the most widely held belief saw the two things as operating in opposition to each other. Ray could tell you about his own journey in this respect. I'm very fond of him. He's a real star.Are you interested in the mainstream games industry? Are you a gamer?Only in a rather pathetic way! I have two grand-daughters who are excellent, and if I want to make a complete fool of myself, I challenge them at which point, no matter what we are playing, I invariably manage to make a total fool of myself.Do they have a Nintendo Wii?No, we've got an Xbox and a PlayStation.What are your hopes for the all-party group for videogaming, which you're a part of?Well, it's all part of a continuum; if I'd have been around in the 1920s I'd like to think I would have been an inaugural member of the all-party group for the film industry. Certainly I was a vocal advocate for the creation of a select committee in the Lords, which we now have under Lord Fowler, looking at the whole world of communications.What I hope we'll achieve with this new committee is the overdue political legitimacy of the games industry; to get a level of informed parliamentary understanding of interactive games – both in terms of their creative potential and the extraordinary levels of income generated by the sector. Most parliamentarians don't have a clue as regards the challenges or the opportunities the games industry faces. If for example, they had a full understanding of the levels of support the Canadians offer their industry they would, I'm sure, fall off their chairs!What do you think about the videogame courses at British universities? They've been accused of churning out "Jack of all trade, master of none" students. Do you agree?In my experience that type of broad brush criticism is normally wrong.I well remember a decade or so ago when media studies courses were being given a terrible rap for being over generalist generalist and insufficiently "robust". It was was only when you started looking beyond graduation, at the employability of the people that had taken those courses, did you discover that – surprise, surprise – the media studies graduates were getting jobs that no one else was getting – it was in fact one of the most productive routes into employment that universities were offering. So that particular criticism evaporated.There's always a miasma of misinformation emerging from the higher education sector as to which are the "best" courses to take. My advice would always be to ignore the perceived wisdom and look for the most reliable evidence on the ground.
You have to admire Activision's thoroughness – it's spreading the mediocrity across every known format.There is some good news from this movie tie-in game: it's superior to the previous Transformers title. Of course, the same could also be said of just about any other game. Ever. Including titles on the ZX81.As before, you choose which side you're on: the good Autobots or the evil Decepticons. Frankly, it makes no difference. Whichever moral standpoint you opt for, you'll be thrown into an endless stream of dully repetitive, standard third-person shoot-em-up missions: run around, shoot things, occasionally turn into a different machine and drive or fly around instead. And shoot things. Score enough points, unlock more missions. Repeat. And repeat. And repeat ...Some missions can be challenging thanks to the sheer number of assailants out to get you. Most though are challenging thanks to a control system that requires the dexterity of a conjuror and the memory of an elephant as button functions change depending on whether you're in robotic or vehicular form.Mind you, the AI is so poor that general button mashing is frequently enough to get you by. With its major flaws, tedious gameplay and dull graphics, Revenge of the Fallen is a typically rushed, cynical movie tie-in. Or at least it would be if it weren't for its saving grace of enjoyable online/multiplayer options. Five game modes – Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Control Points, Battle For The Shards and the portentously named One Shall Stand – give decent variety, and online response times are speedy.It is, of course, all highly derivative and however you dress it up, it's still essentially Gears of War with robots. But, seeing you could never turn Marcus Fenix into a fighter plane or a big blue truck, that must score it some brownie points. Whether it's enough brownie points to justify the possible 50 quid outlay though is doubtful.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
It started out as a social network that exploded across American college campuses - but now Facebook could be becoming the home of older internet users, according to new figures.Statistics gleaned from the internet company suggest that users aged 35 and older are now becoming an increasingly dominant force on Facebook, usurping the school pupils and university students who made up the site's early base.According to an analysisby Washington, DC consulting firm iStrategy Labs - which used figures given publicly by Facebook to advertisers - the site is being quickly populated by older surfers.The figures are based only on American users, who make up around a third of the site's 200m users worldwide. However, they indicate that Facebook has grown by more than 70% in the last six months - adding more than 18m users over 35 in the process. This now means that a third of users are in this older age bracket, and the 35-54 year old group now constitutes Facebook's largest demographic.In addition, the number of American users aged 55 and over rocketed by more than 500% over the same period, to a total of 5.8m out of Facebook's US user base of almost 72m. This high speed growth has been tempered by much slower adoption by younger users - a substantial departure from the site's early user base."The most troubling statistics we've seen are that there are 16.5% less high school users, and 21.7% less college users,"wroteiStrategy's Peter Corbett. "There have been rumours that these younger user groups are being alienated by their parents joining the service, and this data seems to prove it."Despite Corbett's claim, the number of younger users has not fallen - merely grown less quickly than other age groups. There are now 18 million Americans from both the 18-24 and 25-34 age bracket using Facebook now, for example: six months ago the same statistics measured 17.2m and 11.2m respectively.There are a number of potential reasons for slower adoption among the under 25s - including saturation or competition from other social networks and websites such as Twitter.In addition other factors may be at play - at least according to Microsoft researcher Danah Boyd, who last week posited that race, gender and social class play a significant factor in the way the public views, and uses, social networking sites.In atalk given to the Personal Democracy Forumin New York last week, Dr Boyd highlighted the disparity in the user base of MySpace and Facebook, and suggested that the migration of users from one to the other echoed the "white flight" experienced across many cities."Whites were more likely to leave or choose Facebook," she said. "The educated were more likely to leave or choose Facebook. Those from wealthier backgrounds were more likely to leave or choose Facebook. Those from the suburbs were more likely to leave or choose Facebook... the fact that digital migration is revealing the same social patterns as urban white flight should send warning signals to everyone out there."
A British company has raised £600m towards its plans to build what could become the world's largest data centre in Scotland.The scheme is being concocted by Internet Villages International, a property company registered in the Isle of Man that plans to build the so-called Alba 1 facility in Dumfries and Galloway.The company has raised its latest round of funding from unnamed investors, as part of an attempt to achieve to its target of building the 250 acre facility near Annandale next year.Like other data centres around the globe, the site will host vast warehouses full of computer servers and networking equipment that can store information accessible on the internet and deliver to across the UK, Europe and further afield. But by providing around 3 million square feet of server space, Alba 1 could dwarf the world's largest existing data centres if it opens in 2010 as planned.Although local press reports suggest the scheme hasnot yet been formally submitted to the authorities, it is hoped that it could provide around 1,000 jobs and spark growth in the area.The scheme is set to cost £1bn overall, but could significantly increase the reliability and speed of internet service for many users around Britain by placing them closer to content. Currently much of Britain's web traffic is served from London, mainland Europe or America - and even reducing the minuscule delays in transferring data around the country could have an effect on some services.Scotland is fast becoming a hub for data centre building in the UK, with anumber of plansfor new facilities across the country. The region offers plenty of open space and a technically skilled workforce thanks to the large number of semiconductor manufacturers there - though many have lost their jobs as the recession has taken hold.It will please environmental campaigners that these are set to be, by and large, green projects: Alba, for example, is due to run off power generated at nearby biomass plant and from local wind farms. Other planned facilities could draw on a tidal power generation centre in the Pentland Firth, off the northern tip of the Scottish mainland.As well as encouraging more renewable energy developments, such schemes will also help offset a portion of the internet's growing energy footprint - growth whichexperts told the Guardian earlier this year required drastic action.
&bull; Fresh from looking into Google's books deal, US government officials are now apparentlyconsidering whether America's telecoms giants are too powerful, reports theWall Street Journal. Potential targets including Apple'sexclusive deal with AT&amp;Tto be the only iPhone supplier in the US. Would British regulators look at O2's deal with Apple in the same way?&bull; Here's one I missed the other day: a player in Eve Onlinestole billions of dollars of in-game currency(via theBBC) - has been compounded as players withdraw their cash from the game's virtual banks, creating a run costing developers and playerstens of thousands of dollarssaysArs Technica.&bull; Struggle with the constant demands of photographers tracking your every move? Fed up with being the celebrity everyone's trying to take pictures of? Perhaps the idea ofan anti-paparazzi clutchbagwill appeal - a concept design by Adam Harvey that detects when cameras are flashing and flashes back, spoiling the picture in the process (viaWiredandCrunchGear)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The "why did the Telegraph say it was Theyworkforyou" mystery has been solved. (If you don't know what we're on about, seethis earlier post.) And the answer can be found on... the internet.Though not, it turns out, in the way you might expect.Tom Steinberg, who's in charge of MySociety, has done some real journalism (programmers doing journalism? It'll never catch on) and actuallyspoken toLisa Greenwood, the civil servant who was sacked from the Department of Children, Schools and Family (DCSF) after using her office systems to send an angry message to Hazel Blears over her use of the second homes allowance.He'swritten it up briefly on the MySociety mailing list, and it gives you one of those "ahhh" moments which shows that the Telegraph indeed got it wrong, but understandably so.Here he explains it:In short, what she told me happened was:1.) She used google and ended up on Hazel Blear's page on TheyWorkForYou.com2.) She clicked through from it to Hazel's official site3.) She found the 'contact me' page on the official site and then clicked on the email address, which, using a mailto: tag popped up her work email client.4.) She wrote and sent her fatal email, which was delivered from her DCSF email account, not her Hotmail which she'd normally use.It was that use of the DCSF email address, not Hotmail, which was fatal to her employment. (A reminder: she wrote to Blears, via email, "You are only sorry that you have been caught. You are a disgrace (including all the other honourable members). Why haven't you been sacked?")Arguably it would have made sense for Greenwood not to have used the DCSF system at all, and to have waited to vent her spleen until she was at home or near a library or internet cafe. Civil servants have freedom of expression in most regards, but not through government-owned and/or -operated computer systems.One can see that in describing the events to the Telegraph that DCSF might have, via Chinese whispers, rendered the above process to "she wrote it on the Theyworkforyou site". Or possibly the DCSF got it precisely right, and the Telegraph messed up - the story simply recedes one back in the manner of Russian dolls. Or perhaps though both got bits wrong. (We'd have to check that with DCSF press office, and it's shut just now)Steinberg, meanwhile, adds to his posting thatI'll use this to ask for a retraction from the original journalist who seeded the story, and from anyone else who ran with it and who hasn't corrected by tomorrow.Should be entertaining.So - are you confident about what you are and are not allowed to say through your work email systems? And was her email to Blears really the stuff of sackings?
Industry trade body ELSPA has released UK videogame sales figure for the first half of 2009. Unsurprisingly perhaps, Nintendo's "casual" titles have fared extremely well, with Wii Fit, Wii Play and Mario Kart Wii boasting combined sales volumes of 1.65m units - equating to 72% of the top five "best sellers" in the UK individual format chart. Dr Kawashima's Brain Training has also surpassed the 3m sales mark, apparently making it Britain's most popular game ever.From thepress release:The number of home and portable gaming consoles in the UK now stands at 24m which, to put in perspective, is around the same number as there are UK households. This growth in popularity was underlined in a report by Nielsen Research for the Interactive Software Federation of Europe which showed that 33% of the UK population between the ages of 30 and 49 describe themselves as 'active gamers' and 82% say they play videogames with their children.UK videogame sales witnessed another good performance in the first half of 2009 with the second best set of figures in history. Whilst in real terms, year-on-year sales are down 5.7%, with 29.7m units sold compared to 31.5m  units for the same period in 2008, the results remain encouraging for the country's industry.ELSPA also provides a top ten all formats game chart for the first half of the year...1. Wii Fit2. FIFA 093. Call Of Duty: World At War4. Resident Evil 55. Wii Play6. Mario Kart Wii7. Professor Layton And The Curious Village8. Mario &amp; Sonic At The Olympic Games9. Street Fighter IV10. Guitar Hero: World TourI suppose these figures confirm what we already know – that the casual gaming sector as appropriated and refined by Nintendo, is huge business, and it's changing the way that both gamers and game publishers think about interactive entertainment. I think this all ties in neatly with afascinating interviewDevelop Magazine has just conducted with Mike Mika, head of development atOther Ocean. He talks about how games can be successfully integrated with social networking systems to create shared experiences that run across multiple platforms. The best part is where he envisions a future version of Animal Crossing in which you play co-operatively with friends, whether they're on console, PC or iPhone, posting your achievements to Facebook as you progress.What the ELSPA figures quietly confirm, alongside a growing mass of comparable data, is that society really is moving beyond the age of mass non-interactive entertainment. Television jumped the shark with reality TV; the nation'scognitive surplusis being deployed elsewhere.
I spent a few hours last weekend playing the first episode ofTales of Monkey Island. More on that tomorrow when the review embargo breaks but it's been an enjoyable, if at times frustrating, ride. And continuing the Monkey Island theme theSpecial Editionof the original game has finally been dated – it arrives on Xbox Live and PC on 15 July.Calmed down yet? No, thought not but hang on for one second as LucasArts have been piling on the good news today. In addition to the Monkey Island loveliness they have dug into the vault and are re-releasing 10 classic – Armed and Dangerous admittedly stretches this description – titles for PC via theSteamdownload service. So from 8 July – ie this Wednesday – you'll be able to download the likes ofLOOMand The Dig. The complete list of games to be released on 8 July via Steam is:•	Armed and Dangerous•	Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis•	Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade: The Graphic Adventure•	LEGO Indiana Jones: The Original Adventure•	LOOM•	Star Wars Battlefront II•	Star Wars Republic Commando•	Star Wars Starfighter•	The Dig•	Thrillville: Off the RailsAs you would expect the press release gets very excited but in this case probably rightly so. To even attempt to play some of these games, especially the old point n' clickers, on a modern PC would have been a major hassle at best. Darrell Rodriguez, president of LucasArts enthused:This effort is going to make it possible to introduce a whole new generation of gamers to LucasArts' classic games said.  It also gives more people a chance to play our games by making them available long after they've disappeared from store shelves.  We hope our fans are as excited as we are about our plans and we can't wait to share what's coming next.  This is just the beginning.So what do you think then? Excited by this trip down memory lane? And what games should LucasArts resurrect next?
It's a web mystery – a true whodunit. The Telegraph reports that a civil servant has been sacked for posting to a website about Hazel Blears. But we can't find the text. And nor can the site where it's meant to have been posted. (Update: the mystery has been solved - though questions remain: seethis subsequent post. But first, read on.)It's alleged that the woman was sacked for "gross misconduct" for posting on Theyworkforyou.com (the site that turns Hansard into something you can use) for adding a comment to a Hazel Blears reference to the effect that "You are only sorry that you have been caught. You are a disgrace (including all the other honourable members). Why haven't you been sacked?"Theyworkforyoupoints out that it would never have revealed who the person was, and moreover that that comment has never appeared on TWFY, and:There is no comment on TheyWorkForYou containing the text quoted in that article, nor anything like it, nor has there ever been. Nor in fact (as we've checked), on HearFromYourMP, WriteToThem, or WhatDoTheyKnow. Only one comment has been left on any contribution by Hazel Blears in 2009, and it's definitely not related to this. 27 comments were left on 13th May, the date the comment was apparently posted; we've read them all and they're all nothing to do with this.What's more, adds Tom Steinberg of MySociety, which set up TWFY:No journalist bothered to contact us before running the story, and what we do know is that the implication that mySociety would merrily hand over sensitive personal data that ends up in getting someone sacked, without fighting tooth and nail for their privacy every inch of the way, is a complete misinterpretation of the way we work and the things we hold most dear.This is serious: if newspapers run stories like this where facts like that are wrong, and don't correct them, reputations can be damaged.But the mystery deepens. Why? Because that textdoesn't appear anywhere on Googleexceptin sites that are referring to the Telegraph article. (Including this one, now.) And we trust Google, right?OK, since we don't necessarily, let's hand the job to the new kid on the block, Microsoft's Bing. Waddya say, Bing?Nope,not there either.So the Telegraph is saying that someone wrote something on a site. Except the something that is written doesn't appear on the site, andcan't be found anywhere else. That's extremely odd by anyone's standards.Of course it could have all been made so much easier if the Telegraph had included a link in its physical andweb storyto the offending comment.But it didn't – although it did include backlinks to its own stories about Ms Blears.If anyone can find the text - or what could reasonably be described as its original – could they post a link here?Then again,if the Telegraph can have imaginary journalists... but no, that's unthinkable.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Marc Andreessen: photograph byJoi Ito, used under CC licenseThe precise details werewidelyreportedover the weekend, but Netscape co-founder Marc Andreessen has joined forces with former business partner Ben Horowitz to create a new venture capitalIn a post on his blog, Andreessen - the former wunderkind who set the web on fire with his work on browsers in the early 90s - says that he has raised $300m to start the inspirationally named Andreeseen Horowitz. The fund will invest - largely around Silicon Valley - in web companies, and mould a generation of entrepreneurs to, well, be like him:We will hang our hat as a firm on the fact that both of us have extensive direct entrepreneurial and operating experience. We have built companies, from scratch, to high scale -- thousands of employees and hundreds of millions of dollars of annual revenue. In short, we have done it ourselves. And we are building our firm to be the firm we would want to work with as entrepreneurs ourselves.There's certainly an appetite for what they're selling: investors are desperate to make some money right now and with a more-than-solid record of entrepreneurship (making around $6bn over the years with Netscape and Opsware) the duo offer speculators a good chance at guiding their cash into the right place.The move has been on the cards for a while - Andreessen said he was creating a fundearlier this year- and essentially they are formalising to back the sort of investments they have made themselves as angels.In which case, it's interesting to look at the companies that the pair have pumped money into already. While Netscape and Opsware were pretty hardcore technology companies, many of the duo's recent investments have been in (now) high-profile consumer names like Facebook, Twitter and Digg. They've also put money into dozen of others intriguing but smaller companies such as mobile video serviceQikand online game developerMetaplace. However, as far as I can tell, none of these companies - or, indeed, Andreessen's white label social network serviceNing- have yet managed to cash in on their hype.Does that tell us anything about their future as venture capitalists? It will certainly be interesting to see where the money goes and what extra pressure comes to bear as a result of being a venture capitalist with backers worrying about recouping their return on investment.
&bull; Controversial advertising company Phorm has been dealt another blow after main partnerBT decided to pursue, as we report inthe Guardian. More backstory on ourPhormpage.&bull; The Conservatives plan tolet patients move their official medical records to private companies such as Microsoft and Google, according tothe Times.&bull; Some post-weekend reading to get your brain busy on a Monday morning:First up, Chris Anderson's new book Free is certainly sparking off some interesting conversations, including a contribution fromMark Cuban, who says "When you succeed with Free, you are going to die by Free"; Here's an intriguing article fromFast Companyabout howAmazon is tapping its inner Apple. Finally, thisNew York Timesarticle on thenew way to do public relations in Silicon Valleyhas the likes ofTechcrunchandRobert Scoblegabbing, though they miss the crucial paradox: that the crucial PR act here is actually getting the NYT to write about them.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts)
Nokia is understood to be developing a mobile phone that runs onGoogle's Android softwareplatform in a strategic U-turn for the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer.The new touchscreen device will be unveiled at theNokia Worldconference in September, say industry insiders, as the Finnish handset giant tries to revive its fortunes in the smartphone market.Nokia, which makes roughly four out of every 10 mobile phones sold, has been losing out in the market for phones that can access the internet, send emails and download third-party applications, to products such as the Apple iPhone and BlackBerry Storm. The Android software platform, meanwhile, has been gaining ground with over half a dozen handsets expected to be available by the end of the year.Analysts at HSBC reckon Nokia had 47% of the global smartphone market in 2007; that was down to 35% last summer and 31% at the end of the year.The smartphone segment is critical as it is the only part of the mobile phone market which is growing. Cash-strapped consumers are either holding on to their existing phones and opting for cheaper SIM-only deals or "trading up" to more advanced gadgets such as the iPhone.Opting to use Android, an "open source" platform that any software developer can access, is a reversal of the company's previous strategy in mobile phone software.A year ago,Nokia bought out the partners in its Symbian mobile software joint ventureand announced plans to make its products free of charge to other manufacturers in an attempt to see off the threat posed by Android and the iPhone.But the response to the opening of Symbian has been relatively muted. By contrast, users of the iPhone have already downloaded over a billion applications in just nine months and Android has attracted a host of developers offering their "widgets", or applications, to consumers through theAndroid Marketplace.Gadget fans have already hacked one of Nokia's existing devices, theN810 internet tablet, so it can run the Android system but the new device is expected to fully integrate the Android platform.There has also been speculation thatNokia is looking to extend its smartphone range as a result of its recent deal to collaborate with chip giant Intel. Nokia was unavailable for comment, however.
The chairman of the Commons transport select committee is "extremely concerned" over how private car parking companies operate, a problem raised by the Observer last week.Private firms run many leisure centre and retail outlet car parks, but there is no independent appeals service for motorists who dispute their fines. Each company runs its own appeals system, so it is the driver's word against theirs.  Louise Ellman, Labour chairman of the committee, said: "This looks grossly unfair and I will raise it with ministers."Drivers who have appeals rejected and refuse to pay may be subjected to threatening letters from the parking companies and debt collecting agencies.
Caterham R300&pound;27,995Top speed: 139 MPHNumber of seats: 2Good for: high flyersBad for: low bridgesTo bring the raw, sinew-and-bone experience of driving a Caterham to life, it's best to first describe what this extraordinary two-seater doesn't have. Doors, well who really needs them? A roof, forget it. A windscreen, nope. Windscreen wipers, of course not.A boot, nope. Locks, no. Glove compartment, doh! Heating, stereo system, cup holders, all no, no and no ... So what does it have? It has hands-in-the-air, wind-in-your-hair excitement by the bucket-load. To sit behind the wheel of a Caterham Superlight is to rediscover the unadulterated joy of driving. It's a big engine, bolted on to a featherlight chassis and that's it. Stepping out of your dependable family MPV and lowering yourself into the sculpted plastic bucket seats of the Caterham is not so much like swapping a dull old nag for a race horse, but like trading it in for Tigger - after he's stayed up all night drinking caffeinated sports drinks.In doing away with everything about the car that is in any way superfluous, the Caterham concentrates the sheer pleasure of driving. It becomes an undiluted, full-frontal, roller-coaster ride in which you oscillate between delirious joy and abject terror.Caterhams have been built for just over half a century, using the same DNA first laid down by Colin Chapman when he designed the legendary Series 3 Lotus Seven. The only model made by Caterham today is still the Seven, but it comes in a few different guises. At the lower end is the slightly more civilised Roadsport 175 which has things like a heater and a roof (of sorts), but if it's good road manners you are after you'd still have more luck inviting Mike Tyson to the rectory tea party. At the top of the pile is the flame-snorting, take-no-prisoners R500. Midway between the two is the bestselling R300, which has just been relaunched and is the car in which I am to have my baptism of fire.The red and white beauty was dropped off outside my home on a Friday morning. I knew it had arrived because the glass in the sitting-room windows started vibrating violently. The first thing that strikes you is how small it is. The R300 is barely 18in high - you can trail your knuckles along the ground. (During the weekend I found myself in a locked car park but was able to escape driving under the barrier.)I strapped myself in using the 4-point harness, pressed the ignition button and the 2-litre Ford Duratec engine grunted into life. Pound-for-pound it must be one of the most powerful cars on the road. The engine generates 175bhp and will blast you to 60mph in just over 4 seconds. When you consider your buttocks are less than 6in from the tarmac and there's no windscreen, you really feel you're strapped to a rocket. And with a total weight of just 515kg it's surprisingly frugal on the fuel. Which at least gives your guilty eco-conscience a day off.Finally, and this must be as elegant a solution to a complex problem as exists on the road, when it comes to security, the roofless, windowless, doorless Caterham is virtually unstealable. The reason? You take the steering wheel with you when you park.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Until visiting this wonderful blog about Soviet weirdness, you wouldn't have suspected communist Russia had its own hair metal scene in the 1980s; surely all that preening, leather and lace was too decadent and degenerate. But here it is: a stunningly cheesy selection of album covers from a land that taste seemingly forgot. Our favourites include a sleeve featuring a feather-haired gent in a silver foil, double-breasted suit which rejoices in the title Open Your Sesame. Other genres are given the Soviet touch too, including folk band the Ariel Group, whose tasteful sleeve (like many) features both a horse and a collie dog; a moustache-sporting boy band in stone wash denim (Russia's answer to new Kids On The Block, perhaps); and a new romantic with quite possibly the finest stage name of all time: Nautilus Pompilius.
Dan Meth is a web cartoonist with a rep for funny viral films, but you may know him best for the pop culture charts that are among the most linked to blog entries in the history of the internet ever. Entries include a Venn diagram of early Beach Boys lyrics, a map of sitcom locations and a film trilogy meter ranking them in order of greatness (the second in a series is invariably better than the original; the third never is). Meth's most recent, The Futuristic Movie, is, he says, "by far the geekiest thing I've ever done", and charts and ranks when sci-fi movies were made and when they were set. Getting close are the future settings for Blade Runner (2019), Rollerball (2018) and Back To The Future (2015), when we'll finally be able to get those hoverboards and self-lacing trainers.
There's nothing new about adding a TV tuner to a PC, but adding a full PC to a TV set is a bit more unusual. That's what Bristol-basedBristol Interactiveis doing, with its as-yet-unnamed 22-inch and 32-inch TVs.The 22-inch model shown above is a standard Freeview TV set. Click the remote, however, and you've got what amounts to a built-in Atom-powered netbook showing Windows XP on the TV screen. The PC part also includes a gigabyte of memory, 160GB hard drive, four USB ports, an RJ45 Ethernet port, a circular "air mouse" and a wireless keyboard. (The one in my photo looks like aHillcrest Loop Pointer.) The screen resolution is 1680 x 1050 pixels, which is far more than you get on a netbook.Bristol Interactive's chief executive officer Paul Fellows says: "This is a full digital television set: a Freeview chassis for the UK market. The red button works, and the TV is completely independent of the PC functions. You don't have to be in Windows to watch TV."One thing that's missing is Wi-Fi, because of the reliability issues and the potential for support costs. An Ethernet cable works better if you want video, and Fellows expects this will be a main function: buyers will be using the BBC iPlayer, and watching YouTube and similar videos. Internet radio is another attraction.You can, of course, run standard Windows software. However, the problem is that users typically sit much closer to a PC screen than they do to a TV set. I had a play with the set yesterday and the on-screen text is small enough that you wouldn't want to read it from a TV-watching position.Fellows thinks the 22-inch model will find a home in bedrooms and kitchens, where its versatility will be attractive, as will the lack of unsightly wiring. (You can use a couple of HomePlug devices to make the Internet connection -- or, if you insist, a USB Wi-Fi plug-in.) The 32-inch model might find a home in living rooms.Bristol hopes to launch the system in October, with 22-inch models being sold through supermarkets for less than £500.There's clearly a market for this sort of thing. How often it stretches to £500 is another matter.At the moment, my standard suggestion for this sort of use is to get an Asus Eee Box, which you can attach to the back of an LCD TV set. But at £300-ish plus the cost of the TV set, that's not really a cheaper option.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I know it seems pretty simple, but it's got to be my BlackBerry. Just on a personal level, because I travel so much. The idea being able to communicate real-time with my wife – that's a marriage saver in itself. And it frees you up, you're not a slave to your computer any more.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last night. I can sit on it and look at a video edit and then Twitter about the new video I saw, and then message my wife back and forth. It's literally doing five things at once for you, both for business and personally.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd love to be able to run my Pro Tools on it, so I could plug in my keyboard.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I don't know if it will be obsolete, I think it will just become so advanced we'll think the ones we have now are obsolete. Five years ago, we never thought of what it could do, so I can't imagine what it will end up being.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I think it's that every two years everything you have, and every program you're running, you have to replace and update. I think they do that on purpose.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Sometimes I'll get an impulse buy – something that at the time looked like a good idea – and you end up with lots of things that you never use. You get drawn in by something bright and shiny that ends up having no practical application in your live whatsoever.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I think it would be "don't do it to follow the trends" – figure out what you need in your life and what works best for you. You can't really go with the newest, coolest thing – you have to go with what works best for whatever you need it for.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?It doesn't matter – we're now at the point where even the people who don't know anything about technology find it easy to use. You can know nothing at all about computers, yet you can buy a Mac, plug it in and use it. You don't have to be a nerd to be really efficient on a computer any more.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably all the equipment in my recording studio – it cost an embarassing amount of money.Mac or PC, and why?Mac for me – I think most people I know that use a computer for creative purposes use a Mac.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I don't buy as much because I travel so much, it's just for convenience. But because I have iTunes, I buy more music now than I did five years ago. The last think I bought was the new Kings of Leon CD for my mother in law, because she wanted the physical CD with the lyrics in it.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?It's a horrible idea, because one of the top 10 ways the world will end is with technology taking us over. And that will start with robot butlers.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A flying car. I grew up watching movies about the future, and every one of them promised me a flying car. I want one of them before I die.•Rob Thomas'snew album, Cradlesong, is out now
As you may have noticed from the dearth of posts on the gamesblog about odd academic issues, quirky indie games, obscure gaming culture and bizarre interactive ephemera, my contributions have recently been obscured by the impending submission of myPhD thesis. Well, my deadline is finally upon me, and I have until 14 August to finish the behemoth.It has been written and re-written and re-written again, but I have a terrible feeling that there are at least another couple of re-writes looming over the next 40-odd days, and so I am officially not here for the next six weeks. I will also be away from myTech Weeklypodcasting duties, which will be handled with aplomb by several guest presenters, including our own Keef.Have a wonderful couple of months and I will see you all again when I emerge from my self-imposed cell, several hundred pages closer to my doctorate, a couple hundred thousand words lighter. Please, wish me luck, but don't break the cardinal rule andask me about my&nbsp; thesis. I might just explode.
It was released in 1979, featured monochrome vector graphics and had no plot or back-story. Yet Universal has just secured the movie rights to Atari's arcade mega-hit, Asteroids - apparently after a four-studio bidding war.Accordingto Reuters,Matt Lopez, veteran of Race to Witch Mountain, will pen the 'script'.This is, of course, only the latest in a recent spate of bizarre licensing announcements. Films based on seventies toy Stretch Armstrong, classic boardgame Monopoly, bubble gum character Bazooka Joe, and pen-and-paper timewaster, Battleships, are all in various states of production. Withrumours currently floating aboutthat a film based on the Viewmaster children's toy is also being planned, it seems no piece of nostalgic ephemera is safe from the Hollywood machine.So which golden age videogames do you think should be next in line to receive movie immortalisation, and who would star and direct?Here are three to get you started...Tempest, 1980In a universe of vector-based infinite space tunnels, experience a journey like no other. Dennis Quaid is the embittered space pilot sent on a desperate suicide mission to save vector-based humanity. Darren Aronofsky directs.Frogger, 1981In a world of traffic chaos and natural disaster, why did the frog cross the road? From Pixar Studios comes this heartrending tale of a little critter with a big problem: making his way home over a five-lane highway and an alligator infested swamp. This touching eco-drama features the voice talent of Jack Black as the plucky amphibian hero and Morgan Freeman as the diving turtle.Q*Bert, 1982In a world of cube-based pyramid structures, only Q*Bert can change the colours and defeat the forces of evil. Directed by the Wachowski Brothers, with Zac Efron as the fluff-covered bipedal hero.
Microsoft has been trying very hard to change its public image in recent months, spending millions on flashy new advertising campaigns. It's important to the company to reinvent itself for users - particularly with thelaunch of Windows 7 just a few months away.Despite the big budgets and desire to succeed, however, things have proved tricky. In terms of the image the company's trying to broadcast to the world, it has flipped wildly from one extreme to another: one minute it's all aboutsmart kids using Windows PCsand the next,it's about vomiting women.Looking from the outside, it looks like Microsoft's confused. It's behaving erratically. Put it this way: if Microsoft were a friend of yours, you'd probably be taking it out for a drink, leaning over your pint and checking that it was OK. You'd be asking:what exactly is going on?Last week I was able to get a little more insight into the company's thinking at a journalist's lunch withBill Veghte, the senior vice president of Windows at Microsoft. That's a big job, running the core business for the world's most powerful software corp, and he's one of the crucial executives.We discussed a variety of topics – Windows 7 among them – and asked a lot of questions about Microsoft's approach, strategy and attitudes. Veghte seems like a nice chap, but was (as you would expect from a seasoned corporate executive) very controlled in what he said.He told us that part of how they came to think about changing Windows 7 was from user feedback and focus groups. They realised people had lost touch with Windows; that they needed to put back some of the magic into things; that there was a lot at stake, and that Microsoft had to work hard to keep its customers.Will Windows 7 be an improvement on Vista?"I hope so, I hope so. Certainly, the feedback we've got from the beta release - and we're not done yet," he said. "Will there some day be a release that's better than Windows 7? I hope so... that's the nature of innovation... the market's efficient. If you don't move the ball forward, and we haven't simplified and added a new set of capabilities, they won't go."He discussed the criticism of Vista ("we take it personally") and argued that the negative perception of Microsoft in the press wasn't representative of how the world viewed its products: "We're in an echo chamber of about 10 million people," he said. "But get out there, and Windows is the thing that lets me do the web... there's a clear opportunity globally.""For customers globally, Windows is one of the top five or six brands in the world," he said, and one of the most favourably received. The problem for Microsoft wasn't that products like Vista were bad, it's that the company wasn't telling its story well enough (creating what he called an "amplification opportunity").Through all of it, that idea - of amplification - was central: this is something Microsoft clearly sees as a marketing problem, which is why it's been throwing money at advertising agencies and marketing gurus to move itself forward.In truth though, it seems that Microsoft still isn't sure what story it wants to amplify. Microsoft wants a new identity, but it doesn't know what that identity is.Look at its various advertising campaigns of late (and there are plenty of them to pick from). TheBill Gates and Jerry Seinfeldspots were painful, while the "I'm a PC" adverts were, I thought, pretty good. TheLaptop Hunterads got people talking, if not always for the right reasons, and the Rookies ads won awards. The Dean Cain ads? Well, when I look at them, I'm not left disgusted (unlike those whose complaints got the vomiting ad pulled) - just nonplussed. It's too cynical, it tries too hard. Stilted and weird can be funny, but sometimes it's just, well, stilted and weird.This scattergun approach isn't enhancing Microsoft's reputation - it's slowly chipping away at it; making it look more and more like a disco dancing dad who's trying to look cool.This "everything's OK, we just need to have better ads" approach is a classic big corporation move, and one that is very hard to pull off - since big corporation's ambitions usually appear to be more about sales than helping the customer.Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Land put it really well a while back in a talk calledTough Love For Microsoft Search, when he argued that Microsoft's strategy in the search market isn't really a strategy at all - it's merely a desire to make money that has been dressed up.Just because you're Microsoft doesn't mean that you have some type of manifest destiny to receive it. In particular, it's a terrible signal to tell the world that this is a primary reason you're doing search, to grab some of the advertising cash away from Google. It would be like Apple trying to sell Macs by telling the world too much money is being spent on Windows PCs.Instead, Apple pitches the consumer advantages of the Mac. Similarly, Microsoft should be consistently pitching more than anything else that they are in search to improve life for consumers.That message carries across the whole business. Don't just tell us you want our money. Tell us you believe in something.In truth, Microsoft - and Veghte himself - believe in a lot of things. They believe that Windows 7 is the product we've all been waiting for. They believe they've got it right this time and that they just need to tell a better story.But the message they're sending out doesn't match up. When you look for answers, for products, for passion, they're talking about amplification and telling a better story. If Vomiting Lady tells them anything, it should be that ironic poses and quirky humour aren't the same as character... and that the best way of appearing to be genuine is simple: be genuine in the first place.
Yes, it's the unofficial Monkey Island week. On Monday I postedan interviewabout the remake of the original Secret of Monkey Island. And today? Yes, it's the turn ofTales of Monkey Island, the upcoming continuation of the series. The first (of five) episodes releases on the 7th July for PC and Wii and frankly I can't wait. I recently dragged studio director and Monkey Island veteranDave Grossmanaway from his work on Tales to talk all things Guybrush.Why is now the right time to revisit Monkey Island?Is there a bad time to visit Monkey Island?  I like to think that good humour, strong characters, and interesting stories will always be welcome.  Indeed, Telltale is founded on those very principles.  The timing of Tales of Monkey Island is more a matter of opportunity - LucasArts' current interest in supporting its adventure properties coincided nicely with Telltale's explorations for the next slot in our development schedule, so we came to an agreement and we went for it.How do you get the balance between attracting new players and satisfying the needs of fans of the original?The humour and fun of Monkey Island don't require any prior experience to be appreciated.  And we've made sure to set up the characters, the world, and the gameplay such that someone unfamiliar with Monkey Island will still be perfectly comfortable starting with the first episode of Tales.  Deep knowledge of the characters and their history will add a nostalgic layer to the sly references, but is by no means necessary.Were any of the other original writers/artists involved with your game?Quite a few.  Mike Stemmle and I were writer/designers on three of the LucasArts titles between us.  Art leads Dave Bogan, Derek Sakai, and Kim Lyons also worked on Curse and Escape.  We have a new soundtrack by the original composer, Michael Land.  And we even managed to convince Ron Gilbert, the original father of Monkey Island, to come down and toss ideas around with us for a few days.  OK, actually it wasn't very hard to convince him (but he's also working on his own game up at Hothead, so we couldn't keep him forever).Why PC/Wii and not XBLA or PSN?There are a lot of logistics involved in episodic development, so in order to keep ourselves sane, we still prefer to lead on only one console for the initial run of a series (it's not uncommon for us to run it on another platform later on).  They're all good channels, so we like to spread the joy around a little bit.  Wii seems like a great platform for this; also we've already got two other series currently running on XBLA (Wallace &amp; Gromit's Grand Adventures and Sam &amp; Max Save the World), and our engine doesn't run on the Playstation yet, so the choice was easy.Do you think today's gamers will be excited by a point and click game?I think they'll be excited by this one, although it's not exactly a point-and-click game when you control your character directly. This is a story-based game, and like many good stories, it has fast parts and slow parts, active scenes, tension, and quiet moments, and each is presented interactively in a way that matches the intended drama and energy of the scene.  Also, you'll be laughing frequently, which is always good.Do you think the episodic format will work or will gamers wait until all 5 episodes are released?We've been doing games episodically for several years now, and the format certainly does work.  Experience tells me that some gamers will wait until all of the episodes are released, which is fine, but they will have to hide in a cave for five months to avoid hearing spoilers about the various things we leave hanging between the chapters of the story.  And I think that one of the most interesting aspects of episodic entertainment in general is that space between the releases, when people have finished the latest instalment and are speculating about what it all might mean.  There's something compelling about watching Heroes, for example, as it airs, and discussing it with people the next day, as opposed to watching the whole season the following year when everybody else already knows what happened.  I think the same will be true while Tales of Monkey Island is in its first run; there will be some shared excitement in the air, and I imagine the threads on our forums will be interesting to read.How long will each episode take to play through?Each episode should only take a few hours all told, depending on factors like how devilishly clever you are, how much help you get from your kids, and how far up you turn the hints (the hints are adjustable).Will the gameplay be easier than the original games (ie less obscure puzzles?)There is a line between puzzles that are difficult and puzzles that are cruel and frustrating, and I think we crossed that line every now and then "back in the old days," what with the hypnotising monkeys and so forth.  If you, the player, were to look up the solution to a puzzle on the internet, I want your response to be "Oh, I see, I should have thought of that," rather than, "How on earth did they expect me to think of that?"  To that end we spend a great deal of time pondering exactly HOW players will make their way mentally through the puzzles and story, what realisations we expect them to have, and whether those expectations are realistic.  Which makes the games generally a bit gentler than those older titles, and on top of that there are the hints that can be adjusted to make it quite a bit easier if you so choose.With more and more point and click style games now appearing is this a new golden age for the genre?I'm thinking metaphorically more along the lines of a Renaissance or an Industrial Revolution.Why do you think the Monkey Island series is held in such high regard?Well, the writing is pretty decent, and it works on more than one level.  People mostly talk about the dialog and how funny the individual scenes are, but tend to forget that the overarching stories are actually quite serious.  In the first one, for example, a young man is pursuing his life's dream and discovers something more important (love, I mean) on the way - there's nothing inherently hilarious about that.  I think the fact that you're experiencing a good story and having your funny bone tickled at the same time satisfies more of your brain than either of those will by itself.  Also, despite a few clunkers here and there, the puzzle design is well crafted and structured to suit the story.  And of course: It's pirates.  Everybody loves pirates.Why do think comedy is such a rare commodity in today's games?I suspect that's mainly about what writers and designers are trying to do, rather than any inherent limitation of the medium or of the industry (there is certainly no shortage of funny people in the games industry).  We tend to strive, for the most part, for adrenaline, which suggests a certain type of experience that is slightly at odds with comedy.  But I think that's changing.  As the audience expands and more games are made, we're getting a broader picture of what games can be.What was your favourite puzzle in the original two games?I don't think I have an actual favourite since I seem to pick a different one every time somebody asks me.  Today I'm going to go with following the shopkeeper to find Carla the Swordmaster in The Secret of Monkey Island, because I like the leap that we ask the player to make with that one.  You don't need to use any inventory or anything, you just have to realize that he's heading exactly where you want to go and walk out the door after him.  Simple and elegant - I love that in a puzzle.  Also, it's cleverly camouflaged since there are other reasons you might want to get him to leave the room.  Somebody should give those guys a prize for that awesome design
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
American authorities are conducting a formal investigation into whether Google's $125m deal with the US book industry is anti-competitive.The Department of Justice has confirmed that it is looking into the internet giant's agreement with authors' groups to pay for the right to digitise and sell millions of books.Rumours of the investigation had beencirculating for several months, but the Department of Justice revealed on Thursday that it was running a formal inquiry in a letter to the New York judge who is also reviewing the terms of the deal."We have determined that the issues raised by the proposed settlement warrant further inquiry," said the letter from deputy assistant attorney general William Cavanaugh.The deal – which would rubberstamp Google's project to digitise millions of copyrighted titles and make them available to search and buy online - was heralded as a possible "iTunes for books" when it was forged last year.However, the precise terms of the agreement have proved controversial because it also gives Google the right to profit from so-called "orphan works" – books that are still under copyright but do not have a clear owner.As part of the scheme, copyright owners will be paid a minimum of $60 (£37) per work – but Google would be able to claim a 37% cut of sales of those works online. Some campaigners claim it could be a mistake to hand over the rights of unknown copyright holders without careful consideration.A federal court in New York is already examining the scope of the agreement, with a judge already extending the case by several months to allow all parties to examine the possible impact.Google said it was confident that the deal would be approved, while the Authors Guild said it thought the scheme would meet the criteria for both the Department of Justice and the New York court that is considering the implications.Despite such assurances, however, it was only in October last year that the Authors Guild and the American Association of Publishers ended their own class action lawsuit against Google over the books project. They had originally argued that the scheme, which had already seen millions of copyrighted books digitised, infringed upon the rights of authors and publishers – a legal move thatresulted in an agreement from the internet giantto pay for the privilege.At the time, Google co-founder Sergey Brin called the deal a "great leap", while Authors Guild director Paul Aiken said it was "the biggest book deal in US publishing history".
&bull; Google's testy relationship with US regulators just cranked up a notch: the Department of Justice has said it isformally investigatingthe internet giant's Google Books settlement, reportsCNet. More backgroundhere&bull; One of the strangest and most tragic court cases of recent years - the prosecution of middle-aged Missouri mum Lori Drew for cyberbullying a teenage neighbour to the point where she killed herself - took another twist last night, aftera judge overturned the guilty verdict against her.&bull; Ah, Friday. You have the unmistakeable scent of impending fun and frolics. What can we do to aid your descent into all of this? Well, it's Wimbledon finals weekend and courtesy of our pals on the Guardian's sports desk, there's thisinfuriatingly hard Flash tennis game. Enjoy.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts).
At last year'sgamesblog pub quizat the Develop conference in Brighton we packed over 100 gamers and game developers into a teeny pub and challenged them to round after round of general knowledge, music and design madness. It was such a rip roaring success thatwe've decided to do it again!The gamesblog is proud to present the nextHave I Got Games News For Youquiz, on Monday 13 July at 8pm atThe Latest Music Barjust off Brighton's historic seafront.I'll be coming out of PhD hibernation to host the event, so find a team and come on down. Hone your cleverness skills and don't forget to practice your modelling:therewillbeplasticine. If there's a tie, there will be Singstar. It's the only pub quiz happening at this year's event, sosign-up on Upcomingto ensure a place: it will be absolutely hopping.Cost: £1 entry per person.Prize: The takings and the glory.
And there we were thinking the games industry was recession-proof. Game - the UK's biggest videogame retailer - has said sales havefallen 15.4%year-on-year.  Sales have also fallen by 25% compared to April 2008. So why is this?Clearly the first half of last year - and particularly around April time - was especially busy, with the likes of GTA IV and Wii Fit both hitting the shelves. Nothing of a similar size has arrived this year - heck Wii Fit is still regularly topping the chart a year on - so this weaker schedule is clearly a factor. But is there more to it? Are gamers simply buying their games online? Is the decline in sales simply due to the recession and general economic decline?Maybe the growth of hugely successful and addictive online modes in games like Call of Duty: Modern Warfare and FIFA 2010 - as well as, of course, fully online games like World of Warcraft - has dissuaded gamers from buying new games.  After all why buy a new game when you have sunk hours into, say, Modern Warfare and all your friends are still playing?So what do you think then? Sales slowing at Game because of a weaker release schedule this year? Or is there more to it?
The woman at the centre of a high-profile online bullying case was exonerated by a US judge today - despite having previously been found guilty of computer crimes that led to the suicide of her teenage neighbour.At a sentencing hearing in Los Angeles earlier today, Lori Drew, 50, was told that the verdict of a Californian jury would be overturned and she would not face imprisonment for her role in the death of 13-year-old Megan Meier,who killed herself in 2006 after being bullied on MySpace.Despite having been found guilty on a number of minor counts last November, US District Judge George Wu overruled the jury in the original trial and said that Drew should be acquitted.Although the ruling was tentative - and the decision will not become final until papers are filed later this week - Wu said he was concerned that the case set a dangerous precedent for prosecuting anybody who broke the terms of service of a website.The shocking development marks the latest twist in the long-running case - which had been heralded as a landmark test in US law, as the first prosecution over accusations of cyberbullying.Meier, from Darden Priarie in Missouri, killed herself three years ago after receiving a string of nasty messages from a young male friend she had befriended online. A police investigation discovered that the bully's identity was fake and that the entire friendship had, in fact, been a hoax operated by Drew - the mother of another teenager who had been friends with Meier.Reacting to what they claimed was bullying from Meier towards Drew's daughter, she and a friend concocted the persona of 16-year-old "Josh Evans", a boy who had recently moved to the area."Josh" began exchanging messages with Meier, before telling her in October 2006 that "the world would be a better place without you". She killed herself soon afterwards.As details of the case emerged, public outcry over the case grew, and Drew - who initially referred to the hoax as a "joke" - became the subject of widespread condemnation for her behaviour.But without legislation to specifically address such cases, the incident was seen as a test case for cyberbullying in the US. Despite public pressure, officials struggled to build a case against Drew. Local prosecutors in Missouri failed to take the case forward, eventually leading to the authorities in California - who argued they had jurisdiction because MySpace is based in Los Angeles - to prosecute.After legal arguments and a short trial,Drew was only found guilty of three reduced chargesrelating to her misuse of computers, while the jury failed to reach a verdict on a fourth charge of criminal conspiracy.Last month, however, Judge Wuindicated that he was still considering the defence's motion to overturn the verdict, after labelling the application of computer crime laws to the case as "weird"."Is a misdemeanor committed by the conduct which is done every single day by millions and millions of people?" Wu asked lawyers at a hearing last month. "If these people do read [the terms of service] and still say they're 40 when they are 45, is that a misdemeanor?"Megan's family had argued that Drew should be held responsible for her actions, particularly since they were clearly intended to manipulate a child. Prosecutors had sought the maximum three-year prison sentence and a $300,000 (£183,000) fine.
After a wave of complaints from customers, Microsoft has dropped a controversial online ad for its Internet Explorer web browser that featured a vomiting woman.The spot, which hit the internet earlier this week, had received a mixed reception from web users.In the minute-long advert, Dean Cain - the actor best known for playing Superman in the 1990s TV series - fronts a spoof public information film highlighting the features of the new software.The scene shows a woman who discovers an offensive website on her husband's browser, the contents of which cause her to vomit three times. Cain suggests Internet Explorer's privacy options mean that users will never have to suffer from what he calls OMGIGP - "Oh My God, I'm Gonna Puke" syndrome - ever again.But after widespread disgust at the graphic nature of the ad, Microsoft has pulled the advertisement.In a statement, the US software corporation called the spot "tongue-in-cheek", but said that it had decided to drop it after complaints from those who found it offensive."While much of the feedback to this particular piece of creative was positive, some of our customers found it offensive, so we have removed it," the company said. "We make a point of listening to our customers".It is a blow for Microsoft, which has been trying to reposition itself with an advertising blitz, and for the American agency which created the series, Bradley &amp; Montgomery. However, the edgy nature of the ads appears to have been part of the appeal for Microsoft: last month director Bobcat Goldthwait - a veteran of the Police Academy movies - toldBrandWeekthat some of the adverts in the series were "more nutty in tone".Although the ad has now been pulled from Microsoft's website, it is still available on YouTube (warning: obviously this features material that some might find offensive):
