Goodbye Satoru Iwata.
Take up your katana in this hand-held hack-and-slasher as a samurai in the service of legendary warlord Nobunaga Oda.Samurai Warriors: Chronicles 3is a highly stylised version of real events, moving between breezy gameplay and dry retellings of the Warring States period of Japanese history with a few “what-if” scenarios mixed in. There are multiple game modes and plenty to uncover, if you have the patience.The actual moment-to-moment combat is fairly unchallenging, mowing through hundreds of mooks to get to more powerful officers and generals. Managing the army is more interesting; the 3DS’s second screen can switch between characters, manoeuvre officers and react to the battle’s changes. This is a port, however, based on a console version and hence looks a little stripped down; the Vita’s hardware handles large areas and mobs better than the 3DS. It’s a solid package overall, but there is little here to wow the player.
Too many freemium games are a cheap cash grab. But Bethesda’s mobile spin-off from its famous post-apocalyptic series is that rare beast: free and not constantly squeezing you for cash.Sharing a scorched-earth setting with the role-playing titles from which it takes its name, a cartoon aesthetic is put to good use in this building game, where players are tasked with creating a vault to protect and attract survivors. Resource collection and management are key – with food, water and electricity needed to maintain the ever-expanding shelter. These are farmed from a variety of upgradeable rooms, which each require dwellers with a different asset – six in all, from strength to luck.The rooms are bought with caps, earned throughout the game, most dangerously when you send a well-equipped inhabitant into the wilderness to collect weapons, currency and outfits. They can be earned by opening lunchboxes too – either won in-game, or bought, although seeing all that’s on offer without buying anything is easily achievable.This is addictive, engaging fun and need not cost a penny. A winning combination.
As Nathan Drake in PlayStation’sUnchartedseries, Nolan North pioneered a new standard in video game performance while establishing himself as a leading voice actor in both games and animation. But the trick, he says, is not to compartmentalise yourself …Is there a secret to becoming a voice actor?There are always people who can do amazing voices, there are great impressionists all over Vegas. But the question is can they act with that voice? Can they sustain it over time, can they create a character? So the answer is – become an actor. You can work on your voices on the side.Nolan North, photographed in New York.Photograph: Everett/REX ShutterstockWhat distinguishes a voice actor from an actor who occasionally does voice work?It’s a choice. One of my friends and the greatest voice actors of all time is Frank Welker (Scooby-Doo,Transformers), whose IMDb page is too long to list. He has gotten to the point where voice is all he does, because it’s all he wants to do. But Stephen Root (King Of The Hill) is more of an on-camera actor who does some voice, and the same with Alan Tudyk (Frozen), who I’m working with on a web series right now.AfterUnchartedit seemed you were in every game, to the point where it became a joke online. Was there a downside to that success?[Long, smiling pause] Uh, no! Was there a downside? No. The only downside is the idea that it might stop. That I might be found out, or there’ll be a knock at the door.Did it not pigeonhole you as a voice actor, though? What kind of actor do you consider yourself to be?A working actor, and in my opinion that’s the best kind. All of us tend to operate from a place of fear, because most of us have been broke. And I’m very proud that I have a wife and kids I’ve supported solely through my income as an actor, for over 20 years.So how would you sum up your work?I get paid to do what I got in trouble at school for.
When Apple launched its first iPad in 2010, the thought of handing a £429 device over to a child seemed like crazy talk. Yet that’s exactly what happened with that and subsequent tablets.Fast forward to May 2015, when the UK’s communications regulator Ofcom reported that71% of British 5-15 year-olds had access to a tablet at home, including 34% who had their own one.In many cases, the latter have been passed down by parents after upgrading to a newer model, but several manufacturers have launched dedicated tablets for children too.Related:Zombies, creepers and kids all flock to Minecraft’s block partySamsung’s Galaxy Tab 3 Kids, LeapFrog’s LeapPad range and the Kurio were three examples, while Tesco’s Hudl tablets were in theory aimed at families, but in practice were often bought by parents for their children.Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablets fell into that pattern too, but now Amazon is launching a specifically-for-children device: the Fire HD Kids Edition. As the name makes clear, it’s a rebranded version of the company’s existing Fire HD device.It comes with a rubberised case for extra protection against being dropped or flung across the room by an angry child, with a two-year guarantee to replace the device if it does break.Amazon’s existing parental controls help you set limits on your children’s screen time on the tablet, while a built-in subscription plan gives them unlimited access to a catalogue of child-friendly apps, games, ebooks and videos.The pitch: here is a tablet you can set up for your child, then leave in their hands safe in the knowledge that they won’t be spending money on in-app purchases, seeing inappropriate ads or accessing social networks.Good performance for the priceThe Fire HD Kids Edition has a six-inch display, and comes in one of two models: one with 8GB of storage for £119 and another with 16GB for £139.The case comes in a choice of blue or pink - yes, a bit stereotypical - with Amazon selling additional accessories including a screen protector, set of children’s headphones and a Fire for Kids rucksack.At 360g with the case, the tablet feels reassuringly solid, and bounces without damage when dropped from a table or bunk-bed. Its 1280x800-resolution display and quad-core processor represent good value for its price too.The device charges via a micro-USB port, with a 3.5mm headphones port also built in, and two cameras: VGA-quality on the front and two-megapixel resolution on the back. Fine for the kind of casual snaps most children will want to take and show off.The parental controls enable you to set how much time your child spends using different content.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThe setup process is quick and simple, especially if you bought the tablet for yourself rather than received it as a gift - in the former case, Amazon will preload your account details on the device. You then create individual profiles for your children.For children, the user interface is simple and clear: a central carousel of their recently-accessed content, and buttons to browse the wider catalogue of books, videos and apps, along with a search button to quickly find specific things. At any point, swiping down from the top of the screen brings up controls to return to the homescreen.Related:Four of the top five YouTube channels are for kids (and the fifth is Taylor Swift)As the parent account, you have more options, including email, web browsing and shopping from Amazon. There’s also a dedicated app to set limits on your children’s usage, including a “bedtime” period that locks the device between (for example) 8pm and 8am.You can also set daily screen time, but with nuanced controls based on Amazon’s classification of apps, videos and ebooks as either educational or entertainment.If you want, you can specify how much time each child has to spend on educational content a day before the entertainment is unlocked. Plus, you can fine-tune screen-time: for example letting a child read ebooks as much as they like, but setting a one-hour limit on apps.From Disney to Toca BocaThere is certainly plenty of content for kids to explore using the Fire for Kids Unlimited subscription plan, which is available for all Amazon’s tablets, although the Fire HD Kids Edition comes with a year’s subscription bundled into its price.Usually, it costs £3.99 a month per child or £7.99 for up to four, although Amazon Prime members get discounted rates of £1.99 and £3.99 a month respectively.For that, you get a good selection of apps from children’s developers like Toca Boca, StoryToys, Dr Panda and Sago Sago, as well as well-known brands like Disney, Sesame Street, Dr Seuss and Thomas &amp; Friends.The Fire HD Kids Edition comes with a catalogue of content for children.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianYour children may gravitate towards the famous names at first, but there’s an impressive long-tail of independent apps to try as time goes on. The advantage of not having to pay for apps individually may encourage kids to explore the catalogue.The books section is a similar mix of brands (SpongeBob SquarePants, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, plenty of movie tie-ins) with quirkier fare. The videos catalogue likewise mixes shows like Adventure Time, Peppa Pig and Shaun the Sheep through to videos from brands like Lego Friends.What if your children want an app that isn’t part of the subscription? The first two apps my sons asked me to install were Minecraft and Crossy Road, which aren’t part of Fire for Kids Unlimited. This is where you switch to your profile, get them from Amazon’s Appstore, and then use the Fire for Kids app to “add” them to your children’s libraries.Related:Diversity in children’s apps: ‘Gender depictions tend to be very stereotyped’This means you can let your children play “freemium” games (like Crossy Road) although the tablet will block them from buying in-app purchases. I also added the BBC’s iPlayer app, which meant I could download some TV shows for offline viewing - an option missing from Amazon’s own video catalogue.VerdictAs a robust, affordable tablet, the Fire HD Kids Edition makes an ideal first tablet for children, with a good balance between kids taking control over their download choices, and parents being able to set limits on how they use it.The built-in subscription has plenty of good, educational and/or entertaining content to explore, but the flexibility to install other apps and games is welcome - especially if your children are reaching peak Minecraft age.It would be nice to be able to store some of Amazon’s video catalogue for offline viewing ahead of a long trip or holiday, and I wonder if there is scope to add music streaming or downloads in to the subscription in the future. Still, as things stand this is one of the best children’s tablets yet.
Developer Renegade Kid delivers a very satisfying trip down memory lane withXeodrifter, in the form of a 2D side-scrolling platformer with lovely, retro, pixel graphics. They know their reference points too and cleverly have based it on classicMetroidstaples such as exploration, a slow rediscovery of powers and challenging boss encounters.Being stranded in space after a meteor strike the small protagonist must investigate the planets still within reach to find a replacement engine. However, it’s action rather than narrative that is central here, running, shooting and jumping through strange worlds, defeating ever more aggressive alien enemies. Equally, as the genre demands,Xeodrifteris hard; it’s meant to be. There’s also much repetition of boss fights and retraced steps once new abilities open fresh paths and strategies. That this rarely grates is testament to the deft delivery. Balancing frustration and incentive, much like Renegade Kids’ excellentMutant Muddsgame, ensures momentum doesn’t dwindle. Equally strong is the use of the 3DS’s visual depth that emphasises the layered retro aesthetic.There is very little to criticise here bar a short, four-hour duration and some uneven difficulty spikes. For fans ofMetroid, then, this will be an absolute treat and for newcomers it outlines in one succinct package why these games are still so popular.
From mechanical dolls to the eponymous Coppélia, the Jetsons’ Rosie toEx Machina’s beguiling Ava, the lure of technology to create a manifestation of “the perfect woman” has long proved seductive.But just why are automatons so attractive? And just what is this “perfect woman” anyway? Rounding up a veritable sorority of artificial Eves,Julie Woskdelves into the issues in her latest bookMy Fair Ladies, casting an analytical eye over female depictions, both physical and fictitious, to explore the history and the future of Woman 2.0.For Wosk, the notion of artificial women has long been intriguing – fresh from her studies she worked as a copywriter onPlayboymagazine before returning to academia. “I had just gotten out of Harvard [and] the salesman would come down the [corridor] selling false eyelashes and you were totally expected to buy them,” she says. The stint was enlightening. “I didn’t find it appalling – I thought there was something intriguing about it.” But, as her book reveals, technology has offered more than synthetic lashes – it unleashed the tantalising possibility of a bespoke woman, moulded to the mind of its creator who more often than not has been male.The fantasy is far from a modern phenomenon. Even in Ancient Rome, poets were toying with the notion of crafting their ideal partner. “In Ovid’s myth of Pygmalion [he’s] dissatisfied with real women so he creates a beautiful sculpture,” explains Wosk. Since then the “perfect woman” has found herself depicted in myriad forms, from physical automatons to slick celluloid creations. But whatever their form, the underlying traits are often strikingly similar. “I think the notion of perfection has long been imbibed with this idea of a woman who is docile and easily controlled, compliant and unthreatening and that she is somehow superior to real women because of that,” says Wosk. “And almost always they love to cook, are sexually available and they share men’s interests.” Silence, it would seem, is also perceived as golden: “In a lot of [the films] the woman doesn’t talk,” says Wosk.As technology has evolved, so too has the depiction of these android woman. “One of the technologies that came out early in these films are push buttons and remote controls and those really tie in with the idea of controlling women,” explains Wosk. “The technology made it possible to create fantasies about control.”Yet despite the fields of artificial intelligence and robotics becoming ever more sophisticated, and the theme of undetectable androids blossoming, there is still some way to go before we end up with a plethora of Stepford wives. “[Technologists] are still working out all the issues to create a seamless virtuality – so you don’t go into that uncanny valley where you become aware that it’s artificial,” Wosk explains. Not that everyone is too bothered whether their synthetic woman is really and truly perfect – as Wosk points out the market for high-tech silicon sex dolls is already burgeoning.But while synthetic women offer their creators the temptation of power, a recurring trope is the possibility of malfunction, defiance or loss, be it the tragic consequences wrought by the titular android of EE Kellett’s 1901 storyThe Lady Automaton,or the poignant retreat of the smooth-talking Samantha in Spike Jonze’sHer. And with the feminist movement, rise of women in STEM and technological progress pushing those concepts further, Wosk believes filmmakers, whatever their gender, have a rich and complex terrain to explore. “On the one hand it is empowering for women in film, a [synthetic] female character, to be able to resist the stereotype and the role she has been cast in and go off on her own,” says Wosk.“But then these films are imbedded with the oldFrankensteinanxiety about what happens when what we create eludes our control and that is such a huge topic in any discussion of robots these days.”And not every film embraces tech, As Wosk reveals, films likeCherry 2000turn the fantasy on its head: “The real woman ultimately turns out to be the perfect woman,” she says.My Fair Ladies: Female Robots, Androids and Other Artificial Evesis published by Rutgers University Press, paperback price $29.95
Visited anyone recently and tried to use their microwave oven? Of all the familiar devices in a house, the microwave has long been the laggard in usability. The “science oven”, as it is so wonderfully described in the 1970s-set filmAmerican Hustle, pre-dates the digital era (the first came out in 1967); and the advent of programmes and digital buttons hasn’t helped much since. So when you buy one, or go to someone’s house and use theirs, you will almost certainly be confronted by an unfamiliar interface. How powerful is it? Do I have to set the heat or time first? If I have to press digital buttons to set the heating time, will it interpret them as hours? If I need to set a heating time of more than an hour, do I enter the minutes, or is there an “hour” setting?Meanwhile, since the “science oven” came along, we’ve got used to smartphones and tablets whose interfaces have undergone a flurry of interbreeding. Even in rival mobile interfaces, you expect to find apps offered as an array of icons; to have notifications about events in a sliding layer at the top; and get easy access to key functions such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth from any screen. If microwave interfaces had standardised to the same extent, we’d be able to operate almost any on sight. Instead, they still can’t tell whenyou’ve put metal in them.The extent of the variation was pointed out in a 2013 post that recently resurfaced in which bloggerTimothy Ellis wondered about the awfulness of the interfaces. He looked at an LG model with 31 buttons, and a Jenn-Air one with 34 buttons, “when all I want to do is heat up food for a specified time”. On the Jenn-Air, he noted: “The vast majority of the time, I use exactly two of these buttons: ‘add 30 sec’ (which also starts the heat) and ‘Stop/Cancel’.” So 94% of the buttons are wasting space.In some ways, microwave interfaces have gone backwards. Older models had two dials: power and time. They were intuitive: more clockwise, more power/time. Then digital timers arrived, as did tapping a button to enter time, rather than turn a dial. This favoured the cool factor over usability: a dial provides its own feedback and is easily grasped (literally and figuratively) by old and young.The infatuation with digital became another part of the problem. Adiscussion on Stack Exchangeon the topic points to a book by Alan Cooper, who says that if you mix a computer with another thing, the result is still a computer. This leads to “feature creep”: Microsoft Office has a bazillion more options for formatting pages than you want, because someone somewhere might use it occasionally, so things such aschaos defrostbecome a selling point. In fact, “chaos defrost” can cut defrost time by up to 60%. Our microwave has it. But we bought it based on price and volume, not “features”.In the end, I think there’s a simple reason why these interfaces have not merged more rapidly: life-spans. It’s not unusual for these machines to last 10 or 15 years, their interfaces frozen in time, while designers think of smarter ideas. The “30 seconds” top-power button is becoming increasingly common, but it’ll probably be 10 years before you can go into someone’s kitchen and be confident of seeing it on the microwave. Sometimes, even great user interface ideas are held back by simple problems: the products just don’t wear out fast enough for new stuff to come through.If you’ve ever complained about your smartphone’s short life, look at it this way – at least you’re not trying to operate it with an interface from 2005.
When Ellen Pao took the witness stand four months ago, accusing the most powerful venture-capital firm in the most powerful new industry of pervasive sexism against her and powerful women like her, she talked about the “right path”.Pao’s own attorney asked the 46-year-old executive why she continued to fight Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, the firm that accused her of being a bad employee, even as she had become the top executive at Reddit, the influential social-media website that is infamous for nothing if not its trolls. The site’s former contributors – Pao now among them – describe it as a kind of misogynist fire swamp where “harassment swarms”, even and especially for an accidental feminist champion like its suddenly former CEO.“I think there should be equal opportunities for women and men to be venture capitalists,” Pao said calmly that March morning as reporters, technology observers and a jury listened closely to the woman her co-workers said lacked “thought leadership”.“I wanted to make sure my story was told.”Related:Reddit chief Ellen Pao resigns after receiving 'sickening' abuse from usersNow that Pao has suddenly resigned from Reddit, amid bothuser revoltand increasing recrimination fromthe landmark workplace-discrimination suitshe lost this year, that story has only become more intriguing. Both the international profile of her trial and her ensuing decision to curb Reddit’s trolls made Pao a champion for women and minorities in 2015, and those who have followed her from the courtroom to the subreddit comments remained assured that such a bold legacy would continue.Reddit board member Sam Altmansaidafter Pao’s apparently mutually agreed exit on Friday that Reddit would not reverse its crackdown on subreddits devoted to harassment – and at least one moderator who participated in recent protests against Pao said those changes were among her best decisions during eight transformative, tumultuous months at the helm.“Ellen specifically stated: ‘We’re banning behavior, not ideas,’” Jared Shenefield, who moderates Reddit’s cooking forum, told the Guardian on Saturday. “I think that was a good move – probably the best move since she became the interim CEO.”Pao stepped down amid massive protests from moderators like Shenefield, upset by the sudden firing of talent director Victoria Taylor, who coordinated Reddit’s popular “Ask Me Anything” feature, and from users angered by the shuttering of five hate-filled forums, including r/fatpeoplehate and r/transfags.A petition calling for Pao’s ouster snowballed, gathering more than 213,000 signatures.Pao denied that the unrest drove her out: “Ultimately, the board asked me to demonstrate higher user growth in the next six months than I believe I can deliver while maintaining reddit’s core principles,”she wrote in a Reddit post.But her two-plus years deep in the business world’s ultimate battle of modern sexism and out in front of corporate reform remain a lesson for the victims of that bias.The“terrorists”of the internet now have their first scalp, lending credibility to what one industry insider called “the Pao-haters”.Pao’s escape from “hell” – asmorethanoneSilicon Valley watcher put it – has also left an industry reckoning with the all-too-familiar reality of gender and racial bias.Even in defeat, it appears, Pao still serves as an emblem of the tech world’s backward treatment of women and minorities – and an example of how to fight back.Through a spokeswoman, Pao declined to comment specifically on her resignation or future plans, and her attorneys did not respond to a request for an update on her pending court appeal. Still, a look back at her journey through legal battles and unpopular reforms at Reddit reveals just how galvanizing and transformative this high-tech heroine has become.The trial that shook Silicon Valley – and shocked the worldEllen Pao speaks on ABC.Improbable as it may have seemed for the most famous fighter in the war against workplace discrimination, Pao began consulting for Reddit, of all places, soon after she was fired from Kleiner Perkins in late 2012.Even as the social media site was confronting conspiracy theories around the Boston marathon bombing and corporate branded posts, Pao took a full-time position in business development and strategic partnerships for the site in April 2013.When Reddit CEO Yishan Wong resigned suddenly last November, Pao stepped in.Wong later wroteon the Q&amp;A site Quora that the top job at Reddit was “incredibly stressful and draining”, and after two and a half years, the work was having “significantly detrimental” effects on his personal life.Altman, the Reddit board member who also serves as president of seed funder Y Combinator,said in an “Ask Me Anything” chat on Fridaythat when Wong quit, Pao stepped in. “She walked into an incredibly difficult situation and [moved] the ball a good bit down the field for reddit,” he said.Pao, a self-described introvert, has said that she never set out to become a feminist figurehead. She was hired at Kleiner Perkins in 2005 as senior partner John Doerr’s chief of staff, but Doerr later helped her transition into a junior investment role, where she bumped up against the numerous slights that formed the basis for her sex-bias lawsuit.Another of Kleiner Perkins’ junior partners, Ajit Nazre, allegedly pressured Pao into having an affair. After she broke it off, he began retaliating against her, leaving her out of crucial email discussions and in-person meetings with potential clients that could have led to important deals, she testified.Although Pao reported Nazre’s behavior to higher-ups, he stayed on at Kleiner Perkins; his only reprimand was receiving a smaller-than-expected bonus. Nazre was later fired after coming on to another junior partner – but not before he was promoted to a highly lucrative senior-partner position.Pao portrayed her experience with Nazre as representative of the sexist culture at Kleiner Perkins and, to some extent, in Silicon Valley as a whole. She and a former partner at the firm testified about key networking events that excluded women, including a ski trip with potential business partners and a dinner party at the home of former vice-president Al Gore. She and another female partner were asked to play secretary at a Kleiner Perkins event; when they complained, at least one higher-up failed to understand why the request was offensive.Related:Reddit's Ellen Pao is latest female CEO blamed for inherited woes, experts sayMeanwhile, Pao’s superiors testified that she was repeatedly criticized in performance reviews and ultimately fired for her behavior –behavior that is often lauded in men but criticized in women. She was accused of being too pushy and aggressive, and for elbowing in on other partners’ business deals. Paradoxically, her Kleiner Perkins colleagues also accused her of being too quiet, saying that she failed to “own the room”.But the death-by-a-thousand-cuts sexism Pao described in court, and which many women report experiencing in the office daily, often isn’t enough to prove discrimination. The juryfound that Pao’s gender wasn’t a factor in Kleiner Perkins’ decision not to make her a senior partner, and that her complaints were not a substantial reason for her termination.Immediately following that verdict in March, Pao insisted that her loss in the landmark case, however devastating, did not mean that she had failed. To be sure, her story was being told – not just in the live blogs of technology websites read by insiders and discussed on Twitter at-replies, but across the world.“If I’ve helped to level the playing field for women and minorities in venture capital, then the battle was worth it,” she said after the verdict. “The problem of gender discrimination in venture capital has received attention around the globe. While today’s outcome is a disappointment, I take consolation in knowing that people really listened.”On Twitter, women were already showing that they had listened. The #ThanksEllen hashtag was lofted by users whowere grateful Pao had taken on on Silicon Valley’s entrenched sexism.“We don’t question the verdict; we appreciate the risk she took by telling her story,” Lori Hobson, a business developer at Function Engineering,said on Twitter. Another group took out a full-page newspaper ad that said, simply, “Thanks Ellen.”As it turned out, Pao was just getting started.The fall of ‘Chairman Pao’ – and Reddit’s unfinished businessRelated:Reddit CEO Ellen Pao's exit has users asking: who was responsible?By the time Pao’s trial began in February, pervasive discrimination and harassment directed at women in technology and on the internet had already metasticized from the stuff of at-replies to an international conversation – if not an all-out confrontation.A videowent virallast October illustrating more than 100 catcalls and come-ons a woman encountered during an eight-hour walk through New York City. The trollscame out for the maelstrom known as GamerGateto shine a spotlight on the violent harassment and threats lobbed at outspoken women in video-game culture.That Pao alleged discriminatory patterns at Kleiner Perkins and, by virtue of that extended conversation, the rest of Silicon Valley, raised unspoken questions about her leadership at Reddit. Forums there served as a hive-mind for GamerGate, hostedleaked naked celebrity photosand fostered attacks on women, overweight people and minorities.“Reddit can be seen as a swamp of standing water that’s been allowed to breed pestilent mosquitoes,” said Katherine Cross, a former Reddit moderator and PhD student in sociology at the City University of New York, where she studies online abuse. “Even if one ignores the site, it has become increasingly difficult to ignore its effluence. Harassment swarms are ginned up by the website’s more toxic users and communities.”Although Pao, who had taken over as Reddit’s interim leader four months earlier, was in the courtroom every day of her month-long trial, her thoughts clearly hadn’t strayed far from Reddit. Within days of the Kleiner Perkins verdict, Pao ended salary negotiations at Reddit, a tradition which studies have shown often put women at an economic disadvantage.Pao had sought roughly $16m in past and future lost wages at trial, arguing that without Kleiner Perkins’ bias, she would have made a lot more money. The topic of pay inequity was fresh in Pao’s mind.Two months later, Reddit announced a ban on any forums, or subreddits, “that allow their communities to use the subreddit as a platform to harass individuals when moderators don’t take action,” Pao wrote.Cross, the former moderator and sometimes a target of GamerGate’s vitriol, called Pao’s reforms inspirational. “It was the first time someone at the site had publicly suggested the site had a responsibility to both its non-toxic users and the wider internet,” she told the Guardian.Not everyone agreed. Angry Reddit users called her “Chairman Pao” and compared her to Adolf Hitler.Mark VerHill, a longtime Reddit member,launched a petitionunder a pseudonym, calling for Pao to step down as CEO. He said users accused her of “suing her way to the top” and that her policies – championed by the women and minorities those policies were protecting – would run Reddit into the ground.Other users and moderators felt similarly, insisting that communication channels between the site’s leaders, its paid forum administrators and its unpaid volunteers was nothing short of abysmal.When the popular moderator Taylor was fired this month, the Pao reckoning began in earnest, and a number of moderators closed more than 300 subreddits for 24 hours.Shenefield, the moderator who took /r/Cooking dark, said the revolt was meant to be pacifistic, not the beginning of an ouster: “Doing a blackout was the way to have our voices heard without being so hateful,” he told the Guardian. “It worked.”Shut out of their favorite forums, Reddit users flocked to the petition, bringing more media attention to the tumult.On Monday, Paopublicly acknowledgedthe communication gaps and apologized for Reddit’s “long history of mistakes”, but said it would take time for Reddit to deliver concrete results.Less than five days later, she was out the door.The accidental success of a user revolt against the accidental feminist hero of the Valley came as a surprise to many, especially considering that Reddit board members had expressed interest in hiring her as the site’s permanent CEO, as Kleiner Perkins attorneys told a San Francisco judge in February.Already, concerns have blossomed that Reddit reforms initiated in Pao’s abrupt eight-month tenure would quickly become abandoned.But Altman said in his AMA that wouldn’t happen. He urged Reddit’s community to learn to balance authenticity and compassion, saying that co-founder and new CEO Steve Huffman’s biggest challenge “will be continuing the work Ellen started to drive this forward”.Altman denied that the petition or the hateful words aimed at Pao had anything to do with Pao’s resignation, saying he was surprised by how cruel Reddit users had been to her.“While she wasn’t the CEO Reddit needed, she was not deserving of all the hate she received,” said Shenefield, the current Reddit moderator.Journalist Susan Antilla, who broke the story of sexual harassment at Smith Barney and other Wall Street titans in the 1990s and later wrote Tales from the Boom-Boom Room about those scandals, noted that anyone hoping to change the tenor on Reddit – whose millions of users trend toward 18- to 29-year-old men – will face an uphill battle.“The assumption by Pao-haters is that Taylor did nothing wrong and that Pao and management were wrong to fire her,” she said. “This is the tech world, folks, where firings and other disruptions are worn like a badge. Suck it up.”Alexis Ohanian, who co-founded Reddit with Huffman in 2005,revealed in a Reddit poston Friday that firing Taylor was his decision, adding that Pao’s story is far from over: “I have admired her fearlessness and calm throughout our time together and look forward to following her impact on Silicon Valley and beyond.”Cross, the former moderator turned target of the trolls, agreed, saying that Pao became a target herself – precisely because she made gender a topic of discussion and acknowledged that prejudice and harassment were as much of an unsolved problem as she left them.“I think she’ll continue to be seen, for good and for ill, as someone who refused to be compliant about sexism,” she said of Pao, “both in the workplace and on social media.”A previous version of this article misspelled the name of Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian.
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?I’ve been interested in technology and computers since I was 17. I always figured that science fiction is mostly science probability. The ideas in people’s imaginations become fact pretty quickly these days.In yourChannel 4 dramaHumans, the latest gadget is a domestic robo-servant called a “synth”. Would you want one?Hmm, that’s questionable. Maybe if they were as emotive as some of the robots in the show. InHumans, some synths are given a crucial piece of software that gives them the capacity to suffer, which changes everything. Will that ever happen in reality? Are humans brave enough to build machines as true projections of themselves? I don’t know, but it’s fascinating.Related:Humans: a bankable British TV show that isn't a costume dramaDoes the series show the dark side of technology?It’s about elements that cross the line and blur moral boundaries. My character George’s memory fades after a stroke, so his synth Odi provides a link to his dead wife. Odi becomes part of George’s own memory system. It’s a metaphor for how robotics are an extension of ourselves. Is Odi sentient? Well, sentience is a projection anyway. A lot of people don’t seem very sentient to me! (Laughs)How has technology changed the work of an actor?Well, it’s a challenge. My competition these days isn’t another actor, it’s a computer-generated image over at Pixar, you know?You starred inChallenger, the drama about the1986 space shuttle disaster– are you interested in space travel?I’m interested in all horizons and what’s on the other side of them. We know less about the ocean than we do about space. I like to swim, float and fly.Are you a phone junkie?I try not to be, although I do have two mobile phones. I prefer the tactile keys of my Blackberry. I also have an iPhone but I hate being autocorrected. I try to use them on speaker because I don’t like having an electromagnetic pulse in my ear, but then your voice sounds like you’re wrapped in cotton wool. Soon our phones will be installed under our skin. I’m not looking forward to that. Then again, the NSA could already have a chip in me!William Hurt as Richard Feynman in the 2013 BBC drama Challenger.Photograph: Patrick Toselli/BBCWhat’s your beef with autocorrect?Oh Lord, it’s got a mind of its own. Screw up with autocorrect and it can screw up your relationships! (Laughs.) It gets me into trouble all the time. I call it the SBG – the Son of a Bitch God. It’s me versus autocorrect in an endless battle, trying to duck constant shrapnel.Are you an Apple addict?I don’t want to be but I’m trending that way. I have an iPad, which is great for travelling, plus a laptop. I don’t want to go anywhere near the cloud, though. On the news the other day – I listen to nothing but the BBC, it’s the only station where people speak the English that I know – they announced that14 million federal employees had their personal records hacked. That’s scary stuff.It’s hard to use technology without getting tangled up in all its wires, so to speak. But as far as a man of my age goes, I’m pretty up to date.Is keeping up to date a struggle?It can be but I’m determined. A few years ago, I went back to Columbia and took courses in Indo-Tibetan Buddhism and computer science, which was taught by a 26-year-old PhD candidate from China. He had to learn a second Chinese language to learn English so he could come to America and teach us, so he could finish his doctorate in AI – so that put my determination in perspective! I loved that course and we still have a great relationship. I’m 63 and nobody else in that class was older than 20. I’d just sit on the back row and try to keep up.Related:Second hack of federal records hit intelligence and military personnelDo you turn your devices off sometimes to give yourself a break?Yep, I’ve even taken to turning the TV off. If I want to watch something, I try to go out to a movie theatre. Old skool, huh? One of the best things I do is go back to my original computer and that’s the one in my body. I truly believe that the human organism is the greatest computer that ever existed. I trust it and try to listen to it. The human heart is the most valuable thinker we have.Do you have flash gadgetry in the kitchen?Just mixers and juicers. I won’t go near a microwave. Those EMPs again.What social media do you use?I use Facebook in private groups but I use all social networks as sparingly as I can. It can be such a black hole. The internet can be so judgmental and marginalising too. Google’s freakin’ awful. It means people can’t escape their past, get stuck with reputations and it wrecks lives very casually.Have you tried Google Glass?No, I was a private pilot for 25 years so I don’t want to go anywhere near head-top displays again – not unless I’m landing on an aircraft carrier.If you had a time machine, where would you go?I’d go to one of those horizons I mentioned earlier. The edge-of-the-event horizon, like in that movieInterstellar. I just want a peek at the near-future.Humans is on Channel 4 at 9pm Sundays
Sean Murray is sweating in an Uber cab as it lurches to the staccato rhythm of Los Angeles traffic. The 34-year-old video game programmer is anxious. His meeting at SpaceX with Elon Musk, the American business magnate who hopes to put a human on Mars within the next two decades, overran and Murray and two of his colleagues are perilously late for their next appointment. It is, if not the most important meeting of his life, then almost certainly the most notable (and this in a week of notable meetings; before Musk, Murray met the rapper Kanye West). In five minutes Murray and his colleague, David Ream, are due to showNo Man’s Sky, the video game he and a dozen or so friends are creating half a world away in Guildford, to the film director Steven Spielberg.Like Murray, Spielberg is in town forE3, the video game industry’s largest annual gathering, held in boiling LA each June, where publishers show off their forthcoming titles to baying crowds of fans. The cab pulls up at the Los Angeles Convention Centre, where the event takes place over three days. The building is draped in advertising for next year’s blockbuster titles. Murray exits the car with a slam and begins to weave through the crowd, clustered around screens and fingerprint-smeared controllers. He arrives at one of Sony’s cool private meeting rooms, just as Spielberg and his entourage arrive. Inside, Murray, with an apologetic press of a button, loads up the universe.No Man’s Sky will tick and function regardless of human interaction.As early as 1984, a computer game calledElite, created by two Cambridge University students, David Braben and Ian Bell, allowed us to explore the furthest reaches of the galaxy from the relative comfort of a desk chair. And yetNo Man’s Skyis unprecedented. The game presents a traversable cosmos of unimaginable scale: 18 quintillion life-size planets by the studio’s latest count. Murray claims that, were you to visit the game’s virtual planets at a rate of one per second, our own sun would have died before you’d seen them all. These worlds were created, not by the hand of an artist or designer, but by algorithms. As inMinecraft, another gigantic video game world created by an improbably small team, every rock, flower, tree, creature and scene is generated rather than, as in most video games, drawn or shaped by hand.The No Man’s Sky trailer released in Feb 2015.InNo Man’s Sky, you play as an astronaut, piloting the kind of nimble craft that once flew on the covers of Isaac Asimov paperbacks. Like those airbrushed visions of space travel, the game offers a curiously nostalgic vision of the future. Every player will start their journey on an undiscovered planet; they will be the only person to have walked its surface. From there, you can board your ship, take off, break the atmosphere and begin to tour the galaxy (all without the interruption of a loading screen). The stars you see in the unfathomable distance aren’t a mere illusion, like fairy lights studded into a black curtain of a stage backdrop, but real orbs. Travel in their direction for long enough and you can touch them. “We are attempting to do things that have never been done before,” Murray told me, last year, when the project had only just been made public. “No game has made it possible to fly down to a planet, and for it to be planet-sized, and feature life, ecology, lakes, caves, waterfalls, and canyons, then seamlessly fly up through the stratosphere and take to space again.”Related:What's next for Minecraft? Developer Mojang talks future featuresWhile you might expect a universe created by mathematical rules rather than an artist’s eye and imagination to be bland and samey,No Man’s Skyboasts tremendous depth and variety. One planet is carpeted by bright orange tall grass, through which antelope-esque creatures plod. The trunks of tall palm trees reach upwards into a green sky, before exploding into a splay of crimson fronds. Another planet is wet with mist; only the tips of a few conifers manage to break the murk. There is biodiversity then, but in this game only relatively few planets sustain life. The conditions will, as with Earth, need to be ideal.For example, there is a specific distance from a star at which it is likely there will be moisture. From this information the game decides that there will be rivers, lakes, erosion and weather, and every aspect (including the sky’s hue) is dependent on the type of liquid that forms the atmosphere. Many planets will be deserted, some entirely barren. As new places are discovered, information such as whether they’re toxic or radioactive, or whether they contain life, will be uploaded to the game’s servers along with the name of the player who made the discovery. These intrepid names will be forever associated with the location, like a space-bound Christopher Columbus.Unlike many video games, which are rigged to respond only to inputs and otherwise rest dormant, like a musical instrument awaiting a player,No Man’s Skywill tick and function regardless of human interaction. Animals have daily routines that they follow. They might drink in the lowland lakes during the daytime before retreating to the hills to graze. Heavy freighters will plod through space to their own timetable, following trade routes and visiting planets where smaller ships will peel off to gather resources. As with the game’s terrains and atmospheres, all of this behaviour is based on mathematics: fractal patterns that are followed with clockwork reliability.People don’t like to be told that we don’t know what will happen in our game, but that’s what is exciting to us.Sean MurrayThe overarching goal for players is to head toward the centre of the universe. This common destination will increase the chance that people will encounter one another on their journey (even if the game sells millions of copies, when your playground consists of 18 quintillion planets, a single encounter is statistically unlikely). But it’s an optional objective. “We don’t know whether people will congregate or disperse,” said Murray. “I know that people don’t like to be told that we don’t know what will happen in our game, but that’s what is exciting to us.” Indeed, it’s entirely possible that a player will roam for years and never meet another soul. Others may never leave their home planet, instead choosing to chart its terrain, month by month. While it will be possible for players to mine, trade or fight with others,No Man’s Skywill also accommodate the lone, nomadic wolf.Hazel Mckendrick and Sean Murray build worlds at the Hello Games studio in Guildford.Photograph: Rob Monk/Future/REX ShutterstockFor Murray, this kind of solitary existence defined his early childhood. His “eccentric” family travelled a great deal when he was a child. He was born in Ireland but, from the age of four, lived on a million-acre farm in the Australian outback. The family was responsible for its own electricity, water and survival. The farm was a 400-mile drive on a dust track from the nearest main road. “We were completely cut off,” Murray said. This remote existence had an impact that he carries, he says, through life. For one, it seeded in Murray a fascination with the galaxy. “At night you could see the vastness of space,” he said. Later, when his parents bought him a computer, he’d playEliteas a way to explore stars similar to those that he’d watch outside his window.Murray’s interest in games blossomed into a career with the multinational video game publisher Electronic Arts. He formedHello Gameswith three friends, each of whom also worked at major studios, in 2009. When the team began to discuss what kind of game they would like to make, Murray returned to those formative memories under the stars. “Those emotions started to surface, the feelings you had as a child but which are rarely displayed in video games,” he said. “We talked about wanting to explore the vocations that we wanted to be when we were kids.”Hello Games’s first project,Joe Danger, explored the life of one such aspirational career of childhood: stuntman. The game was a major success (it made its money back within an hour of release) but it also locked the developers into a cycle of sequel-making that Murray and the others had formed the company to escape.“We went on to make four games in the series across seven platforms,” he said. “Each time you sit down to embark on a new project you start to run the calculations: will this be the next five, seven, 10 years of my life working on this game? It changes your mindset when a single game’s development represents a significant chunk of life. You end up thinking: how many games do I have left?”A new still from No Man’s Sky released at E3 in Los Angeles.Photograph: Hello GamesWith this existential crisis in mind, Murray decided it was time to embark on the project he’d dreamed of as a child, a game about frontiership and existence on the edge of the unexplored. One night, alone in the office, he began to program the big bang that would lead toNo Man’s Sky’s universe. He wanted to evoke the imagined feeling of landing on a planet and being the first person to discover it, the sense of awe and trepidation at not knowing what secrets lay within a place’s geographical folds and spires.We wanted a game where, even if you watched every YouTube video, it still wouldn’t be spoiled for you,”Sean Murray“In this era, in which footage of every game is recorded and uploaded to YouTube, we wanted a game where, even if you watched every video, it still wouldn’t be spoiled for you,” he said. “And we wanted those discoveries to be meaningful in the sense that they could be shared with other players, all of whom existed in the exact same universe, rather than inside their own random dimension.”Years later, the game’s scale remains vast. But now it is matched by the weight of expectation. In an industry that values bankable sequels made by teams of hundreds, this is a new name in a new genre made by an implausibly tiny team (it started as four and has now ballooned to 13). In both 2014 and 2015 Sony madeNo Man’s Skythe centrepiece of its E3 press conference, held in the cavernous Los Angeles Memorial Sports Arena.“People say to me: there’s never been a game that’s had this much hype and hasn’t disappointed everyone,” Murray said. The team at Hello Games has been careful not to over-promise, or to suggest that there are elements to the experience that aren’t present.“We’ve always ensured that every video and demo we put out is raw gameplay,” Murray says. “Every time you seeNo Man’s Sky, it’s literally me playing, wearing headphones, trying to film things that go well with the music. It’s the most genuine way in which we can show the game.” Despite these efforts, people seem to let their imagination run away. “They project their own idea of the game onto what we’re doing. Maybe that is the nature of hype: runaway excitement that can never be matched?”The team has remained true to its vision (the design hasn’t changed much since the game’s inception, Murray claims) rather than seeking to accommodate the endless requests from players who want to see certain features implemented. While showing the game to members of the enthusiastic press, Murray has fielded requests that they make it possible for players to create buildings, communicate with aliens or implement land vehicles into the game. “It’s the reason we haven’t done things like Kickstarter,” Murray said. “There could be so much feature creep. A lot of other companies would have taken the interest, taken loads of investment, grown the team massively and so on. And of course, we did talk about things like that. But it felt like it wouldn’t work. We had an idea for a game and we may never be able to deliver on the hype. But we can deliver the game we set out to make. That has to be enough.”A new still from No Man’s Sky released at E3 in Los Angeles.Photograph: Hello GamesMurray is, at least in part, culpable for the gale of hype. Sony, whose successful video game division is dedicated to funding and nurturing game development talent, offered Hello Games financial support. Murray turned down the funding, instead requesting a prime segment during the Japanese company’s E3 2014 press conference. It was an unprecedented request for an unproven, independently produced title. “I’ve worked on games that sold millions of copies that were never given the chance to have a showing at E3,” Murray told me. Before he took to the stage, Murray was, according to a colleague, “catatonic” with fear. The fretfulness was, as is often the case for the man in whom ambition and anxiety are yoked, unwarranted. Murray introduced a video showing footage of the game: spaceships loop-the-looping over red planets, procedurally created fish flashing across reefs, armadillo traipsing along cliff edges, all played to a euphoric soundtrack composed by the band65daysofstatic. The response from the audience – 5,000 in the room and millions more who were watching online – was ecstatic.“Personally, I don’t find the attention motivating,” said Murray. “When I’m not attending these trade shows to demonstrate the game, I make a real effort to block everything out. But it’s a constant hum of expectation, or like something hanging over you. Sometimes something will make me aware of it and I do a little shudder.”The attention can, at times, become too much. Murray recently cancelled an invitation to speak at the SXSW music, film and interactive festival in Austin, Texas. He deleted Twitter from his phone. “You’d think people saying ‘I’m excited for your game’ would be motivational,” he said. “But actually, creativity and hard work is driven by ambition. And ambition isn’t helped by constant affirmation. You have to almost get to a place where you’re unhappy with everything.”Sean Murray’s presentation at the E3 conference in June 2015The insatiable curse of perfectionism was in full display at this year’s E3. Again Murray took to the stage during Sony’s press conference. But this time, he was playing live on stage, a ballsy move with unfinished software. “We decided that I was just going to stand up and play the game,” he said. “There was a lot of pressure on us to do something bombastic. I didn’t want to do that. I wanted to go: this is the kind of experience you’ll have. If you’re excited by that, then it’s real and we can match that. And if not, well, maybe that’s OK…” As part of the demonstration, Murray wanted to show off the game’s scale in more concrete terms. In front of the audience he pressed a button and the world shrank into a single point on a sprawled galactic map. Another, and the galaxy folded into a dot, now just a pinprick in a constellation of bright markers. The crowd drew a collective breath.After he left the stage at 8pm, chased by the sound of applause, Murray returned to the hotel suite Hello Games had hired across the road from the E3 show floor. It had become an impromptu development studio, complete with networked computers and a shantytown of plastic connectors and wires. “It should have been this triumphant moment,” Murray said. “Nothing had crashed! Instead, I started working on the game through the night, trying to get it into the best possible shape to show the press the next day. The stuff we worked on that night? Nobody noticed. But, I couldn’t sleep. There’s always more to be done.”The team is yet to announce a release date forNo Man’s Sky, which will debut simultaneously on Sony’s PlayStation 4 and PC, probably next year. Most blockbuster video games, like movies, announce their arrival years in advance, with launch dates carefully planned to reduce the threat of competition. Murray, despite pressure from fans, has opted to wait. “Ultimately we will pick the date when we have a finished game,” he said.A new still from No Man’s Sky released at E3 in Los Angeles.Photograph: Hello Games“The team is so small that it’s the way it has to work. I used to work on teams where 200 people were working together; it would be much more like an assembly line. We’d have one level and it’s February and we’d know we’ll have 10 levels by May and 20 levels by August and so on. It was tightly controlled. For us, we’re building this game where unless all systems work in harmony, nothing really works at all.”Two days after his appearance on stage at E3 last month, Murray began the private demonstration with Spielberg. The director is currently working on the film version ofReady Player One, a science fiction novel by Ernest Cline in which most humans spend their time playing a never-ending game inside a digital utopia. In the story, players compete to find a trinket hidden by the game’s late creator, concealed somewhere within the virtual expanse.For many, the quest has become an obsession. For Spielberg, it isNo Man’s Sky’s lack of a similarly focused goal that makes Hello Games’s project so interesting. “He picked up on the sense of wonder,” Murray recalled. “He said the game provides something close to a meditative experience. Our game has various aspects to it. Something that sometimes resonates with players is the appeal of virtual tourism.”Perhaps the greatest appeal of No Man’s Sky is the way it provides us with the opportunity to make the unknown known.Video game designers often seek to propel us through their worlds, laying down a crumb trail of objectives designed to hold our attention. But sometimes the worlds they create cause us to put down the to-do list, to stop and stare at this forest, that horizon, those fields, these spaceships. Games allow us to enter into the roles and vocations of people unlike us – the racing car driver, the international football star, the marine – but they also enable us to visit and explore places that would be unreachable any other way. Perhaps the greatest appeal ofNo Man’s Skyis the way it provides us with the opportunity to make the unknown known. It is the same urge that launched Elizabethan explorers around the world in fat galleons, the promise of the strange animals that they might find, the unpredictable tribes they might meet, the unseen sights they would see, and the extraordinary pleasure of filling in a previously obfuscated area of a map.A new still from No Man’s Sky released at E3 in Los Angeles.Photograph: Hello GamesToday, our own, meticulously charted world rarely offers such thrills. The ubiquity of the mobile phone, the terrain-gobbling tenacity of Google Earth’s satellites and the way in which all of this data can be shared instantly has made Earth smaller than ever.Yet video games offer to make explorers of us all again. From familiar building blocks (quite literally, in the case ofMinecraft’s brick-like construction) they create unfamiliar places with unfamiliar vistas that are, nevertheless, somehow real. The latest game consoles have the built-in ability to take and share in-game photographs, an acknowledgement that visitors will want to capture a scene or a moment for posterity, to make their discoveries public and shared.The game hopes to offer similar jolts of elemental wonder, all without the drag of real-world travel. These vivid places are compacted into the television, facilitating a kind of tourism and exploration that is both convenient and peril-free. Can virtual discovery match the thrill of real-world exploration? Perhaps not. But the imitation is nevertheless powerful, compelling and, crucially, cheaper and more accessible than the real thing.The game hopes to offer jolts of elemental wonder, all without the drag of real-world travel.A fortnight after Murray’s meeting with Elon Musk, a SpaceX Falcon9 rocket carrying food and supplies to the International Space Stationexploded minutes after takeofffrom Cape Canaveral, Florida. “Space is hard,” tweeted American astronaut Scott Kelly in reaction to the disaster. Although, less so when encountered on a widescreen television.One of Murray’s friends writes science fiction novels. The writer conjures worlds from his imagination, a landscape of the future and the technology by which humans will interact with that place.No Man’s Skyis also involved in this long-running tradition (the alien landscapes; the hyper-drives), and yet the game represents its own futuristic miracles. It squeezes 18 quintillion planets on to a hard drive. It summons life from algorithms and allows humanity, together, to explore and discover in a collective project.Murray caught up with his author friend recently. “He bemoaned the fact that, these days, a lot of science seems quite normal,” he says. “Something he said has stayed with me: ‘It’s harder to be futuristic than ever before.’”
Apple MusiciOS(freemium)Apple’s rival to Spotify is finally available to try: a mix of on-demand music, curated playlists and the live Beats 1 radio station fronted by Zane Lowe. The music picks are very good, but the app could be easier to get to grips with.MediumiOS/Android(free)Initially a website, Medium has built up quite a collection of longform articles on everything from music to politics. Its app makes it simple to find things to read from writers you follow, or the wider Medium community.BuzzFeed NewsiOS(free)If shorter news stories are your bag, BuzzFeed’s new app is worth a look. It’s not just for reading BuzzFeed’s website: its editors gather stories from elsewhere on the web, and sort them into easily explorable categories.BitTorrent ShootiOS/Android(freemium)You may know BitTorrent best for illicit filesharing, with Shoot showcasing a new use for it: quickly sharing lots of photos or videos with friends from your smartphone.BBC NewsbeatiOS/Android(free)More news for millennials from the team at the BBC’s Radio 1 and 1Xtra stations. It’s a quick way to browse the day’s stories in music, entertainment, technology and other categories, with video and tweets baked in.Lumo LiftiOS/Android(free)This app is the companion for a physical tracking device that you wear, with both helping you improve your posture. The idea: you get vibrational alerts if you start to slouch, with the app/device also tracking steps.LoopimaliOS(£2.49)If you’re looking for a bright to introduce your children to music-making, this is one of the best apps available. It’s an animated sequencer where they create tunes by tapping on dancing animals: accessible, but clever too.Minds.comiOS / Android(free)The app stores are packed with messaging apps, so who needs a new one? Minds.com is hoping that its promise of private, encrypted chatting will attract security-conscious smartphone owners. A curious points system is built in too, rewarding more use.Kamcord – Game Screen RecorderAndroid(free)Fancy broadcasting your mobile gaming skills to the wider world? Kamcord is hoping to do for mobile what popular service Twitch has done for console and PC gaming, recording your gameplay sessions, then airing them online – including on YouTube.Lulu – Dating IntelligenceiOS/Android(free)Some men complain about an app that gets women to rate their skills including humour and “sex moves”. Lulu makes its money by charging men a subscription to see their scores.GAMING APPSAngry Birds Fight!iOS / Android(freemium)Those Angry Birds are trying a new genre: match-three puzzling, albeit of the kind in Puzzle and Dragons where your matching fuels fighting, rather than the Candy Crush kind. It may feel an obvious move, but it’s done with plenty of character.Her StoryiOS(£3.99)Her Story is a collection of video clips of police interviews with a (fictional) woman involved in a murder case, with your job being to work out what’s going on.Tiki Taka SocceriOS/Android(freemium)Gamers of a certain age who lost weeks of playtime to the Sensible Soccer games will perk up at the sight of Tiki Taka Soccer, whose look is heavily influenced by Sensi. It has modern twists too: a neat touchscreen control system to string together slick football moves.You Must Build A BoatiOS/Android(freemium)Yes, this game is about building a boat – but there’s so much more to it. Battling monsters, recruiting a crew, and casting spells by matching tiles in this action/puzzler that sounds complex, but is actually glorious fun.Lego Minifigures OnlineiOS/Android(£3.99 + IAP)Lego may have been caught on the hop by Minecraft’s popularity, but now it’s fighting back with a massively multiplayer game that works across computer and mobile devices.Kids can go on adventures with a host of mini-figure characters, unlocking more when they get them in the real world.Fallout ShelteriOS(freemium)Console franchise Fallout is getting an eagerly anticipated fourth game later this year, but this mobile taster is fine in the meantime. You have to build an underground vault and keep its dwellers happy with jobs and activities: a Tiny Tower-style slice of strategy fun.VaingloryiOS/Android(freemium)Released last year for iOS, Vainglory is now available on Android too. It’s a polished, hardcore multiplayer online battle arena game where you lead heroes into three-on-three battles, with bags of strategic tricks to learn.Dragon Quest VIiOS / Android(£10.99)Square Enix’s Dragon Quest roleplaying game franchise has plenty of fans, so while this may seem expensive, many will be happy to pay the price to revisit this venerable RPG. A rich cast of heroes (with a choice of vocations) and a logical battling system make this a hit.Freak Circus RacingiOS/Android(freemium)Realistic racing games can be fun, but they often skimp on the big-headed circus cartoon characters. As you may have guessed from the title, this doesn’t. It’s a very playable sideways-scrolling racer with a big dollop of ridiculousness.HexderityiOS/Android(£1.20)Finally, an inventive indie game that aims to test both your reflexes and memory skills. You have to match hexagons against the clock, with eye-popping sounds and visuals keeping you wide awake, and quick game sessions maintaining the interest.
Related:Reddit's Ellen Pao is latest female CEO blamed for inherited woes, experts sayWhile vitriol against the Reddit chief executive Ellen Pao dominated the site in the weeks leading up toher resignation on Friday, in the hours after her departure discussions centered on whether this had been the company’s plan and how responsible users were for her ousting.Tensions over the growth of the social-forum website – Reddit now attracts 164 million readers a month – were on full display last week after the company fired Victoria Taylor, its director of talent who ran the site’s popular Ask Me Anything sessions.Reddit quickly filled with anti-Pao sentiments, and about 300 subreddits were closed by moderators in protest. An online petition to dismiss Pao collected more than 210,000 signatures.Many usersdrew a direct connectionbetween those actions and Pao’s resignation.OneReddit user, ameoba, wrote: “Like primitive tribesmen, convinced their sacrifices made the sun rise, our collective shitposting successfully removed an interim CEO.”Said user meowdy: “I feel empty. I don’t know if Reddit will ever again pump out this much drama in such a short time frame. The firing of Pao was the jumping of the shark.”Pao’s resignation announcement acknowledged the personal attacks she had received on the site, which reportedly included death threats.“In my eight months as reddit’s CEO, I’ve seen the good, the bad and the ugly on reddit,”Pao wrote. “The good has been off-the-wall inspiring, and the ugly made me doubt humanity.”Steve Huffman, a Reddit founder and former CEO, will return to the top job. In a post announcing Huffman’s return, board member Sam Altman said he was sickened by some of things that had been written on the site about Pao.“People are still people even if there is internet between you,”he said.While such messages were significantly less prevalent on the site following Pao’s resignation, they could be found on corners of the site. Nazi symbols, expletives and crude photoshops of Pao dominated the r/iAmA_troll_AmA subreddit.Threads that had been used to attack Pao, like r/CircleJerk, had a celebratory if not particularly aggressive tone. The r/Ellen_Pao_Hate thread remained mild, with few active users or updates.Across the site, users questioned if Pao was a scapegoat for the company – a theory introduced, fittingly, in posts on the r/conspiracy threadlast monthandlast week.In response to similar questions, Altman said: “It’s simply not true – not sure how to better put it to bed.”He also agreed with a user who said Pao “took the high road”.“She really did,”Altman wrote in a Reddit post. “She’s been very helpful to me so far, for which I am extremely grateful.”Reddit hired Pao in April 2013 and she took over as interim chief executive in November 2014. She became the figurehead for gender discrimination in Silicon Valley, during a lawsuit against her former employer Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers.Pao lost the case but is said to beconsidering further legal action.
A battle over one of the country’s most expensive rental markets intensified this week when thousands of San Francisco residents petitioned the city to restrict home sharing websites like Airbnb.More than 15,000 signed a petition calling for more oversight as well as new restrictions on the number of nights hosts can offer.They are among critics of the booming digital home-sharing market who claim it has caused skyrocketing prices and evictions as landlords, including bigger property firms and developers, turf out residents looking for higher returns by using the websites.Advocates of Airbnb, though, counter that restricting it just hurts middle-class owners who use it to rent out spare rooms and that it is bigger players in the rental market outside the home-sharing sites who are causing the high costs.The signatures were on a petition delivered on Monday to the city’s planning department for a ballot initiative in November that would tighten up rules.Currently Airbnb hosts can offer rentals for 90 days a year when not present at the home or as many as 265 days when they are there. The petition, however, proposes a 75-day limit on hosting, quarterly reports from platforms offering services, and civil court options if the planning department does not react to complaints in a timely manner.The move comes only months after San Francisco put forward a number of regulations on hosts, which the activists – led by the San Francisco Tenants Union and the San Francisco Apartment Association - argue has done little to affect how people and corporations use apartments for short-term rentals.“This is really a huge step to battling for people rather than against,” said Allen Giosso, a San Francisco-based housing activist who supports the petition’s goals. “We are going to finally go to the people to determine how people and companies can use apartments in this city and hopefully it will show that we need better rules and regulations. This city deserves to know more about what is going on and I hope voters see it this way.”There are almost 10,000 Airbnb listings in the cityout of approximately 400,000in the market. Airbnb, which originated in the city and is valued at $25bn, and its San Francisco for Everyone campaign, demonstrated on Monday against the initiative, saying it will hurt everyday people.The petition comes after Mayor Ed Lee’s announcement of a newOffice of Short Term Rental Administration and Enforcementaimed at registering hosts and investigating violations. The city has already passed an ordinance limiting rentals to 120 days annually. It coincided with letters sent to 15 hosts for allegedly making residential units into 73 full-time hotels.“I host people a few times a month, and it gives me a little extra spending money and eases the burden of high rent in the city,” said Howard Elm, who believes large companies and wealthy landlords are taking advantage of the shared economy concept. “This should be for average people and not companies who just develop a building or a few apartments and never step foot in them. That’s not sharing, and they are ruining a good idea for all of us because of greed.”According to a subpoena by New York state attorney general Eric Schneiderman, about 6% of Airbnb hosts were responsible for nearly40% of revenue from 2010 through 2014.Airbnb argues that regulations like the ballot initiative will hurt the middle class more than anyone else. “This is a Trojan horse proposal designed to effectively ban home sharing and make it harder for middle-class families to stay in the city they love,” said Christopher Nulty, a public affairs representative with Airbnb and spokesperson for the company’s San Francisco for Everyone campaign. “San Francisco already has common sense reforms that were put in place this year by the mayor and the board of supervisors. The poorly written measure is full of loopholes and language intended to trick voters, including provisions that would outlaw in-law units rentals, create different rules for different communities and make San Francisco the first city in the country to encourage neighbors to spy on their neighbors.”Although San Francisco has become the focal point in the battle over home-sharing, other cities in the US are establishing their own regulations.Santa Monica, an affluent city near Los Angeles, passed in May a new ordinance that requires the host to be present when hosting someone. It will also levy a 14% hotel tax on hosts and will require business licenses, free of charge, for hosts.New York Cityhas similar restrictions on short-term rentals. Unless the property is a licensed bed-and-breakfast or similar establishment, the host must be present. Fines for violations range from $1,000 to $5,000. European countries like France and Germany are also looking at cracking down on the short-term rental market.New Orleanshas passed similar restrictions as well, prohibiting property owners from renting a room for less than 30 days, or less than 60 days in the popular French Quarter. But Airbnb continues to argue regulation is hurting average people the most.“Now, more than ever, we should be focused on making it possible for middle-class families to stay in this city and contribute to the community. Elected officials, business and civic leaders have joined together with our community of thousands of middle class hosts to oppose this harmful measure,” added Nulty.According to the website Zumper, whichdetails rental prices across the country, the median one-bedroom apartment in San Francisco is $3,460. The result of increasing rental prices has been a string of evictions, and housing activists and citizens are worried that if action is not taken to deliver affordable housing for the middle class, the wealth gap in the city will continue to grow. It is currently on par with Rwanda and nearing Guatemala in terms of inequality.“I honestly don’t know what would happen if I got evicted,” said Greg, a 42-year-old writer in San Francisco’s Sunset District. “I know that at least two apartments in my building are only on Airbnb and that the landlord makes more money that way than on traditional rentals. I don’t think it’s fair.”There is a real sense of uncertainty among many of the city’s longtime residents, who are concerned that if the government doesn’t take action soon, evictions will continue to rise and more and more people will be booted out in order for property owners to earn even more, which housing activists say would be at the cost of residents.
Female chief executives like Ellen Pao may reach the pinnacle in business only to discover that they have risen to the top of a precarious “glass cliff”.That was the analysis of one expert in the aftermath ofPao’s decision to resignfrom Reddit late on Friday, after almost a week during which users hurled insults, hate mail and even death threats her way over the firing of a popular site administrator.Related:Reddit chief Ellen Pao resigns after receiving 'sickening' abuse from users“Oftentimes, the women who inherit the problems are put in precarious positions, and if they fail, they are blamed for it,” said Marianne Cooper, a sociologist at Stanford University’sClayman Institute for Gender Researchand the lead researcher forLean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead, a book written by Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook.Pao, who earlier this year became a symbol for gender imbalance in Silicon Valley when shelost a landmark discrimination lawsuit, leaves Reddit after around eight months. She will be replaced by one of the site’s co-founders,Steve Huffman.On Friday, Pao posted a resignation letter on the site.“In my eight months as Reddit’s CEO,” she wrote, “I’ve seen the good, the bad and the ugly on Reddit. The good has been off-the-wall inspiring, and the ugly made me doubt humanity.”Pao instituted measures against trolling and harrassment, causing resentment among many users and leading someto leave the site.“I just want to remind everyone that I am just another human,” she wrote. “I have a family, and I have feelings.”Sam Altman, a Reddit board member, also posted a statement.“People are still people even if there is internet between you,” he said. “Disagreements are fine. Death threats are not, are not covered under free speech, and will continue to get offending users banned.”Silicon Valley watchers and executive analysts, meanwhile, agreed that many female chief executives – certainly not just Ellen Pao – often confront a situation that sees women put in leadership positions when a company is going through a crisis or downturn and when the chance of failure is highest.Barbara Annis, co-author ofWork with Me: the 8 Blind Spots Between Men and Women in Businessand the founding partner ofGender Intelligence Group, a New York firm specializing in gender diversity training, said: “What they [Pao’s critics] are trying to do to Pao is character assassination, and yes, her being a woman and a woman who [previously] filed a discrimination suit against her employer contributes to the insane fervor of which people responded to her decisions as CEO.”Hashtags including #RedditRevolt and #ChairmanPao trended on Twitter this week. A petition on the social justice site Change.org called for Pao to resign. By the time she did so, it had attracted 213,000 signatures.“There is a different lens for male CEOs and female CEOs,” said Annis, who was the first saleswoman at Sony in the 1980s and now provides training to employees at Fortune 500 companies including Microsoft, IBM and Deloitte. “Every mistake a female CEO makes gets attributed to her gender, and for men it’s not that way.”Every mistake a female CEO makes gets attributed to her gender, and for men it’s not that wayBarbara AnnisBut was Pao – who on Monday posted an apology which said: “We screwed up” – pushed off of the glass cliff by angry Reddit users, or did she simply decide that she had enough of the hate?Annis said the effect of Pao’s gender discrimination suit against her former employer, venture capital giant Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers (KPCB), could follow her to other jobs.“It’s a lose-lose for women like Pao, because even if they win they get labeled as a troublemaker for a long time, even when they go to other companies,” Annis said.Indeed, the Change.org petition mentioned Pao’s discrimination lawsuit against KPCB, a Menlo Park-based venture capital firm for which she worked from 2005 to 2012.“A vast majority of the Reddit community believes that Pao, ‘a manipulative individual who will sue her way to the top’, has overstepped her boundaries and fears that she will run Reddit into the ground,” wrote the author or authors of the petition.Pao lost her case against KPCB when a jury decided her gender was not why she was not promoted. In June, judge Harold Kahn reportedly ordered Paoto pay almost $276,000 in legal feesto KPCB.Related:GM chief Mary Barra: 'pattern of incompetence' caused fatal recall delayCooper saidGeneral Motors’ Mary Barrawas another example of glass cliff situation. She was moved up to chief executive in January 2014, weeks before a major safety issues that lead to a series of recalls and pitched her straight into gruelling testimony in Congress over the automaker’s safety record.“I haven’t seen this kind of reaction to egregious things male CEOs have done,” said Cooper. She also pointed to the case ofGurbaksh Chahal, the former CEO of software company RadiumOne who wasconvicted of domestic violencein 2014 and arrested again in San Francisco in May for allegedly assaulting another woman.Chahal was firedbut Cooper said there was not as much of a reaction in the media as there has been over Pao.That there were problems at Reddit is evident. On Friday a media representative for the company declined to comment, but in her statement on Monday, Pao acknowledged such problems and promised to deliver on solutions.The Change.org petition, which was posted by an account holder under the name Billy Johnson, said: “The communication between the Reddit administration team to its subreddit moderators is very lacking and rather unsettling after years of empty promises to the moderators to improve and provide tools to help run subreddits, and ultimately Reddit as a whole, smoothly.”In her apology, Pao said: “We will improve tools, not just promise improvements, building on work already underway … we’re also going to figure out the best way for more administrators, including myself, to talk more often with the whole community.”Ariane Hegewisch is study director at theInstitute for Women’s Policy Researchin Washington DC, and an expert on workplace discrimination and sexual harassment issues. On Friday, she said the level of criticism directed at Pao may not have been because of her lawsuit, but because of the nature of the business she was in.“Reddit is a medium that has engaged users and encourages participation,” Hegewisch said. “Users are valid forces and they are showing that they are angry with Pao.”However, Hegewisch said, Pao’s anti-harassment policies were probably inspired by her gender discrimination suit. Her experience showed that Reddit needed the new policies.
Jesper Noehr, 30, reels off the ingredients in the chemical cocktail he’s been taking every day before work for the past six months. It’s a mixture of exotic dietary supplements and research chemicals that he says gives him an edge in his job without ill effects: better memory, more clarity and focus and enhanced problem-solving abilities. “I can keep a lot of things on my mind at once,” says Noehr, who is chief technology officer for a San Francisco startup.The chemicals he takes, dubbed nootropics from the Greek “noos” for “mind”, are intended to safely improve cognitive functioning. They must not be harmful, have significant side-effects or be addictive. That means well-known “smart drugs” such as the prescription-only stimulants Adderall and Ritalin, popular with swotting university students, are out. What’s left under the nootropic umbrella is a dizzying array of over-the-counter supplements, prescription drugs and unclassified research chemicals, some of which are being trialled in older people with fading cognition.Related:Students used to take drugs to get high. Now they take them to get higher gradesThere is no official data on their usage, but nootropics as well as other smart drugs appear popular in the Silicon Valley. “I would say that most tech companies will have at least one person on something,” says Noehr. It is a hotbed of interest because it is a mentally competitive environment, says Jesse Lawler, a LA based software developer and nootropics enthusiast who produces the podcastSmart Drug Smarts. “They really see this as translating into dollars.” But Silicon Valley types also do care about safely enhancing their most prized asset – their brains – which can give nootropics an added appeal, he says.One drug class heavily associated with nootropics are racetams, of which there are about 20. The original nootropic, Piracetam, was first synthesised in 1964 by a chemist in Belgium who was struck by its apparent ability to boost mental functioning in even healthy individuals and its safety.A key ingredient of Noehr’s chemical “stack” is a stronger racetam called Phenylpiracetam. He adds a handful of other compounds considered to be mild cognitive enhancers. One supplement, L-theanine, a natural constituent in green tea, is claimed to neutralise the jittery side-effects of caffeine. Another supplement, choline, is said to be important for experiencing the full effects of racetams. Each nootropic is distinct and there can be a lot of variation in effect from person to person, says Lawler. Users semi-annonymously compare stacks and get advice from forums on sites such as Reddit. Noehr, who buys his powder in bulk and makes his own capsules, has been tweaking chemicals and quantities for about five years accumulating more than two dozens of jars of substances along the way. He says he meticulously researches anything he tries, buys only from trusted suppliers and even blind-tests the effects (he gets his fiancée to hand him either a real or inactive capsule).Not that everyone likes to talk about using the drugs. People don’t necessarily want to reveal how they get their edge and there is stigma around people trying to become smarter than their biology dictates, says Lawler. Another factor is undoubtedly the risks associated with ingesting substances bought on the internet and the confusing legal statuses of some. Phenylpiracetam, for example, is a prescription drug in Russia. It isn’t illegal to buy in the US, but the man-made chemical exists in a no man’s land where it is neither approved nor outlawed for human consumption, notes Lawler.NootrooandNootroboxare two San Francisco nootropics startups that launched last year. Their founders come from the tech scene and their products are squarely aimed at the tech crowd seeking the convenience of not having to build their own combinations. Each claims big-name Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors among their users, though neither will name them.I am trying to make a smarter, better populace to solve all the problems we have createdNootroo founder Eric Matzner.Nootrobox co-founder Geoffrey Woo declines a caffeinated drink in favour of a capsule of his newest product when I meet him in a San Francisco coffee shop. The entire industry has a “wild west” aura about it, he tells me, and Nootrobox wants to fix it by pushing for “smarter regulation” so safe and effective drugs that are currently unclassified can be brought into the fold. Predictably, both companies stress the higher goal of pushing forward human cognition. “I am trying to make a smarter, better populace to solve all the problems we have created,” says Nootroo founder Eric Matzner.Barbara Sahakian, a neuroscientist at Cambridge University, doesn’t dismiss the possibility of nootropics to enhance cognitive function in healthy people. She would like to see society think about what might be considered acceptable use and where it draws the line – for example, young people whose brains are still developing. But she also points out a big problem: long-term safety studies in healthy people have never been done. Most efficacy studies have only been short-term. “Proving safety and efficacy is needed,” she says.Both nootropics startups provide me with samples to try. In the case of Nootrobox, it is capsules called Sprint designed for a short boost of cognitive enhancement. They contain caffeine – the equivalent of about a cup of coffee, and L-theanine – about 10 times what is in a cup of green tea, in a ratio that is supposed to have a synergistic effect (all the ingredients Nootrobox uses are either regulated as supplements or have a “generally regarded as safe” designation by US authorities)The Nootroo arrives in a shiny gold envelope with the words “proprietary blend” and “intended for use only in neuroscience research” written on the tin. It has been designed, says Matzner, for “hours of enhanced learning and memory”. The capsules contain either Phenylpiracetam or Noopept (a peptide with similar effects and similarly uncategorised) and are distinguished by real flakes of either edible silver or gold. They are to be alternated between daily, allowing about two weeks for the full effect to be felt. Also in the capsules are L-Theanine, a form of choline, and a types of caffeine which it is claimed has longer lasting effects.I can’t try either of the products myself – I am pregnant and my doctor doesn’t recommend it – but my husband agrees to. He describes the effect of the Nootrobox product as like having a cup of coffee but not feeling as jittery. “I had a very productive day, but I don’t know if that was why,” he says. His Nootroo experience ends after one capsule. He gets a headache, which he is convinced is related, and refuses to take more. “It is just not a beginner friendly cocktail,” offers Noehr.
At the San Francisco consciousness hacking monthly meet-up, about 150 personal development geeks are crowding around hi-tech consumer devices that promise a more relaxed you. There is a brain stimulator calledThync, released in June, that applies an electric current to the head to deliver calming vibes, and a breath-monitoring device that looks like a stone, calledSpire, that alerts you if you have failed to take a deep breath recently.There is also a virtual reality meditation environment calledHarmony, which its developer would love to commercialise, where a user puts on goggles to help with their chakra visualisation. Conversations bubble up. “I tried meditation but I never really got there and gave up,” says Richard, an IT specialist on a quest to improve his quality of life through technology and science. “What tech do you use to help you?”Related:A mood-changing headset, Thync, that uses electrodes to perk you upMany in California were early adopters of mindfulness practices like mediation and yoga and nowhere is this truer than the San Francisco Bay Area with its history of flowering the 1960s counter-cultural movement and drawing different immigrant populations to create interesting new fusions. The quest to be in the right state of mind is a prevalent trend. And it has spilled over into the tech industry, particularly as peer-reviewed studies have shown such practices can provide profound benefits. Facebook has a meditation room, Google has aJolly Good Fellowon staff whose job is to enlighten minds, start-ups hold mindfulness retreats and a largeWisdom 2.0conference unites the movement, even if cynics say it is simply to squeeze more out of employees without them burning out. Most people I speak to for this article tell me they are regular meditators.But gadgets and apps are now being developed to take this further – using tech as a way to attain a state of inner happiness and enlightenment more efficiently. “The space is buzzing around this new frontier, which is focused on the potential for technology to improve psychological, emotional and spiritual well-being,” says Mikey Siegel, a robotics engineer turned enlightenment seeker and consciousness hacker. “We are talking about technology breaking open the self-help industry.”Siegel runs both the San Francisco and Silicon Valleymeet-up groupsas a melting pot to fuel the development of these emerging technologies. The two groups combined make up nearly 2,500 creators, mediators, entrepreneurs, engineers, venture capitalists and scientists, with many involved in developing their own devices. Similar meet-up groups have now expanded to other cities.Breathing is our second tenet of wellness ... but Spire is the only [device] that we know of that supports [it].Michael Susi, LinkedIn's global wellness managerLinkedIn, based in the city of Mountain View next to Google, will shortly begin trialling the Spire breathing watcher to test whether it can reduce stress. Michael Susi, the company’s global wellness manager, seems excited. “Breathing is [LinkedIn’s] second tenet of wellness ... but Spire is the only [device] that we know of that supports [it],” he says.Josh Whiton, 35, an entrepreneur and angel investor who spends about half his nomadic existence in the Bay Area, uses calming devices to unwind. But he draws the line at the Thync, preferring to quiet his own mind — albeit with technology to help — rather than having the feeling zapped in.His current go-to is a brain sensing-headset calledMusewhich he uses 4-5 times a week. It is designed to aid meditation, detecting electrical activity in the brain, which can then guide a user to a more effective practice. Whiton says it helps him efficiently change from busy to calm when he wants to think creatively or relax with family or friends. But he has also hacked the software to get the raw brainwave data (something the company makes possible), which he looks at to try and tap deeper emotions. These calming technologies can help you to take a short cut to mastery and skill, he explains. “We could all become kung-fu masters if we wanted to spend the next 30 years doing it. But we don’t really want to,” he says.Emma Seppala, the science director at the Centre for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education at Stanford University, has mixed feelings about the technology. She praises its ability to make something like meditation accessible to more people at a time of rising stress and anxiety, but she also finds it “kind of shocking that we’ve got so far from our own natural ability to calm down that we need external devices to do so”. It is perfectly possible to calm down without any technology at all – our bodies are built to do it – she says, and skilled instructors can offer great value.She also cautions the devices and apps themselves can vary in terms of their quality of meditation instruction. “People need to be aware: who am I learning from and do they know what they are talking about,” she says. And she adds it is also important to look into what research – if any – the companies are citing for their claims, including whether tests have been independently performed that take account of the placebo effect.Whether these gadgets will move us towards deep transformation or lead us to become even more tech dependent, the area looks set to grow. I meet up with the London based developer of a device calledDoppel, who is on a visit to the Bay Area. It is a wristband that pulses in a way that can apparently control the pace of life that is currently the subject of a crowd-funding campaign. Afterwards I mention it in passing to my San Francisco neighbour, a start-up co-founder. I need not have bothered: he already knew more about it than me. He’s interested.
It is late evening and biochemist George Bonaci, 27, is standing in the kitchen of the San Francisco technology hub where he works, casually making the next day’s breakfast and, quite possibly, lunch and dinner too. He puts various protein powders, fish oil, vitamins and minerals into a blender and gives it a whizz. He’ll down it tomorrow as a replacement for at least one meal. It has the texture of raw pancake batter, only Bonaci’s is chocolate flavoured. He says he likes it because he can get so absorbed in his work that he sometimes forgets to eat. “I will have my mind on something and the next thing I know it is eight hours later,” he says. This way he gets exactly what his body needs with minimal fuss and disruption.Bonaci’s tipple is a DIY version ofSoylent, a powdered meal replacement invented in 2013 by Rob Rhinehart, a San Francisco programmer who decided it cost too much time and money to eat. But after about nine months on a largely Soylent diet, Bonaci came to the weighty realisation that he needed a low-carb, high-protein alternative. But Soylent only comes in one formulation. “I began mixing up my own carb-free version,” says Bonaci.Related:My week on Soylent: 'I was irritable, grumpy and a general pain in the arse'He may not need to be going to quite so much trouble. Since Soylent first appeared in May 2014, others have developed their own DIY versions and begun selling them, providing options they say are cheaper, tastier or better optimised to individual lifestyles. They have names such asKeto Chow,Powder ChowandJoylent.Alex Snyder, 27, is the software engineer behindSuper Body Fuel(formerly Custom Body Fuel) whose products include Schmoylent and Schmilk. I meet him in the company’s new premises: a cement-floored food production facility shared with a jam company in an industrial area of San Francisco. The equipment isn’t set up yet and the shelves are empty except for an enormous bag of tapioca flour but, Snyder assures me, that will soon change. He went into business in early 2014: people were clamouring for Soylent and the company couldn’t deliver it fast enough. Snyder, who had been making his own DIY product while he too was waiting for his, responded to a request on a forum asking for someone to sell them some DIY soylent. He made a customised batch for the buyer and soon other requests began rolling in. He hastily set up a website to sell both standard and customised products (he has since dropped the latter because it didn’t scale). By August 2014 it was going so well he quit his day job.Of Snyder’s five product lines, which all cost less than Soylent and come in three flavours in addition to plain, Schmoylent — inspired by Soylent – he says is probably the most popular. But he also now wants to de emphasise it in his range. “The name is perfect for what it was, but I don’t want to be known as the Soylent knock off.”Schmilk, introduced this March and to which milk rather than water is be added, is also a best seller. “It has turned out to taste a lot better to most people,” he says. There is also a high protein product as well as a no carb and a low carb one.Snyder is now refining his recipes — gritty rice flour is being substituted for tapioca flour – and he has employed a friend of a friend to help optimise for taste.Preparing and cooking meals was cutting into spare time that he wanted to spend developing a new coding venture.His customers aren’t all in tech he stresses but he thinks there is a reasonable swathe. It is a good fit: the tech industry likes efficiency so why not apply it to yourself, but nutritionally optimised for your lifestyle?. Efficiency was the reason Snyder became interested in Soylent in the first place. Preparing and cooking meals was cutting into spare time that he wanted to spend developing a new coding venture. He also thought it would allow him to move to a place without a kitchen and therefore save money to start the business. “I just was like, ‘food doesn’t have to be this amazing part of my life right now’,” he says. Now, ironically, food has taken it over.For its own part Soylent, which has received $24.5m in funding, stresses its edge is its quality control and product development process which includes doctors and food scientists. And Rhinehart famously warned on a forum post on the Soylent website last year: “I won’t stop you from selling ‘Schmoylent’ on legal grounds, but I must caution you it is unwise to enter [into] direct competition with us.” Though Snyder says things are actually friendly – his products are different and he is focussed on providing things that Soylent right now isn’t. Rhinehart declined to comment when asked about his swarm of DIY competitors.Bonaci, for one, is pleased to see the competition and looking forward to experimenting with some of them. “There is definitely room,” he says. Soylent’s choice is limiting and, he points out, making his own takes time – which of course could be spent more optimally.
In contrast to many of the private companies performing outsourced aggressive surveillance work for the world’s spy agencies, Hacking Team doesn’t try to hide behind a generic corporate identity. Gamma International, Academi and QintetiQ could be companies doing anything, but Hacking Team – well, it doesn’t take a genius to guess what line of work they are in.Hacking Team works in the “cybersecurity” industry. That’s “cybersecurity” in the same way that arms manufacturers describe their business as “defence”. It doesn’t provide security at all, really; none of their software will help clients avoid cyberattacks, tighten up their internal networks, or patch flaws in their software. Its main business is offensive hacking.Related:Hacking Team advises customers to stop using its tools after massive leakIt sells its Remote Control System (RCS) software to law enforcement and national security agencies around the world, letting them hack into targets’ computers and mobile devices, install backdoors, and monitor them with ease.The company’spromotional materialadvertises its abilities: “Hack into your targets with the most advanced infection vectors available. Enter his wireless network and tackle tactical operations with ad-hoc equipment designed to operate while on the move … Remote Control System: the hacking suite for governmental interception. Right at your fingertips.”But apart from the clarity of its name, Hacking Team was just as opaque as the other companies in its industry. It didn’t disclose its clients, the technology behind its software, or the sort of work it was contracted to do, citing the need for privacy and security. All that changed this week when itsown security was compromised, to the tune of 400GB of its data published online.Back up for a minute to 2013. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) published an extensive report into “digital mercenaries” such as Hacking Team, who provide the technical expertise which underpins Snowden-era electronic surveillance. In it, the group named five “corporate enemies of the internet”: Hacking Team, Britain’s Gamma Group, Germany’s Trovicor, France’s Amesys, and America’s Blue Coat Systems. All of them, it said, “sell products that are liable to be used by governments to violate human rights and freedom of information”.Reporters Without Borders (RSF) published an extensive report into ‘digital mercenaries’ such as Hacking Team, who provide the technical expertise which underpins Snowden-era electronic surveillancePhotograph: PhotoAlto / Alamy/AlamyThe report warned that those companies all sold products used to commit violations of human rights and freedom of information. “If these companies decided to sell to authoritarian regimes, they must have known that their products could be used to spy on journalists, dissidents and netizens,” it warned. And if they didn’t directly sell to authoritarian regimes, they were almost as guilty, of letting dangerous tools fall into the hands of malicious actors. If that happened, “their failure to keep track of the exports of their own software means they did not care if their technology was misused and did not care about the vulnerability of those who defend human rights,” the report said.Throughout, Hacking Team has insisted that it does not sell to repressive regimes. Following the RSF report,it said that“Hacking Team goes to great lengths to assure that our software is not sold to governments that are blacklisted by the EU, the US, Nato and similar international organisations or any ‘repressive’ regime”.“We also go to some lengths to monitor reports of use of our software in ways that might be inappropriate or illegal. When we find reports of such issues, we conduct an investigation to determine if action is needed.”Related:Warning over Adobe Flash vulnerability revealed by Hacking Team leakYet still the accusations kept coming. Most recently, in March 2015, Hacking Team was accused of providing the tools used by the Ethiopian government to spy on journalists and activists based overseas. A report from CitizenLab, based at the University of Toronto, found that several journalists based in Washington DC, working for an Ethiopian diaspora news channel called ESAT, had been infected with what appeared to be Hacking Team’s RCS spyware.It was the second such report from CitizenLab. In February 2014, they hadreported similartargeting of journalists, again with the telltale signs of the RCS spyware.Despite Hacking Team’s assurance that “we will refuse to provide or we will stop supporting our technologies to governments or government agencies that … we believe have used HT technology to facilitate gross human rights abuses”, it appears that it continued to provide the software to Ethiopia, even after CitizenLab unveiled abuses over a year earlier.CitizenLab says thatits findings “suggest that Hacking Team may have continued to provide updated versions of its spyware to the same attacker, despite reports of use of the spyware against journalists.”Hacking Team’s response was to criticise the research: “We’re aware of their work and have seen some of their past reporting, some of which, it seems, to be based on some nicely presented suppositions,”a spokesman told Vice.Then, on Sunday 5 July, the company’s most private secrets were blown wide open. Almost half a terabyte of private documents were posted on its twitter feed by an anonymous hacker – and they proved damning reading.The company, which accepted that documents had been stolen in the attack, refused to comment on the validity of the dump as a whole, and a spokesman told the Guardian that “interpreting even valid documents without complete picture of why they were created or how they were used can easily lead to misunderstandings and even false conclusions”.‘Hacking Team goes to great lengths to assure that our software is not sold to governments that are blacklisted by the EU, the US, Nato and similar international organisations or any “repressive” regime.’Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PABut the documents suggest the company is eager to encourage misunderstandings when they are in its favour. In an internal email, sent after yet another CitizenLab exposé, a company spokesman appeared to brainstorm ways to discount the story. Part ofthe proposed responseleant on the evidence that its RCS was involved:“The Citizen Lab report … also asserts that HT [Hacking Team] software was involved, but bases this assertion on speculation by Citizen Lab investigators, on other press accounts and the presence of three letters ‘rcs’ in the code. The initials RCS are, of course, the initials of a Hacking Team product, Remote Control System, but are also commonly used in software code for the term (WHAT?) Frankly, they could mean anything.”Wikileaks has subsequently created a searchable archive of Hacking Team emails pulled from the data dump. These have revealed that Mexico tops the list for revenues for the company with Italy and Morocco not far behind. The US, South Korea, Switzerland, Hungary and Russia have also been clients.The emails also show that the UK has trialled Hacking Team software, but that a £385,000 deal was halted over the legality of the use of such software, and that the company’s primary “targets”, or adversaries to its business, were groups including Human Rights Watch and Privacy International.This hack is not the first time that one of the digital mercenaries has been dragged into the sunlight. A year ago, the same hacker made a public dump of documents belonging to Gamma International, another of the five firms highlighted by RSF in its report. But the Gamma document dumps amounted to barely 1% of what was taken from Hacking Team, and correspondingly fewer revelations were contained within.Related:Hacking Team hacked: firm sold spying tools to repressive regimes, documents claimThe tortured mess of regulations around the provision and export of spyware means it’s difficult to hold these companies to account, but slowly, public opinion seems to be turning against them. In November, new EU regulations meant that software like Hacking Team’s RCS and Gamma’s FinFisherbecame classed as a “dual use” good, one with civilian and military applications. It puts it in the same category as nuclear reactors and rocket fuel, and means it will become significantly harder to legally export to repressive regimes.To a certain extent, that last point may be moot, however. Because the hack revealed more than just the internal documents of Hacking Team: it also laid bare the code for their intrusion software, and even revealed a critical vulnerability in Adobe Flash that the group had been using to inject malware in targets’ computers.Just days after the data leak, that vulnerability was adopted by virus writerswho used it to deliver their own malware, taking advantage of the fact that Hacking Team had never told Adobe of the flaw it had discovered. And the company is now warning that its own software is being used: “Before the attack, Hacking Team could control who had access to the technology that was sold exclusively to governments and government agencies. Now, because of the work of criminals, that ability to control who uses the technology has been lost. Terrorists, extortionists and others can deploy this technology at will if they have the technical ability to do so.”The data dump is clearly not an unalloyed good. But if it’s the only way to discover what is going on inside the digital mercenaries of the world, it may be worth it anyway.
TechnopicnicThis summer ditch the wicker basket and embrace picnic 2.0. Updating alfresco dining for an urban setting, Atelier Teratoma have created thetechnopicnic, kitting out this portable case (actually a foldable table) with solar panels, bluetooth-connected screen, speakers, silver pillows, lights and even USB ports so you can plug in your phone for a power boost. Commercial versions are in the pipeline, but until they’re available adventurous readers can embark on their own exploratory mission to the Sala Amadis Youth Institute in Madrid, where the technopicnic prototype is on display this month.SipSupIf the night before the morning after is something of a blur,SipSupcould be the answer. Aiming to hook up your party shots with an astonishingly chunky aide-memoire, the SipSup comes with an app that allows you to upload photos to the glass when you tap your phone on its logo. When the sight of your gleaming drinking companion jogs your memory next morning, simply reverse the process to view those hilarious snaps - because, apparently, you wouldn’t think to do that anyway. Prices start at $22 (£14) on Kickstarter and with shipping starting in November you could get one just in time for the festive festivities.Coolpeds BriefcaseLuggage needn’t be a drag - theCoolpeds Briefcasehas a foldable motorised scooter built in.Small enough to be a carry-on when it’s not carrying you, and allegedly able to reach speeds of 20km/h thanks to its battery powered wheels, this could save the day when time at the terminal is tight.It also comes with location tracking should you suffer the nightmare of lost luggage and can even charge your phone. With pledges starting at $349 (£222) onIndiegogo, you can travel into the future as early as August when deliveries are slated to begin.V4 PogostickNostalgia meets cutting-edge in theV4 pogo stick. Optimistically described by its makers as “the most advanced pogo stick ever created”, the V4 uses an adjustable air spring rather than heavy traditional springs to put a bounce in your day. Allegedly suitable for a multitude of terrains, its creators boast it can lift users up to 10ft with each jump - just make sure you have a soft landing should your wild hops go awry. And with prices starting at $390 (£248) on Indiegogo, the V4’s makers are hoping to elevate the pogo stick from one-jump wonder to the transport of the future.OzobotLow-tech meets hi-tech with theOzobot- a jaunty little robot that can be controlled with coloured pens. Draw a line with a felt tip and the robot will follow it, matching its colour to the line in a built-in LED. And there’s more. It’s makers claim that specific sequences of colours, dubbed “ozocodes”, trigger particular responses, from U-turns to zigzags, while an accompanying app offers yet more games on your tablet, making this little gadget a fun way to teach the basics of coding. Zip along toFireboxto get yours for £39.99.Emily Hughes
CHARLOTTE HARRISPartner at Kingsley Napley lawyersOver the last 10 years it has become a major part of mine and my colleagues’ legal practices to deal with the effects of online harassment and abuse. The attitude Twitter is taking now shows an increase in its understanding of its responsibilities, and it will become more difficult for those who have been successful at online harassment.Often victims must go through a long and near impossible process of trying to verify who their abuser is, and while I do not agree with any form of naming and shaming in terms of dealing with a bully, I do agree with making it more difficult for people to hide their online identity and become an abuser. Saying it is an affront to freedom of speech is not a realistic way of looking at a measure that should have been taken a long time ago. They couldn’t go on doing nothing.AMY BINNSSenior lecturer at the University of Central LancashireTwitter has far more users than admin staff, and this new tool takes advantage of the users as a resource to moderate the site. It’s likely to be very useful for companies and organised groups that are all likely to be targeted by the same people, but not for casual users who suddenly find themselves in the middle of a Twitter storm. It also doesn’t solve the problem of determined haters who use multiple new accounts in order to sneak back through as you would have to keep updating your list to stay on top of the problem.However, this new tool for community moderation is a simple and clever idea which means more power to users, which can only be part of the solution.CHRISTINE PRATTFounder of National Bullying HelplineI believe it would be dangerous to name and shame folk publicly. I fear it would entice hatred. Revealing the identity of the perpetrator may lead to people trying to take matters into their own hands. This would be irresponsible. However, there should be a database of offenders that the police, courts and responsible parties may hold. This might ensure that offenders who repeatedly appear are dealt with.HUMZA YOUSAFMember of the Scottish Parliament, and minister for Europe and international development in the Scottish governmentI’ve suffered every sort of racial and Islamophobic abuse that you could probably think of. But yet I would say I would be concerned if we were naming and shaming people, only because it can work both ways. The last thing we want is for someone who has been stupid, has been offensive, has been racist or misogynist to be the victim of mob justice and for lots of people to find out the identity of that individual and possibly give them – and indeed their families – abuse.I think the best thing is for Twitter to be much, much more efficient at getting people removed from Twitter. It is not difficult to do, and I am disappointed it has so far been so lacklustre and laissez-faire in doing so.
Like a dating profile that promises more than a real-life human could ever deliver, theCharge Grater 3 Mixtealways seemed too good to be true. Just as few men are handsome, kind, able to complete cryptic crosswordsandjumpstart an engine, so does the Grater promise that bit too much for its £549.99 price tag. The key is finding the catch.A bike fitted with Shimano Nexus hub gears – eight of the beauties – would normally be significantly more expensive. Hub gears are the biz for anyone who wants to commute in their work clothes, because the machinery is all hidden away and there are no oily, exposed cogs. Usually they are teamed with a chain guard to protect your slacks, though that’s weirdly missing from the Grater. I have Nexus gears on my indestructible Fahrrad 300, which I’ve ridden without any maintenance for five years.But – and it’s a big but – hub gears are a pain to fix if they go wrong. The gears on the model I tested weren’t quite right from the get-go, slipping frequently when I was in the highest gear. The back mudguard refused to stay put, too, and kept catching on the wheel. Catching mudguards are one of those ostensibly small irritations that make me murderous, or at least tempted to chuck a bike in a hedge after 20 minutes. The best city bikes are fitted with a guard that could withstand a host of natural disasters. The handlebars look cheap, too, suggesting Charge blew the budget on the gears and went to the bargain basement for some other components.It’s not all bad, however. The Grater is very light for its category, and looks clean and modern. I took mine on a train to Rotherham (I know how to show a bicycle a good time) and had no problems hefting it into the stupidly small space Transpennine Express reserves for bikes. Charge saddles are always mega-comfortable and this is no exception. Far too many bike manufacturers think women won’t notice if they whack on any old blokes’ saddle, so props to Charge for fitting the Grater with the Ladle – shorter and wider than their boys’ toys, it includes a very welcome “pressure releasing” channel to keep one’s bits in working order.I wasn’t mad keen on the skinny twin downtubes. The very wide handlebars will be welcomed by unsteadier riders, but I’d have preferred something narrower so the bike didn’t take up so much space in my hallway. All in all, not my two-wheeled soulmate.Charge Grater 3 Mixte in numbersPrice£549.99ForksSteel (Charge Whisk)FrameAluminium (mixte-style 6061 alloy)ShiftersShimano Alfine 8/s triggerRear hubShimano Nexus 8/s• Follow Helen onTwitter.This article was amended on 13 July 2015. The Charge Grater 3 originally pictured was not the Mixte model.
Ellen Pao, the interim chief executive ofReddit, has resigned following a user backlash against the sacking of one of the company’s employees.Pao, who became an international symbol for gender imbalance in Silicon Valley when she lost a landmark discrimination lawsuit, leaves after around eight months in the job and will be replaced by the site’s co-founderSteve Huffman.Last weekshe apologisedfor letting down users after Reddit sacked its director of talent, Victoria Taylor, who was responsible for the site’s Ask Me Anything forums. Taylor’s dismissal led to a petition from users demanding Pao’s removal that attracted more than 210,000 signatures. It also led to Pao reportedly receiving death threats from users angry at her handling of the situation.Related:Is Reddit’s Ellen Pao just too radical for Silicon Valley’s unequal terrain?Reddit made the announcement in a statement on Friday afternoon saying it was by “mutual agreement”, even as Pao signalled “a different view” from the board.But, in a bid to take the sting out of any acrimony, both Reddit’s board member Sam Altman and Pao wrote pleas for compassion after the harassment.Pao urged those users who attacked her to remember that she was “just another human; I have a family, and I have feelings”. In a resignation statement, she wrote that she has seen “the good, the bad and the ugly on Reddit. The good has been off-the-wall inspiring, and the ugly made me doubt humanity”.She wrote: “Everyone attacked on Reddit is just another person like you and me. When people make something up to attack me or someone else, it spreads, and we eventually will see it. And we will feel bad, not just about what was said.”Altman said that it was “sickening to see some of the things” that the site’s users had written about Pao.He wrote: “The reduction in compassion that happens when we’re all behind computer screens is not good for the world. People are still people even if there is internet between you.”“If the Reddit community cannot learn to balance authenticity and compassion, it may be a great website but it will never be a truly great community.”Disagreements, he said, were not a problem. But, in an apparent reference to messages sent to Pao, he wrote that death threats would not be tolerated and that users who sent them would be banned.Pao’s relationship with Reddit’s users deteriorated when the site, which was known for its “anything goes” atmosphere,began an anti-harassment drivein May this year.It caused further anger when that led to theshutting down of a handful of sectionsthat “allow their communities to use [them] as a platform to harass individuals when moderators don’t take action”.Reddit’s management was accused by some of seeking to limit free speech, although the site’s bosses insisted they were “banning behaviour, not ideas”.Relations soured further with the dismissal of Taylor. Many of the unpaid moderators who keep Reddit’s subbranches – or subreddits – running, shut down their sections in protest.Pao wrote that she was leaving Reddit, which attracted more than 163 million visitors last month, because the “board asked me to demonstrate higher user growth in the next six months than I believe I can deliver while maintaining Reddit’s core principles”.Altman’s statement said: “We are thankful for Ellen’s many contributions to Reddit and the technology industry generally. She brought focus to chaos, recruited a world-class team of executives, and drove growth.“She brought a face to Reddit that changed perceptions, and is a pioneer for women in the tech industry. She will remain as an advisor to the board through the end of 2015. I look forward to seeing the great things she does beyond that.”Regarding Huffman, the statement said: “We’re very happy to have [him] back. Product and community are the two legs of Reddit, and the board was very focused on finding a candidate who excels at both (truthfully, community is harder), which Steve does.“He has the added bonus of being a founder with 10 years of Reddit history in his head. Steve is rejoining Alexis, who will work alongside Steve with the new title of ‘cofounder’.”Pao was hired by Reddit in April 2013. In November 2014 she wasappointed interim chief executiveafter the resignation of Yishan Wong, who left after an argument with the board over the running of the company.Pao made international headlines earlier this year when shelost a landmark sex discrimination lawsuitagainst a former employer, the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.Related:Reddit's mysterious button experiment is overShe was told to pay legal costs of nearly $1m (£644,000), which her former employer indicated it would waive if she agreed not to appeal the court’s decision. However, it emerged last month that she had decided to go ahead with a legal challenge.Pao’s case raised issues surrounding gender inequality at elite Silicon Valley technology and venture capital firms. Pao’s lawyers argued she was an accomplished junior partner passed over for promotion because the firm she worked for, Kleiner Perkins, used different standards to judge men and women. Pao claimed she was fired when she complained about discrimination.During the case lawyers said Pao was subjected to demeaning treatment including being cut out of emails and meetings by a male colleague with whom she broke off an affair and being given a book of erotic poetry by a partner at the company.Kleiner Perkins’ attorney Lynne Hermle countered during the trial that Pao failed as an investor at the company and sued to get a big payout as she was being shown the door.Pao lost the case, but it was seen as a watershed moment, as former employees at Twitter and Facebook launched discrimination cases in its wake.
Wi-Fi is available everywhere these days. You can use Wi-Fi at some New York City subway stations. You can use Wi-Fi at some Subway restaurants. Some people even have Wi-Fi in their homes.Now, thanks to Japanese government officials,Wi-Fi is also availableat the summit of the country’s highest mountain.From 10 July climbers of the 12,389ft (3,776.24 metres) Mount Fuji will be able to tweet, Instagram and MSN message to their hearts’ content.That’s great – if you’re an idiot.Not so long ago the whole point of climbing a big mountain or trekking along a river or crawling into a crevice was the way to escape the travails of normal life. Get away from the noise of horseshoes on cobbles, the allure of the opium den.Now it is not a legitimate experience unless you document every moment with a selfie or an update that you are “#lovinglife” or having a “cheeky pint”.Most climbers begin their ascent of Mount Fuji from its “fifth station” (there are 10). The fifth station is at an elevation of 7,562ft (2,305 metres), meaning a climb of a vertical mile, or four Empire State buildings. (You don’t actually climb vertically.) Mountaineers face a risk of altitude sickness and are advised to stop overnight at the seventh or eighth station. For much of the year temperatures are below freezing.There is no phone signal when you are halfway up the side of a mountain. Japanese officials told the Asahi Shimbun news site that this was a problem, because “many climbers from the United States and Europe have said they wanted to use the internet to share their experiences while on the mountain”. Hence the Wi-Fi.Butwhydo people want this?Imagine the sense of elation upon reaching the Mount Fuji summit. Imagine scouring the horizon, knowing you are at the highest point on this fine cluster of islands. Then imagine your phone connecting to the Wi-Fi and receiving an email from your colleague Clive asking if you managed to finish that Woodcock file before you left and, oh, can you gchat Jason? He’s forgotten how to work the fax machine and, hey, what’s the password for that protected Excel spreadsheet again?That’s the worst-case scenario. But the best-case scenario is still awful.People will take daft pictures from the top of mountains. Of course they will. That’s the world we live in. But can’t they wait a day, or – God forbid – two days before posting them on MySpace?Is there no enjoyment in serenity any more? Must we reach Fuji’s crest only to listen to Nora telling her mum over Skype: “Yes the view is amazing. Hey look, I’ll show you – oops sorry, I’ve got my iPad pointing the wrong way, wait a minute there you go. What do you mean you can’t see it? Have you closed the window again? Press escape. Oh well just check my Facebook, there’ll be a picture on there in 15 seconds.”Now we have Wi-Fi at our most lofty peaks, it is only a matter of time before there is simply no escape from the tyranny of the internet. Fire up your BlackBerry at the Taj Mahal. Tweet that you’re #lovinglife from that desert island you’ve been cast adrift on. Post an Instagram selfie from the grave. #yoloWi-Fi atop Mount Fuji is a slippery slope. It’s time to rise up against Wi-Fi atop Mount Fuji. Wi-Fi atop Mount Fuji means Wi-Fi has peaked.
Twitter has been forced to pull two adverts using its Vine looping video platform after objections were raised by epilepsy campaigners.The ads consisted of six seconds of flashing video, were “massively dangerous” to those with photosensitive epilepsy, according tocharity Epilepsy Action.@brucedaisleyPlease withdraw your photosensitive epilepsy inducung Discover Music twitter advert it&#39;s horrendous&mdash; Christopher Rowe (@KernowChris)July 10, 2015@TwitterUKHi Twitter, not a great idea to trigger epilepsy episodes with your marketing.&mdash; Jesse Whittock (@TBI_Jesse)July 10, 2015@TwitterUKI&#39;m glad I didn&#39;t have epilepsy when this ad loaded and played its self upon opening Twitter !!&mdash; Miss Christmas (@Miss_Christmas_)July 10, 2015The videos were designed to advertise Twitter’s #DiscoverMusic campaign, aimed at attracting musicians to the social network, pitching it as a good way for artists to publicise their latest tracks.The adverts were online for 18 hours beforebeing pulled Friday morning.According to Advertising Standards Agency regulations, marketing messages, even those advertising features of the operator’s website, must not include visual effects that could affect those with photosensitive epilepsy.Twitter declined to comment.Epilepsy Action’s deputy chief executive, Simon Wigglesworth,told the BBCthat: “Twitter’s ads were dangerous to people living with photosensitive epilepsy.”“87 people are diagnosed with epilepsy every day and that first seizure can often come out of nowhere. For a huge corporation like Twitter to take that risk was irresponsible.”Users affected by flashing videos can turn off Twitter’s autoplay feature within the app, to avoid them playing without being tapped on.•Welcome to Jun, the town that ditched bureaucracy to run on Twitter
Many teenage boys are tired of the sexualised depiction of women in video games, according to the findings of a new survey.In the study of about 1,400 US youths, 47% of middle-school boys and 61% of high school boys agreed that women are treated as sex objects too often in games.The findings, gathered by education consultant Rosalind Wiseman and games writer Ashly Burch, counter familiar assumptions that boys will voraciously consume media images of scantily clad women without a second thought.For many years in the mainstream games industry, there has been an apparent assumption that the male teen demographic was the only one that mattered. Much of the time this meant beefy male protagonists (to identify with – or aspire to) and sexualised women (too gaze at or rescue).Writing in Time, Wiseman reiterated this status quo: “The video game industry seems to base much of its game and character design on a few assumptions, among them that girls don’t play big action games, boys won’t play games with strong female characters, and male players like the sexual objectification of female characters.”There have of course been many, many interesting non-sexualised female video game characters throughout the course of gaming history.But every year, seemingly hardwired notions on gender, gaming and consumer desire bubble to the surface, whether it’s a publisherworrying over the costs of including female avatars, or a studio like Dontnod Entertainment claiming that publishers asked for the lead characters in its Remember Me and Life is Strange games to beswitched to male.Wiseman’s argument is that all of this is wrong, and her figures, although from a limited user base, are interesting – especially on the notion of representation.According to her findings, 70% of girls and 78% of boys said it does not matter what gender the lead character is. Indeed, the lasting popularity of characters like Lara Croft, Samus Aran and Bayonetta should perhaps have hinted in this direction. And yet female protagonists remain in a minority.Over the past two years the situation has certainly been improving. This year’s E3 video game expo in Los Angeles picked up on the momentum of 2014’s show and heavily featured major new games with women in key roles (such as Horizon: Zero Dawn, Mirror’s Edge: Catalyst, ReCore and Beyond Eyes).While many game sites have celebrated the emphasis on female characters at this year’s E3, some commentators have attempted to show, through raw statistics, that there were as many female characters at previous events.However, it was obvious to anyone who attended that games with female leads were getting much greater emphasis, both in the pre-event press conferences from major publishers like Sony, Microsoft and Ubisoft, and on the showfloor stands. It was less about stats and more about subtle and nuanced promotion; it was about degrees and attitudes. Representation isn’t a numbers game, it’s a human one.“Interestingly, boys care less about playing as a male character as they age and girls care more about playing as a female one,” writes Wiseman.Maybe it’s that, as girls get older and realise that there’s a representational imbalance in games, they seek out relatable characters in protest. Or perhaps it symbolises much deeper issues around young women, representation and identity.The title of Wiseman’s article is “Everything you know about boys and video games is wrong”. That’s not quite true given there are enough boys – and men – who fight any suggestion of objectification in games to seemingly counter Wiseman’s survey base a hundred times.Representation is a complex issue, especially within games. Here, a defensive fanbase feels as though it is constantly under attack from the wider media, which has spent the past 20 years dipping into gamer culture whenever it wants to shock readers with some technophobic tittle-tattle.But Wiseman’s research suggests that younger boys are able to separate their identity as gamers from the industry’s weaknesses on representation. Maybe it’s increasingly OK to say that you’re bored with those Kate Upton Games of War adverts – and doing that doesn’t mean you’re a social justice wingnut.However, one arguable element of Wiseman’s article is the implication that the boys she spoke to were bored of these ads because of Upton’s objectification - not because they spring up on their phones too often (“what really irritated them was Ms. Upton, in a full-cleavage-baring white flowing dress”). Let’s face it, the ads have beenextraordinarily effective.The objectification argument will roll on and on, as it has done in regard to movies, music and comics. Wherever you have people who define themselves by the culture they consume, you have people angered by suggestions that the culture in question may not be perfect.But perhaps what this survey shows is that 1,400 young people from across the US think women deserve a wider range of roles in video games, and that playing as them isn’t scary or off-putting; it’s sort of natural. And it should be natural.
Twine is many thingsFirst and foremost, though,Twineis a writing tool, specifically for making interactive stories. It can be used to pen digital text adventures that function much like the old Choose Your Own Adventure or Fighting Fantasy books, from short stories to playable poems. It’s also free and remarkably easy to use. If you can handle a word processor, Twine should be no problem. In fact, you won’t need to hammer out a single line of code.Sharing storiesTwine is also a publishing platform. Once you’ve developed your Twine story – or written your game, depending on how you look at it – you can release it very simply. Finished stories exist as web pages, meaning they can be easily released and shared across the internet.Gaming’s diversity playgroundThanks to its ease of use, Twine’s stories have collectively carved out one of the gaming medium’s most diverse landscapes. Twine-spun tales of love, sexuality, gender, comedy and surrealism abound. The tool itself is as close as game development has come to the humble pen and paper, meaning it attracts a delightfully broad pool of creators, giving voice to underrepresented, atypical and also more conventional voices.A booming platformThe volume of Twine stories available today – and usually for free – is spiralling. Try works by authors such as Anna Anthropy, Michael Lutz, Porpentine, Christine Love, Kim Moss and Jonas Kyratzes to get a taste of some of the best.Where to startThe best starting point is Twine’s own website,twinery.org. Elsewhere, Anna Anthropy’s brilliantly simple guide to the tool can also be very easily found by bothering Google. Meanwhile, the recently published anthology book,Videogames for Humanscontains fascinating conversations with Twine creators curated by Merritt Kopas. And if it sells enough copies, a Twine version is, of course, to be constructed.
Eye tracking promises to give gamers an edge, adjusting view as fast as you can glance. But does the reality match the potential?What is it?TheSteelSeries Sentry Gaming Eye Trackeris a thin camera bar that attaches to your monitor. It incorporates tech from Tobii, a firm specialising in eye tracking, and can be configured to interact with your computer, making it accessible to applications outside of games.Does it Work?Frustratingly, yes and no. Set up is simple and proves terrifically accurate in tracking your eyes, even through glasses or contacts. The problem comes with actually using it in a game. Tested on three games and three system builds, results varied wildly in terms of both usefulness and functionality.The GoodAssassin’s Creed: Rogueis the “killer app” for eye tracking, being a well-known series from a major publisher. Subtle glances sped up aiming at enemies, and enhanced the often beautiful panoramas with wider views. First-person dino-themed survival gametheHunter: Primalgave the best experience though, with ocular camera control working well.The BadAC: Roguedidn’t benefit from camera control, feeling overly fiddly. Simply twitching the thumbstick to move the camera was far simpler. Trying the Sentry on indie RPGSon of Norwas even worse – utterly useless. It’s meant to allow aiming, but appeared to have no effect, even after having been recalibrated numerous times.The VerdictTobii’s tech has potential – but at present, it feels like that’s all it has. It seems to promise more accessibility and, possibly, integration with VR headsets than it does in conventional gaming, ultimately making for an expensive peripheral with few uses for most players.
When it come to choosing video games for the kids,40% of parentsare not confident about what they are buying, according to recent research by the Game chain store.Certainly, identifying best-value and most appropriate games for the family is more complex than it first appears. In-app purchases sell players additional content during the course of play. They can change the total price of a title substantially and fly under the radar of parents who assume games are a one-off cost.In fact, concerns about games that “exploited children’s inexperience, vulnerability and credulity” triggered the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to publish a set ofbest practice principlesfor online and app-based games last year. Since then there have been a number of positive changes. Apple’s App Store has swapped its description on the purchase button for games that incur charges from “Free” to the blunter, but more realistic, “Get”. Similarly, the Google App Store now uses “Download” and Nintendo cites its free games as “Free to Try”. Going further, Apple now lists the top in-app purchases for each game. The high profits thatGame of Warmakes are understandable now we can see its £79.99 in-app purchase is the most popular.The Competition and Markets Authority extended the OFT report with a guide for parents advising they check device settings before handing it to a child and keep an eye on bills. Parents should now expect games to provide “all the important information – including how to ask questions or complain – before [their] child starts playing”. Additional console game content is also increasingly tied to physical toys. Skylanders, Disney Infinity and newcomer Lego Dimensions each link character and level upgrades to toy sales. That they are described as “collectables” discloses their potentially high cost, but parents should know that starter packs provide everything needed to complete the games. Additional toys are optional extras rather than must-haves.At this year’s Electronic Entertainment Expo, both Skylanders and Disney Infinity pushed the value angle with cheaper downloadable versions that reuse old peripherals. Disney Infinity went further this year by abandoning its “blind purchase” foil packs and offering better character compatibility across new Star Wars levels.Over-spending isn’t the only pitfall. Appropriateness of content, and violence in particular, can cause parenting headaches. The awareness gap here is more surprising as excellent advice has been available for some years. The PEGI system (see box) offers simple traffic-light age badges. However, some of this confusion stems from the UK’s history of multiple video-game rating agencies.Gianni Zamo, spokesman for the Video Standards Council (VSC), admits “it needs to establish more in the way of communicating its ratings to video game consumers”. He also points to the additional consumer information that “describes precisely what the pertinent content issues in a game are and how they are presented”. OnBatman: Arkham Knight(reviewed on the previous page), for example, this describes the “infrequent scenes of violence towards defenceless persons. In one, a man is tied up and beaten across the face by an armed thug.”Ukie, the games industry trade body, partners with VSC to runAskAboutGames.com,which provides video guides on high-profile games. For Dr Jo Twist, CEO of Ukie, the message is simple: “Children should not be playing games that contain content that is not appropriate for their age. Parents need to take the time to understand the games that their children are playing – just as they would with any other media – and be aware of the age rating symbols that accompany games.”This is a good message, although parents can still be tripped up. Provisional ratings applied to marketing materials sometimes remain on store shelves displaying different age ratings to the final product. This was the case forBatman: Arkham Knight, provisionally a PEGI 16 but raised to PEGI 18 before release.Games are becoming an integral part of childhood, and that’s no bad thing as they enrich our lives with powerful interactive stories, creative new worlds and fresh ways to play. But assessing value and violence remains complex and needs time and involvement from parents. A lack of information is really no longer an excuse to ignore the issues. Instead of simply believing the hype about gaming, parents should now engage with their kids to make informed, positive choices.
Carl Pei has an ambition: to have 100 million users of his OnePlus smartphones. But he says it’s not just self interest which is driving him, he wants to create a platform that will help its users to do good.“If there’s an earthquake, we can nudge them to donate money, or help in some other way, to get free credits on their OnePlus account. Or some other incentive,” he says.This might smack of a head in the clouds idea but OnePlus co-founder Pei – who turns 26 in September, and is calling from Skype on a visit to Bangalore – firmly has his feet on the ground. “We’re still worrying about whether or not we’re going to survive … when we have 100 million users, then I think the game will change, and we can start negotiating and charting our own way. But at this point it’s premature – as a startup you really need to focus on what you have to do this year.”There’s certainly a long way to go to that hundred million. OnePlus, formed in 2013, only released its first phone – the OnePlus One – in May 2014, using an invite system that both amped up the excitement among those who were on the list (who were then allowed to pass on invites to others) and simplified the challenge of supplying to a new audience.From whispers on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, the message that a company was aiming to produce ahigh-spec smartphone– equivalent to flagships from Samsung, Apple or HTC – at a much lower cost quickly spread through a carefully targeted PR campaign.In all, about 1m units were sold by the end of 2014, a long way ahead of the 100,000 the team had expected. Now they’re ramping up for their next model, the OnePlus 2, which will be shown off on 27 July via virtual reality, using Google’s Cardboard app and DIY visor.The first phone’s introduction was part of what is being seen as thethird wave of changewashing over the smartphone industry, in which startup companies can launch globally yet keep prices low by selling and shipping directly to different countries, or through e-commerce sites such as India’s Flipkart, which take a small slice of the price. “We cannot work with offline stores such as [US chain] Best Buy,” says Pei. “If they wanted a 20% margin on the device – we don’t have 20% margins in total, so it’s impossible.”But global sales are feasible: non-China sales were about 65% of business in 2014, rather than the expected 10%.The key to those “third wave” companies such as Xiaomi, OnePlus, Oppo and Meizu is that they can piggyback on the rapid improvements coming out of China’s Shenzhen – fingerprint readers, photo sensors, screens – and build a phone around them. They don’t have to sell at big margins, nor produce phones in gigantic numbers, to realise their ambitions. They build on open-source Android, using OSs such as CyanogenMod (OnePlus is now moving to one called Oxygen), and install Google’s mobile services outside China.This year OnePlus aims to sell between 2.5m and 3m units, generating $800m to $1bn in revenue, followed by 5m-7m in 2016 and 10m or more in 2017. “I think when, in three years, we have 15 million active users, that starts to get really, really interesting.”Pei wants OnePlus’s system to entice users in, and keep them in – something that’s so far been difficult for Android manufacturers, where brand loyalty is generally low. “We rather believe if you have a valuable platform with 10m or 100m people on Oxygen, then we can find ways to work with the best-in-class companies, the best in the internet of things, but also the best apps and services companies like Dropbox, like Uber. The barrier of switching between one smartphone to another currently is pretty low, so we will definitely have to build in switching costs into our platform, and also a network effect, to be able to maintain the platform advantage once we have this.”So how will he make staying on OnePlus attractive? “Let’s say in the future we have a platform of 10 million users, and we have OnePlus credits, and you take an Uber, you open the Uber app, you log in with your OnePlus account and you’re logged in. And because we own the end-to-end user experience on e-commerce, we can capture their address, their credit card information, even their biometric information.”Why? “So we can log them in to their device before they actually receive their device.” Pei is speaking more quickly now, accelerating into the future. “So next time, with the OnePlus 4 or 5 a few years down the line, when they receive the phone it’s already logged in and already has everything set up according to their preferences, already has their biometric information. The entire friction of making a purchase or a customisation just decreases so much more. This will lead to higher engagement.” And, perhaps in time, to the earthquake-donation reaction he suggested earlier.But for now, the challenge is simply staying profitable: “it gets more difficult as you scale up. On one hand, component prices drop, because you can negotiate better terms. But on the other hand it gets much more difficult to plan how many phones you’re going to make, so if you miss your target and end up with inventory [unsold stock], you’ll have to write it off as a loss. That’s what a lot of hardware companies are facing. That’s what a lot of software companies underestimate, the risks involved in scaling up hardware. As soon as they start dabbling in hardware, they almost always fail in the very beginning when it comes to inventory.”Everything remains to be proved by the OnePlus 2 – but Pei at least knows that the business model works. Now he just needs the third wave to sweep more widely through the smartphone business. “We believe in every period of time in every era there’s one main point of connection between the user and the internet,” says Pei. “Today that has become the smartphone.”Xiaomi: it’s China’s Apple, though you’ve probably never heard of it
It had been a long, hard fight. My opponent and I had been exchanging blows and counter attacks for what seemed like hours, and now we sat, silent and depleted, like two punch-drunk prizefighters awaiting the final round of a gruelling championship bout.The contest had been well-matched. I’d assembled an army of shrieking apes, giant bipedal mammoths and armour-plated rhinos. My plan was simple: overrun anyone who stood in front of me – brutal, lumbering but ultimately effective.My adversary, a softly spoken twentysomething in a t-shirt bearing the indecipherable logo of a Scandinavian extreme metal band, had adopted the opposite strategy. Commanding a force of shaven-headed monks, he’d evaded and deflected my crushing attacks, landing quick, stinging blows whenever I dropped my guard, the Bruce Lee to my Andre the Giant.We were playing Magic: The Gathering, a strategy card game which casts players as powerful mages with the ability to travel across a universe of elaborate fantasy worlds. A typical game sees players summon ferocious creatures, cast potent spells and draw upon the power of mystical artefacts in an effort to vanquish their opponent and claim victory.Players in Magic: The Gathering build competing decks from their own collections of cards.Photograph: Owen Duffy for the GuardianThe game originated in the early 1990s in the mind of Richard Garfield, at the time a graduate student working towards a PhD in combinatorial mathematics at the University of Pennsylvania. A life-long tabletop gamer, he had approached a publisher to pitch an idea for a game about programming robots, only to be told that the company needed something more portable and cheaper to produce.Magic was Garfield’s response, and it involved one major innovation that set it apart from any game previously released.Where other card games were sold as a single packaged product, Magic cards would come in randomised packs, a model similar to collectible baseball cards. Particularly powerful cards would be rarer than others, making collecting and trading them as much a part of the experience as actually playing matches. Players would assemble their own decks, with a near-limitless ability to personalise their game and develop their own tactics.The formula proved to be a lucrative hit for the game’s publisher, Seattle-based Wizards of the Coast. From its release in 1993, Magic grew by word of mouth. Players obsessed over the process of building decks, endlessly hunting for the most effective card combinations and devising a huge range of winning strategies.Nowadays Magic is played by an estimated 20 million people around the world. It is published in 11 languages, has a thriving tournament scene, a professional league and even recently provided the basis for an episode of South Park.A recent episode of the cartoon series South Park revolved around Magic: The Gathering.Its creator has since moved on, and today the man in charge of Magic’s development is Mark Rosewater, an endlessly energetic former television writer. He attributed the game’s popularity to its inherent variety and players’ ability to customise their decks.“If you compare it to something like Monopoly, every time you play you’re getting a pretty similar experience,” he said. “But what’s neat about Magic is that the game itself keeps changing. It’s about exploring, and you get to constantly rediscover it.”Rosewater heads Magic’s design team, the group responsible for creating a constant stream of new cards for players to incorporate into their decks. Their work involves coming up not only with new mechanical aspects of the game, but also building new settings for players to do battle in - richly themed worlds filled with conflict and adventure, and populated by a cast of heroes and villains.“We’re trying to create a world and a set of mechanics which we think match the flavour of that world,” he said.“One of the things I really believe as a designer is that the mechanics are as much a part of the game’s flavour as the art or the text on a card. When you play the game, I want to figure out what it’s trying to express and make sure that the gameplay itself evokes that emotion.“For example, we did a set called Innistrad which was set in a gothic horror world and I said: ok, I want you, the player, to be afraid. I want there to be suspense, I want there to be tension, I want you to be worried that at any moment something horrible is going to happen because that’s what goes on in the horror genre.”A later set, Theros, was heavily influenced by Greek mythology and included gorgons, sea monsters and a pantheon of warring gods.“In Theros, the idea was that you could become a hero,” Rosewater said.“You started out as a small nobody, but through trials and tribulations you became someone of great importance. So the gameplay was all about building and accomplishing and achieving something until the point where you have these massive heroes clashing against one another.“It’s the same game, but the gameplay was totally different.”Origin storiesMagic’s latest set marks a turning point for the game. Magic Origins focusses on five of the game’s most popular recurring characters – a move that provides a jumping-on point for new players intimidated by over two decades’ worth of accumulated storylines.Veteran player Luis Scott-Vargas thinks the approach will be good for the game. A highly respected member of the elite circle of professional Magic players, he began playing aged 11.“It’s a set that’s designed to be interesting to people who have been playing for a long time, but also to people who are new to the game, and I think they’ve done a very good job,” he said.A member of the successful ChannelFireball pro team, Scott-Vargas treats Magic as seriously as an athlete approaches training. A typical week sees him play for up to 15 hours, and much of the rest of his time is taken up by writing and producing videos about the game.“To get to the Pro Tour you need to be passionate about Magic,” he said.“You also have to be very good at analysis, be willing to spend a lot of time practising and have friends you can learn from.”In the run-up to a competition, Scott-Vargas and his teammates collaborate online, discussing the merits of different cards and strategies. About two weeks beofre an event they’ll congregate in one place and devote every waking hour to the game. When tournament day comes, he can find himself competing against thousands of other participants, and top-level events generate an average of 2.7m views on Twitch and YouTube.While a card game might not seem the most obvious spectator sport, Scott-Vargas argues that its appeal is easy to understand.“Part of it is that if you’re a fan of any kind of game or sport, it’s always fun to watch the people who are best at it,” he said. “The other part is that the announcers are informative and entertaining, and someone who isn’t an expert can tune in and get something out of it.“If you look at video games, there are some that get audiences similar to professional sports. League of Legends gets hundreds of thousands of people watching and millions of people playing, so I think it’s possible for Magic to keep growing.”Growing the gameMagic’s growth has been one of the biggest success stories in tabletop gaming, and while it is primarily known as face-to-face game, many new players have been drawn in by its digital incarnation – the Duels of the Planeswalkers series of video games. Released on PC, consoles and mobile platforms, they have been credited with exposing the game to a wider audience while providing a gentler learning curve than newcomers might encounter by jumping straight into physical play.Magic Duels: Origins is the latest in a series of digital games credited with introducing new players to Magic: The Gathering.Photograph: Wizards of the CoastAnother factor has been Friday Night Magic – the weekly organised play programme which sees thousands of games shops around the world organising informal local tournaments and providing players with a reliable source of opponents to test their skills against.But Magic’s audience hasn’t just been growing: it’s been changing.Tifa Robles is the founder of theLady Planeswalkers Society, a group which aims to bring more women into the game. When she started playing in 2010, an estimated 10% of Magic players were female. Now that figure stands at 38%.“It’s grown a lot in the five years I’ve been playing,” she said. “But the reason I started Lady Planeswalkers was that I do think there are things stopping women participating in organised events.“Part of it is just pure numbers. If you’re one of the only women in the store, or sometimes the only woman in the store, it can feel really lonely. But I also know that in my own experiences, I’ve encountered a lot of sexism. A lot of it is subtle, and you only really notice it as a woman. People question your ability to play the game for yourself, they ask if you’re there because of a boyfriend, things like that.”“My husband games as well, and it’s interesting to see the dynamic when we go to an event together. I’m actually a much better Magic player than him, I was a tournament player and he never was, but people assume it must be the other way around. People ask him for advice or for his opinion on things in the Magic community when I’m the one that’s really more involved.”In recent years, the game’s publishers have attempted to introduce greater diversity within its fictional universe. In 2013 Magic featured its first same-sex couple, theGuardians of Meletis. A more recent setincluded the game’s first transgender character. A game which has often been seen as the preserve of middle-class white males is in the process of becoming a universal pop culture phenomenon.But while Magic’s ascent has been impressive, it isn’t the only game in town. Other card games – physical and digital – have been able to establish themselves by addressing some of the most common gripes players have with the game.One is cost. Cards which perform well in high-level tournaments often increase dramatically in value on the second-hand market, and a top-level competitive deck can run to over $1,000 (£650).Games such asNetrunner, a deep and compelling cyberpunk game pitting hackers against monolithic corporations, have provided a cheaper alternative by simply releasing cards in complete sets, creating an ever-expanding game while eliminating the need to buy individual cards at inflated prices.Others, most notably thedigital collectible card game Hearthstone, have provided a slicker, simpler alternative to Magic’s online offering, which is only available to Windows users and has struggled for years with a cumbersome user interface. And while Hearthstone doesn’t have a physical equivalent, its developers recently announced that it had accumulated over 30 million active users, overtaking Magic in terms of sheer player numbers.But while it has some serious competitors, Magic looks unlikely to disappear any time soon. Ultimately, the game’s most valuable asset is its community of players, many of whom base their social lives around the game. For the most part they’re passionate, loyal and keen to bring others into their world.And once you’re in, believe me, it’s hard to get out.Magic Origins prerelease events take place at game stores on 11 and 12 July. The set goes on general release on 17 July.
Microsoft’s former head of privacy and respected independent privacy campaigner Caspar Bowden has died after a battle with cancer.A popular and outspoken figure in privacy advocacy, Bowden was particularly active after the Snowden revelations of government surveillance, advising the European parliament among others.He was a co-founder of the UK-based Foundation for Information Policy Research. He was also one of the primary dissenting voices warning ofpossible government surveillancevia backdoors within cloud computing services prior to Snowden, which according to Bowden resulted in his dismissal from Microsoft in 2011.“Combative and prickly, Caspar was also unfailingly kind and generous,” said Ray Corrigan, senior lecturer in technology at the Open University. “Caspar was a big believer in aRawlsian model of justice, a stickler when it came to the universality of human rights and was unstinting in his criticism of corporate or government entities or agents who sought to undermine those rights and principles.”Bowden was an advocate for the establishment of a pan-European privacy rights organisation and practiced what he preached. Disillusioned by what he saw as an inability of European law to protect personal privacy he turned to technology, sitting on the board of directors for the Tor anonymising service and advocating the use of theQubes OS secure operating system.What is Tor? A beginner’s guide to the privacy toolCorrigan: “He was prepared to wrestle with the user unfriendly inconveniences of privacy enhancing technologies, as the almost meltdown of his laptop, four minutes into his ‘Reflections on Mistrusting Trust’ talk atQConlast summer, demonstrated.”Journalists and privacy campaigners from around the world took to Twitter to voice their sadness with his passing on Thursday and share their tributes.Deeply saddened by the loss of@CasparBowden, a rare combination of intellectual rigor and the passion of a human rights activist.#Privacy&mdash; Garrett Cobarr (@GarrettCobarr)July 9, 2015RIP@CasparBowden, a great privacy advocate: terrible loss&mdash; Glenn Greenwald (@ggreenwald)July 9, 2015RIP Caspar Bowden :/ A man of great value, who understood the techno-political architrcture of surveillance before most of everyone else. &lt;3&mdash; Jérémie Zimmermann (@jerezim)July 9, 2015Dark day for#privacy. Folks who knew@CasparBowden: we&#39;ve just lost one of the most committed, single-minded activists our cause has known.&mdash; Malavika Jayaram (@MalJayaram)July 9, 2015.@CasparBowdenthank you for fighting for our right to privacy, for our right to be free from control. You will be missed.&mdash; Maria Xynou (@maria_xyn)July 9, 2015“There were few, if any, more deeply informed, active, passionate and energetic advocates for the privacy cause. Caspar you will be sadly missed,” said Corrigan.•EU states agree framework for pan-European data privacy rules
It’s Friday! Forget work, go and readmy interview with Dishonored and Deus Ex designer Harvey Smithinstead.
There is a central question at the heart of narrative game development – it has always been there and it probably always will be: how do you give a player the freedom to explore and express themselves, while also providing a cogent story for them to experience?There are hundreds of possible solutions. While highly systemised role-playing adventures, such as Mass Effect, allow player individuality through complex character progression systems, open-world titles (Grand Theft Auto V, Far Cry, etc) accompany their backbone narrative missions with dozens of discoverable side-quests and emergent encounters. Whatever the approach, it’s always a tussle between guiding the player and just letting them go.Harvey Smith has been exploring this tension through his whole career. Back in 1993, he was QA lead on System Shock, the innovative first-person action role player that brought player choice and emergence to the fore. Later, at Ion Storm in Texas, he worked with Warren Spector on the revolutionary sci-fi shooter Deus Ex, a dizzyingly complex conspiracy thriller that offered players multiple definable roles and systems.Then, in 2008, he joined French-American studio Arkane as co-creative director, and spent three years helping to construct a brand new action adventure based around player choice and freedom. The result was Dishonored – a strange, engrossing assassination adventure set in a gloomy steampunk city overrun with rats, plague and corruption.At this year’s E3, publisher Bethesda announced that a sequel is on the way, giving players the choice between two characters: original protagonist Corvo and Emily Kaldwin, the daughter of the empress assassinated at the beginning of the first game. Set 15 years later, and after a fragile peace, Kaldwin has been deposed from her rightful throne, plunging the Empire of Isles into chaos once again – now the two leads have to regain power, taking the action away from the industrial city of Dunwall and toward the more prosperous coastal town of Karnaca.The sequel moves the action from Dunwall to Karnaca, “a once dazzling coastal city that holds the key to restoring Emily to power.”Photograph: BethesdaSo what did the studio want to explore when starting out on a sequel? “Dishonored was a mish-mash,” says Smith. “We wanted to make a first-person immersive game in a fantasy world with some stealth features; it was a homage to games we’d made before or loved. But, halfway through, we were only just figuring out what it was. The map, the calendar, the religion the culture – it felt really good starting the new project just knowing that stuff. On top of that we were thinking, well, our swordfighting could have been a little deeper, our stealth could have been more reliable with better feedback, and our UI was slapped together at the last minute. Just at every level there was something to deepen or extend or think about longer.”Smith was also interested in developing the character of Emily as a central, playable entity. In the first game she acts as a reflection of your actions – if you avoid violence, she’s seen painting happy pictures, if you murder everything and everyone, it’s all black crayon monsters.“So it felt like, what happened to that little girl?” says Smith. “She was born into privilege, she was marred by this terrible tragedy, and then after that she was raised by Corvo. What would she be like as a 25-year-old adult – as an empress and then an outlaw? It was effortless to find that part.“If you play as Emily it’s all new – she has her own set of powers, her own assassinations and animations, so she feels different, she feels like a finesse character. In the video, we show a power called Far Reach [a teleportation abaility] which can be upgraded in different ways, and it changes your flow through the world and your mobility. Just on a video game level, moving through the world feels different. But if you play Corvo, it’s all this classic stuff, it’s the rat swarms, it’s possession, it’s stopping time – he feels more heavy and brutal, he’s an older guy.”The beauty of Dishonored – like System Shockand Deus Ex – is the way in which the game’s multiple systems combine to give each player a very individual experience. Various powers, such as possession and limited teleportation, are unlockable as you traverse the dank streets and ruined terraces of Dunwall, and these can be utilised alongside traditional weapons in very different ways. So how does Arkane provide that sense of freedom and still tell a story that everyone gets to experience?“We argued about this on Deus Ex,” says Smith. “Some members of the team felt that each building should split, and that in one hallway all the locked doors and encounters and conflicts are all related to sneaking; then there’s a hallway here that’s all related to hacking, and another up here that’s all about fighting. The other half of the team, me included, said ‘no, what we should do is intermix those things so there’s a fluidity as you get to each situation: you can decide, am I going to deal with it this way or that way, or do I need to bypass it because I’m not skilled in that area?’”Smith and co-creative director Raphael Colantonio brought this combination approach to Dishonored. Very little is out of bounds to the player – all the powers and runes are accessible. “It’s a hybrid,” he says. “Some teams use an unlock schedule which is much easier because you know, at level three, the guy’s never going to have possession or whatever. We don’t do that. We give you your points and say: spend them how you want.Youdecide how to put together equipment upgrades and bone charms and powers to make your own little combinations. It’s much more expensive and much harder, but it ensures it’s fluid – your choices and my choices will probably be different.”The original Dishonored also allowed multiple routes through each mission location, designed to compliment different game styles. Smith says that’s definitely the case with the sequel too. But it’s not just about creating ludic worlds that engender player choice, it’s about making them seem like functioning living spaces too. “I hate to use the term realism, but we look at every place to see if it’s plausible. Does it have a history? How does the guard in this room get to work? We’ve built levels before and then looked at them and said, ‘Really? The guy starts here on the terrace, then has to get to the dock, and he needs to walk a mile and up ten flights of steps? That doesn’t make any sense’. We approach it very plausibly but it’s very interconnected – you see the tower you need to get to, but your path will be different to mine.”For Smith, the key is all about making player choice the defining experience of play. If it’s a cosmetic or trivial element that is quickly forgotten or proves irrelevant, it’s not a choice. He talks about the games he’s looking forward to – XCOM 2, Fallouot 4, No Man’s Sky – and sees that element in all of them. “The common thread seems to be, most of the time, you make decisions and you can succeed or fail or have an interesting experience or not based on the decisions you make,” he says. “The more that’s true the more I like it. I like lonely self-paced experiences, I don’t want a game to be room-hallway-room-hallway-explosion – that’s not interesting to me.”But, of course, the interesting thing with Dishonored is that the violence made possible by the multiple systems also comes with a moral cost. The player is given tools of death and destruction, but the world darkens if they are used. Were Smith and his team aware of how controversial that would be? How divisive? He laughs. “A game about an assassin where you don’t have to kill anyone – that was our goal with Dishonored,” he says. “And that’s true again with the sequel”.Dishonored 2 is due out on PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in spring 2016
Sensitive information including social security numbers concerning more than 21 million people was stolen last month when the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) was hacked, the US federal agency said on Thursday.OPM launched a “forensic investigation” after discovering that its internal database, housing background-check records of current, former and prospective federal employees and contractors, had been hacked in late May.Related:OPM hack: China blamed for massive breach at US federal agencyLast week, the New York Times reported that the hack was conducted by Chinese hackers. China hadpreviously deniedinvolvement.OPM houses personal information for all federal employees, including social security numbers; residency, employment and educational histories; “information about immediate family and other personal and business acquaintances”; health, criminal and financial histories and “other details”.In a statement, the agency said the number of those affected by the hack included 19.7 million individuals who applied for a background investigation “and 1.8 million non-applicants, predominantly spouses or co-habitants of applicants”.Anyone who has undergone a background check through OPM since 2000 “is highly likely” to be affected, the agency said. It is less likely, but still possible, that those who underwent background checks before 2000 would be affected.Some OPM records also include findings from interviews and fingerprints. Usernames and passwords used to fill out application forms were also stolen, theagency said.OPM said mental health records and financial histories were stored in separate systems, and there was no evidence that these had been impacted by the breach.In its statement, OPM announced several steps it has taken and will take to “protect” those impacted by the breach, including providing identity theft insurance; identity monitoring for minor children; credit and fraud monitoring; and “full service identity restoration support and victim recovery assistance”.These services will only be provided for free for three years.The agency said it would send “notification packages” to those affected, which would include “educational materials and guidance to help them prevent identity theft, better secure their personal and work-related data and become more generally informed about cyber threats”.Officials acknowledged to Congress last month that the OPM had failed for years to take basic steps to secure its computer networks.“You failed utterly and totally,” said the House oversight and government reform committee chairman, Jason Chaffetz, a Republican. “They recommended it was so bad that you shut it down and you didn’t.”On Thursday, Representative Adam Schiff, the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, condemned OPM for not being “fully candid” with Congress and for omitting key information about “the breadth of the potential compromise.”“Rather than simply place blame on the hackers, we need to acknowledge our own culpability in failing to adequately protect so obvious a target. Plainly, we need to do so much more to safeguard our networks,” said Schiff.House speaker John Boehner, meanwhile, called for the OPM leadership to resign.“After today’s announcement, I have no confidence that the current leadership at OPM is able to take on the enormous task of repairing our national security,” the Republican said in a statement.Other Republicans, including House majority leader Kevin McCarthy and Senator John McCain, also called for the departure of OPM director Katherine Archuleta.Archuleta said neither she nor OPM chief information officer Donna Seymour would resign.
When Frédéric Durand-Baïssas shared Gustave Courbet’sThe Origin of the Worldon Facebook, he probably didn’t expect that the painting – a close-up view of a nude woman’s genitals and abdomen – would trigger the platform’s censors. The French art enthusiast’s profile was removed by Facebook in 2011, reportedly after another user flagged his post for breaching the company’s guidelines on nudity.Durand-Baïssas, who is suing Facebook for €20,000 ($22,000) in damages, is unfortunately in good company. Over the years, countless others have found their content removed or their entire profiles deleted from social networking sites for posting nude or semi-nude images.In 2013, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) reported that an article the group had posted to Facebook about the presence of a nude statue being challenged in a Kansas City court had been removed. The organization was also banned from posting for 24 hours.And just last month, Jay-Marie Hill found that photos she had posted – of San Francisco demonstrations against police killings of unarmed black women that shut down rush hour traffic in the city, no doubt a newsworthy event – had been removed from Facebook because some of the female protesters were topless. Hill sees Facebook’s policies as racist, and “exceptionally forgiving to white bodies over other bodies and life experiences”.“What has been especially problematic is the policing of our (Black) womyn’s online presence as we take a strong position for a cause that explicitly challenges objectification,” says Hill. “Ultimately, these images were not taken down because we were ‘nude’ but because we challenged a system and made people uncomfortable.”Although she says she was “aware that censorship was a possibility”, Hill nevertheless finds the lack of consistent enforcement on the platform “enraging”, and says she will continue to fight back.Indeed, while any photo flagged by another user will be reviewed by Facebook, some groups – such as the feminist organizationFemen– have pages filled with photos of white women’s breasts, their nipples covered or blurred.Hill’s point – that Facebook treats certain bodies differently – is further illustrated by how the company regulates nudity by gender.Mastectomy photos are typically OK, as are personal images of mothers breastfeeding. Men’s nipples are acceptable, but women’s are not. And despite Facebook’s seeming progressiveness toward gender (the platform allows users to self-define their gender), its treatment of transgender bodies is troubling: in one case, a user’s semi-nude photo was taken down and reinstated when they decided the user was a man – despite the user’s physical presentation and personal gender identity.Facebook is not the only target of activists’ ire. A quick survey at social media companies’ policies shows that most, if not all, ban nudity from their platforms. While some have argued that this is a result of parochial American attitudes toward sex and the human body, companies argue that their policies are about making their platforms a safe space for young people and, in the case of Facebook, a “global and culturally diverse community”.Although it’s true that Facebook’s user base is diverse, Facebook is not a “community”. It’s a corporation, and its users are its products – but have no say in how the space is regulated.Here, Facebook is making a distinct choice: rather than enable freedom of expression as the company often claims to do, it is imposing cultural conservatism by claiming that nudity is somehow dangerous. In this, it is little different than Victorian England.Surprisingly, historical parallels are fundamentally asymmetrical to the current modes of censorship.Expurgation of nude art became common after the Renaissance.Photograph: AlamyFollowing the relative freedom of the Renaissance period, expurgation of nude art became common, with a literal fig leaf often used to cover genitalia – arguably the most famous instance of which was the plaster leaf used to cover a reproduction of Michelangelo’s David in London in the 1850s.According to the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum, “[t]he plaster cast of a fig leaf, half a metre high, was made in London soon after the statue’s arrival and attached to the statue to spare the blushes of visiting female dignitaries”.But as censorious as fig leaves may be, one key aspect differentiates them from modern censorship. Whereas a fig leaf merely covers up a portion of a nude artwork, modern digital censorship removes all traces. The art is, in effect, disappeared.To push the analogy further: Facebook is not only the museum owner, it also the curator and regulatory authority.Still, companies that host public content have the legal leeway and a number of motivations for banning nudity. But what about private platforms?Several years ago, the internet was abuzz with news that Microsoft SkyDrive – a cloud hosting service – had disabled a photographer’s paid account for storing content that violated the company’s code of conduct, namely, on nude photography. Though the company has since clarified their policy (legal nude content may be uploaded, but not shared), the implications of a private hosting service regulating nudity could be huge.That is to say: in a world where even private commercial services ban nudity as a form of expression, the result is undoubtedly self-censorship.So what is an artist to do?Here, history is instructive. In the past, when a photographer picked up prints from the shop and found images conspicuously missing, her alternative was to learn to develop her own photographs. The modern parallel is to use non-commercial hosting, be it on one’s own private server, an alternative hosting platform, or a service like WordPress that doesn’t impose restrictions on its users.But although these circumvention techniques may be easier than learning to use a darkroom, they don’t change the fact that the spaces we perceive to be and treat as our commons are slowly eroding our freedom of expression.Not only are we entirely prevented from seeing the art on display in the virtual “museum”, we are denied cues as to how decisions are made about the art’s display. Despite being the main driver of profit for these companies, the user lacks all control over their own content. Even inside a closed network, we are still denied the opportunity to opt out of morality policing. If we want more control over what we can post and see, then we must fight for more control over the platforms we use every day.
Judges in Brazil have handed down a £10,000 fine to Facebook and Google for not removing or blocking “degrading photos”.The ruling came after pictures of Brazilian musician Cristiano Araujo in a mortuary were shared online. The Brazilian singer, who was 29, died in a car crash in June alongside his girlfriend.On Tuesday, Judge Denise Gondim de Medonca declared that Google and Facebook had acted in “bad faith” in ignoring an earlier ruling. Both companies were fined 50,000 Brazilian real (£10,000).Judge William Fabian said in an earlier ruling on 25 June that the posting of gruesome images of Araujo’s death was “extremely disrespectful to the family’s feeling of sorrow”.The following statement was provided to the Guardian by a Google spokesperson:“The Marco Cilvil of the Internet (local law which regulates removals) requires that any court order for content removal specify the URLs to be removed.“In parallel, we have already taken down many of the videos which have been flagged by users due to YouTube’s policies regarding offensive content.”Google is appealing the ruling. Facebook has also been contacted for comment.
Facebook has justannounced changesto its news feed, allowing users to take more control over which stories appear first based on their interests.The introduction of the See First tool will mean users choose friends and pages they would like to see at the top of their news feed, rather than, say, another incredible piece about Facebook updating its news feed.Within news feed preferences, clicking on the profile picture of a page or friend will mean they appear at the top of the feed, accompanied by a blue star. The rest of the feed will appear as standard.It will also be possible to unfollow people, pages and groups you do not want to see in the news feed. (This is a reversible action).Facebook’s preferences for News Feed, which will allow users to see more relevant content.Photograph: FacebookIn ablog postto announce the changes Facebook’s product manager Jacob Frantz wrote: “We use ranking to order stories based on how interesting we believe they are to you: specifically, whom you tend to interact with, and what kinds of content you tend to like and comment on.“Today we are announcing even better tools for you to actively shape and improve the experience. We’ve redesigned and expanded Facebook’s news feed preferences to give you more control.”There is also a feature to discover new pages of business, organisations and publishers people might be interested in following.To get to the news feed preferences tab, press “more” in the bottom right hand corner of Facebook’s mobile app. The news settings are under “settings”.The changes are available today on Apple’s iOS and will be coming to Google’s Android and desktop soon.Is Facebook about to enter the music streaming war?
Rewind just a few short years. The music industry was sick, if not dying. Napster had started the decline, free music for all, albeit illegally. With shrinking revenues and costly licensing deals only Apple was really making any money by selling its breakthrough iPod music player.Spin on to 2015 and everything has changed. Apple Music just launched to challenge Spotify in the streaming music market, and everyone, from Amazon’s Prime Music to Jay Z’s Tidal to Google’s Play Music, is trying to get a slice of the resurgent market. Now could Facebook be attempting to join in too?The social network has been making a concerted effort to push video content, recently citing billions of video views, and now areport from music industry site Music Allysuggest it is seeking deals with labels, first for a music video streaming service and later a straight audio service too.It says Facebook wants to forge a monetisation strategy for music videos – something YouTube does well with both official and user uploaded videos of songs.Should it manage to compete with YouTube for music video money, next in its sights might be Spotify, Tidal, and the recently launched Apple Music. Facebook’s trump card is that it’s already a social network, something the music streaming services are always trying to replicate in their own offerings, but with little success.For Facebook, its business model is all about keeping users within its platform, using its services and providing fewer reasons to leave its environment. The same could be said for video and photo sharing.Providing a music service would mean users don’t leave to go to Apple, Google or Tidal. The social network, a sponge for data, could then collect information on what users play, when, and how often, profiling their music tastes, and so adding to the wealth of personal information it already holds.Part of Facebook’s existing partnership with Spotify, that allows users to sign into the music service using Facebook’s federated login, is about collecting data.That data can then be used to target ads on Facebook and using Facebook’s advertising network. A lot can be inferred from musical tastes that could be extremely valuable to advertisers.A music subscription service would also provide another important revenue stream for Facebook, independent of its screen advertising business, while adding credit cards to its user accounts ready for other paid-for services.Streaming music is an important revenue source for the music industry as sales of discs have decreased and downloads are starting to falter. In 2014, 9% of worldwide digital music revenues came from ad-supported streams, and 23% from subscription services, according to the global industry body IFPI.While 100 million users accessed ad-supported free music streaming services in 2014, a number growing rapidly with little in the way of friction to adoption, paying subscribers are also increasing. Last year, subscribers were up 46.4% to 41 million users and revenues rose by 39%, making it the fastest growing revenue stream.Spotify has been a pioneer in the space. Launching in 2008, it has proved that, in theory, the business model can work. In doing so, Spotify’s hard-won rights deals with music labels allowed others to swoop in and strike similar contracts.Next, Google and Amazon entered the market, then rapper Jay-Z arrived with Tidal promising better deals for artists, and finally Apple with its recently launched music subscription service.A Facebook spokeswoman told the Guardian on Friday that “we have no plans to go into music streaming”. While it could just be rumour and supposition pulled from crossed wires over ad deals with labels, it would be more surprising if Facebook wasn’t looking at music services even if it has no immediate plans.Meanwhile, as the rivalry between streaming services intensifies,Spotify is urging customerswho paid to join its service through Apple to cancel their subscriptions. In an email to be sent to Spotify customers with iPhones, the company says if users pay throughSpotify.com they can save money by stopping Apple from taking a cut.If Facebook enters the market too things can only get more raucous.
Spotify is urging customers who paid to join its music streaming service through Apple to cancel their subscriptions, as the rivalry between the two companies intensifies following the launch of Apple Music.In an email to be sent to Spotify customers with iPhones, the company says if users pay through Spotify.com they can save money by stopping Apple from taking a cut.The Vergereports the emailwill say: “In case you didn’t know, the normal [Spotify] Premium price is only $9.99, but Apple charges 30% on all payments made through iTunes.” It includes a step-by-step guide to switching. Users have to end their current subscriptions before they can switch.The launch of Apple Music, the iPhone and computer giant’s foray into music streaming, has seen it set up as a direct competitor to Spotify.According to industry body the IFPI, the streaming market had more than 41 million paying subscribers in 2014, and a further 100 million accessing free tiers of streaming services such as Spotify.Until the launch of Apple Music, Spotify was without doubt the largest player in the on-demand audio music streaming market, having recently announced that it has 75 million active users, with 20 million of them paying for its service. While Apple has not released comparable figures, Apple Music is installed automatically onthe 40% of iPhonesthat run the latest software, iOS 8.4, and it is free for the first three months.Apple Music’s launch has intensified competition with its efforts to secure exclusives on big albums and artist back catalogues. Pharrell Williams debuted his new single on Apple Music for launch, while Taylor Swift made her latest album, 1989, available to stream for the first time on the service, after astand off with Apple over paying artists.
Fears thatMoore’s law– which dictates the exponential growth of processing power – would falter this year have been allayed after IBM revealed processors with circuits just 7nm wide.Moore’s law states that every 18 to 24 months processing power will double and it has been steadily observed to be true since 1965, enabling the rapid technological progress over the last four decades.It had been thought the law could finally be disproved as it became too difficult to make ever smaller transistors. (The smaller thetransistors, the more can be fitted onto the same size chip, which increases the number of calculations the chip can make and so increase its processing power.)Moore’s law explained.The last major chip breakthrough was in making 14nm transistors, and doubts were raised about whether silicon-based processors could get much smaller due to the physics of atom sizes and the microscopic scale.Transistors use grooves etched in silicon to guide electrons around the chip. The channels do a similar job to that of wires, but on a much smaller scale. Making these grooves just 7nm wide means you can fit more transistors on the chips.For comparison a strand of human hair, at 100,000nm thick, is about 10,000 times wider than the channel. A red blood cell is a thousand times bigger, at 7,500nm in diameter. A strand of DNA is in the same order of magnitude, but slightly smaller at just 2.5nm wide.Red blood cellsPhotograph: Ikon images/REXAt 7nm it is extremely difficult to control the electrons flowing through the transistors, but IBM claims to have worked out a system and prototype chips that operate at that scale.The product of its partnership with New York State, GlobalFoundries, Samsung, and a $3bn investment in next-generation chips announced last year, IBM claims its new processors will be four times more powerful than today’s chips with up to 20bn transistors on a single chip.To reach 7nm IBM and partners switched to a silicon-germanium material, instead of pure silicon, for crucial sections of the chip. New manufacturing techniques will be required to produce the chips which may complicate high-speed mass manufacturing currently possible at larger sizes.While the prototype chips prove that 7nm transistors are possible and that the march of increasing processor power can continue for one more generation, IBM warned that it would take two years before chips made at 7nm scale would be available to buy.IBM is licensing the technology to partner GlobalFoundaries, which produces chips for AMD, Qualcomm and Broadcom among others, meaning chips built at 7nm could appear in anything from computers to smartphones.Other manufacturers, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company which makes chips for a variety of companies such as Apple, have been working on similar scale chips but have yet to demonstrate working prototypes.The next jump beyond 7nm will likely require all-new materials and manufacturing techniques, if it is at all possible.•The question: Will Moore’s law fail in the next 20 years?
Uber, the app-based taxi-booking business, has been accused of exploiting customers by tripling fares during London’s tube strike.Uber users were confronted on Thursday morning with warnings that the company was tripling fares because “demand is off the charts”.It warned of “surge pricing”, with fares 2.9 times higher than normal and with a minimum fare of £14.50. Even sitting in standing traffic would cost 43p per minute instead of the normal 15p.Uber, which connects users with private-hire drivers, has driven down the cost of minicabs in London, with regular fares as low as £1.25 per mile, but often increases charges when demand is high, such as late on weekends, when lots of people want to get home at the same time. Its 15,000 drivers in the capital target areas where surge pricing is in force in order to boost incomes. There have been accusations that some Uber driversbarely make the minimum wageas a result of falling fares.Steve McNamara, head of the London Taxi Drivers Association, seized on the price hikes as “yet further evidence of how a profit-motivated $50bn [£32bn] company operates”.Guardian investigation: How we tested Uber’s system of checking cab driversHe added: “It exploits its drivers, forcing many to survive on less than minimum wage and when they can they exploit their customers, seizing on other people’s misery to make more money. If they achieve their goal of market domination by forcing their competitors out of the market … today’s prices and experiences will become the norm.”Later in the day Uber’s fares were back to normal, but they were expected to surge again around the evening rush hour.Labour London mayor hopeful Sadiq Khan said: “Uber may be very clever with their ‘dynamic demand’, but it still looks like a rip-off when you are struggling to get to and from work while the tube is out of action.”Uber has proved controversial around the world.Last month,the Guardian exposed how drivers could be approved to drive using faked insurance documentsin London. Last week, Uber had to suspendits Uber Pop servicein France, which connects unlicensed drivers with paying customersDefending the price hikes, Uber said its “dynamic pricing” was fully transparent.“Drivers work on the Uber platform on a completely flexible basis, as much or as little as they want,” a spokesman said. “During times of peak demand – when demand massively outstrips supply – fares increase temporarily to incentivise more drivers to work on the platform. As soon as the demand drops or supply increases, the price comes back down.”Related:Would you trust your Uber driver to give you first aid?Uber also benefits from the fare surge because it takes 20% commission from every fare.The spokesman added that customers “are notified clearly in-app, and even have to physically type in the price … to confirm they have understood the pricing. Riders also have the option to get a fare estimate at that price, or can press the ‘notify me when surge drops’ button to get a message as soon as the price drops back to normal.”Tony Parsons, the writer, was among those outraged. He tweeted: “Uber triple prices for the#TubeStrikeThat’s not capitalism, it’s robbery. London black cabs still the greatest taxi drivers on the planet!”
A Doncaster man who published the name of the victim of a sexual offence on theFacebook pageof South Yorkshire police has been charged.Shane Ward, 31, of Edlington, commented on the police’s Facebook page post about the sexual offence court case and identified the victim. He was charged under Section 5 of the Sexual Offences Amendment Act 1992 for breaching the victim’s right to anonymity.Victims of sexual offences have the right to anonymity for life. Ward is due to appear at Doncaster magistrates’ court on 21 July.South Yorkshire police the force said it welcomed comments on its Facebook page but would “not tolerate anyone breaking the law or making threatening or abusive posts which are intended to intimidate”.“We understand that people have differing views on many issues, however we will not condone these types of post and they will be removed and where appropriate, investigated by police.”In 2012, 10 people were charged and convicted for naming online the victim of a rape involving former Sheffield United footballer Ched Evans. He was convicted in April that year andsentenced to five years in prison.
Pornography often helps to drive new technology into the mainstream. Everyone knows that. In fact, by now the point has become rote. It’s the sort of thing that needlessly contrarian dinner party guests routinely trot out 20 minutes before embarking upon trickier subjects like “Hitler had some good ideas” and “Female drivers, eh?”Still, an element of truth remains. Print, film, video, the internet, ebook readers – they’ve all been given a tremendous boost by their ability to show or describe sexual practises to the public. However, now that I’ve been forced to experience porn on the next wave of popular technology – lightweight virtual reality units Oculus Rift and Sony’s Project Morpheus – I think we might be selling it short by calling it a catalyst for popularity. In fact, VR porn might even bring about a new era of world peace.But I’m getting ahead of myself. The reason I agreed to road test this fountain of muck had nothing to do with porn and everything to do with virtual reality. Ever since the huge – and, retrospectively, quite rubbish –Virtualityunits became popular in the 1990s, I’ve been desperate to lose myself in a virtual world. And, if anything, the berserk – and, retrospectively, quite rubbish –1992 film The Lawnmower Man just compounded that desire.“That bloody film set the industry back decades,” says Sam, rolling his eyes. Sam is a VR producer who creates virtual reality games and military tools. He’s agreed to show me some VR porn, even though he keeps going to great pains to explain that he doesn’t make porn, that he only sourced the porn as a favour for the Guardian and that he really doesn’t want me to name his company in print just in case anyone gets the wrong idea.Sam’s brought along a range of porn, ranging from the silly to the hardcore. He sits me down in an office chair, attaches the display unit to my head, quietly mentions something about motion sickness and revs up the first demo.‘It was entirely passive, like a cross between Boxing Helena and locked-in syndrome’Photograph: The GuardianIt’s a desk. That’s it. A desk with a lamp, a plant and a pyramid of cards on it. It’s a taster designed to get me used to VR before we delve into any sexy stuff, but it’s immediately the most immersive piece of software I’ve ever tried. My sense of space feels entirely grounded in reality. Bend down and you’ll see the underside of the table. Look up into the lamp and you’ll see the screw cap of the lightbulb. It’s astonishing how quickly I lose myself in the scene. However, it isn’t remotely sexy.I edged around the room like a terrified matador trapped in a ring with a loose bullBut it’s much sexier than the first porn experience Sam loads up.Alien Makeout Simulatoris a game where you have to kiss a cocktail-swigging alien on all of its many mouths before the time runs out. It’s like one of those light-up Batak reaction games, except you use your face instead of your hands, and also it couldn’t be any less erotic if it were a game about picking slimy furballs from a plughole with your teeth. Worse still, I scored abysmally at it. My self-esteem isn’t great at the best of times, but it still stung to be told that I wasn’t even charismatic enough to cop off with an alcoholic extra-terrestrial who looks like the results page of a colon-cleanse website.From there we tried some Asian animated porn in the form of Kurumi’s Bedroom, where a young woman thrashes away by herself on a bed. What you do with her is up to you. Quite naturally, I edged around the room like a terrified matador trapped in a ring with a loose bull for a few moments before running away. Manners cost nothing, and I didn’t want to intrude.There was also something called VR Girl: Kayla, which was nothing more than a series of 3D-rendered statues of a porn actress in varying states of undress. Despite presumably being designed as a masturbatory aid, the whole thing felt airless and cold, like a museum exhibit. No matter how many times Sam enthusiastically hooted about the level of detail in the vaginal mapping, I remained profoundly unstirred by it. So far, this whole thing looked to be a dud. Virtual reality seemed about as likely to become the future of pornography as finding aRazzlein a binbag in the woods.VR Girl: Kayla felt airless and coldPhotograph: The GuardianBut then things got a little more promising.Technolust: A Way Outisn’t pornographic in any way, but it is a sign of what can happen when care is taken with VR experiences. In Technolust, you’re trapped in a room with a female hacker, and you have to try and escape. It’s a rich, ornately-detailed scene that’s clearly had a lot of time and money lavished upon it.Glance up at faces, down at genitals. Or, if you’re me, you can hold your head as far away from the action as possibleThe hacker’s face in particular is so realistic that, when I got close enough to look her in the eyes, I felt something brand new, something I’d never felt with either pornography or videogames: I felt intimacy. It’s a profoundly odd sensation to feel emotional closeness to a videogame character, but it points to an interesting future of the medium.Then again, the future of the medium may just be loads of videos of people shagging. That’s how my testing session ended, with three films produced by Virtual Real Porn. In the first scene, you float above a couple obliviously banging away. But because it was shot with a 180-degree camera, you’re free to look around. You can glance up at faces, you can glance down at genitals. Or, if you’re me, you can hold your head as far away from the action as possible, and try to avoid acknowledging that any of it is actually happening.The second puts you in the body of a man being pleasured by a woman. This was just as weird because, whenever you looked down at your own lap, you saw someone else’s penis jutting out. And all you could do was watch. There was no sensation, no manipulation. It was entirely passive, like a cross betweenBoxing Helenaand locked-in syndrome.Adrian (left) looming aggressively over StuartPhotograph: The GuardianThe real game-changer, though, was something that I hadn’t even anticipated. It came in the form of the third film, in which – unusually for the male-fixated world of porn – you’re placed into a woman’s body. For a moment you’re alone on a sun lounger, gazing around innocently at your surroundings. Then, into frame, walks a man who I believe is called Adrian. He pulls your knickers off, performs cunnilingus on you and then engages you in penetrative sex. Which, to say the least, is unsettling.Because Adrian, bless him, was being terribly aggressive. Looking down at where it was all happening wasn’t really working for me – it was a bit too much like watching a 1950s time and motion government film about schnitzel production – so instead I looked up. That was even worse, because Adrian was looming over me and refusing to break eye contact. It was so unpleasant that, at the end, when he pulled out his penis to ejaculate on my belly, I shrieked and all but flung myself off my real-life chair in an attempt to dodge the splodge.In that moment, I  realised why men get such a bad rap … By the end of it, I pretty much hated men as wellAnd, in that moment, I broke through and realised why men get such a bad rap. If that’s what a heterosexual woman sees when she has sex – a mess of veins and anger and dumbly moronic facial expressions, uselessly bobbing up and down three inches from your face – then it’s perfectly understandable for them to hate men. By the end of it, I pretty much hated men as well.This is why I think VR porn may serve a greater purpose. If everyone sat down, popped some goggles on and saw what it was like for someone of a different gender or sexuality to have sex, our shared empathy would go through the roof. At the next G8 summit, in fact, Cameron and Obama and Putin should all experience first-hand how gruesome it is to be humped by a horny bloke. Mark my words, there’d be unilateral nuclear disarmament by teatime.I’m not sure what to make of my dabble with virtual-reality porn. For the time being – mainly thanks to all the cartoons – it all seems a bit niche, like it’s been designed by one lonely man with a very specific and vaguely unpleasant set of peccadilloes.Perhaps it’ll take off more meaningfully once it’s matured a little. Perhaps an equivalent to I Modi or Fifty Shades of Grey or the Pamela Anderson sex tape will come along and thrust it into the limelight, and all the streets will fall dead because everyone will be stuck at home manically abusing themselves with a pair of goggles strapped to their face.If not? Well, at least Adrian gave it his best shot.
I have been hit by a CryptoWall attack. My files are encrypted. I presume I have lost everything, but is there anything I can do to rescue them?TaraIf you have been hit by the latest CryptoWall 3 then your presumption is probably correct – unless you pay the criminals who are holding your files hostage. Ransomware is getting more and more sophisticated, and making it harder to recover files. However, it doesn’t always work properly, so it is still worth trying.What is ransomware?Ransomware is malware that (usually) encrypts your files using an encryption system that is so strong there is no practical means of cracking it. Then it gives you a limited time to pay for your files to be decrypted. This may include the offer to decrypt one file free to show that it works.The first ransomware programs appeared at the end of the 1980s. Sometimes they just locked your PC’s screen rather than encrypting files. Some claimed they were the FBI, Metropolitan Police or whatever and pretended to “fine” you for looking at “illegal” content.Ransomware programs are becoming more common now because of the availability of the anonymous Tor network, and anonymous payment systems such as bitcoin. Obviously, if police forces could track payments back to the criminal operators, it might be possible to arrest them. (CryptoWall does not infect computers in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, and Kazakhstan, so I’d guess they are based in one or more of those countries.)CryptoLocker, the best known ransomware program, appeared in 2013, and CryptoWall -- which seems to be based on CryptoDefense -- early in 2014. These and several others target Microsoft Windows. Less sophisticated ransomware programs have also targeted Google Android andApple’s iOS and Mac OS X.Recovering filesIdeally, you should be able to recover all your files from backups. Unfortunately, advanced ransomware not only encrypts files on your PC, it also encrypt files on external hard drives. If you’re backing up your PC to a USB drive – which might be the E: drive on your PC – then that will get encrypted as well. Your back-up drives should be disconnected from your PC when not in use. Alternatively, make backups on optical discs (Blu-ray, DVD or CD-Rom) oronline.Ransomware programs may create an encrypted version of a file then delete the original. If so, you may be able to undelete the original file with a utility such asMiniTool Power Data Recovery(free up to 1GB),R-StudioorPhotorec. Note that the more you use your PC after the infection, the less chance there is of recovering files.Windows may also have kept some copies of your files. To check, right-click one of your files in Windows Explorer and look for the menu item, “Restore previous versions”. You can also right-click on a file, select “Properties”, and then select the tab marked “Previous Versions”. These may not be bang up to date, but are better than nothing.It would be tedious to try to recover a lot of files this way, so downloadShadow Explorerinstead. This can export whole folders of shadow copies at once. Note that CryptoWall includes a command to delete all shadow copies, but if any have survived, it’s worth a go.Finally, there’s the option to pay the $300-$1,000 ransom. This depends on the value of your files and how you feel about giving money to criminals. The drawback with paying is that it will just attract more criminals to the ransomware market.For a fuller account of the recovery processes, see the FAQs onCryptoLockerandCryptoWallat Bleeping Computer.Better than cureCryptoWall may be distributed as a spam email attachment that looks like a pdf document (ie it’s a trojan), which most users will think is safe. However, it’s actually an executable (.exe) program, and “opening” it runs the programs that encrypt your files. Of course, it should still be blocked by a good anti-virus program. Either way, don’t click on unexpected attachments, If you suspect an incoming file, upload it to the freeVirusTotalwebsite, which will check it with a large number of anti-virus programs.Ransomware programs are also being distributed in exploit kits that target security holes in web browsers and programs such as the Java Runtime and Adobe Flash. This makes it all the more important to run anti-virus software, and to keep installing the patches that keep Windows and other programs up to date. Keep Windows Update turned on and consider usingSecunia’s Personal Software Inspectorto check other programs.CryptoLocker and CryptoWall both run from an AppData folder, and it’s possible to use Windows’ software restriction policies to stop executable files from running from those folders. The simplest way to do this is to useFoolishIT’s CryptoPreventutility, which is available in both free and paid-for versions.If any IT managers are reading this, Webroot’s Roy Tobin has an excellent guide to securing company PCs:Best practices for securing your environment against CryptoLocker and ransomwareRather than detecting or blocking ransomware programs, which can change overnight, you can block what they try to do.Hitman Pro.Alert’s CryptoGuardtakes this approach. You can download a 30-day trial version, but after that it costs from €19.95 (one PC for one year) to €59.90 (three PCs for three years). BitDefender’s freeCryptoWall Vaccineappears to be another example.Windows 8.x users should alsoturn on File History, which is an improved version of Windows 7’s Previous Versions.And if nothing else stops ransomware, there’s alwaysRollBack Rx, which enables you to restore your PC to an earlier condition, iebefore the malware struck. The free version allows home users to keep seven snapshots, while the pro version (£57.08) has many more features and unlimited snapshots.Ransomware is not a huge threat at the moment:Symantecrates CryptoWall as “Risk Level 1: Very Low”. But it’s a very nasty threat, and could get worse. It certainly highlights the importance of making regular backups, and in particular, of having at least one backup that isn’t permanently attached to your PC, where it is still vulnerable.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
1. Import data into Apple HealthLaunched last September, Apple Health is still finding its feet, but you can already get plenty from it. If you don’t want to take your iPhone with you on every bike ride and morning jog, then you can import data into the app from other wearables and services. When you install a compatible app (such as Jawbone UP or RunKeeper) you should see an option to connect with Apple Health; from within the Health app itself, tap Sources from the front screen to view and tweak all the connections that have been made.2. Add any kind of activity to Google FitGoogle takes a more bare bones approach with its own Fit app, but the list of activities you can add to your fitness regime is impressive, and it means you don’t always have to rely on a gadget to track what you’re up to. Choose Add activity from the app menu to log what you were doing and for how long: cricket, beach volleyball, aerobics, curling, diving, fencing, kitesurfing, polo, snowboarding, table tennis, yoga and rock climbing are some of the activities you can add to your record alongside the more conventional fitness pursuits.3. Export your Nike+ dataThe Nike+ running apps for iOS and Android don’t let you export your data to use elsewhere (unless you count Apple Health) but there’s a handy free third-party app that can do the job for you: Nike+ Data Downloader on the iTunes App Store. Get the app running on your iPhone and it can pull the data out of the official Nike+ silo to use in Strava, RunKeeper, MapMyRun and Dropbox as you wish. GPS information and heart rate measurements are included alongside all of your other statistics.4. Use Nike+ Coach to stay on trackThe Nike+ running apps can give you more help than you might realise when it comes to working on a programme of activities. Delve into the Coach section of the mobile apps and you can pick out a particular training regime with a goal at the end of it: a 5k run, a 10k run, a half marathon or a full marathon. With your target set, the app provides day-by-day instructions on the sort of training you should be doing, and will send you reminders when it’s time to get out and work your muscles.5. Set up ‘power songs’ in the Nike+ running app‘Power songs’ can help you get through those last few metres or down that final stretch to the finishing point of your run, and the Nike+ mobile apps let you specify particular songs on your device to spur you onwards — look for the Power songs menu entry in the app settings. When you’re on a run and feel like you need a boost, swipe from left-to-right and tap the power song icon to hear one of your chosen tracks come through.6. Set custom routes in RunKeeperCreating routes before you set off not only keeps you from getting lost, it also means you can prepare in advance how far you’re going and the difficulty of the exercise. Routes must be set out through the Runkeeper website, but you can then access them through the mobile apps — use the ‘snap to roads’ feature to make plotting the route easier and set the course to private if you don’t want any other RunKeeper users to see it. You can then select your route before heading out and compare your progress over time.7. Add shoe tracking to RunKeeperrunkeeper tip 2Photograph: screengrabOne of the most useful and unusual plug-ins for RunKeeper lets you associate particular pairs of trainers with particular activities that you’ve logged. And why would you want to do this? You can calculate which pairs need a rest, which ones are giving you the most value for money per mile, and which ones have lasted you the longest. Setting up the service from fitness.queso.com/shoetracker is very straighforward and you can link shoes with activities from inside the mobile apps or from the RunKeeper website. Data can be exported in CSV format too.8. Use RunKeeper to target distance, time and paceJust before you set out on a run, you can tap the Workout field in the RunKeeper iOS app to change what your target is going to be. Distance, time, pace and interval are all available, or you can switch to a free run to take the pressure off. Make your choice and then set your target accordingly — switching between different metrics can keep your exercise routine varied and provide alternative ways of reaching the same end goal. For example, if you’re struggling with one target, switch to another for a while.9. Replay your runs in StravaStrava includes a Labs feature for interesting experiments, one of which is the ability to replay your runs or bike rides on a map after the event. It’s called FlyBy, and you can access it from the Strava Web interface. What’s more, you can chart your performance against other runners and riders (assuming they have a Strava account) — find out who passed you on the last hill before home, or check your speed in comparison with friends. In major events (such as marathons), Strava is intelligent enough to work out which users you ‘flew by’ and highlight them.10. Correct GPS routes in StravaDespite the marvels of technology, sometimes GPS logs aren’t quite as accurate as we would like them to be, which can lead to your routes going askew. SNAP (Segment Needs A Polish) is an official Strava tool you can access from strava-tools.raceshape.com/snap on the Web — once you’ve loaded in your route, you can mark particular segments of it and drag the GPS data around so it matches the trails and roads you were actually on. You can only edit existing points though, so there’s no option to add in new parts of your journey.11. Explore new places in StravaOpen up the Segment Explorer pane in the Strava app (under the More tab) and you can look for running and cycling routes anywhere in the world using a scrollable map. If you’re on holiday, for example, you can quickly find some good spots to stretch your limbs. This is in addition to the Local Guides feature on the Strava website, which pulls together recommended routes for some of the most well-known cities across the globe. It’s like a Lonely Planet guide for fitness enthusiasts.12. Tell Garmin Connect about your heart rateThe more your fitness app knows about you, the better it can help, and accurate heart rate information is particularly valuable. In the Garmin Connect app you can add this via Settings, Personal Information, Training Zones — separate readings can be set for resting, running and cycling (though you’ll need a suitable device to record it first, of course). On a similar theme, the app lets you set your step length, giving you a more accurate record of the distance you’re covering and the steps you’re taking along the way.13. Use Garmin Connect to compare multiple activitiesLog into your Garmin account on the Web and you can compare two or more activities against each other very easily — if you want to know how your performance today compares to last week’s, then this is the place to go. Choose Activities from the main website menu, place a tick next to the activities you want to compare, and you’ll see the relevant option right above the list. Distance, time, average speed, average pace, calories burned and lap times are all mapped out against each other.14. Get smarter notifications with Garmin Connectgarmin 3Photograph: screengrabOne of the helpful features in the Garmin Connect app for Android is smart notifications (you can find it in the Settings panel). By giving the app permission to manage your device’s alerts, you can turn them on or off during activities as required: you might want to block texts and emails, for example, but leave the door open for calls. It’s possible to add any app on your phone, so you can create a fully customised notification system for those times when you’re out walking, running, cycling or swimming.15. Get meaning from your data with ExistRacking up reams of data from various fitness apps is all well and good — but what happens next? Exist (exist.io) can import data from Jawbone, Fitbit and Withings devices, then charts it against your sleep patterns, your mood, your productivity levels and even how often you tweet. It’s then possible to compare changes in your activity against changes in your general health, and work out what you’re doing right and what you can improve on. It costs a few pounds a month to use Exist but a free trial is available.16. Use MobileRun to map out your routes with FitbitIntroduced into the Fitbit mobile apps last year, MobileRun uses the GPS inside a connected smartphone to add location and elevation data to your activities. Among the benefits it brings are spoken distance and mile markers — so you can get audio cues about how well you’re doing — and the ability to review your walks and runs on a map after the event. If you lose or forget your Fitbit tracker, MobileRun can fill in to monitor distance travelled, steps taken, active minutes spent and calories burned.17. Separate individual activities in Jawbone’s UP appJawbone’s various wearables and the accompanying UP app do a fine job of tracking steps and sleep, but you can pick out individual activities for a more detailed rundown of your fitness regime. The app will occasionally prompt you to add activities based on detected movement, but you can add them manually too: if you’re playing football, for example, you’ll be able to see how your movement increased and decreased over time, as well as view your average pace and total calorie burn. Available activities cover weights, yoga, swimming and various other sports.18. Find music to match your run with SpotifyThe latest versions of Spotify’s mobile apps use your listening history, your preferences and your running tempo (calculated using the accelerometer in your phone) to find tunes that perfectly fit the pace of your run — Spotify has even gone so far as to compose its own tracks to help fill in any gaps in its library. Integration with third-party services is coming in the near future, Spotify says, so you might find the same tempo-matching technology appearing in your running app of choice before too long.19. Use Tapiriik to sync data from all your fitness appsIf your activities are spread out across several different devices and multiple apps then Tapiriik (tapiriik.com) is ideal. For a small fee it can pull in data from the likes of RunKeeper, Strava, Garmin, SportTracks, Endomondo and more (syncing everything via Dropbox if you have an account on the cloud storage platform). It gives you the ability to move your data to and from all of your apps and services, providing a more complete picture of how your fitness is progressing without the need to jump from app to app.20. Log your fitness activity with IFTTTThe IFTTT (If This Then That) website at ifttt.com, together with the IF mobile apps for iOS and Android, let you extract your data from a variety of trackers and store it somewhere else. Hardware from Jawbone, Fitbit, Misfit and Withings is supported, and you can send steps or sleep data to a Google Drive spreadsheet, OneNote, an email digest and various other destinations. If you want to do more with your fitness data, and build up a customised set of databases and charts, then IFTTT makes it possible.21. Add your Medical ID to Apple HealthApple Health includes a Medical ID section where you can enter blood type, allergies and other information that could save your life if you get into an accident. What’s more, it’s visible on the lock screen of your iPhone (via the Emergency button) so first responders can check it without knowing your PIN code. It’s well worth a few minutes of your time to fill this out: tap Medical ID from the Health app and you can then add medical conditions, current medication, blood type, allergy and reaction information, an emergency contact number and more.
It is often said that technologists are the new rock stars, though what they lack in glamour they make up for in a profound influence on how we live and interact with the world.Two weeks ago I was in the Spanish city of Granada at what claims to be the world’s first conference dedicated to Twitter, where the now departed CEO Dick Costolo appeared on stage to a standing ovation before he had even started speaking. Costolo later said the reception is always the same, even when he visited journalism students in China – a country that blocks Twitter. It is a shame tech firms don’t look outwards more often; it is a mark of the tunnel vision of American tech companies that they still call staff “international” if they deal with any countries other than the US.The conference was built on the success of Jun, a small town on the edge of Granada, which has been using Twitter to formally manage its local government services including reporting crimes to the police, sharing the school lunch menu and notifying the electrician when a street light is broken. The mayor, José Antonio Rodríguez Salas, has been trying different platforms since 1999.He’s single minded and ambitious, though I suspect he has had to face more scepticism and do more evangelising than he admits.Despite powerful technology and the potential of a distributed network, this particular project works through the enormous effort and commitment of one man, who has made a big difference to some citizens who now feel more included and valued, they told me.Twitter itself knew about the experiment for two years before Deb Roy, its chief data scientist, invested time in researching the project to see if it could be scaled up to US cities. The challenge there is that Twitter flattens hierarchies, which in the case of local government worked beautifully, but has meant the mayor of any larger city could quickly become a bottleneck for inquiries.Twitter has been keen to push the issue of distribution of power. In his last public speech while in Granada, Costolo talked of empowering the world’s “smallest voices”, not just by dealing with abusive users who enjoy intimidating others online, but also as a nod to the developing world. Where access to and distribution of information and knowledge have always been associated with power, Costolo said Twitter could give voice to people who have never had one until now. As a warning, he referred to Iran, whose citizens are blocked from Twitter but whose authorities use it themselves.These are vast ambitions. Faced with impatient shareholders – and ones blinded by the scale (but very different business) of Facebook – Twitter’s priorities have to be the growth of wealthy, western users who that can feed its advertising and product revenues. It has to reach scale, and make the site more appealing to first-time users who still find it hard to know quite where to start. Those are weighty, five-year challenges in themselves but inevitable for a public company.Costolo was right to set out the potential of Twitter, and all the technology that comes in its wake, but it was also a speech he could only really give on his way out of the job. He said himself that his role became more and more about unprecedented and complex geopolitical and cultural issues – dealing with censorship for political ends, wrangling with government warrants for personal information on their users, wrestling with the intense complexities of human relationships, debate and discouraging abuse. It’s a job description more suited to an editor in chief than a CEO, one journalist quipped. Just how many of those challenges can one CEO and one company tackle?As the power and influence of technology firms grow, there is an increasing obligation for them to make a positive contribution to the world. A mission to “change the world” isn’t enough if that only means creating a niche product that makes billions for already wealthy business people.Instead of recreating Jun’s success in America’s biggest cities, what about taking that expertise to the world, where having a smartphone and internet connection is a luxury. Inequality has never been more pronounced, yet technology should be giving more people access to knowledge, opportunity and skills.Tech companies are right to look outside their bubble of privilege, but they could do so much more. We don’t need rock stars; we need tech firms to apply their talent, resource and privilege to solving the world’s biggest problems. What could we achieve then?
Want to get into VR but can’t stomach a rollercoaster ride? London-based design studio FIELD has an alternative.Dubbed “Quasar”, the project consists of three sculpted helmets, containing fibreglass, each kitted out with an Oculus Rift headset that plunge wearers into futuristic scenes while motion-tracking armbands allow them to interact with each virtual environment. “Each experience has a slightly different control mechanism and completely different visuals and sound,” Field’s creative director, Marcus Wendt, toldTech Monthly.Exploring the disconnect between real and virtual and our constant quest for the “new”, the helmets are themed on male, female and androgynous adventurers, representing increasingly futuristic scenarios. The male transports the wearer to the outer atmosphere of the sun where motion is achieved through swimming-style arm movements, while the androgynous one allows you to manipulate and play with abstract, exploding shapes. The female helmet, meanwhile, places the wearer in an intergalactic space where a swoosh of the hand generates new galaxies and nebula. “It’s really calming and it’s a nice pleasant experience. There is no shooting involved,” says Wendt. “It’s more like going to a sauna or a spa.”It’s an application far removed from VR’s burgeoning role in fuelling adrenalin-filled fantasies, instead exploring a more aesthetic approach. “I think what we are aiming to do is make these intuitive playful experiences that can hardly be described with words but that function on a sensorial, emotional level – basically like being able to play with sound and sculpting sound with your hands,” Wendt says.Recently on show in London, the project is set to go on international tour later this year, while the team is hoping to release the virtual experiences through a downloadable app this autumn – an approach that Wendt hopes will not only bring the project to a wider audience, but also inspire young technologists to further develop the possibilities for VR. “There is a clear need to develop new concepts unique to this medium,” he says. “And because it is a lot of fun, and you can make awesome stuff with it, I am sure people will do it.”
The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has warned US senators that the threat from the Islamic State merits a “debate” about limiting commercial encryption – the linchpin of digital security – despite a growing chorus of technical experts who say that undermining encryption would prove an enormous boon for hackers, cybercriminals, foreign spies and terrorists.In a twin pair of appearances before the Senate’s judiciary and intelligence committees on Wednesday, James Comey testified that Isis’s use ofend-to-end encryption, whereby the messaging service being used to send information does not have access to the decryption keys of those who receive it, helped the group place a “devil” on the shoulders of potential recruits “saying kill, kill, kill, kill”.Comey said that while the FBI is thus far disrupting Isis plots, “I cannot see me stopping these indefinitely”. He added: “I am not trying to scare folks.”Since October, following Apple’s decision to bolster its mobile-device security, Comey has called for a “debate” about inserting “back doors” – or “front doors”, as he prefers to call them – into encryption software, warning that “encryption threatens to lead us all to a very, very dark place”.But Comey and deputy attorney general Sally Quillian Yates testified that they do not at the moment envision proposing legislation to mandate surreptitious or backdoor access to law enforcement. Both said they did not wish the government to itself hold user encryption keys and preferred to “engage” communications providers for access, though technicians have stated that what Comey and Yates seek is fundamentally incompatible with end-to-end encryption.Comey, who is not a software engineer, said his response to that was: “Really?” He framed himself as an advocate of commercial encryption to protect personal data who believed that the finest minds of Silicon Valley can invent new modes of encryption that can work for US law enforcement and intelligence agencies without inevitably introducing security flaws.While the FBI director did not specifically cite which encrypted messaging apps Isis uses, the Guardian reported in December thatits grand mufti used WhatsAppto communicate with his former mentor. WhatsAppadopted end-to-end encryptionlast year.“I think we need to provide a court-ordered process for obtaining that data,” said Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat and former intelligence committee chair who represents Silicon Valley.But Comey’s campaign against encryption has run into a wall of opposition from digital security experts and engineers. Their response is that there is no technical way to insert a back door into security systems for governments that does not leave the door ajar for anyone – hackers, criminals, foreign intelligence services – to exploit and gain access to enormous treasure troves of user data, including medical records, financial information and much more.The cybersecurity expert Susan Landau, writing on the prominent blog Lawfare, called Comey’s vision of a security flaw only the US government could exploit “magical thinking”.Comey is aided in his fight against encryption by two allies, one natural and the other accidental. The natural ally is the National Security Agency director, Michael Rogers, who in February sparred with Yahoo’s chief of information security when the Yahoo official likened the anti-crypto push to “drilling a hole in the windshield”, saying: “I just believe that this is achievable. We’ll have to work our way through it.” The Guardian, thanks to Edward Snowden’s disclosures, revealed in September 2013 that the NSA alreadyundermines encryption.The less obvious ally is China, whomthe FBI blamed last monthfor stealing a massive hoard of federal personnel data.In May, China unveiled a national security law calling for “secure and controllable” technologies, something US and foreign companies fear is a prelude to a demand for backdoor entry into companies’ encryption software or outright provision of encryption keys.Without ever mentioning his own FBI director’s and NSA director’s similar demands, Barack ObamacastigatedChina’s anti-encryption push in March. Obama has also declined to criticize efforts in the UK, the US’s premier foreign ally, to undermine encryption. Prime minister David Cameronis proposingto introduce legislation in the autumn to force companies such as Apple, Google and Microsoft to provide access to encrypted data.Under questioning from some skeptical senators, Comey made a number of concessions. When Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, asked if foreign countries would attempt to mandate similar access, Comey replied, “I think they might.” The director acknowledged that foreign companies, exempt from any hypothetical US mandate, would be free to market encryption software.In advance of Comey’s testimony, several of the world’s leading cryptographers, alarmed by the return of a battle they thought won during the 1990s “Crypto Wars”, rejected the effort as pernicious from a security perspective andtechnologically illiterate.A paper they released on Tuesday, called “Keys Under Doormats”, said the transatlantic effort to insert backdoors into encryption was “unworkable in practice, raise[s] enormous legal and ethical questions, and would undo progress on security at a time when internet vulnerabilities are causing extreme economic harm”.Asked by Feinstein if the experts had a point, Comey said: “Maybe. If that’s the case, I guess we’re stuck.”Kevin Bankston of the New America Foundation called into question the necessity of Comey’s warnings that encryption would lead to law enforcement “going dark” against threats. Bankston, in a Tuesday blogpost, noted that the government’s latest wiretap disclosure found that state and federal governments could not accessfour encrypted conversations out of 3,554 wiretapped in 2014.Yet Yates said both that the Justice Department was “increasingly” facing the encryption challenge and that she lacked the data quantifying how serious the challenge was. Yates told the Senate judiciary committee that law enforcement declined to seek warrants in cases of encrypted communications and did not say how often it made such a decision.
Microsoft’s mobile business just keeps calling wrong numbers. On Wednesday chief executive Satya Nadella announced he had“restructured”the company’s smartphone business laying off 7,800 staff andwriting off $7.6bn.Ex-Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer’s dreams of making it big in mobilewith his 2014 purchase of Nokia Deviceshave essentially gone up in smoke.Nadellasaid: “We are moving from a strategy to grow a standalone phone business to a strategy to grow and create a vibrant Windows ecosystem including our first-party device family.”But what will happen to Microsoft’s Windows Phone and the ecosystem that it has attempted to rebuild from the demise of Windows Mobile five years ago? Nadella states that, “in the near-term, we’ll run a more effective and focused phone portfolio while retaining capability for long-term reinvention in mobility.”What that really means is that Microsoft is largely throwing in the towel on smartphone hardware. In laying off the 7,800 staff it has neutered its ability to operate a multi-device lineup under the Lumia brand.UnsustainableSince its purchase of the Lumia division, Microsoft has released a series of lacklustre consumer devices with little to differentiate themselves from the competition or previous models released under Nokia.“It is unsurprising that Microsoft has made deep cuts here. Its global smartphone marketshare has been in the low single figures in a market dominated by Android and Apple’s iPhone. That is not a sustainable position,” said Ben Wood, head of research for CCS Insight.Windows Phone sales have faltered against strong competition, even in the low-end market where Nokia smartphones performed well pre-Microsoft purchase. In one of its strongest markets, the UK, Windows Phone declined from a marketshare of 11.3% to 7.4% between the end of 2013 and the end of 2014, according to data from Kantar Worldpanel. Microsoft’s share was even smaller in the US – its home market – with just 4.3% at the end of 2014 and declining to 3.8% in the first quarter of 2015.Microsoft is on the cusp of releasing its most important version of Windows in recent memory. Windows 10 promised to unify Microsoft’s range of Windows devices, from desktop computers, to laptops, convertibles, tablets and even phones.But it currently has very few big-name manufacturers actually making Windows Phones – Nokia was its primary customer. That is unlikely to change in the near term. It has a growing collection of small, no-name Chinese manufactures, and will likely be attempting to bring China’s largest Windows PC manufacturer, Lenovo, on board.In the immediate term, Microsoft is more likely to attempt to approach the mobile device segment from other angles.Apps, Office and others’ platformsIt has begun spreading signature Microsoft apps onto other smartphone platforms. On Google’s Android operating system, Microsoft has over 10 apps available including OneDrive, OneNote, Office, Outlook and Xbox Smartglass. Microsoft has around 60 apps on Apple’s iOS running on the iPhone and the iPad, including games.In fact Microsoft has recently been making deals with Android smartphone and tablet manufacturers to pre-install a small army of its apps on big-name devices from Sony, HTC, Samsung and others.Wood says: “Microsoft’s decision to put high-quality versions of its Office suite on Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS was the nail in the coffin of Windows Phone. It will be very pleased if everyone buys a subscription to Office 365 to use it on others’ platforms as that’s a much more sustainable business.”Microsoft is obviously concentrating on integrating its services into others’ platforms and to allow them to link in with the greater Windows ecosystem without relying on specific Windows Phone handsets.But Microsoft will also need a proof of concept smartphone line, similar to what it is doing with its two-in-oneSurface tabletsto show people what is possible with a Windows smartphone, if it is to entice third-party manufacturers. It could extend the Surface line to smaller devices, although it is never likely to be a volume player.“A Surface business model versus a fully fledged portfolio fits better with Nadella’s vision for Microsoft,”said Carolina Milanesi, chief of research for Kantar Worldpanel.For now the future looks dim for Windows Phones, but perhaps Microsoft can make one good phone by consolidating its teams and do what Apple has managed with essentially one smartphone – now two – a year.•Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: 10 more of your questions answered
