Boasting an exaggerated comic-strip presentation, steam-powered weapons, Abraham Lincoln, Queen Victoria and a host of literary characters, it’s clear that the diminutive size of the 3DS was no bar to the imagination behindCode Name: STEAM. But what appears to be a fantastical and flippant adventure also conceals a well-engineered, finely balanced, turn-based strategy game.Here, developer Intelligent Systems revisits the detailed battles of itsAdvance Warsseries with a new first-person perspective, real-time elements and a game-changing overwatch feature – in which saving enough “Steam” action points offers the  opportunity to counter-attack enemies during their turn.The frustratingly slow opponent phase has been speeded up with a patch ready for the UK release, but even this doesn’t detract from both the game’s steady difficulty curve and welcome accommodation of newcomers. Strategy purists may balk at being able to undo mistaken movements but this is a helpful (and optional) feature for learning the ropes. Fire Emblem amiibo figurines also add the Marth, Ike, Robin and Lucina characters to your team with new weapons and minor tactical advantages.Put together, it is hugely successful, not only offering an accessible strategy adventure with charismatic heroes and a fistful of innovations but one that in doing so refreshes the somewhat tired turn-based genre.
Idol singers – Japan’s hordes of manufactured female performers – aren’t a concept really seen in the west, making this colourful Japanese role-playing game centred on them a curious release. But move past the culture shock, and there is a solid entry into the genre here, offering a detailed turn-based combat system and surprisingly fun characters.In the world ofOmega Quintet, a phenomenon dubbed “Blare” threatens humanity’s survival. Only young women capable of channelling music into power can fight back. As Takt, childhood friend of the newest of these “verse maidens”, you serve as manager to the team, equal parts guiding their careers as singers and ensuring they’re ready for battle.However, the game suffers from an identity crisis. Between conventional role playing, band management, and visual novel moments, it doesn’t seem to know exactly what to be. An ambitious combination but one anime fans will enjoy far more than mainstream gamers.
Coming from a man preparing to clamber into the cockpit of a sleek machine called Jet Reaction, designed to travel at 400mph, it was a surprising admission. “I don’t really like going fast. It’s scary and bloody uncomfortable. Frankly, driving it is a pain in the arse.”Still, if all goes to plan, Richard Brown will behind the controls ofJet Reactionlater this year at the Bonneville salt flats in Utah, US, when he tries to break the two-wheeled land speed record. “No, it’s not about the thrill of speed at all,” says Brown, 50, an engineer from Oxfordshire, who makes his living buying and selling machine parts. “I’m prepared to drive it because it’s necessary but I don’t like it.”Members of the Jet Reaction team polish the bike – most are volunteer enthusiasts.Photograph: Dimitris Legakis/Athena Picture AgencyWhat it is about for Brown is the engineering challenge of building a machine that goes that fast. “I’ve always been fascinated by propulsion and by how things work,” he said. “It’s the puzzling things out that really interests me, the solving problems.”Brown is at a British equivalent to the American salt flats synonymous with land speed records this weekend, to tweak and test his machine. When the tide sweeps out at Pendine Sands in Carmarthenshire, south-west Wales, it leaves – as long as the wind is helpful – a long stretch of flat sand.In 1924, Malcolm Campbellset a world land speed record of 146.16 mphhere in his Sunbeam 350HP car, Blue Bird. Earlier this month, the actorIdris Elba hit 180.361mphon Pendine in a Bentley Continental GT Speed. This weekend speed fans descended to whizz along the beach on modern and vintage motorcycles and souped-up cars.The Jet Reaction is a league above even those customised vehicles, it is propelled by the sort of engine more usually found driving a Sea King helicopter’s rotor blades. Brown redesigned that engine so it would provide the forward thrust needed. He built a bespoke jet pipe that could jink past the rear wheel and added an afterburner to give the extra kick needed. Stopping is another problem – first a parachute is released to slow it down, before a rear-wheel brake can bite.The controls of the Jet Reaction.Photograph: Dimitris Legakis/Athena Picture AgencyJet Reaction is Brown’s third attempt to make history. In 1999 he came tantalisingly close when he rode his rocket powered creation,the Gillette Mach 3 Challenger,to an officially recorded speed of 332.887mph – the fastest speed ever seen on two wheels at that time. Sadly, he was unable to complete a return run due to track conditions and so was not entitled to claim the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme record.That machine was retired to theNational Motorcycle Museumin the West Midlands and Brown set about creating an even faster version. Jet Reaction took four years to design and one to build at Brown’s workshop, from where he also runs his business. “It’s very much a part-time project. I have to earn a living,” he said. The charm of the venture lies in its cheerful amateur nature. Brown is helped by mates and speed enthusiasts – who rejoice in nicknames such as Ginge and Mutley. They give up their time for free; his wife Paula, was on the beach this weekend, providing support – with a flask of tea, and sandwiches.Jet Bike (and designer/pilot Richard Brown) on Pendine Sands, Wales.pic.twitter.com/smY2FEkHOo&mdash; steven morris  (@stevenmorris20)May 24, 2015Brown is reluctant to discuss how much the project has cost. “I’d rather not think about it,” he said. His PR puts the price of the machine at about £100,000 but that does not take into account his or others’ time. The contrast between Brown’s efforts and those of theBloodhound SSCteam who are based just down the coast at Avonmouth, near Bristol, is striking. Brown estimates the Bloodhound project – an attempt to break the 1,000mph mark - would swallow up his budget within two days.While Bloodhound attracts blue-chip sponsors, no high-profile company has come forward to back Brown. That may be largely because Brown, as well as being a reluctant speed fiend, does not much like talking about or promoting his efforts. Nor, for that matter, does he have an exciting nickname. UnlikeRocky “The Rocket Man” Robinson,from California, who holds the current record – 376.363mph. Robinson and the machine he pilots –Top 1 Ack Attack– will also be in Utah in September, aiming to break the 400mph mark.Because Pendine tends to be windier and wobblier (“a bit squirmy” is how Brown puts it) than Bonneville, Jet Reaction was being tested on three wheels this weekend. In a few months, the two back wheels will be removed to be replaced by one, Brown will don his bright blue, flame retardant suit and boots, climb into the cockpit, throttle up, hit a button and, hopefully, zoom into the record books.
Price from £33,950MPG up to 67.3Top speed 155mphMy friend sometimes talks about her father’s “reversing face”. As a child, sitting in the back, vinyl seats sticking to her bare legs, she’d watch her dad prepare to reverse – always a big deal back then. The gearstick would be wrestled with, the mirror adjusted, an arm would be stretched across the back of the passenger seat and, finally, mouth open, tongue lolling, there’d be some grunting followed by: “Get your head down, for God’s sake!”It makes me think about my “driving face”. Do I even have one? I asked my wife and she said I often go a bit “Geoffrey Palmer”. That’s not the look I’ve been going for.The faces we wear at the wheel could be used to make our driving safer. BMW has announced a three-year project with Loughborough University to determine your state of mind from the look on your face. Anger and disgust, for instance, can be read by computer software linked to embedded cameras. These expressions of “emotional stress” indicate your driving is compromised. The vehicle’s computer could then decide to take action. It could limit your speed or stop the car altogether. It could activate passive safety features or maybe a stern verbal warning: “Get a grip, you dick!”Inner vision: the convertible is almost identical on the inside to the coupe, but minus the roof obviously.Anyway, a look of anger or disgust would be unlikely inBMW’s new 4-Series convertible. It’s more likely to be one of beatific serenity. The car replaces the much-loved 3-Series convertible. It uses the body and interior of the new 4-Series coupé, replacing its fixed roof with a clever three-piece folding hard top. In the past few years there has been a move away from folding tin tops back to traditional fabric roofs – the wisdom being that hard tops are quieter and safer, but also heavier and bulkier. And this means they ruin the aesthetic line of a car. This BMW, however, sidesteps that bulbous rear end and still looks sleek and balanced.The roof engineering does add a lot of weight though: almost 300kg. That’s like driving around with three rugby props in the back – which would obviously be good for banter, but it’s crap for driving dynamics. The car is still fast and gloriously smooth, but it doesn’t have the electric snap of its coupé sister. That didn’t bother me: I seem to be driving more slowly and more conservatively with each passing year (amber now means brake, not floor it), but aggressive drivers might prefer something less tame. A range of engines and specs are on offer. The most economical is the 420d, while the most powerful is the 435i.Inside, the roofed and the roofless are identical and both are proper premium. Leather flows unchecked. The infotainment screen looks like an iPad that’s been casually propped on the dash, which makes it seem like an afterthought. It also features a touchpad controller which you can write on with your finger. Why?There’s the usual host of smart technologies to keep you safe and comfortable on the road, including a full rear camera with parking alerts. So you’ll never need to make your reversing face again.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
US authorities are looking into how British users of the taxi-booking app Uber have been charged for journeys they did not either book or make.The minicab service, which charges users a fare depending on demand and distance travelled, says it has found no evidence of a security breach, although a number of UK users say they have had money withdrawn from their accounts for phantom trips.The development comes as Uber is thrust into a major political battle that could see the introduction of laws designed to curb its growth.In response to mountingopposition to the service from London’s black-cab drivers,mayor Boris Johnson is understood to be pushingfor the inclusion in this week’s Queen’s Speech of a proposal to cap the number of minicab licences in the capital.Uber users reporting that their accounts have been compromised in recent weeks include TV presenterAnthea Turner, who tweetedto Uber: “Account has been hacked nothing to help me on website – this is ridiculous.”Another user said: “I woke up in London to find it said I had taken a $260 [£170] ride in a limousine in California. Because of the time lag, it had been ordered in the middle of the night here. I didn’t receive the notification until I looked at my phone in the morning.”This follows speculation that Uber users’ account credentialshave been found for saleon the “dark net”, a collection of thousands of websites that use anonymity tools to hide their internet provider address to enable them to carry out criminal activity. Once purchased, these accounts reportedly allow buyers to order rides using whatever payment information is on file.Therapid rise of Uberhas prompted a furious response from London’s black-cab drivers, who recently warned mayor Johnson that the death of the industry would take place “on his watch” unless he revoked the app’s licence.Although Johnson has admitted that Uber’s popularity is driven by “the desire of millions of people in London to travel more cheaply”, he appears determined to help halt its growth.The number of minicabs in the capital has increased by nearly a fifth in the past year to more than 78,000. Uber has about 14,000 drivers in London, making it the largest provider of private hires in the city. The number of minicabs in London is thought to be increasing by around 1,000 a month, and the UK alone has a million registered Uber users.Uber has said moves to curb its activities would mean higher prices for millions of travellers in London.Jo Bertram, the head of Uber’s business in the UK, has said new regulations should “protect people, their personal safety and their pockets, not hamper innovations they value and that make their lives easier”.When asked about the compromised accounts, she said Uber users should make sure they used unique passwords and confirmed that the company had notified the US authorities that accounts had been violated as they investigate the security breach.“We take any issue of this nature very seriously and, after investigating, have found no evidence of a breach at Uber. Attempting to access and use Uber accounts fraudulently is illegal and we notify the authorities about such activity.”Bertram added: “Anyone who is charged for a trip they didn’t book or take will get a refund.”Last week the first test vehicle for Uber’s self-driving car programme wasspotteddriving around the streets of Pittsburgh.This article was amended on 25 May 2015. An earlier version said the FBI was investigating the “phantom” cab rides. That has been amended to say US authorities are investigating.
When a technology journalist suggested toSteve Jobs, in 2010, thathis children must have loved the just-released iPad, he replied flatly: “They haven’t used it. We limit how much technology our kids use at home.” His former righthand man,Jonathan Ive, whose design for the iPad is so simple that toddlers can operate it, recently revealed that he setsstrict limitsfor his 10-year-old twin boys.Steiner Waldorf schools, which exclude screen time before the age of 12 in favour of physical activity, art and experiential learning, are particularly popular with Silicon Valley executives and their UK counterparts. Kevin Avison, executive officer of the Steiner Waldorf Schools Fellowship in the UK, says that when he was teaching near Reading, “nearly 50% of parents of children in the class worked at Oracle or other hi-tech computer companies”.This approach is much more stringent than official guidelines recommend. TheAmerican Academy of Pediatrics discourages any screen time for the first two years of life, but after that recommends no more than one to two hours a day, no screens in children’s bedrooms and enforcing meal-time and bedtime media-device curfews. In the UK, the only official screen-time ruling comes from theNational Institute for Health and Care Excellence, which recently advised trying TV-free days, or limiting it to fewer than two hours a day, to maintain a healthy weight.According toOfcom’s latest Media Use and Attitudes Report, seven in 10 of the UK’s five- to 15-year-olds have access to tablet computers, with 34% owning their own. Households often have more than one laptop, smartphone, games console and TV, too. There are concerns that these devices have negative impacts on children’s attention spans and social development, as well as their physical health (not to mention the additional worries of exposure to sex, violence and cyberbullying). But how much screen time is too much? We asked the real experts.‘It inspires them to draw and create’Johnny Taylor of Mind Candy with his partner, Gina North, and their children Leon, eight, and Myla, six.Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianJohnny Taylor is art director at games company Mind Candy, which makes Moshi Monsters and World Of Warriors. He lives in Brighton and has an eight-year-old son and a six-year-old daughter.We have loose rules. I don’t say my children must have only two hours’ screen time a day, but it often ends up like that. Technology is part of their life, and as a parent I have to make sure that other things are just as important, like going out, exercising, drawing and being creative. At weekends, my son can play computer games as long as he’s done his homework, but a lot of times, his homework involves screen time, too.We’ve got a Nintendo Wii. My daughter has an iPod touch, and we’ve got two iPads, a Nexus tablet and a couple of computers. I’m the keeper of the passwords, so they can’t download games without our permission.We have all the safety features turned on, and they’re pretty good at knowing what they should be looking at. Once, I found my daughter watching videos about pregnant parents. She said: “I really love babies. I just want to see babies being born.”World Of Warriorswas inspired by my son. He loved play-fighting and I’d say to him, “Maybe fighting’s not the best thing.” We talked about warriors in the past – Ottomans, Vikings and Romans – and how they shaped the world we live in. He was fascinated, and it led to this game idea that is about collecting warriors throughout history. It’s covertly educational.I got home the other night and couldn’t wait to show my son the new Mario Kart, because we’ve been playing it together. It’s a racing game that’s been out since I was young, and now my son’s into it and collects the toys. It doesn’t stop at the device, for a lot of children; it inspires them to draw and make things, and play with toys.It’s easy for technology to take over, so we try to manage that and make sure the kids aren’t all red-faced and anxious. They’re not involved in social media yet, although my son’s really into swimming and I find him watchingMichael Phelpsvideos on the iPad. I’ve been videoing him swimming in competitions, and he’s started asking if we can post them on YouTube. I haven’t, because I don’t have permission from the other children’s parents, and I feel that he is a little young now.‘No TV or computers before age 12’Pierre Laurent, a former Microsoft and Intel marketing manager, is currently working on a Silicon Valley startup. He has two daughters, aged nine and 15, and a 17-year-old son.I love computers. They can do wonderful things, if you use them properly. But you can overuse technology, and become a slave to it.We allowed screen time for our son until he was two. Then I read a book calledThe Growth Of The Mind, by Stanley Greenspan, which explains how we learn when we are small through our interaction with the world, and because of emotions.We did some research, and started connecting with Waldorf schools – which all our children attend. We saw that Waldorf teenagers had a different way of approaching adults and were very interested in the world. We decided that there’s no harm in not exposing children to screens until they’re big enough. It can only be beneficial. Young children like stories, to play with things, sing, make things, build and be in nature. So that’s what we did. They haven’t complained.There isn't an intent to harm children, but there’s an intent to keep them engagedYou could offer an hour’s screen time a day, but media products are designed to keep people’s attention. It’s not that there’s an intent to harm children, but there’s an intent to keep them engaged. In the late 90s, when I was working at Intel and my first child was born, we had what was called the “war of the eyeballs”. People don’t want you to wander and start playing with another product, so it has a hooking effect. It looks like it’s soothing your child and keeping them busy so you can do something else, but that effect is not very good for small children.It stops them discovering the world with their senses. And there’s a risk to attention. It’s not scientifically proven yet, but there’s an idea that attention is like a muscle that we build. It’s about being able to tune out all the distraction and focus on one thing. When you engage with these devices, you don’t build that capacity. It’s computer-aided attention; you’re not learning to do it.Our children start interacting with computers and smartphones at around 12. When they’re in the house, they put the phones to charge on the table in the hallway and don’t use them much. My son has a Facebook account and uses email, and he does some texting. He’s connected and engaged, but he’s not a slave to technology. He started getting interested in video games when he was 14, because that’s how he keeps in touch with his cousin in Europe – through a multiplayer game about the Napoleonic wars.We’ve also had a no-TV rule, and they watched movies maybe once during the weekend, and we ease it out as they grow up. My son is pretty much free to watch what he wants now, but he’s good at self-regulating, partly because he has built other interests.‘I let them play on devices – it beats being thrown out of a restaurant’Anne Wojcicki is co-founder and CEO of gene-testing startup23andme. She has a six-year-old son and a three-year-old daughter with Google co-founder Sergey Brin.Being in Silicon Valley makes me strict when it comes to my children’s technology use. I am surrounded by it all day, so I try to avoid it when I get home. I set screen-time limits, because I think it’s good to diversify activities.My son has an iPod touch, so he can text me when he comes home from school to tell me about his day. In terms of kids’ apps and games, I lovedStarfall, which helps teach phonics, and I useBrainPop, the educational website with videos and games, a lot now.I tried to minimise exposure to technology before two. After that, I’ve taught the kids to use devices in moderation. It’s important for them to learn how to control their behaviour themselves. Simply restricting access makes them want it more. Yes, I worry about what they might be exposed to on the internet, but I think it’s more important to teach children judgment. You can’t shield them from everything, so you need to teach them to make good decisions. I do let the kids play on devices when we eat out – it’s better than being thrown out of a restaurant. And I let them play with them on their own.It’s very important that children learn to use technology – it’s part of life – but also that they learn when to put it down. They don’t put up a fight. The five-minute warning always works.I don’t get a thrill out of seeing my kids using tech, and they haven’t triedGoogle Glass. I much prefer when they get wonder out of picking strawberries in the garden. That said, I do love that my son texts me. He has all kinds of fun uses for emoticons.‘I’ve taught the kids to use devices in moderation,’ says Anne Wojcicki. ‘It’s important for them to learn how to control their behaviour themselves. Simply restricting access makes them want it more.’ Picture posed by models.Photograph: Perou for the Guardian‘They both have Twitter accounts ’Rachel Bremer is Twitter’s head of international communications. She has a five-year-old son and a two-year-old daughter, and lives in London.We’re still in the early stages. They use our devices, under our supervision, so I can help them understand the right ways to use the web and the value they can get out of it. My son is curious, and loves watching videos about space shuttles taking off and finding out what different animals like to eat. We’re helping them see technology as a way of finding out more about the world, rather than just a source of entertainment.When I was growing up, I wasn’t allowed to play video games. My dad worked at Apple, so we had computers around the house, but the things I played on them involved maths, learning and writing. This has probably influenced my parenting more than working in technology has. My son plays games from kids’ apps on our phones, but they have to be educational – puzzles or problem-solving. When they get older, we’ll give them more freedom, but we’ll probably have a certain amount of screen time that they’re allowed, in a day or week, and they’ll be able to choose how they spend that time.We use iPhones and iPads when we’re travelling. Travelling as much as you can with kids is a great way to broaden their world view. If it takes some iPad time to get you to an interesting destination and keep everyone happy, there’s nothing wrong with that – as long as you’re not bothering other people.Both children have had private Twitter accounts since they were born, which we use to share photos and videos. Our families are in the US, so it’s a way to stay in touch. We usedPeriscope, the live-streaming app Twitter just bought, privately to broadcast our son’s school assembly for his grandparents. We’re gradually getting our son comfortable with social media. I wouldn’t want to restrict it for my children altogether, and then one day in the future open the floodgates and let them at it.It seems like the longer he uses a device or watches something, the harder it is to get him to give it up. We’re clear with him that when he gets upset about putting it down, then he won’t get to use it again. That’s part of it: teaching them that they have to walk away.‘We follow our son on Instagram’Nitin Ganatra is a wearable technology software developer and former Apple staffer. He worked on iPhone software from the initial development stage until IOS version 5.1 (2012). He has two sons, aged 10 and 12, and lives in California.We do have quite a few gadgets around: iPads; my oldest son has an iPhone, and my younger son has an old iPhone, but it’s not on a plan so it operates like an iPod touch. My oldest son also has a Kindle Fire, and we have a PlayStation 4. We’re pretty strict on that, because my wife doesn’t like violent games. We have rules about having your homework done and playing outside before coming in and hunkering down in front of the TV.My 10-year-old has an Instagram account. It has to be a private account, and we follow him. With his phone, one of the rules is that at any moment we can take a look. We have had talks with him about making sure that only people he knows can follow him.He does a pretty good job. At first, we were more suspicious and wanted to know what he was chatting about with his friends. These days, we don’t look too often: we felt a little bit like stalkers. We also have “find my friend” turned on, so we always know where he is. We do stalk him quite a bit in that way.They both need to use the internet for homework and have their own user accounts on our laptops. The deal is that work on a laptop has to be done in an open area – you can’t hole up in your room with the computer.My line of work affects how I view their screen use. Even though I’m pro-technology, I don’t want it to be all-consuming. It’s easy to get so wrapped up very quickly. I try to limit the amount of time I spend in front of a screen as well. Humans are not designed to sit for too long, staring at a fixed distance. In addition, there are benefits to being outside: sunlight, social interactions, learning. If my kids have a fight with a buddy, they need to resolve these things in person, and not come in and complain on social media about it.But some of the things I owe my current career to go way back to those times when I was fascinated by a video game, and how the thing worked. I’d like to foster a little bit of that excitement around technology in my children. I love to see them using technology I helped create. It’s my physical baby playing with my work baby.‘I don’t want her to get obsessed’Karim Dia Toubajie of Songkick with his wife, Joanna, and their daughter, Freida.Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianKarim Dia Toubajie is an interaction designer at band-and-gig-tracking website Songkick, and previously worked for PlayStation. He has a 16-month-old daughter and lives in London.My wife and I are pretty conscious about exposing our daughter to too much early on. We both like creative play, so prefer her to focus on toys, crayons and books. She seems more stimulated by texture, smell and physical movement, which digital can’t really provide. That said, if I use my phone in her proximity, she is attracted by the bright light and will want to grab it off me – denied!Her current usage is limited to a xylophone app on my phone – which looks like her real xylophone – if she needs an emergency distraction. She’ll normally play for about 10 to 20 seconds before activating the home screen. About once a week, when she has come into our bed in the morning, we’ll let her watch CBeebies on the iPlayer app, so we can grab a few extra winks. But she only watches for a couple of minutes before resorting to crazed swiping and button hitting.At Christmas, we spent a weekend with a six-year-old who watchedMinecraftYouTube videos for about 10 hours daily, and I’m conscious of how easy it might be for children to get obsessed with digital. Working in technology, I’m also aware how these channels are designed for continual user journeys, with no defined end point. Some games that parents consider harmless, like Farmville, encourage in-app purchases in order to progress in the game, and stories have circulated online about people becoming so obsessed with it that they’re neglecting their children, or children have taken their parents’ credit cards. These kinds of games are designed to capture revenue by capitalising on certain parts of human nature, to be addictive.However, some games are culturally important. To makeThe Last Of Us, on PlayStation, they brought together hundreds of people in the arts – musicians, designers, actors – who effectively created film-sized games.Monument Valley’s another example. That’s definitely a game I’d let my daughter play when she’s older. And I’ll start getting her into programming. But I’ll take a similar approach to my parents: I didn’t get a computer until I was 11, and then it was one hour a day. I’d like my daughter to have a diverse set of hobbies, and not get obsessed.‘My daughter said the cinema was the biggest iPad she’d ever seen’Alex Evans is co-founder and technical director of games company Media Molecule, and creator of the game LittleBigPlanet. He has a daughter aged four and a one-year-old son, and lives in London.I don’t play games myself, but I’ve always been obsessed with making them. When I was a child, I’d wake up at five in the morning and play Lego until I went to sleep, and then it was computers – to make my Lego models come to life. My parents chose not to limit me, because I think my mum, who is a composer, decided it was sufficiently creative. I put in my 10,000 hours, and it is now my profession. So with my kids, if I feel they’re doing something that is sufficiently creative or stimulating, I’ll let them carry on. As long as there are other things in their lives, like reading and playing outside and everything else, it doesn’t bother me.The universal obsession is Minecraft. It is a remarkably creative and social endeavour. It’s the game Lego said they wish they’d made – it’s mostly about building things out of blocks. It’s hard for our generation to understand, but it isn’t just a game: there’s a culture and community that’s evolved around it, through YouTube and books.We do a terrible thing if she’s playing up in a restaurant: we’ll use the iPad as a digital pacifierTheCandy Crushtypes of games, that are mindlessly addictive, are mostly played by commuters on the train. Violent games are a media touchpoint, but they’re the equivalent of Transformers in the cinema – the noisy minority. If my kids had a diet of blockbusters only, that would be a shame, but if you look at what most kids consume games-wise, it’s far more varied and interesting than what my generation has consumed. Maybe my limiting will be saying, “Hey, have you tried this game or watched this movie?” I’ll try to broaden rather than limit.My daughter recently went to the cinema for the first time and told me it was “like the biggest iPad you’ve ever seen”. Her gaming reference point isn’t video games on TV any more, but the iPad. Even my one-year-old is already aware of what an iPad is and how to unlock it. The games brands my daughter loves are Sega Mini, which has an exploratory feel, and Toca Boca, who do things like Hair Salon. She doesn’t spend hours on it yet, so I haven’t had to be heavy-handed.I bought her an iPad mini, which has been by her side and is now battered. We do a terrible thing, which you’ll frown at, but if she’s playing up in a restaurant, we’ll put on the iPad and use it as a digital pacifier. That’s the one time when I question my parenting. It’s me pushing it on her – she’s not asking for it. It’s literally like a dummy. It’s like saying, “Please go into your own world so I can have a conversation.”‘His grandfather sent him a Vine’Ryan Swigart, a web designer at Vine, has a three-and-a-half-month-old boy and lives in New York.Having a baby has made me very aware of my own habits. His exposure to technology is something I’m thinking about constantly: how much do I have the phone or television on? Technology enhances your ability to do all kinds of good things, but also passively to absorb stimulation. When you’re young, especially, learning happens better when you’re physically active: not only because it gets the blood flowing, but also because you’re using all your senses, which helps you remember things. If you allow someone to be stimulated so easily, there’s not much motivation to put work into that relationship.Not to demonise any particular technology, but I want to be very involved in how much and what sort of information is coming to my son. I’m wondering whether maybe 30 minutes a day of internet or television would be a good place to start, when he’s ready. He has very limited exposure now; we don’t keep a TV on at all. We do send Vine messages to family members with him, and use Facetime. My father-in-law blew a raspberry into a Vine message that loops over and over again, and he’s mesmerised by it. It could become the way he calms down from being upset, if we were to lean on that. It’s interesting how powerful it is, how one particular image has such an effect on his mood. It reminds me we need to be careful.
Certain things happened in the Mazda 2 which cannot be blamed on the Mazda 2. Epoch-defining traffic, a parking nightmare, a trip the wrong way down a one-way street (stupid sign), discourteous lateness (mine): the only way this driving week could have been worse is if I’d been arrested.Nevertheless, I blamed the car, which was roughly 10% justified. The engine felt a bit harried and over-revved, though the way the gear stick is mounted, in a high, unusual position, makes the actual shifting pretty comfortable. It’s a 1.5 litre, popular with driving schools because it doesn’t tempt you into rash exuberance, but is capable of high-risk behaviour, should you so choose it. It just seemed to need a shade more attention than other cars, and that – with the slow, not very intuitive satnav and poor visibility (the window struts interfered with peripheral vision) – amped up the anxiety.The pearlescent paint and “light stone” leather seats: I’m sure there are people who get a thrill from such things, but for me they reflect an 80s sensibility, like a shiny tracksuit.There’s a funny duality in the design, gangster touches like “privacy glass” (not blacked out, but smoky and mysterious) on the one hand, respectable credentials like a 105g/km CO2rating on the other. The combined mileage is great, even though the tank isn’t big, so you don’t go miles without having to fill up. Huge amounts of thought and effort have gone into reducing weight to achieve that efficiency and give it an engaging agility. Then they stick on a ridiculous rear-roof spoiler to fool the older driver into thinking the boot is still open. It occupies this curious space between mischief and seriousness, as though it were designed for a trainee mobster.Having said all that, it is free of almost all the moans that usually go with a small car: it is not noisy on the motorway, and never rattles. The steering is dependable but sharp, and the car never felt as though it could be tugged by a gust of wind. It feels zingy but not boisterous – and fun, especially in cities, where its size and punch get the better of pretty well every other vehicle you’ll meet.I’m not sure what question this car should answer: is it on a quest for ethical sportiness? I like to think of it carrying its own slogan, borrowed from the world of booze: “Please be a petrol head, responsibly.”Mazda 2OTR price£17,350.24Top speed114Acceleration0-62 in 9.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption62.8mpgCO2emissions105g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating7/10
Amazon has become the first technology company to abandon controversial corporate structures that divert sales and profits away from UK in the face of a clampdown imposed by George Osborne.From the start of this month the online retailer has started booking its sales through the UK, meaning resulting profits will be taxed by HMRC. The group made $8.3bn (£5.3bn) of worldwide sales from British online shoppers but for 11 years all these internet transactions have been booked in Luxembourg.A spokesman said Amazon was “now recording retail sales made to customers in the UK through the UK branch. Previously, these sales were recorded in Luxembourg”.The move will allow Amazon to avoid being caught by chancellor George Osborne’s new diverted profits tax, which came into law from April. It imposes a punitive 25% tax on groups deemed to be artificially routing profits overseas.Amazon had for years denied that its UK corporate structures were artificial or tax-motivated. The move will be greeted as a victory for the chancellor who last September singled his determination to rein in technology firms going to extraordinary lengths to avoid UK tax. “You are welcome here in Britain with open arms,” he said.“While we offer some of the lowest business taxes in the world, we expect those taxes to be paid.”Hinting at the diverted profits tax – which has popularly become known as the Google Tax – he added: “If you abuse our tax system, you abuse the trust of the British people.” A number of other countries are considering copying Osborne’s diverted profits tax.Latest moves by Amazon will put pressure on others to follow suit – particularly Google, which routes its sales through Ireland. Representatives from Amazon and Google suffered two bruising encounters with parliament’s public accounts committee over these arrangements.Committee chair Margaret Hodge told Matt Brittin, Google’s northern Europe boss, that his company’s behaviour on tax was “devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical”.She added: ”You are a company that says you ‘do no evil’. And I think that you do do evil.” Hodge was referring to Google’s long-standing corporate motto, “Don’t be evil,” which appeared in its $23bn US stock market flotation prospectus in 2004.The dressing down from Hodge, who last week announced she was stepped down from the committee, is widely credited with stirring widespread public outcry, which, in turn, put pressure on the chancellor to act. Amazon confirmed the changes to its tax affairs after the Guardian reported on Friday that its top two executives in the UK had quietly quit as directors of the online retailer’s main British company in the face of Osborne’s clampdown.Christopher North, Amazon’s managing director for the UK, and Rob McWilliam, who joined from Asda as finance director two years ago, resigned from the board ofAmazon.co.ukLtd on 1 May.North and McWilliam remain senior executives despite relinquishing their directorships, with the former continuing as country manager and head of Amazon in the UK, while McWilliam is the UK’s vice president of the consumables division.The company said: “We regularly review our business structure to ensure that we are able to best serve our customers and provide additional product and services. More than two years ago we began the process of establishing local country branches of Amazon EU Sarl, our primary retail operating company in Europe.”Sales are still being recorded by Amazon EU Sarl, a Luxembourg-registered company, but – crucially for tax purposes – will be booked in a UK branch of that company, for which a tax return must be filed with HMRC.A year ago,North claimed in an interview with the Guardianthat Amazon’s European corporate structure was not determined by tax avoidance strategies, insisting it would be impossible to route sales to UK customers through a British company paying tax to HMRC. “We just couldn’t do that,” he said. “And a single European business is going to need a single European headquarters.”Latest accounts forAmazon.co.ukLtd show sales of just £449m for 2013 and a tax charge of £4.2m. Elsewhere in its corporate filings, however, Amazon attributed $7.29bn (£4.71bn) of worldwide net sales to the UK for the same year.The UK business employs thousands of staff, many on low wages, in its network of warehouses, and also large number in sales, procurement and marketing activities. However, its revenue comes from services provided to Amazon EU Sarl, and it does not transact with British online customers.
A Canadian teen has plead guilty to more than 23 counts related to a series of “swatting” incidents across Canada and the US.Swatting, one of the teen’s tactics, involves calling in hoaxes to police in an attempt to encourage the dispatch of a heavily-armed Swat team.The 17-year-old admitted to offences including extortion, public mischief and criminal harassment on 15 May. He had been targeting gamers who played the popular multiplayer online battle arena (Moba) game League of Legends, particularly young women who played the game and their families.In a swatting incident in February, Minnesotan air force veteran Joshua Petershad his house raided by armed policewhile he was broadcasting live to thousands of viewers. The caller, Peters later said, had given his address when they told police that someone “had shot their roommate and now they were pointing their gun at them”. Then on the phone call, the police heard “two gun shots” before the call ended.The aim is typically only to scare the victim, but in practice it risks greater implications. The more hyperbolic the threats made on the call, the more likely the police will take an aggressive stance in response. Swat teams in the past haveshot and killed a man who called a suicide hotline,thrown a stun grenade in a baby’s cot, andkilled more than one family dog.The Canadian teen was responsible for an attempted swat attack on a young woman from Phoenix, Arizona, according to the local paper Tri-City News. After cyberstalking her to the point where she withdrew from university, he called the Tucson police and claimed he had shot his parents, had bombs and would kill the police. He gave her address.Five days later, he repeated the attack while the woman was visiting her parents. That time, police raided the home with a helicopter in support and escorted her father and brother out at gunpoint.Crown prosecutor Michael Bauertold the Tri-City Newsthat the victims were left shaken by his attacks. “All of his actions had a strong impact on their livelihood,” he said.The user, whose real name has not been released due to his age, has identified himself online as a member of the Lizard Squad hacking collective, and went by the handle “obnoxious”.
In 1983, when I started the free software movement, malware was so rare that each case was shocking and scandalous. Now it’s normal.To be sure, I am not talking about viruses. Malware is the name for a program designed to mistreat its users. Viruses typically are malicious, but software products and software preinstalled in products can also be malicious – and often are, when not free/libre.In 1983, the software field had become dominated by proprietary (ie nonfree) programs, and users were forbidden to change or redistribute them. I developed the GNU operating system, which isoften called Linux, to escape and end that injustice. But proprietary developers in the 1980s still had some ethical standards: they sincerely tried to make programs serve their users, even while denying users control over how they would be served.Richard Stallman developed the GNU operating system in the 80s.Photograph: Simon Kwong/Reuters/CorbisHow far things have sunk. Developers today shamelessly mistreat users; when caught, they claim that fine print in EULAs (end user licence agreements) makes it ethical. (That might, at most, make it lawful, which is different.) So many cases of proprietary malware have been reported, that we must consider any proprietary program suspect and dangerous. In the 21st century, proprietary software is computing for suckers.What sorts of wrongs are found in malware? Some programs are designed to snoop on the user. Some are designed to shackle users, such asDigital Rights Management(DRM). Some have back doors for doing remote mischief. Some even impose censorship. Some developers explicitly sabotage their users.What kinds of programs constitute malware? Operating systems, first of all. Windows snoops on users, shackles users and, on mobiles, censors apps; it also has a universal back door that allows Microsoft to remotely impose software changes. Microsoft sabotages Windows users byshowing security holes to the NSA before fixing them.Apple systems are malware too: MacOS snoops and shackles; iOS snoops, shackles, censors apps and has a back door. Even Android contains malware in a nonfree component: a back door forremote forcible installation or deinstallation of any app.What about nonfree apps? Plenty of malware there. Even humble flashlight apps for phones were found to be reporting data to companies. A recent study found that QR code scanner apps also snoop.Apps for streaming services tend to be the worst, since they are designed to shackle users against saving a copy of the data that they receive, as well as making users identify themselves so their viewing and listening habits can be tracked.TheFree Software Foundationreports onmany more cases of proprietary malware.Related:Microsoft tightens privacy policy after admitting to reading journalist's emailsWhat about other digital products? We know aboutthe smart TVandthe Barbie dollthat transmit conversations remotely. Proprietary software in cars thatstops those we used to call “car owners” from fixing “their” cars. If the car itself does not report everywhere you drive, an insurance company may charge you extra to go without a separate tracker. Meanwhile, some GPS navigators save up where you have gone in order to report back when connected to update the maps.Amazon’s Kindle e-reader reports what page of what book is being read, plus all notes and underlining the user enters; it shackles the user against sharing or even freely giving away or lending the book, and has an Orwellian back door for erasing books.Should you trust an internet of proprietary software things?Don’t be an ass.The companies that sell malwareare skilled at spinning the malfunctionalities as services to the consumerbut they could offer most of these services with freedom and anonymity if they wanted to.It is fashionable to recognise the viciousness of today’s computing only to declare resistance unthinkable. Many claim that no one could resist gratification for mere freedom and privacy. But it’s not as hard as they say. We can resist:Individually, by rejecting proprietary software and web servicesthat snoop or track.Collectively, by organising to develop free/libre replacement systems and web services that don’t track who uses them.Democratically, by legislation to criminalise various sorts of malware practices. This presupposes democracy, and democracy requires defeating treaties such as the TPP and TTIP that give companies the power to suppress democracy.Copyright 2015 Richard Stallman. Released under Creative Commons No-derivatives 4.0 License
In Splatoon, Nintendo’s uniquely family-friendly take on multiplayer shooting games, paint replaces live ammunition, charming tentacle-headed skater-types replace heavily armed Americans, and rather than simply shooting your foes, you win by spattering as much of the arena as possible in your paint’s colour. Arenas are designed like multi-level skate parks, with jumps and smooth transitions you can glide over before popping out and giving the opposition a damn good painting. Winning matches earns new weapons (if you consider a paint roller to be a weapon), but more surprising is that the chaotic and absurdly competitive multiplayer game is complemented by a fully formed single-player mode. From the basic premise, Splatoon conjures dozens of fresh ideas, combining moving platforms, grids you can slip through, and exploding paint-filled objects. Beautiful and wildly addictive, this joins Mario Kart as one of the finest multiplayer games available.Out on Fri 29 MayALSO OUT THIS WEEKWolfenstein: The Old Blood, PS4, Xbox One &amp; PCWolfensteinPhotograph: PRLooking at the bloodthirsty cartoon musclemen who inhabited last year’s Wolfenstein: The New Order, you’d never have suspected they were actually unusually sensitive and believable characters, reacting with real emotion to Nazi atrocities and the deaths of friends. The Old Blood is just as well written, but spends a lot less time on plot, concentrating instead on the raucous, meaty action as you infiltrate Castle Wolfenstein and the Alpine village beyond in search of Hitler’s henchmen in this alternate 1946. True to 1992’s Wolfenstein 3D, this also includes reanimating the dead, culminating in a superb level near the end where it actually rains flaming Nazi zombies. Complete each of its eight chapters to unlock challenge levels in which you kill enemies as quickly and stylishly as possible to earn points.Bethesda, £12.95-£13.95Drive Ahead! iPad &amp; iPhoneDrive AheadPhotograph: PRGiven how often you have your iPad with you when you’re out and about, there are surprisingly few local multiplayer games that let two or more players compete on the same screen. Drive Ahead! is one of them. Starting with two vehicles facing each other, your job is to smash in the tiny, helmeted head of the opposing driver by driving over him, slapping him with the shovel of a JCB, or flipping his car over. First to five matches wins and the only controls you have at your disposal are forward and reverse, making each engagement either so fast it’s over in seconds or oddly protracted, as you both dance around each other repeatedly failing to deliver the elusive death blow. There are numerous maps to unlock, which vary between simple flat surfaces with a divot in the middle, to levels that gradually fill up with water or have spinning blades at either side of them. Although you can play it on your own, it’s vastly more interesting, exciting and silly when played against another actual human.Dodreams, free
The first test vehicle for Uber’s self-driving car programme has been spotted driving around the streets of Pittsburgh covered in cameras and sensors.The modified Ford branded with “Uber’s Advanced Technologies Center”, was spotted on residential streets bythe Pittsburgh Business Times. Uber announced in February that it would open a research centre in Pittsburgh to develop self-driving technology to replace drivers in its taxis.“This vehicle is part of our early research efforts regarding mapping, safety and autonomy systems,” Uber said in a statement.The modified car, much like the one from Apple that wasspotted roaming San Francisco’s streetsin February, had multiple cameras and aspinning lidar sensoron the roof indicating that the car’s purpose is to map the streets. Google’s Street View and self-driving cars use similar technology.Accurate mapping at street level is one of the key cornerstones of autonomous vehicles, which rely on an accurate digital representation of the real world to guide themselves through streets and roads.Uber’s autonomous car efforts are being driven by Carnegie Mellon University, which has an advanced robotics centre that has spawned various examples of self-driving technology, including a portion of Google’s efforts.Uber chief executive Travis Kalanick has been bullish about his desire to automate the company’s cars and cut out the human element of the taxi service, which is its largest operating cost.Taxi drivers the world over have been vocal in their protest at at the encroachment of Uber cars powered by human drivers into their market. The replacement of humans with robots would allow Uber to further undercut the competition and increase it’s profits.•Google acknowledges its self-driving cars had 11 minor accidents•New self-driving Google car smaller and even less reliant on human assistance
In 2015, you canwatch news on Snapchat,watch comedy clips on Spotify, andsend money to friends in Facebook Messenger. So the news that you can now buy albums on Tinder shouldn’t come as a big surprise.Well, album in the singular. Tinder is selling the latest album by dance musician Zedd, in what looks like an experiment for an expansion of advertising (and shopping) within the dating app.Zedd has a fake profile on the app that – if fans swipe right to approve it rather than left to reject it – takes them to a link to buy his True Colors album for $3.99 – half its price on other download stores.According to Adweek, this is not a paid advertisement, but part of Tinder’s experiments to see how its app might be used officially to promote TV shows, films and music as well as other brands.EDM star Zedd is the second musician to benefit, following a test involving singer-songwriter Jason Derulo earlier in 2015. In April, Derulo got his own profile on Tinder, and when fans swiped it right they could watch the YouTube video for his Want To Want Me single.Related:Tinder hits back at research claiming 42% of its users have partnersAt the time,Forbes reportedthat more than 1.1 million people had swiped to watch in three days, with 14% of them – more than 150,000 people – tapping through to Apple’s iTunes Store where the single was being sold.Zedd’s label will be hoping that his appeal to the young singles (well,mostly singles) on Tinder will spark a surge in sales for True Colors, which was released on 21 May.Meanwhile, Tinder’s partnerships with entertainment companies could provide a new source of revenues for the dating app, alongside theTinder Plus premium subscription tier that it launched in March.
Gaming has become one of the most popular categories on YouTube thanks to the Let’s Play videos published by creators like PewDiePie, The Diamond Minecart and Stampy.Now YouTube wants to get more gamers broadcasting live, as it takes on Amazon’s live-streaming service, Twitch. YouTube is adding the ability to stream live video at 60 frames-per-second (fps) – a feature optimised for games in particular.“When you start a live stream on YouTube at 60fps, we’ll transcode your stream into 720p60 and 1080p60, which means silky smooth playback for gaming and other fast-action videos,”explained product manager Alan Joycein a blog post.Initially, the new feature will be available as a preview on HTML5-compatible browsers including Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Internet Explorer and Opera. According to Joyce, YouTube is working to expand high frame-rate viewing onto other devices, which for now will only be able to watch live streams at 30fps.YouTube is also working with some of the software and hardware companies whose products are used for live game streaming.“We know high frame rates are especially important for gaming streams, so we’ve worked with Elgato and XSplit on new versions of Elgato Game Capture, XSplit Broadcaster, and XSplit Gamecaster that support 60fps live streaming to YouTube, available for download starting today,” wrote Joyce.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestThe news follows YouTube’s introduction of non-live 60fps playback in October 2014, which has been used by a number of gaming channels.YouTube is training its sights on Twitch, which was bought by Amazon for $970m in 2014.That service ended the year with 100 million viewerswatching 16bn minutes from 1.5 million unique broadcasters a month.In March, areport by The Daily Dotclaimed YouTube was preparing to relaunch its own live-streaming platform to focus on games and eSports. Parent company Google had been tipped to acquire Twitch for $1bn before Amazon swooped in.YouTube and Twitch’s competition will not just focus on games, however. Twitch has been moving into music – another of YouTube’s most popular categories. In March, it signed a deal tostream dance event the Ultra Music Festival, while DJ-sets broadcaster Boiler Room hasjust launched a round-the-clock Twitch channel.
The chairman of the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA) has criticised Google and SoundCloud – by clear reference, if not by name – in a speech at its Ivor Novello Awards.Delivering the introductory speech at the event, Simon Darlow focused on the licensing arguments around streaming music, and specifically on companies that he feels are not respecting songwriters.“We are all well aware that streaming is becoming the dominant means of listening to music, as ownership dwindles. But streaming has not yet proven that it can provide a viable income for future generations for songwriters and composers,” said Darlow.“This is largely because some companies exploit safe harbour legislation to avoid paying fair value for music and thereby compete unfairly with those that do.”With a number of technology companies present at the awards in London, Darlow addressed the next section of his speech directly to them.“For those of you here today whose search engines provide links to software that enable people to steal songs from a service which is only licensed to stream, you are undermining the value of our music.For any of you whose company maintains that it has to pay only if it monetises our works, you too are undermining the value of our music. For any others out there who remain unlicensed and rely on notice and takedown, you are accessories to the theft of our music.All of you are making it virtually impossible for fully-licensed businesses to thrive and grow. All of you are helping to kill songwriting and composition.”The mention of “search engines” was aimed squarely at Google, and software that can rip audio from its YouTube video service. Meanwhile, “pay only if it monetises our works” was just as clear a reference to SoundCloud.The latter service has historically not paid royalties out to performers or songwriters, butin August 2014 launched its “On SoundCloud” initiativeto sell advertisements on its service and share the revenues with musicians.That has since paid out more than $2m in royalties, while SoundCloud has also been negotiating licensing deals with music labels, as well as publishers and collecting societies who act on behalf of songwriters.Related:Spotify's new features see it step up competition with AppleDarlow’s criticism came shortly after major label Sony Music began removing its catalogue from SoundCloud after a breakdown in licensing negotiations between the two companies, with Sony having cited a “lack of monetisation opportunities” as the key factor.The money earned by songwriters from streaming music is currently a hot topic within the music industry, separate from – although closely related to – the debate around how much performers make from services like YouTube and Spotify.Bodies representing songwriters and music publishers are speaking up much more about digital music and streaming in 2015, including voicing their unhappiness with the fact that labels get a much bigger share of the royalties paid out by streaming firms.SoundCloud is one of the companies caught in the middle of these rows, although it is striking some deals. For example, in May, itsigned a licensing deal with the US National Music Publishers Association(NMPA), while in November 2014 itreached an agreement with major label Warner Music Group.
Microsoft executives telephoned Conservative MPs threatening to shut down a facility in their local area because of planned IT reforms, David Cameron’s former strategy chief has claimed.Steve Hilton, who worked for Cameron in opposition and for two years in Downing Street, made the allegation as he argued the dominance of corporate lobbying in the UK was leading to bad policy-making.Asked how the government should deal with lobbyists, he said: “You just have to fight them off. I can give you specific examples: the thing I mentioned about IT contracts. Maybe there is someone here to confirm this from Microsoft? When we proposed this, Microsoft phoned Conservative MPs with Microsoft R&amp;D facilities in their constituencies and said, ‘we will close them down in your constituency if this goes through’.“And we had the same from other tech companies as well … We had the stories from the MPs saying I’ve just had this call from – sometimes a global CEO – phoning a Conservative MP, saying we will close down this plant. We just resisted. You have to be brave. You just have to say sorry: it’s the right thing to do.”Steve Hilton, the former Conservative party strategy chief, said government had to ‘fight off’ lobbyists.Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianHowever, Hilton also appeared to concede that lobbying sometimes works. Speaking in Westminster to promote his new book, he said he felt very strongly that lobbying often led to “terrible outcomes, such as a devastating impact on our health and environment” caused by the vested interests of big food companies successfully defending “toxic junk that ends up being fed to our children”.He was severely critical of the lobbying industry despite being married to a senior public affairs executive, Rachel Whetstone, who has worked for Google and is now at Uber.Another former Downing Street aide, Rohan Silva, appears to havegiven a similar account of lobbying by Microsoftin relation to open source software, in comments reported by Computer Weekly.Silva told a conference: “A day or two before we were going to give a speech, a couple of backbench MPs called the office – they said Microsoft had called them saying if we went ahead with the speech on open standards, open architecture and open source, they would cut spending or maybe close research and development centres in the constituencies of the MPs they had called.“I was pretty worried about this, to be honest. I went to see George [Osborne] and he said if Microsoft have a problem with the speech they should call us directly. I relayed that back to the MPs and we never got a call from Microsoft, so we went ahead with the speech. But for the public affairs department, the relationship was never quite the same.”Microsoft for years opposed the Conservatives’ position on open document standards, which was advocated from 2007 but not adopted by the government until 2014. The government’s standard is now open document format (ODF), which means files can be opened with free software, rather than commercial products.A Microsoft spokesperson said: “We have looked into the nearly decade-old matter and we don’t recognise these claims. Fundamentally, it is not how we operate as a business. We have an honest and open engagement with the government and this is how we will continue to work with it.”
If you’re remotely interested in strategy games, there’s a good chance you’re already familiar withWarhammer 40,000. In the nearly 30 years since it was first released, the science-fiction tabletop battle game has amassed legions of fans around the globe, spawned multiple video game adaptations and turned its publisher, Nottingham-based Games Workshop, into one of the biggest companies in the analogue gaming industry.For the uninitiated: Warhammer 40,000 is a game in which players collect armies of hand-painted miniature plastic soldiers and fight battles using a complex set of rules. One of its greatest attractions is its setting – a rich, dark, gothic universe filled with war-torn worlds and populated by a multitude of belligerent alien races.Forbidden Stars, published under licence by US studioFantasy Flight Games, is a board game played against the backdrop of this iconic setting. It casts players as commanders of warring factions vying for control of the Herakon Cluster, a newly discovered region of space affected by dangerous cosmic storms. To claim the sector and its resource-rich planets as your own, you’ll have to build mighty ships, recruit troops, colonise worlds and fight bloody battles against opposing forces.Let battle commenceFrom the moment you open its box, it’s clear that Forbidden Stars benefits from impressive production values. Almost every one of its components features beautiful and highly evocative art, and the game comes with a collection of plastic miniatures representing buildings, tanks, giant mechanical war-walkers and hulking, heavily armed spacecraft.Forbidden Stars benefits from impressive production values. The game comes with a collection of plastic miniatures representing spacecraft and ground troops.Photograph: Owen Duffy for the GuardianPlayers take control of four forces, each of which feels very different to play.Space Marines are genetically enhanced, fanatically devout super-soldiers in the service of humankind’s god-emperor. They establish military dominance by steadily upgrading their units over the course of the game.Space Orks are green-skinned marauders intent on pillage and destruction. They quickly build up their forces to overwhelm their victims with their sheer weight of numbers.The enigmatic Eldar are graceful and elusive aliens with access to advanced technology and mysterious psychic powers.And the hordes of Chaos are twisted and depraved humans who worship a pantheon of malevolent gods. They slowly gain control by spreading cultists from one planet to another, corrupting them for their own nefarious ends.Space marines are humanity’s ultimate super-soldiers, but even they’ll find life difficult in the Herakon Cluster.Photograph: Owen Duffy for the GuardianWhichever faction you favour, you’ll command a combination of ground units – used to seize control of planets and repel invasions by other players, and ships, which serve to ferry your troops between different areas of the board, batter opponents’ planets with devastating orbital bombardments and conduct huge battles against enemy spacecraft.Each round of the game sees players take turns issuing secret commands to their units by placing order tokens face-down on the board, and the way in which these are resolved is one of the most interesting and challenging aspects of the game.If players place two or more orders on the same section of the board, they form a stack with the most recently placed token on top. When all players have finished issuing commands for the turn, these chips are turned over one by one and the orders carried out.This means the first player to place a token will be the last to act, and this can be a decidedly double-edged sword. At times you’ll issue an order only to find that your enemies’ actions render it useless. At others, you’ll sit back and watch as your foes destroy one another in combat, leaving you to drift in and claim a planet for your expanding empire with minimal opposition.This means that timing your actions carefully and anticipating opponents’ moves becomes a huge part of the game. Get it right and you’ll feel like a tactical genius. Fail, and you’ll watch in dismay as your troops are slain and your hard-won worlds are overrun.War of the worldsControlling planets is crucial in Forbidden Stars. They allow you to harvest a number of different resources that can prove invaluable to your burgeoning empire. Materiel points act as an in-game currency, allowing you to produce new units. Forge tokens let you build some of the game’s most powerful ships and ground troops. Reinforcements can give your forces a sorely needed boost in combat.And combat is a huge part of this game.Whenever your forces enter the same space as an opponent’s, you’ll trigger a battle that starts with each player rolling a handful of dice. These are marked with icons denoting hits and blocks, and more powerful units add extra dice to your pool. Roll more hits than your opponent manages to block and you’ll deal damage to his or her units, potentially destroying them.But there’s far more to warfare in Forbidden Stars than dice.Each player has a faction-specific deck of combat cards which can grant you additional hits or blocks, protect your forces from harm, force your opponent to reroll some of their dice or otherwise aid your chances of emerging victorious from a fight. This means that with clever card play, a small force can defeat a much larger one – or at least hold its ground while you frantically attempt to deploy backup.Your combat deck can shift the tide of battle in your favour, even when you’re severely outnumbered.Photograph: Owen Duffy for the GuardianYou even have the ability to upgrade your combat deck over the course of the game, spending resources to add more powerful cards and scrap weaker ones. It feels almost like a game within a game, and carefully crafting your deck is both an art and a science.Related:My favourite board game: our writers pick their table-top treasuresCombat in Forbidden Stars is tense, tactical and dramatic - so it’s ironic that it’s also one of the points where the game most noticeably falls down. While battles are absolutely gripping for the players involved, they leave everyone else at the table with nothing to do until the fight is resolved, and with a bit of mental arithmetic involved in calculating the outcome, it can cause the game to drag.And this isn’t a game that needs to be made any longer. The publisher’s site suggests that a game should take two to three hours. Our group, composed of experienced gamers, took six – and even after becoming familiar with the rules we couldn’t see ourselves getting through future sessions in less than four.But if you’re looking for a deep, absorbing, strategic game that consumes entire evenings, this is it. If you’re a fan of Warhammer 40,000, it’s a must-buy. If you’re not, it’s still worthy of serious consideration.Warhammer 40,000 Forbidden Stars is currently in production and is available to pre-order from games retailers.
On 22 May 1980, Japanese arcade machine manufacturer Namco changed video games forever. Its new release, Pac-Man, was designed to appeal far beyond the teenage boys pumping coins into early shooters like Space Invaders and Galaxian. Designer Shigeo Funaki specifically set out to create a “comical” game that everyone could enjoy,especially women. His loveable lead character is effectively a pizza with a slice missing, the enemies are four cute ghosts with names like Blinky and Inky, and you collect colourful fruit for bonus scores. What could be nicer? The game would go on to sell 400,000 machines within two years and has seen countless home console conversions, updates and spin-offs. Pac-Man is a cultural icon. Everyone loves Pac-Man.He perhaps surmises that if he eats enough, he will attain … perfect roundness. But it can never happenStephen PooleBut then you look a little closer, and there’s something … dark. While most players see a cute character chugging around a maze gobbling pills and running away from cute ghosties, others build a more sinister narrative.For some cultural commentators the sheer compulsion of the game, its almost narcotic effect, is the darkness at its heart. If you’re good at it, Pac-Man ostensibly never ends. When you clear a maze, another one appears and you continue munching, driven by the “wacka wacka” sound effects. When Martin Amis wrote his now fabled book on arcade games, Invasion of the Space Invaders, his thoughts on Pac-Man largely concerned its enslaving properties: “I have seen bloodstains on the PacMan joystick [...] I know a young actress with a case of PacMan Hand so severe that her index finger looked like a section of blood pudding – yet still she played, and played through her tears of pain.”More well-known perhaps is Marcus Brigstocke’s oblique comparison between Namco’s game and the rise of the ecstasy-fuelled club culture. “If Pac-Man had affected us as kids,” he said, “We’d all be running around in dark rooms, munching pills and listening to repetitive electronic music.”Madness of Mission 6 – a Pac-Man true story by Travis PittsIn his book Trigger Happy, writer and gamer Stephen Poole saw Pac-Man as a precursor to the “survival horror” genre of games such as Resident Evil and Silent Hill. It is, after all, about being trapped in a claustrophobic location, desperately attempting to stay alive while being relentlessly tracked by supernatural enemies. As in the Resident Evil titles, ammunition (in the form of power pills) is in short supply, and only has a temporary effect on monsters. Player power is only ever fleeting, and the monsters always come back.Elsewhere, in his essay on the game,Dots, Fruit, Speed and Pills: The Happy Consciousness of Pac-Man, researcher Alex Wade draws comparisons between Pac-Man’s inescapable maze and the Labyrinths imagined by Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borges – the exits are just entrances to other parts of the whole. Similarly, comic writer Zach Weiner, has pictured the game as a sort ofterrifying Kafka-esque nightmare, in which a man wakes up to find he has been reduced to a living mouth that must consume to survive.This ties in with another interpretation of Pac-Man as the ultimate modern shopper, trapped in a cycle of meaningless consumption and endless binging on electronic treats in a sterile technological landscape. “He is the pure consumer,” wrote Poole in Trigger Happy. “With his obsessively gaping maw, he clearly only wants one thing: to feel whole, at peace with himself. He perhaps surmises that if he eats enough, in other words buys enough industrially produced goods – he will attain … perfect roundness. But it can never happen.”The most pure expression of the lurking horror behind the Pac-Man concept though, is one simple T-shirt illustration by designer Travis Pitt.NamedThe Madness of Mission 6it is effectively a Pac-Man narrative in one image: a desperate astronaut trapped on a doomed spacecraft, wolfing down anti-anxiety pills while his dead shipmates haunt his feverish mind.Funaki would be truly horrified.
Twitter is expanding its advertising offering, letting users decide to pay for their adverts based on whether or not they achieve their objectives, rather than simply paying per view.But the move comes as the company faces pressure over its self-service advertising tools, which have been used to troll and harass users of the site even after it announced a crackdown on harassment.Typically, Twitter adverts are billed based on standard metrics for online display advertising. For instance, a promoted tweet can be targeted at a certain number of users for a fixed cost (which varies depending on how specifically the tweet is targeted). But the company’s new advertising offer lets advertisers run “objective-based” campaigns.For instance, if an advertiser wants to promote a new app, they can opt to be charged only when the advertisement leads directly to an app install; while a campaign to promote a website can choose to only pay per click.Such pricing isn’t new online (cost-per-click is a standard metric for banner ads, for instance), but Twitter’s offering – which is being rolled out to all users after a 10-month trial period – is a big deal for the company. During the trial period, the ads under-performed to such an extent that it impacted the company’s bottom line:Twitter CFO Anthony Noto blamedthe fact that the company missed revenue expectations in the first quarter of 2015 on the objective-based ads.But now, Twitter is hopeful that the offering will entice more major advertisers to its platform. One early user was eBay, whose social media manager Ninad Wagle praised the ability to use ads to “get into conversations as they are happening on the platform”.“Early brand entrance into these conversations has a positive impact on our bottom line, and this campaign has opened our eyes in a data-based way to Twitter’s ability to drive traffic at scale.”Self-serviceTwitter doesn’t just sell adverts to massive corporations such as eBay. Through its self-service ad platform, the company also lets small businesses and individuals buy adverts, including promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. Over the past month, however, that functionality has been used to troll and harass users of the service.In early May, the company had to act toblock promoted tweetsby notorious white supremacist and troll Andrew ‘Weev’ Auernheimer. Auernheimer spent cash on putting racial hatred into the timelines of Twitter users. One promoted tweet read: “Whites need to stand up for one another and defend ourselves from violence and discrimination. Our race is dying.” A second read: “White pride, world wide. Do you know the 14 words?” – a reference to the white nationalist credo: “We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children.” Auernheimer later discussed plans to “have some fun using selective targeting to put some ads in front of people who might really object to my presence in their timeline”.Two weeks later, feminist writer Caitlin Roper was the direct target of another abusive use of promoted tweets, whensomeone created a fake account in her name and used it to promote a tweet urging trans people to kill themselves. The real Roper, who has spent months at the receiving end of online abuse from “men’s rights activists”, tweeted shortly after to thank friends for their support.Hi friends, someone has created a Twitter account impersonating me and tweeting hateful comments. Account suspended, thanks for your help x&mdash; Caitlin Roper (@caitlin_roper)May 20, 2015A user of anonymous image board 4Chan claimed responsibility for the attack on Roper, writing that they “bought a pre-paid credit card [and] used it to set up an anti-tranny Twitter Ads campaign”. As with Auernheimer’s tweets, the ads were taken down shortly after they went live.Twitter’s ad platform does have moderation, which is supposed to prevent objectionable tweets from showing up, but in these cases, it appears to have failed at its job. Theoretically, problematic tweets get automatically flagged, and then manual review should catch them before they are published. In practice, that didn’t happen in either of those situations.The trolling adverts are a microcosm of the broader issue Twitter has with harassment on the service. In April, the companyannouncedthe introduction of a new, always-on filter to ensure that the most obvious abuse didn’t arrive in people’s notification columns. The move came two months after Twitter’s CEO, Dick Costolo,said in a company-wide memothat “we suck at dealing with abuse”.But abuse through Twitter’s ad platform poses additional problems for the company. Since the adverts are paid for, a greater share of responsibility lands on the company’s shoulders – in the public eye, if not the law. But since the paid-for adverts are a large chunk of Twitter’s revenue stream, it can’t do too much to slow them down. Introducing pre-moderation, for instance, would easily prevent abuse; but would also cost a lot, and remove a lot of value advertisers see in the service, as they would no longer be able to seize on trends for “rapid response” advertising.Asked about tweets harassing Roper and urging transgender people to kill themselves, Twitter said only that: “As soon as we were made aware we removed the ad and suspended the account.”
Apple appears to have leaked an updated version of its cheapest smartphone, the plastic-backed iPhone 5C, now with a Touch ID sensor.The image used to advertise Apple’s new iPhone charging dock with a lightning connector shows an iPhone 5C with a red plastic back, but with a Touch ID fingerprint reader where a regular home button should be.TheiPhone 5C, released in September 2013 at the same time as its then top-of-the-range iPhone 5S, had similar specifications to the iPhone 5 from 2012. It did not have a fingerprint scanner, but used Apple’s older, simple home button.Leaked image of the new iPhone on the left, and the original iPhone 5C, without the Touch ID fingerprint sensor, on the right.The iPhone 5C was not updatedin September 2014during the announcement of the largeriPhone 6and iPhone 6 Plus, leading many to speculate that Apple’s experiment with a cheaper, less powerful iPhone had ended with the 5C.Since the release of the iPhone 6, which made the smallest current iPhone start with a screen size of 4.7in, experts had speculated that Apple might introduce a smaller, cheaper iPhone with a screen size of 4in, matching those of the iPhone 5S and older smartphones.It is possible that Apple will release a new version of the iPhone 5C, possibly called the iPhone 6C, in September when it is expected to reveal updated iPhones as part of its yearly refresh cycle.If so, an iPhone 6C is likely to feature lower-powered components compared with its higher-end iPhones, but is expected to feature a Touch ID sensor, which was also added toApple’s iPad Air 2andiPad Mini 3tablets in October last year.Having a Touch ID sensor fitted to all of Apple’s portable devices beyond its laptops would allow the company to consolidate its security and software systems around the fingerprint-recognition technology and provide support for Apple Pay – which uses Touch ID to authenticate payments – through all the company’s smartphones.The image of what appears to be an updated iPhone 5C on the Apple Store listing of the iPhone lightning dock.Photograph: AppleApple has not replied to a request for comment.•Phablets take bigger share of US smartphone market as trend spreads•Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated software
In post-Snowden America, 65% of adults say that limits on the data government agencies can collect about them are not adequate, according to a new study.Astudy by Pew Researchfound that only 6% of US adults were “very confident”, and 25% “somewhat confident”, that government agencies could keep their data private and secure.The findings come two years after theEdward Snowden leaks, published in the Guardian, revealed that the US and UK security forces had access to and collected individuals’ private phone call and internet data without permission, causing a backlash from the technology and security industries.Distrust of internet companiesAmericans show a lack of trust in internet companies, with 76% of adults saying they were “not too confident” or “not at all confident” that details of their internet activity would remain private or secure with advertising companies.Social media sites, search engines and video sites were equally distrusted, with 69%, 66% and 66% of adults saying they were not confident their data would remain private and secure in each respectively.Control over who could access Americans’ private data and who was watching them was also a concern. According to the survey, 93% of adults said being in control of who could get information about them was important and 90% said controlling which information was collected was important.Meanwhile, 88% said it was important they weren’t watched or listened in on without their permission, and half of adults thought online advertisers shouldn’t be able to track their internet activities. Only 40% of those surveyed said search engines and social media sites should not track their activity, with 44% saying the same of video sites.False informationDespite fears about data collection, surveillance and tracking, few US adults are taking extra steps to protect themselves in the post-Snowden era.Related:USA Freedom Act: Senate set to vote on first surveillance restrictions in decadesOnly 10% of adults say they encrypted their phone calls, texts or emails, and only 9% used tools such as Tor to obscure their internet activity.But more Americans have taken simpler steps, including 59% clearing browser cookies or history; 57% refusing to give information to companies or organisations when it wasn’t relevant to the transaction; and 24% giving false information.Temporary usernames and email addresses were used by 25% of people, while 23% simply decided not to use a website or service that requested a real name – a measure employed by sites and social networks in an attempt to kerb trolling and abuse.•Data protection concerns 72% of Britons in post-Snowden world, research shows
Streaming music serviceSpotify has announced new featuresincluding adding podcasts and video; music that adapts to the listener’s running pace; and the promise of smarter abilities to serve the right playlists for the time of day, activity and habits of the user.The company’s launch event in New York on Wednesday, helmed by its chief executive Daniel Ek, offered some deeper clues about how Spotify is evolving, and the key challenges it faces as it aims to grow beyond its current 60 million active users, of whom 15 million pay for the service.Spotify is biting back at AppleRecent months have seen a wave of stories aboutApple’s supposed backroom machinations with music labels, encouraging them to clamp down on Spotify’s free, unlimited streaming service – which in turn would boost the prospects for Apple’s upcoming relaunch of its Beats Music.Related:Ministry of Sound boss attacks major labels for streaming 'short-termism'Apple’s advantages include a massive war chest to pay for exclusives on big albums; the fact that it can push its music service on hundreds of millions of iOS devices; and the way rivals have to pay it 30% of any money they make from in-app subscriptions on iOS – which means many of them charge $12.99 for a monthly subscription to cover that extra cost.This is no one-way fight, though. Spotify is already thought to be one of the key complainers encouraging US and European regulators to investigate Apple’s music strategy. But it’s also taking the fight to Apple with marketing partnerships: this week it struck deals with Starbucks and Nike, who have been two of Apple’s closest partners in the past.What’s more, Spotify has been watching Apple keynotes closely, based on Wednesday’s evidence. When Daniel Ek used the words “incredible” and “profound” in his closing sentence before handing over to musician D’Angelo to close the show, it was straight out of Apple’s press-launch playbook. The rivalry has been emerging for a while, but it’s about to heat up.Playlists are the new radioPlaylists are key to Spotify’s new Now interface.In its early years, Spotify was basically a big catalogue of songs and a search box, like its rivals. In 2015, it’s becoming something very different as it seeks an ever-more-mainstream audience: something much more like radio. And this is a wider trend in the streaming music world.Playlists have become very important to Spotify: they’re front and centre on the service, including its new “Now” screen – which is based not just on algorithms to understand where you are and what you’re doing, but on the entirely human compiling of thousands of themed playlists by Spotify’s in-house team.Related:Apple Music streaming service to use more social features than PingApple’s streaming service will have a similar focus: it hasn’t just hired Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe but alsoseveral of his colleagues– and it’s alsopaying freelance music journalists to write copy for playlists. At Spotify’s press event this week, Ek made a point of praising some of his company’s hires from the world of radio, too, which was no coincidence. One of the key battlegrounds between these two companies will be who has the best curators, but also who has the best algorithms for matching those playlists to listeners.Playlists are interesting for other reasons. Every major label now has a team devoted to creating their own playlists for Spotify and rivals, while independent labels are talking about the idea of banding together to create their own equivalent. And there are individual music fans with Spotify playlists that have hundreds of thousands of followers – withlabels starting to focus as much energy on pitching tracks to those playlistersas they do to traditional radio stations.Spotify’s key rival for video is SnapchatThe knee-jerk response to Spotify adding shortform videos to its service is to suggest it’s going after YouTube. Actually, the most direct competitor isSnapchat, with its Discover initiative. The two companies both want the people initially attracted by their music or messaging to spend more time in their apps, with video clips their first move.Related:Kobalt boss defends Spotify: 'This attitude that we should kill streaming is a huge mistake'Companies like Vice Media and Maker Studios, which have lots of viewers on YouTube, are keen for partnerships elsewhere to boost their income, and will want to explore partnerships with Spotify, Snapchat, Vessel and others. But these are complementary channels to YouTube, not replacements.What’s unproven, for now, is whether Spotify is as ripe as Snapchat for video. The latter was always an app that you looked at with your phone in your hand, while the former was one you listened to with your phone in your pocket. Changing that behaviour isn’t impossible, but that’s Spotify’s challenge.Listening to podcasts and news may be less of a stretch: Spotify isn’t the only streaming music service expanding in that direction, withDeezer having announced its own movea day earlier. In both cases, it’s another element of the pitch for streaming to become the new radio – something you can expect to hear more about when Apple launches its service.Fitness is a new fuel for tech firms – Spotify includedSpotify’s new running feature will adapt to your pace.What’s the most convincing reason to buy a smartwatch right now? Activity-tracking. What’s the new feature that Spotify is seemingly most proud of this week? Matching music to people’s running pace, and even commissioning songs that vary their tempo according to that pace.Related:Spotify data hints at a 'musical midlife crisis' for 42-year-old music fansSpotify is now hoping to be the music service that helps you get fit, just as Apple and Google are hoping to run the smartwatches that help you get fit. Millions of unused gym memberships show the commercial power of our desire to be healthier – if also (for many of us) our lack of drive to follow through on that desire.My initial, cynical response to Spotify Running was that if it’s going to match my average running pace, it’ll need plenty of wheezing trip hop. More positively, there’s potential here, but it’s less about the original running music, and more about Spotify’s knowledge of me.The solution to flagging pace in a run isn’t a speedy-up Tiesto track: it’syourbattery-jolt tune. If Spotify can detect when I’m flagging in a run (ie five minutes in) and whack on Hey Boy Hey Girl by the Chemical Brothers, it’ll be on the right lines.Freemium, payouts and profitability debates won’t go awaySpotify hasn’t just been watching Apple press conferences closely: the company has learned some lessons fromTidal’s recent relaunch under the ownership of Jay Zand other famous musicians, which provoked a swift backlash.What they missed that night was the chance to talk about what Tidal would do for non-famous musicians, which is something they’ve been scrambling to rectify since – seeJack White’s comments this weekfor example.Related:10 things we learned from a day of indie labels talking digital musicSpotify’s pitch is that it will help emerging musicians find an audience: Ek announced at his press launch that Spotify users discover artists they’ve never heard before 2bn times a month, and he picked out singer/songwriter Sam Hunt and band MisterWives for having found 6m and 8m listeners respectively on Spotify.This being a press conference, he didn’t talk about bruising negotiations with major labels for Spotify’s licensing deals – and he certainly didn’t mention the leaked contract between his company and Sony Music that waspublished this week by The Verge, providing an eye-opening insight into the business terms around streaming music back in 2011. The valid question ofwhether any streaming music can turn a profitwas also off the agenda.Ek also didn’t mention the industry debate around whether Spotify’s free tier should be restricted or even removed, although it was noticeable that everything announced at the event – more emphasis on radio-style playlists, videos, commissioned running music – bolsters Spotify’s free tier as well as its premium subscription. But all those things that weren’t mentioned will be as crucial to the company’s survival as the inventive new features and partnerships that were.And artists? Making the case that Spotify can help musicians build an audience like Sam Hunt and MisterWives will be important in the coming months – playlists have a big role to play there too – while it will have to negotiate a related but even more sensitive debate around how songwriters get paid for streams of their compositions (in truth, a debate about how labels and publishers split streaming revenues, which companies like Spotify struggle to influence).“Streaming is the growth in music, and Spotify is the growth in streaming,” said Ek, in a convincing pitch for his company to become the smartest streaming music service, thanks to its new features – at least until we see what Apple has planned.But Spotify will have to be just as smart in its dealings with labels, publishers and creators in the months ahead to make that growth something that truly reshapes the music industry.
Will Windows 10 Pro cost more if I wait for the release of Windows 10? I can buy a Windows 8.1 machine and wait for a free Windows 10 upgrade, but would I be penalised for waiting to buy a laptop with Windows 10 already installed?BryantIt’s hard to get cheaper than free. Of course, we don’t know what sort of laptops the manufacturers are going to offer with Windows 10, how much they will differ from current models, and how much they will cost. However, Microsoft seems unlikely to charge hardware manufacturers more for Windows 10 than it does for Windows 8.One thing we do know is that Microsoft wants as many PCs as possible to run Windows 10: its stated aim is to have a billion users within a couple of years. Today, there are roughly 1.7bn PCs running Windows, but this is split mainly between Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 7, Vista and XP. Even a version with 6% of the market will still have about 100 million users.Life would be much simpler if everyone ran Windows 10, particularly for developers, IT support staff and Microsoft. It should also create a large market for Windows 10 universal apps that can run on PCs, Windows Mobile 10 smartphones and Xbox One games consoles.Universal apps are installed from the Windows Store and run in secure sandboxes, removing almost all of the problems that ordinary users have with downloading, installing and securing traditional Windows programs.Free upgradeMicrosoft’s “free upgrade offer*” says: “We will offer a free upgrade to Windows 10 for qualified new or existing Windows 7, Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.1 devices that upgrade in the first year.” The asterisk links to a rider that says “some hardware/software requirements apply and feature availability may vary by device”. It may not be possible to update some Windows Phone smartphones, and it won’t be possible to update Windows RT devices.The rider also says: “Windows 7 SP1 and Windows 8.1 Update required.” This implies that if you are running Windows 7 or Windows 8 then you will have to update to Windows 7 SP1 and Windows 8.1 Update – both are free – in order to get Windows 10 installed via the Windows Update service. This will deliver Windows 10 without you having to download and install the new operating system. (Technically, Microsoft could install Windows 10 on a wider range of systems, but more things could go wrong. Even a small error rate could affect tens of millions of users.)Microsoft’s Windows 10 web page invites users to sign up with their email address to get “more information about Windows 10 and the upgrade offer in the coming months”. However, Windows 7 and 8 users who installed the optionalKB3035583update already have the GWX (“Get Windows 10”) code to offer and download Windows 10.Home or Pro?If you buy a Windows 8.1 machine now, and keep it updated, then you should not have any problems installing your free Windows 10. However, you must make sure you have the correct version of Windows 8.1 for the Windows 10 you want.That is to say, Microsoft Update works on a like-for-like basis. If you have a 32-bit version of Windows 8, it will upgrade it to a 32-bit version of Windows 10, not a 64-bit version. Similarly, Microsoft Update won’t convert Windows 8.1 Home to Windows 10 Pro. If you want to end up with Windows 10 Pro, then you either have to buy a machine with 8.1 Pro pre-installed, pay for an in-place upgrade from 8.1 Home to 8.1 Pro, or buy a copy of Windows 10 Pro.Consumer PCs usually have Windows 8.1 Home installed, while business PCs usually have Windows 8.1 Pro. The latter includes many features consumers don’t need – Hyper-V virtualisation, BitLocker drive encryption, Active Directory support, the ability to set up a Remote Desktop server etc – and therefore don’t have to install or pay for.Paid upgradesMicrosoft will undoubtedly offer some special deals on Windows 10 for those not eligible for a free upgrade. Last time, for example, it offered Windows 8 upgrades from XP SP3, Vista and Windows 7 for $40 in the USA. In the UK, you could download the Windows 8 upgrade for £24.99 or get it on DVD for £49.99. If you bought one of those, you now have a “qualifying license” for a free copy of Windows 10.This year’s special deals have yet to be announced, but $40/£40 would be a good deal for those upgrading XP machines to the faster, more reliable, more versatile and more secure Windows 10.Hardware changesWindows 8 brought significant hardware changes with the UEFI start-up system, which dramatically reduced boot times, and 10-point touch-sensitive screens. Windows 7 laptops didn’t have either. However, it’s hard to see anything as dramatic with Windows 10 hardware.The new features in Windows 10 includeCortana, the digital assistant familiar from Windows Phone 8.1, andWindows Hello, which provides for face-recognition, iris and fingerprint log-ins instead of passwords. Cortana will work even if you don’t have a microphone, though that’s obviously the easiest way to use “her”.Microsoft says that “Windows Hello requires a specialised, illuminated infrared camera for facial recognition or iris detection or a fingerprint reader which supports the Windows Biometric Framework.” Apparently, Windows Hello will work with current fingerprint devices, but face recognition or iris detection needs an Intel RealSense camera, or an IR sensor that meets Microsoft’s specification.RealSensealso provides gesture control (eg waves and winks) and 3D scanning.So, not many current machines will support Windows Hello face recognition, butreportedlythe Dell Inspiron 15, HP Envy 15 and Lenovo B50-30 All-In-One do.Windows 10 is designed to provide “enterprise-grade security”, and if you want face/iris recognition, you might want to wait until more laptops support Windows Hello.Windows 10 machines may also include a sensor that tells the operating system whether it is being used as a laptop or a tablet so that it can change the user interface to match. However, this feature – called Microsoft Continuum – looks more useful on Windows phones.Many other hardware developments are coming along, such as USB 3.1 Type C ports (the new Apple MacBook has one), Direct X12 graphics and, eventually, Intel’s sixth-generation Core chips, codenamedSkylake.But you can expect these more advanced machines to cost more, while PC manufacturers may be trimming prices to clear out the ones running Windows 8.1 …Have you got a question?Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Nintendo of America has a new executive. His name is Bowser. Doug Bowser.The company announced its new hire in a press release subtitled “Doug Bowser Brings Decades of Experience, Not Fire Breath, to New Role”.Formerly the vice president of global business planning at EA, Bowser will now be in charge of sales at the Japanese firm’s American arm. And the company is embracing the coincidence of its new employee’s name.In a release, Nintendo of America announced that it “has hired a new Vice President to lead the United States sales organisation with a name that’s well-known in the Mushroom Kingdom”.“Effective today, Doug Bowser (no relation to the King Koopa and Mario’s longtime nemesis) will oversee a variety of sales-related functions, including Sales, in-store merchandising, retail strategy and retail marketing.”Sega of America is reportedly planning to counter its old rival’s new hire by appointing Dr Alan Robotnik to chief marketing officer.
Last year, the international affairs thinktank Atlantic Council made an interesting new hire. Keen to draw on ideas about the future of war from various areas of speculative fiction, the organisation – which advises on global security policy and holds meetings for heads of state and military leaders – announced that game designer Dave Anthony would become a nonresident fellow in its Brent Scowcroft Center. Anthony was, until that point, a writer on the Call of Duty: Black Ops titles.It will probably seem odd to some people: a writer from gaming’s answer to a Michael Bay popcorn flick, notionally advising policy makers on the future of armed conflict. But Treyarch, the creator of the Call of Duty: Black Ops titles, is very serious about its research. Forthcoming title Black Ops 3 is set 30 years in the future, and involves hi-tech warfare between two new international collectives – Winslow Accord and the Common Defence Pact. Cybernetic enhancement, bio-augmentation and direct neural interfacing between the brains of soldiers and computer networks are all part of the story. And Treyarch claims that all these elements come from stringent analysis of real-life scientific and military advancements.As the game’s campaign director, Jason Blundell, puts it: “If you think about Treyarch, and the number of people we have here, there’s probably only a few other institutions in the world that have spent this amount of time cross-referencing the different technologies in this sector.”So here are some of the key technologies and concepts being explored in the game – and where Treyarch got its, sometimes very scary, ideas.United Nations meeting on lethal autonomous weaponsIn the game, players will be facing both intelligent battle robots and fully automated weapons systems, both of which have been given autonomous kill orders – in other words, the ability to target and engage enemies without human input.It’s something governments and major international organisations are already concerned about. In May 2014, the United Nations hosteda four-day event in Genevato discuss the ethical ramifications of lethal autonomous weapons (LAWS).“The people employed to make policy decisions around the world are taking this stuff very seriously,” says Blundell, who told us that Treyarch has spoken to military advisors on this subject. “There’s already an autonomous weapons system in place for military convoys – it’s a simple gun on top of a vehicle, but if it detects a sniper shot, it can use its sensors to triangulate the origin of the bullet and fire in that direction. Right now, there has to be a human to push the button, but that is a trivial step to remove.”To Blundell, the big facilitator for LAWS is the huge reduction in costs for developing autonomous systems. “With cheap manufacturing, including 3D printing, and the idea of generic artificial intelligence, we’re not far away,” he says. “We touch on this in our story, but it’s becoming cheap enough to manufacture this technology, the chips are so disposable that you can create autonomous bots very cheaply – and these can be used on the battlefield.“From now on, the evolution of technology will be exponential. It will move faster than legislation can keep up with, it will become cheaper and it will be pervasive. You hear examples of people landing drones on the White House lawn – they’re so cheap, you can go to a shop, buy one and fly it out there. The law can’t move fast enough to prevent that. So when you start talking about bio-augmentation and about changing the capabilities of humans, these are important moral questions because youknowthe military will be at the forefront of those experiments.”Bio-augmentation and brain-computer interfacing – the BRAIN initiativeBio-augmentation or human enhancement, involves the use of various neurotechnologies, including neural implants, to improve the performance of the human mind and body. It’s a key theme in Black Ops 3, with the player joining a team of spec-ops soldiers who have all been augmented to allow them to run faster, jump higher and process battlefield information more quickly. Each soldier is fitted with a Direct Neural Interface (DNI), a sub-dermal technology that connects directly into their brain and spinal column and links them to a computer system. In the game, this manifests as a “tactical mode”, allowing co-op players to share information such as the positions of enemy soldiers or key objective points.According to Treyarch, the major inspiration here comes from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), the section of the US Department of Defence responsible for emerging military technologies. “They have abiotechnology office,” says Mark Lamia, Treyarch’s studio head. “Its purpose – and this has been literally stated – is to explore the intersection of biology and physical sciences. It starts with advanced prosthetics and controlling artificial limbs or treating neurological symptoms of people with PTSD. They’re talking about direct neural interfaces to help control those things, but you can see how you get to our fiction very easily. It’s not that far out.“The Obama administration has commissioned aBrain Research Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies(BRAIN) initiative, backed by $300m in funding and supported by Darpa – it is a programme researching a reliable neural interface technology. It’s publicly known that the purpose of this is not fully understood. Some of these things start in a medical setting then go to commercial, but who knows where it goes next?”Cybernetic enhancements and exoskeletonsA heavily armoured guard shows off Treyarch’s image of the cybernetically enhanced soldierIn Black Ops 3, players will be able to customise their soldiers with new cybernetic systems, giving them access to enhanced movement abilities such as higher jumps and faster sprinting. Like Sledgehammer, the studio behind last year’s Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, Treyarch has looked into current developments in cybernetic enhancement (the use of machine and computer components to replace human body parts) and robotic exoskeletons.Exoskeleton systems have been used tohelp paraplegics gain mobilityand to aidKorean dock workersin moving heavy objects. Japanese companyCyberdyne, specialises in medical and rehabilitation exoskeleton research, producing its famed Hal (Hybrid Assistive Limb) robotic technology. But, of course, the military has also been working on this sort of concept for more than 50 years, and the latest example is the United States Special Operations Command’s tactical assault Light operator suit (Talos), which offers physical enhancement as well as ballistics protection and body monitoring. There’s also Lockheed Martin and itsHULCprogram, “a completely un-tethered, hydraulic-powered anthropomorphic exoskeleton that provides users with the ability to carry loads of up to 200 pounds for extended periods of time and over all terrains”.“We’re starting to integrate this technology into our lives in very interesting ways,” says Blundell. “But as we get more comfortable, that next step isn’t too far out.”Mind reading and thought controlMind-controlled robotic armBlack Ops 3 envisions a future in which every soldier’s battlefield experience is beamed instantly to a central control station and to other soldiers – not via helmet cameras, but by direct connection to their brains and optic systems. Once again, this is something already being considered by military researchers.“Darpa has a programme called Silent Talk,” says Blundell. “It is exploring mind-reading technologies with devices that allow it to pick up electrical signals inside soldiers’ brains and then send them over the internet.” In 2008, Darpa received an initial $4m in funding to start researching the concept of a helmet that uses EEG – electroencephalography, the placing of electrodes on the scalp to pick up electrical impulses – to transmit brain waves, allowing soldiers to communicate with each other via thought alone. This would be a major advantage amid the chaos of battle. “It’d be radio without a microphone,” Dr Elmar Schmeisser, the army neuroscientist overseeing the program,told Time magazine. “Because soldiers are already trained to talk in clean, clear and formulaic ways, it would be a very small step to have them think that way.”Another aspect that has fascinated Treyarch is the user of brain-computer interfaces to give pilots more intuitive control of their planes, or to allow the remote control of robot soldiers. “For some people, this may all sound ludicrous,” says Lamia. “But last week I read an article talking about a fighter pilot controlling a plane through thoughts.” Indeed, ina recent projectat the University of Pittsburgh’s human engineering research laboratory, a quadriplegic woman was able to control a simulation of a F-35 joint strike fighter with her mind. The same research has also produceda mind-controlled robot arm, which allowed highly coordinated movement.All of which leads us to ...Remote-control roboticsPetman tests camoWhat Darpa is interested in, though, is the idea of battlefield telepresence. We’re already seeing drones being piloted remotely by human controllers, but a future step could well be remote-controlled robotic soldiers. In 2013, part of Darpa’s $2.8bn budget was allocated to a project entitled Avatar, after the James Cameron movie. The agencysaid at the time: “The program will develop interfaces and algorithms to enable a soldier to effectively partner with a semi-autonomous bipedal machine and allow it to act as the soldier’s surrogate.”Darpa already has a potential robotic host for the initiative. Petman (seen in the video above) is a humanoid robot developed by Boston Dynamics and funded by Darpa. The company’sstated goalis to test chemical-protection clothing, and perhaps to develop robots that can help in disasters such as the Fukushima nuclear plant meltdown. But many observers have seen the almost inevitable military implications: in 2013, former intelligence officer Lt Col Douglas A Pryer penned an essay onthe rise of killer robots, while Human Rights Watch has writtenan extensive reportwarning of a future in which robotic soldiers, either remotely controlled or autonomous, are effectively employed as battlefield terminators.The geopolitics of resource scarcityIn the background, global climate change is set to play a big part in Black Ops 3. As water becomes more scarce, countries align to protect and exploit natural resources. Consequently, you have powerful new factions in the game, such as the Nile River Coalition, which seeks to control the flow of water. “We’ve looked closely at the geopolitical landscape,” says Lamia. “We’ve taken direction from where global climate change has had a dramatic impact, especially in terms of the scarcity of resources, and we’ll tell that story as part of this world.”The Nile has, of course, been a major source of geopolitical tension between Egypt and neighbouring countries, andexperts say this is set to increasein the 21st century as basic resources become more scare and valuable. The really worrying thing about the future that Treyarch has envisaged after years of reading up on military research is not that there will be robots fighting wars, but that there will be robots fighting wars over access to water.
You’ve probably never heard of Huawei. With a brand name that few recognise and which many who do can’t pronounce, the Chinese company has struggled outside developing markets – but that may be about to change.Its new flagship P8 Android smartphone – thinner than an iPhone 6 – could be about to put Huawei on the map.As one of the largest mobile infrastructure companies in the world, and known for devices that take advantage of new technologies, such as 4G, first, Huawei is now aiming to mirror the success of Google’s Nexus series and offer a top-end experience at a mid-range price.Super thinMetal body and smooth sides, but an unmistakably iPhone-like look.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe P8 has a rather understated design in aluminium and glass. It looks a little like an iPhone 5 from the back, but also resembles the Argos MyTablet with white inlaid glass at the top of the back plate.Unfortunately, the resemblance doesn’t stop there. Despite being thin and well made, with smooth sides and a solid back, the finish to the aluminium looks slightly cheap.The back also sounds hollow when tapped with a finger, which is surprising given that at 6.4mm thick the P8 is one of the thinnest phones going – the iPhone 6 is 6.9mm and the Samsung Galaxy S6 6.8mm.The 5.2in full HD screen fills most of the front, with thin bezels at the sides. It’s bright, crisp and good. It’s not quite up to par with the fantastic quad HD screen fitted to the LG G4 and Galaxy S6, but is easily as good as similar screens fitted to the HTC One M9, for example.With a small body and a 5.2in screen, the P8 is one of the most manageable top-end smartphones available at the moment, although people with smaller hands will still struggle to use it one-handed.SpecificationsScreen:5.2in full HD LCD (424ppi)Processor:Octa-core Huawei Kirin 930RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:16GB + microSD cardOperating system:Android 5.0 “Lollipop” with Emotion UICamera:13MP rear camera with OIS, 8MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:Dual-Sim LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:144.9 x 72.1 x 6.4mmWeight:145gHuawei’s own siliconTwo Sims can be used at the same time, or one Sim and a microSD card for more storage.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLike Samsung, Huawei designs and makes its own processors. Its Kirin 930 has similar specifications to Qualcomm and Samsung’s latest, but with slightly less powerful graphics processors.The P8 feels snappy, if not quite as quick as the fastest-feeling Android smartphone, the Galaxy S6. Performance all round was solid, only stuttering slightly with some graphically heavy gaming.I never noticed the phone getting overly hot, which is impressive given how thin it is. Equally impressive is how the battery life. Performing general duties, including hundreds of push notifications, email, Twitter, music streaming and an hour of browsing, I got a good two days out of the P8 between charges.I also found it got and maintained a stronger 4G signal than any other smartphone I have tested.The standard P8 only has 16GB of storage built in (most high-end smartphones now come with 32GB in 2015). It has a microSD card slot for adding more storage for media, but it also doubles as a secondary Sim card slot, allowing users to have two phone numbers and two services attached to one phone.Dual-Sim support is extremely handy for those with personal and work numbers, saving needing to carry two phones, as well as those travelling and using a local Sim card.Android, but not as you’d know itThere’s no app drawer, so all the apps are thrown on to the homescreen, while app icons are circled in an ugly coloured bubble.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe P8 is an Android smartphone running version 5.0 Lollipop. But Huawei modifies Android to look very different, calling it “Emotion UI”.There is no app drawer, which means every app is forced on to the homescreen pages, much like an iPhone. The apps can be placed in folders and the homescreens behave like standard Android with moving wallpapers and widgets.The notification tray looks and behaves differently. Some apps have multiple notifications – Gmail, for instance, clusters all messages together, but a secondary notification shows each one individually.Various themes are available, which change icons as well as colours and backgrounds. Most app icons have a coloured background, which looks a mess; standard Android uses transparent background instead. Other apps have custom icons, which look a bit warped, such as Instagram.The P8 suggests you kill apps in the background that are draining the battery.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe P8 also has a few phone management tools baked in for clearing apps from the Ram. With 3GB of Ram installed, they’re a bit of an overkill, but good for those obsessed with cleaning and tweaking.Another interesting addition is a power monitor that warns you when an app is consuming battery power in the background. It rates apps in milliampere hours – a measure of battery capacity – recommending shutting down any app that uses more than 40mAh when not in use. Again this seems like overkill, but could be useful for those trying to eke out every last hour of battery life and the notifications can be turned off if they become annoying.CameraThe camera is solid and works well enough, and the app shows more than a passing resemblance to Apple’s iPhone camera app.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 13-megapixel camera is one of the best currently available. It’s not quite as sharp as the Samsung Galaxy S6 or the LG G4’s camera, but has solid low-light performance and good detail.The camera app, however, is very iPhone-like. A simple photo selector on the left, with options to enable HDR and a load of other features buried behind a menu.The front-facing camera does a solid job for selfies, although its beauty mode can create some horrifyingly alien-looking images.PriceThe 16GB version of the Huawei P8 comes in champagne or grey, costing £360, which is around £200 less than most of the competitors, including Samsung, LG, Sony, HTC and Apple. Samsung’s mid-rangeGalaxy A5 costs £349.VerdictThe aluminium back has a cheaper finish to it than you would normally expect for a smartphone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Huawei P8 is a high-end device that costs the same as a mid-range smartphone. It is very thin, light and made of metal, with a solid camera and a decent processor.It also has dual-Sim capability and good battery life, but it lacks a little polish and its alterations to Android aren’t the best.With the P8, Huawei has proved that it is a smartphone manufacturer worth paying attention to, and the P8 is certainly worth considering, especially given it costs significantly less than rivals.Pros:Very thin, solid build, decent camera, good battery life and performance.Cons:Lack of premium finish to the body, software modifications are a little unpolished and change Android significantly.A simple homescreen and software system is available, instead of the traditional layout.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive camera•Samsung Galaxy A5 review: a mid-range smartphone with high-end looks and feel•LG G Flex 2 review: the second coming of the banana phone
Spotify moved to expand its service beyond music on Wednesday, announcing video content deals several major media conglomerates, including Comedy Central, ESPN, Adult Swim, BBC and NBC.The video content will be short-form and many of the producers will also distribute podcasts over the service. The new Spotify debuts today in the US, UK, Germany and Sweden and will expand further.At a press conference in New York, Spotify’s CEO, Daniel Ek, said the company also had deals with Odd Future’s Tyler, the Creator, Vice News and Nerdist.Related:Spotify financial results show struggle to make streaming music profitableAnother feature of Spotify’s new version will be “tempo detection”, which the company said will use the phone’s movement sensors to locate a track that will keep pace with a user’s feet when he or she is working out. The workout functionality will be part of the company’s newly announced partnership with Nike.Abby Jacobson and Ilana Glazer, stars of the Comedy Central hit Broad City, were part of the presentation. “You guys need to calm down,” Glaser told the sedate audience of tech reporters. “I can’t even hear myself.”The show is among the properties Spotify will be excerpting on its service. “Ilana and I are constantly trying to convince Comedy Central to make our show shorter,” Jacobson joked. The pair had novel ideas for moments when the comedy clips would come in handy.“Sitting on the toilet, peeing,” Glazer offered. “Pretending to look at something important when you’re dining alone,” suggested Jacobson.
Twitter users have expressed outrage at a troll’s use of Twitter’s promoted tweets to insert abuse targeting transgender people into their feeds.The troll account, pretending to be that of Australian activist and feminist campaigner Caitlin Roper, posted abuse and graphic images and promoted a tweet using Twitter’s paid-for native advertising service which called for trans people to kill themselves.The promoted tweet started appearing in the Twitter streams of many users, who reacted with anger both at the content and the fact that Twitter had promoted the tweet.Why the fuck is this disgusting shit being promoted into my timeline? What the hell is going on?pic.twitter.com/ZJ4TUwI70z&mdash; Caspar Salmon (@CasparSalmon)May 20, 2015What the fucking FUCK?!pic.twitter.com/xRqCQJz2n0&mdash; Ed Fear (@edfear)May 20, 2015(TW: transphobia)&#10;Hey,@twitter, what the HELL is that promoted tweet? How on earth did that just appear on my TL?pic.twitter.com/vrPqlF24iy&mdash; Marie Le Conte (@youngvulgarian)May 20, 2015The account was suspended within hours by Twitter after multiple reports of abuse. The promoted tweet was also pulled from the service.Roper, the activist whose account was impersonated, has been targeted for abuse before, includingcloned accountspretending to be her and making derogatory sexual comments.Hi friends, someone has created a Twitter account impersonating me and tweeting hateful comments. Account suspended, thanks for your help x&mdash; Caitlin Roper (@caitlin_roper)May 20, 2015She has beentargeted by various “men’s rights groups”including a group called A Voice For Men. At this stage it is not known who was behind the troll account on Twitter.Earlier this year Twitter announced acrackdown on abuse, with tighter rules on what can be permitted on the social network, including banning indirect threats of violence.The company also announced it would be implementing a new filter that would automatically block threatening messages from reaching users.How the abusive tweet slipped through Twitter’s ads approval process is unknown.The Guardian has asked Twitter to explain how an abusive tweet could be promoted using its paid-for advertising service. A Twitter spokesperson said: “As soon as we were made aware, we removed the ad and suspended the account.”
Airbus has issued a critical alert calling for immediate checks on all its A400M aircraft after a report identified a software bug as having caused a fatal crash in Spain earlier this month.The aircraft manufacturer’s alert follows thecrash of the new A400M military transport planeduring a test flight in Seville, in which four Spanish air force crew members died and two were injured.The aircraft was due to be delivered to Turkey, but the fleet was grounded by the UK, Germany and Turkey following the crash. France, which also has A400M aircraft, did not ground its planes.Accordingto a report by Der Spiegel, the software problem caused a fault in the control units of three of the aircraft’s four engines causing them power-off shortly after takeoff.The Spanish defence ministry is currently investigating the crash, but has not released any findings and is keeping data from the plane’s black box private.After an internal investigation into the plane’s safety, Airbus said on Tuesday: “The Alert Operator Transmission requires operators to perform one-time specific checks of the Electronic Control Units (ECU) on each of the aircraft’s engines before next flight and introduces additional detailed checks to be carried out in the event of any subsequent engine or ECU replacement.“It is a precautionary measure which is part of our continued airworthiness activities.”The Airbus A400M is Europe’s largest defence project, costing €20bn (£14.3bn) and developed by European Nato governments seeking to replace ageing military transporters. It has been plagued with problems around the complex software needed to run its four engines – a collaborative effort between Rolls-Royce, Safran and MTU Aero Engines.Technical issues with refuelling, cargo loading and other operations have caused delays delivering the aircraft, of which Airbus has sold 174 but only has 12 in service. It was expecting to deliver a further 12 this year.Airbus’s head of its military division Fernando Alonsoboarded the aircraft’s last test flightto try and assuage fears over safety, as the company forges ahead with further testing.•Aviation experts dispute hacker’s claim he seized control of airliner mid-flight•US aviation authority: Boeing 787 bug could cause ‘loss of control’
Google is in hot water today oversome search results on its Maps pages, after it was discovered that a search for “nigger king” brings up the White House as a result. The company apologised, but not before other awkward results were discovered: in London, for instance, a search for “shit hole” brings up Tottenham Hotspur’s football ground.It is a law of the internet that any story involving weird search results eventually leads to people vanity searching, and sure enough, that’s what we did. And the results were interesting.Related:Google says sorry over racist Google Maps White House search resultsIf you type my name, Alex Hern, into Google, it brings you, not to the Guardian, where I work (which would make sense), but to the pub in London Bridgewhere I play the card game Netrunner most weeks. To the best of my knowledge, I’ve been linked online to that pubonce, ever.Similarly, my colleague Samuel Gibbs found that his name takes him to Imperial College, his old university – but again, somewhere he’s not widely linked to online.Intrigued, we took it to social media, and found more strange results:A friend, Charlotte Geater, is linked to her old Oxford college:@alexhernif you type me in you get my college at oxford, wtf, why is this a thing&mdash; charlotte geater (@tambourine)May 20, 2015Artist Jamie McKelvie is linked to the comic shop Gosh! in Soho:@alexhernholy shitpic.twitter.com/VuVyn7ij91&mdash; Jamie McKelvie (@McKelvie)May 20, 2015And Vice journalist Joel Golby, future prime minister, is somehow located in 10 Downing Street:@alexhernALEX I JUST TYPED MY NAME IN AND IT WENT STRAIGHT TO 10 DOWNING STREET&mdash; Joel Golby (@joelgolby)May 20, 2015Citymetric editor Jonn Elledge is pinned to his old publication, Londonist:@alexhernOkay, I assumed this was some kind of joke, but I put my name into Google Maps and this happenedpic.twitter.com/J07UAYLQTQ&mdash; Jonn Elledge (@JonnElledge)May 20, 2015While BuzzFeed writer Robin Edds, author ofThe 41 Most British Things That Have Ever Happened, gets linked to … Things British, a shop in St Pancras Station.Robin Edds’s Google results.Photograph: Robin EddsAll in all: faintly baffling. Sometimes it makes sense, sometimes it makes sense but is super creepy (HOW DO THEY KNOW) and sometimes you just have to ask what Google is thinking.Try it with your own names, and post what you find below. We’ll get to the bottom of this!Update:Alicia Melville-Smith gets placed in a restaurant she’s been to before:@alexhernI just did it with my Twitter handle &amp; it came up with a restaurant I went to last week for the first time. CREEPY&mdash; AliciaMelville-Smith (@alicia_ms)May 20, 2015Robert Perry’s results are even creepier:@alexhernMine offers me three choices:&#10;Where I went to university&#10;My former employer&#10;WHERE I AM RIGHT NOW&mdash; Robert Perry (Pez) (@pez_sez)May 20, 2015And Thom Phipps discovers another benefit of the service’s search abilities:wowpic.twitter.com/yTOySidyJP&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)May 20, 2015Coincidentally, Australian cybersecurity journalist Asher Wolf started a similar exploration of the topic just two days ago, searching for Twitter handles instead of full names:Google Maps, why you do this?pic.twitter.com/cmjd2hIvqZ&mdash; Asher Wolf (@Asher_Wolf)May 18, 2015Wolf says she was inspired by @opticaldensity:Hahaha...when i type in@HouseCrackato Gmaps.....Cell Block Electronics and Cellular&#10;&#10;http://t.co/Psg5YPG8HC&mdash; 1nvisibleman  (@opticaldensity)May 18, 2015.@thejaymo@Asher_WolfApparently, Google thinks I’m a charming little “erotic massage” parlor in Schleswig-Holstein.pic.twitter.com/YsS2mz2zDg&mdash; William Ball (@ekstasis)May 18, 2015@Quasilocal@Asher_Wolfmine pins me at Mortgage Success in Wollongong where I got my mortgage sorted 12 months ago!?&mdash; dane 丹 (@GreenEpidemic)May 18, 2015And her explorationprompted writer Henk van Ess to delve deep into the topic:Type in a name of a living person and Google Maps will try to match your name to a databases based on data of a local Chambers of Commerce or a similar source. This handy feature only works if the person is registered as part of a company, organisation, university or foundation.If someone is not in the database, you often get results anyway. The reason: Google Maps tries to guess a name that is close to the one you used. So always concentrate on the logic of the answer.Of course, that still doesn’t explain how Google knows where I play Netrunner…
“I’ve got a new theory, which is that the reason zombie movies and TV shows are popular right now is that zombies are not that much of a stretch from how we feel about email.”Evernote chief executive Phil Libin is showing me the Mail icon on his iPhone’s homescreen, with an unread-emails notification so large – more than 130,000 – that it has three dots in the middle.“The individual zombie isn’t actually that scary, and you can plan around them and kill a bunch of them and feel like you’re making progress. But you also have this sense that at some point, you’re going to get overwhelmed,” he continues.“It’s sort of the same with email. The popularity of the zombie genre right now is our culture expressing its deepest angst about email. It’s got to die soon though! It’s gotta go. Wishing it doesn’t make it true, but working on it does. I think in the next few years it’ll probably happen.”Related:Mailbox co-founder Gentry Underwood talks Dropbox, Gmail and a 'smarter' future for emailEvernote is the service that pitches itself as a “workspace” for getting things done, storing lists, notes and documents then helping people share and collaborate with their co-workers. According to its chief executive, it might just have a role to play in killing email too.“I would hope so. I think [fellow service] Slack will play a big role. I think we’ll play a big role. More precisely, I don’t think email ought to die completely. You do occasionally have good experiences with email,” says Libin.“What’s the ideal number of emails to receive a day? For me, it’s like five. I probably get a thousand, although if I get rid of all the crap, it comes down to about 200 – but they’re still emails that some human being intends for me to read. I only want five, so it needs to come down by 97.5% or something.”Libin sees Evernote, Slack and “a few other things” achieving this, and soon. But he suggests there are different approaches to the problem, with Slack – a key rival and valued at $2.8bn in its last funding round in April – clearly high in his thoughts.“We’re not going to contribute by having a replacement – a different way of communicating – but by having an integrated experience where you are working, and talking about what you’re working on, within the same experience,” he says.“I think Slack is the last successful product of the old paradigm, where you’re writing in Microsoft Word, storing it in Dropbox, and talking about it in emails or Slack. That’s a very desktop paradigm, and it only works if you can alt-tab between apps and cut and paste URLs.“That’s where Slack is flourishing, because it’s giving people a non-sucky way to do what they’re already comfortable with. But that whole paradigm doesn’t work in mobile, and certainly doesn’t work in wearables. I think that the kind of things we’re building are the long-term answer, and the kind of thing that Slack is building is the short-term answer.”‘We haven’t built a product that can be evangelised’More on wearables later. What kind of things is Evernote building? Libin talks about the company’s main challenge in 2015 reaching out beyond the people who love its service, to those who don’t know it, or aren’t that bothered about getting to grips with its intricacies.Related:Why Slack is worth $1bn: it's trying to change how we work“Our strength and our biggest weakness is that we’ve got this large, very vocal and very passionate user group. We’ve built the evangelist group, but we haven’t built a product that can be evangelised. If you think of us as a comet, we’ve got the bright, shiny head, but we’re not dragging along a giant tail,” he says.“An Evernote user isn’t currently bringing in 10 less motivated, slightly indifferent people to use it. That’s the main thing we’re trying to change: how do we keep it a great experience for the really motivated, passionate users, but also make it less mystifying and more accessible to the people who just get pulled along because the evangelists want them to use it?”Libin admits that pretty much every Evernote user knows someone, whether they’re a friend or work colleague, who they’d like to get using the service, but know they won’t get it in its current form.“That really does feel to me like a shortcoming: we haven’t built a product that’s easy enough for unmotivated users. But if we can figure out a way to make the onboarding experience simple for users who aren’t quite as passionate about wanting to use it, we’ve got basically limitless potential,” he says.Besides figuring out how to make Evernote more accessible, the company has been working hard on making it faster to use – Libin admits the product had become “sluggish” – but also thinking carefully about how people work, and how Evernote might need to evolve in response.Evernote has moved beyond the desktop to smartphones, tablets and wearables.Photograph: PRIt’s one of the reasons he’s a good interview and conference speaker: as happy talking about the challenges Evernote hasn’t solved yet, but wants to, as about its service in its current form. For example, how it’s using machine-learning technology in comparison to services like Facebook.“Facebook is there so you can kill time, and Evernote is there so you can save time. Which is not saying that killing time is wrong, if that’s what you want. But Evernote is for when you want to be productive, while all sorts of other stuff is for when you want to be distracted,” he says.Related:Why the future of Facebook is (almost) all about your smartphoneThat influences the company’s product development. For example, it is avoiding the metaphor of a “stream” of content – something Libin sees as a passive concept where people sit back and “kinda dip your toes in it and watch things go by”. Something that works very well for social networks, but not (in his opinion) for working tools.“That’s not what we’re building. We want Evernote to be like one of those airport people-movers: you get on it and it takes you somewhere, and you’re moving faster than the people who aren’t on it, and it’s direct: there’s a destination, there’s progress and a measurable sense of accomplishment,” he says.“I think 90% of machine-learning, augmented intelligence, all these technologies, are being used for the kill-time applications, and we’re one of the few companies saying: ‘We don’t want any of that, we just want to make you more effective.’”What does Evernote want to learn about its users? How they work, for a start. Libin cites the company’s recent relaunch of its web client as an experiment in “distraction-free, total focus” while suggesting this is something people only want some of the time.“Everyone says they want focus, but it’s actually not true. Sometimes you want to be leaning forward, writing, without any distractions. But even more often, you want to sit back and understand. Sometimes you’re focused, and sometimes you want perspective,” he says.‘It’s that idea of focus and perspective ...’Libin moots the idea of using head-mounted motion-trackers to understand when people are leaning forward, and when they’re sitting back – while stressing this is not something Evernote is actually planning to do.“Maybe when you’re leaning forward and writing, the Evernote experience kinda zooms in and it’s a totally clean screen where you’re just writing, but when you finish the sentence and sit back, it zooms out, and now it’s starting to pull in other information that’s related to helping you understand what you’ve just done, and putting it into the broader perspective,” he says.Related:From online dating to driverless cars, machine learning is everywhere“It’s that idea of focus and perspective as two ends of that spectrum, and that for anything you’re doing, you’re moving back and forth between them. I think there’s been a bit too much fetish on just one of those ends, which is the focus end, and we’ve had a movement of a bunch of apps towards that. But now we’re going to see the pendulum swing back the other way towards perspective and context. Evernote needs both.”That idea of understanding users extends to Evernote’s desire to be able to dig into your previous documents and those of your co-workers and ferret out knowledge that will be useful for whatever you’re working on, before you realise that you might need it.Libin says that he sees Evernote’s search feature almost as a sign of failure: that if people have to manually search for something, it shows that “we haven’t succeeded at a few other things before that moment” in terms of surfacing useful information.“We want to understand the customer better than they understand themselves. That’s how we can help, how we can make you do better work: if we anticipate things before you realise it,” he says.This is where one of Evernote’s famous mantras comes in: “The 100-year startup”. It’s meant to signify the company’s intention to build something that lasts far longer than any of the people within it now, whatever happens with its financial structure (for example, going public) or management team.“We’re making decisions based on this direction: it’s one of our navigational beacons,” says Libin. “One of the nice things about having the 100-year startup as one of those beacons is it gives us the conceptual freedom to be like: ‘We’ve got 98 more years, so what could we do in maybe 50 years from now?’.”Libin on-stage at the Web Summit conference in 2014.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianIf that sounds like sci-fi talk, you’d be right. In fact, one of Evernote’s regular brainstorming techniques is to imagine what its service would look like “in a future sci-fi world”, and then work its way back to figure out what steps it can take now in that direction.“One of the current things we’re thinking about is collaboration. So in a sci-fi world, how do we want to collaborate? Let’s say I want collaborate with you, so I start a document and I’m going to write some stuff, and I want you to contribute to it,” says Libin.Related:What will artificial intelligence mean for the world of work?“Actually it turns out I don’t really want to collaborate with you. Turns out I just kinda want your knowledge in this document. So what if I say I want to collaborate with you in Evernote, and I start writing, but Evernote – since you’re using it as well, it knows you – and it starts filling things in for you, as if you had done it?“And then it tells you that it’s doing that, and you can be like ‘Oh I wouldn’t have said that’ or whatever. So I can now collaborate with you, without actually bothering you. But it might not actually be that I want your knowledge: I want whoever is the best authority on this to help me, and Evernote theoretically knows that, and could figure out who knows the most about the thing that I’m writing and automatically get access to those people’s knowledge.”It’s hard to know where to start with the implications of this in terms of permissions, credit, ownership of intellectual property, but it’s very interesting to see a technology company starting from this sci-fi scenario and then working back to the present-day to influence its product development.“We are NOT working on AI that’s meant to replicate what you would be thinking, or which would pretend to be you. Because that’s sci-fi. I think that’s going to be possible, but it’s going to take decades,” stresses Libin.“But by thinking about this in a way that’s about our goal – not being to make me talk more [to colleagues] but to make me talk less and accomplish more – how can we start building things now based on that?”Evernote for Apple WatchSomething that Evernote is building now is wearable interfaces for its service: it has apps forPebble,Android Wearand nowApple Watch. Libin is bullish on the potential of these devices, without shirking some of their current challenges.“The work use-case for wearables is going to be extremely strong. I think ultimately, even in the short term, it’ll be bigger than the fitness use-case. People think that they want to be fit, but they kinda have to work,” he says. “I think you’ll see a ton of progress this year.”Related:As Apple Watch launches, smartwatch app makers explore new interfacesLibin has owned his Apple Watch for three weeks at the time he meets the Guardian, and says he’s finally figured out exactly what it’s for, and just as importantly, what it’s not for.“In order of importance for me, the things I interact with are the watch face, and then complications and notifications, and then glances, and lastly it’s apps,” he says, noting that accessing the watch’s apps menu and then picking which one to use feels like a cognitive leap too far.“I think apps as a concept are going to go away because of wearables. Just as files as a concept are going to go away because of mobile: you don’t have time to think about files any more, and I don’t think you have time to think about apps any more. I think that’s a pretty good change,” he says.“The passive interactions with the notifications are super-powerful: I feel much less distracted and fidgety because of the watch than when I had my phone in my hand all the time. Yeah, the watch is another device, but it’s the first device that’s returning us to almost a more human-connected method of being. The first device that makes other devices recede into the background.”‘Most products right now are not cognitively ergonomic’Libin hopes that the current generation of smartwatches will be the first mainstream technology products that help their owners “reconnect and focus”, and praises Apple’s work on the sound and haptics in its first-generation model – and specifically its attempt to get someone’s attention without distracting them.“That’s a very important area: it’s really made me think about how we design everything. I have this new phrase that I’m starting to think about: cognitive ergonomics,” he says.“Around 20-30 years ago we had this revolution where people started making physical products with an understanding of how the human body actually works, and you had much nicer products. But most products right now are still not cognitively ergonomic: they’re not made with an understanding of how the brain works.”Libin suggests that the Apple Watch is blazing a trail on this front. “I’m not sure people are thinking about it that way, but it’s making me think that the whole future of Evernote product design has to be about that,” he says.Related:Evernote to change premium price as CEO says 'it was the wrong price'“All the criticisms of the Apple Watch are true and valid, but the upsides are unimaginably great. All the shortcomings are going to get resolved in the next year or two, but the upsides are almost limitless. I’m pretty bullish on that.”Machine-learning, cognitive ergonomics, smartwatch apps … but Evernote still has to make money. And as the interview closes, Libin talks about a smaller change that is currently having just as big an impact on Evernote’s business: getting people to choose whether to pay for its service.Evernote is a freemium business: around 95% of its customers use its free version, and 5% –between eight and nine million people by November 2014– pay for its Plus or Premium tiers.It seems an obvious thing, but it’s one the company ignored for eight years, until the moment in 2014 when Libin was writing a presentation for his board and used the phrase “5% of our users choose to pay us”, rather than “5% of our users pay us” as he had previously.“I was like: wait. If 5% choose to pay us, what percentage choose NOT to pay us? And I realised that it’s not 95%. Only about 10% of our users have chosen not to pay us. 85% have never chosen: they’ve never been presented with a choice,” he says.“Most of them don’t even know there’s a decision to be made! And they certainly haven’t been asked to choose. So we said OK, as a first step, why don’t we ask everyone to choose: so they can choose the free version, but they do have to choose.“Just that is potentially a long-term doubling of revenue, although we won’t know for a while because we’ve only been doing it for a few weeks. But early indications are that it’s really good. You have to make people understand that there is a choice. The fact that it took us eight years to realise that is kinda embarrassing, but most freemium companies are in the same fog as we were.”
Google has apologised after searches which include the racist slur “nigger” were shown to find the White House in Google Maps.Related:Where does Google Maps think you are?Searches for “nigger house”, in a global view of the world, and for “nigger king”, when focused on in the Washington DC greater area, return with the home of the US president Barack Obama as either the primary search result or one of three.Google Maps“Some inappropriate results are surfacing in Google Maps that should not be, and we apologise for any offence this may have caused. Our teams are working to fix this issue quickly,” a Google spokesperson said in a statement. It has not explained why the results are occurring.At the time of writing, the racist search results had not been fixed, having beenreported by the Washington Poston Tuesday.Google MapsIt is not the first time a Google search-based product has appeared to be racist. In 2010, the company’s search auto-complete system suggested racist queries after simply typing “why”, while its advertising system was shown to be 25% more likely to bring up ads for criminal record checks when searching for traditionally black names.Both systems are automated, taking user input from the billions of searches performed using Google to predict likely queries and results.But Google was also forced toshut off its crowd-sourced Map Maker systemfor Google Maps, which allowed user-generated corrections and additions to maps, after pranks including a picture of anAndroid robot urinating on an Apple logo.Google said it had been experiencing “escalated attacks to spam Google Maps over the past few months”. Whether the latest incident is a hack by a third-party or an issue with Google’s algorithm is unknown.•Google shuts off Map Maker after urinating robot ruins it for everybodyFlickr faces complaints over ‘offensive’ auto-tagging for photos• This article was amended on 22 May 2015. An earlier version said the “racist search results … were first exposed by the Washington Post on Tuesday”. The Huffington Post has asked us to point out thatits article about the issue– which had not been seen by the Guardian – was published a few hours earlier than the Washington Post’s.
Flickr is facing a user revolt after a new auto-tagging system labelled images of black people with tags such as “ape” and “animal” as well as tagging pictures of concentration camps with “sport” or “jungle gym”.The system, which was introduced in early May, uses what Flickr describes as “advanced image recognition technology” to automatically categorise photos into a number of broad groups.For instance,a picture of a newspaper cartooncan be automatically given the tags “drawing”, “sketch”, “cartoon”, “text”, and “writing”, in addition to whatever else the uploader decides to add to the photo. Other tags the system can automatically append include “outdoors” and “blackandwhite” – referring to the picture’s setting and image type.But the system appears to be misfiring frequently, and often in offensive ways.A portrait taken by Corey Deshon of a black man named Williamhas been auto- tagged with “blackandwhite” and “monochrome” – but also with the words “animal” and “ape”.The system itself doesn’t appear to be applying race as a factor, since at least one other photo,of a white woman, was also given the “animal” and “ape” tags.Elsewhere,photos of Dachau concentration camphave been auto-tagged with the “jungle gym”, “sport” and “trellis” tags, while an instantly recognisable photo of the entrance to Auschwitz was given the “sport” tag.A Flickr spokesperson said: “We are aware of issues with inaccurate auto-tags on Flickr and are working on a fix. While we are very proud of this advanced image-recognition technology, we’re the first to admit there will be mistakes and we are constantly working to improve the experience. If you delete an incorrect tag, our algorithm learns from that mistake and will perform better in the future. The tagging process is completely automated – no human will ever view your photos to tag them”.The company is already reacting in a piecemeal manner to the mistags, removing the “sport” tag from many concentration camp photos, and apparently removing “ape” from the auto-tagging software’s lexicon entirely (neither of the photos which were tagged “ape” are tagged as such any more, though both still have the “animal” tag).The auto-tags on the photo of William.Photograph: Screenshot.The tagging mistakes may have been more acceptable to users if the auto-tagging feature was generally popular, but instead, the site’s devoted fan base has been complaining vocally since it was implemented on 7 May. A comment thread about the feature has racked up almost 2,500 replies, the vast majority of them negative.Users complain that the tags are too broad or inaccurate to be useful, and some have questioned the site’s motivation in introducing the feature. Paul Hetheringon, the Flickr user who brought the offensive errors to the Guardian’s attention, says: “As so often in recent years, Flickr/Yahoo has implemented a significant and radical change in the user experience hastily and without consulting or even warning users. In this case they don’t seem to have considered the possible points of failure, and once again underestimated the anger of the user population at an unwanted change.“At this point, they need to shut the auto-tagging down and remove all auto-tags from images until they can get the basics right.”Tags on the photo of Dachau concentration camp.Photograph: ScreenshotFlickr responded to some user complaints, promising the ability to batch-edit tags, and explaining why the tags are generic. A Flickr staffer posted: “The overwhelming majority of searches on Flickr include some very general terms – sometimes alone and sometimes in conjunction with other, more specific terms. When people search Flickr, general tags often help in getting your photos found.”Google apologises over racist Google Maps White House search results
Hello, this is Wednesday, sequel to Tuesday, and set to provide important backstory for Thursday and Friday.
Uber has argued it provides a “fundamentally different service” from taxis and deserves different tax treatment, despite an Australian Tax Office (ATO) ruling that ride-sharing drivers must charge goods and services tax.The company said it would challenge the ATO’s “flawed” decision.On Wednesday, the ATOissued general adviceto people providing a range of services through the “sharing economy”.The so-called sharing economy – also referred to as collaborative consumption or peer-to-peer – can encompass activities such as letting a room through Airbnb, or performing odd jobs or other activities for payment through Airtasker, or driving passengers in a car for a fare using a service such as Uber.The ATO said people needed to register to charge the 10% GST if their annual turnover from a sharing-economy enterprise was $75,000 or more. But it said ride-sourcing services such as Uber were considered taxi travel under the GST law regardless of turnover, and drivers must be registered to charge the tax from the very first time they took a passenger.“Affected drivers must register for GST, charge GST on the full fare, lodge business activity statements and report the income in their tax returns,” the deputy tax commissioner, James O’Halloran, said.Related:Why cities need to fight Uber and give people a real transport choice | Evgeny MorozovUber said it was disappointed the ATO had “taken it upon itself to dictate government policy for the sharing economy by imposing a flawed interpretation of a law that was introduced in the 1990s upon participants of a new business model that is only one year old”.“Today’s decision by the ATO is not a tax on Uber but rather, impacts the over 9,000 ordinary Australians who drive on the uberX platform,” said David Rohrsheim, Uber’s general manager for Australia and New Zealand.“These are 9,000 individuals who will now be caught up in red tape before they even accept their first ride, and will then be hit with a tax on their very first dollar earned, unlike truck drivers, painters, online sellers, gardeners, other sharing economy participants, and every other small business who do not have to collect GST until their business reaches $75,000 per annum in turnover.”Uber’s director of public policy in Oceania, Brad Kitschke, argued ride-sharing services were different from regular cab services, which also required GST to be charged regardless of turnover.“Ride-sharing operators don’t do this job as a professional service,” he told the ABC. “They don’t do rank, they don’t do hail, they don’t do cash. It is a fundamentally different service than the traditional taxi and it deserves a fundamentally different treatment.”Kitschke said most Uber drivers would work for 20 hours a week in Australia and “probably be earning $30,000 a year or less”, falling below the $75,000 threshold that applies to other small businesses for GST.When the ABC interviewer suggested many regular cab drivers might scrape a living with similar earnings, Kitschke said that may be “a fundamental problem with the incumbent system”.“There are many cab drivers who are scraping to make a living. I think we need to probably reassess whether or not that $75,000 threshold should be applied to the entire industry,” he said.Kitschke also questioned whether the revenue to be captured by the GST ruling would exceed the administration costs. He called for a broad policy discussion on tax arrangements for the sharing economy.“If someone, for example, was to use their car to pick up a pizza for an on-demand service, they wouldn’t be required to register for GST but if they pick up a person they are,” he said. “There is a fundamental lack of understanding in our current tax arrangements about the sharing economy.”The ATO defended the ruling, saying it achieved a “level playing field” with the taxi industry, which had always had a different rule under GST laws and was not subject to the $75,000 threshold for GST registration.“The tax laws which apply to activities conducted in a conventional manner apply in the same way to activity conducted in the sharing economy,” the ATO said.People offering a room through sharing services such as Airbnb will not have to charge GST, but will have to declare the income they receive on their normal income tax returns.“You do not count amounts you receive from renting out a room in a residential house or apartment in your turnover [for GST purposes],” the ATO said.The Labor opposition accused the Coalition government of “ducking responsibility” for having a serious conversation about the sharing economy.The shadow assistant treasurer, Andrew Leigh, said the ATO ruling showed the government was leaving it up to agencies to drive national policymaking on services like Uber.“All companies should comply with Australian laws, but we should also be working to ensure those laws are fit for purpose as innovative new business models emerge,” Leigh said.“Internationally, some authorities have ruled that sharing economy apps represent a different type of service which requires a distinct regulatory approach, but the Abbott government has been slow to recognise that new technologies may require the rules to be updated.”
People who regularly play action video games could be at increased risk of developing neurological and psychiatric disorders, a study suggests.We’re saying ‘Hey, wait, there might be a serious risk with them’Prof Greg WestThe research, published in a Royal Society journal on Wednesday, found that people who played games such as Call of Duty, Grand Theft Auto V and Tomb Raider were more likely to employ navigational strategies associated with decreased grey matter in the hippocampus part of the brain.Decreased volume in the hippocampus has been associated with disorders such asschizophrenia,post-traumatic stress disorder,depressionandAlzheimer’s disease.The lead study author, Prof Greg West, from the University of Montreal’s department of psychology, said the paper indicated thatbenefits of video games, such as improved attention and perception, highlighted in previous studies, could come at a price.“Since 2003, research has been reporting cognitive benefits of video game playing so that we could use them to manage cognitive decline in older people or special populations [eg people with early stage dementia],” said West.“People are suggesting these games are good and we’re saying ‘Hey, wait, there might be a serious risk with them.’ I don’t want to be alarmist. The message is enjoy video games, enjoy them in moderation but don’t expect them to improve some sort of cognitive ability.”The researchers asked 59 healthy young adults, with an average of 24, to complete a virtual reality task consisting of an eight-arm radial maze containing landmarks.Of the participants, 26 were identified as action video game players, meaning they reported a minimum of six hours a week (the average was 18 hours) spent playing such games during the previous six months. The remainder had played them very little or not at all in the same period.By questioning the participants, the researchers examined whether they tackled the virtual reality task using a spatial or response learning strategy. A spatial strategy involves building relationships between landmarks in an environment and relies on the hippocampus. By contrast, a response strategy entails learning a series of movements (eg left and right turns) from given positions that act as stimuli, so that they become part of the procedural memory system, not involving conscious thought.The results showed that 80.76% of action video game players spontaneously used a response strategy, compared with 42.42% of non players.Response strategies rely on the striatum part of the brain and studies have shown an inverse relationship between grey matter in the striatum and hippocampus.West said: “Older adults use response strategy more and more so, in this sense, video gamers look like older adults.”He said more research was needed to investigate the direct impact of different genres of video games on the hippocampus and striatum and how much time one could spend playing video games before potentially negative effects kicked in.Tim Parry from Alzheimer’s Research UK said: “The risk factors for Alzheimer’s and other causes of dementia are varied and complex, but this study does not add Call of Duty or Grand Theft Auto to that list. This study focussed on a specific navigation task in young adults and did not look long term at memory and thinking skills, so we cannot draw any conclusions about video games and dementia risk.”
Mark Zuckerberg is living several dreams at once. He’s living the dream in which he earned billions of dollars by creating a social media platform thatpeople actively hate. He’s living the dream in whichLex Luthor got to play him in the film of his life. And now he’s living the dream in which he gets to wander around a vast uninhabited space all alone, like Will Smith inI Am Legend.Over the past couple of years, Zuckerberg has made two big property purchases – last year he bought750 acres of land on the north shore of Kauai in Hawaii for $100m, and in 2013 hebought the four properties surrounding his Palo Alto home– that seem to underline his rampant desire for privacy.Recently revealed plansindicating that Zuckerberg does not intend to build an entire compound on his land, but rather a single property, suggest that he is determined to surround himself with, well, almost no one (with the exception, presumably, of his wife, Priscilla Chan).At first glance these might seem like the actions of a man with something to hide; the hypocritical manoeuvrings of a man who made his fortune on social media and now wants to be as antisocial as possible. It’s as if he’s become aDaniel Plainviewfigure, so isolated by his success that he wants to move far away from everyone and shoot at his furniture with a rifle.Admittedly, this might just be Zuckerberg following his peers, because if there’s one thing that tech billionaires apparently love doing, it’s planting flags in all the land around them. In 2013,Elon Musk bought a mansion opposite his own mansion, and Yahoo’sMarissa Mayer snapped up a funeral homejust down from her home. But there’s a chance that something else might be at play. Mark Zuckerberg might just be sick of people.And really, could you blame him? This is the man who created Facebook, remember. When Zuckerberg looks down at the fruits of his creation, what does he see? The very worst of humanity, that’s what. Narcissists. Drunks. Racists. Joke stealers. Complainers. People who wouldn’t know the difference between “their” and “there” if you wrote it on a cricket bat and attacked them with it. If you spent your day endlessly scrolling through 1.3 billion soul-deadening hen party photo uploads and infinite multilingual variations of “U OK hun?”, you’d want to run as far away from people as you could too.Sequestering himself from the monsters who use his site seems like a perfectly sensible thing to do. In fact, it’s odd that more people haven’t done the same. By rights, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger,the founders of Instagram, should have moved away to a bricked-up cave by now.Jack Dorseyand the rest of his Twitter co-founders should have bought an entire desert, and dedicated the rest of their life to scratching “I’M SORRY” in giant letters in the sand with a toothbrush. So let Mark Zuckerberg hide away from everyone. You’d do the same if you had the money.
Internet.org, Facebook’s initiative to expand internet access to the “next billion” people across the developing world, has come under attack from 67 digital rights groups worldwide for not doing enough to promote net neutrality alongside expanding access.The signatories, which include America’s18MillionRising.organd Europe’s Free Press Unlimited as well as India’s IT for Change and Nigeria’s Paradigm Initiative, argue that Facebook is “building a walled garden in which the world’s poorest people will only be able to access a limited set of insecure websites and survives”.“Further, we are deeply concerned that Internet.org has been misleadingly marketed as providing access to the full internet, when in fact it only provides access to a limited number of internet-connected services that are approved by Facebook and local ISPs,” it continues.The letter, ironicallypublished on Facebook and addressed to Mark Zuckerberg personally, addresses eight separate areas where the signatories perceive Internet.org’s offering as lacking.Top of the list is net neutrality, the term for treating internet connections the same regardless of what content is being sent over them. The signatories argue that although Facebook says it supports net neutrality, it is “improperly defining” the term, and instead favouring certain services over others. Key to their critique is that Internet.org encourages “zero rating” websites, working with site owners to make accessing their website free of charge on metered internet connections. Facebook Zero and Wikipedia Zero are two such projects.But the signatories also argue that Internet.org poses problems for privacy and security online. “Facebook’s privacy policy does not provide adequate protections for new internet users, some of whom may not understand how their data will be used, or may not be able to properly give consent for certain practices.” On top of that, the current implementation of Internet.org prohibits the use of basic web encryption such as SSL or TLS. “This inherently puts users at risk, because their web traffic will be vulnerable to malicious attacks and government eavesdropping.”As a result, they say that Internet.org runs the risk of creating “a two-tier internet”.“The economic boom and revolution in connectivity that the internet created in developed countries needs to be shared equally with the next three billion people.Internet.org’s model – giving users a taste of connectivity before prompting them to purchase pricey data plans – fails to acknowledge the economic reality for millions of people who can’t afford those plans.“These new users could get stuck on a separate and unequal path to Internet connectivity, which will serve to widen – not narrow – the digital divide.”In April,Mark Zuckerberg directly addressed criticism of Internet.org from India, where many of the same points had been made. “Some people have criticised the concept of zero-rating that allowsInternet.orgto deliver free basic internet services, saying that offering some services for free goes against the spirit of net neutrality. I strongly disagree with this,” Zuckerberg wrote.“To give more people access to the internet, it is useful to offer some service for free. If someone can’t afford to pay for connectivity, it is always better to have some access than none at all.”A Facebook spokesperson said: “We and our critics share a common vision of helping more people gain access to the broadest possible range of experiences and services on the internet. We are convinced that as more and more people gain access to the internet, they will see the benefits and want to use even more services. We believe this so strongly that we have worked with operators to offer basic services to people at no charge, convinced that new users will quickly want to move beyond basic services and pay for more diverse, valuable services.”
The greatest horse-based web domain in history is no more: Walmart.horse has disappeared from the internet following a complaint from the American megastore chain.Registered in late February by Massachusetts-based cartoonist Jeph Jacques,author of webcomic Questionable Content, Walmart.horse was a simple website containing nothing but a picture of a horse superimposed on top of a Walmart store.In early March, Walmart sent Jacques a cease-and-desist letter, arguing that he was infringing on the company’s trademark. In response, Jacques told them that the site was “an obvious parody, and therefore falls under fair use”, and refused to take the page down.That seemed to be the end of the matter until Walmart responded in April by filing a plea with the World Intellectual Property Organisation under the organisation’s “Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy” (UDRP). The policy allows for trademark holders to seize control of domains that they don’t own, but which are “confusingly similar” to a trademark and registered and being used “in bad faith”.“The UDRP is a domain name dispute resolution process that was designed to address cybersquatting issues,” says Roberto Ledesma, a New York-based trademark lawyer. “This is reflected in the elements needed to prevail in a UDRP, which requires that the domain name has been registered in ‘bad faith’ and without rights or legitimate interests in the domain.“It’s not entirely clear how Jacques’ case would have turned out. His domain name included one of the new gTLDs [generic top-level domains] (.HORSE), which are raising novel cybersquatting issues, especially where the domain name registrant is using the site to parody a trademark holder or for some other apparent fair use purpose.”Three weeks after the UDRP policy was filed, the Walmart.horse site was taken down, and public records show that the domain has been owned by Walmart itself since Monday 18 May.“The Walmart.horse UDRP was ‘terminated’, which means that the proceeding ended before getting to a panel,” Ledesma said.Jacques later told the Guardian that he gave up the domain in the face of legal pressure from Walmart. “I didn’t feel like fighting them any more,” he said.Dot-horse is one of a raft of 2,000 new gTLDs approved since 2013, with the aim of allowing websites to clearly target niche sections of society. In the application to the web’s overseeing body, ICANN, the creators of the domain argued that “the purpose of the .HORSE gTLD is to offer horse owners, service providers, horse industry employees and volunteers the opportunity to clearly define their presence on the internet and to help potential customers gain access to content about horses.”Related:Why you should buy your .sucks domain name before someone else doesIt entered the market alongside similar domains such as .dog, also designed to appeal to animal lovers. But the rash of new domains also caused fear among trademark holders of a new set of “cybersquatting” problems, where domains are bought up purely to sell them back to trademark holders at inflated prices.Most notoriously, the .sucks domain offered trademark holders the chance to buy their name on the domain before others – in a move that was seen by many as a veiled threat.And in March, it was revealed that pop starTaylor Swift had purchased several domain names intended for use in the adult industry, including TaylorSwift.xxx and TaylorSwift.porn, to prevent others buying them first.But Swift didn’t register every alternative domain:TaylorSwift.horse is still live. It features a picture of Taylor Swift standing on a horse. The picture is captioned “I’m on a horse”.Updated to clarify that only the .dog domain is intended to appeal to animal lovers. The .cat domain, which does exist, is actually intended “to serve the needs of the Catalan Linguistic and Cultural Community on the Internet.”
Security and aviation experts have rubbished claims that a hacker gained access to a plane’s flight controls through the in-flight entertainment system.Hacker Chris Roberts claimed he was able to break into the in-flight entertainment system up to 20 times on separate flights and that on one flight he was able to make the plane “climb” and “move sideways” by accessing flight control systems from a laptop in his seat.The claim that the thrust management system mode was changed without a command from the pilot …  is inconceivableThe claims wererevealed by a search warrant applicationissued by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation after Roberts was banned from a plane for tweeting about hacking into systems.Isolated systemsA spokesperson for Boeing, the manufacturer of the plane allegedly hacked, said that the in-flight entertainment system and flight and navigation systems are isolated from each other.“While these systems receive position data and have communication links, the design isolates them from the other systems on airplanes performing critical and essential functions,” said the Boeing spokesperson.A senior law enforcement officialtold Bloombergthat investigators looking into the claims did not believe such attempts to control a plane could be successful.Peter Lemme, chairman of the Ku and Ka satellite communications standards toldindustry blog Runway Girl Network: “The claim that the thrust management system mode was changed without a command from the pilot through the mode control panel, or while coupled to the flight management system is inconceivable.”He added that the links between the entertainment system and flight control systems “are not not capable of changing automatic flight control modes”.Experts are sceptical that any alteration to flight systems occurred because the pilots and flight crew would have noticed, any adjustments would have been recorded and reported and an investigation into the systems launched.Beyond whether Roberts was capable of hacking into flight systems, his claims of compromising the in-flight entertainment systems between 15 and 20 times are also disputed.In-flight entertainment consultant Michael Planey said: “We have seen multiple instances of passengers being restrained by fellow passengers or flights diverted because a passenger is behaving abnormally. I find it nearly impossible to believe Roberts could have done this type of an act over a dozen times and never had a flight crew or fellow passenger notice – that part stretches the imagination.”Roberts now claims that his comments were taken out of context and misinterpreted and is now being represented by the US Electronic Frontier Foundation amid an ongoing investigation by US law enforcement agencies.•Ryanair confirms hackers stole almost $5m via Chinese bank•Russian hackers read unclassified Obama emails – report
Streaming music service Deezer is beefing up its spoken-word content, adding more than 20,000 podcasts and radio shows to its catalogue.The shows will be streamable on-demand alongside the 35m songs available through Deezer, initially from today in the UK, France and Sweden with other countries to follow. Partners in the expansion include the Financial Times, Slate, Monocle 24 and Sveriges Radio.The move is no surprise, as Deezer acquired a radio and podcast-playing app called Stitcher in October 2014, saying at the time that it was planning to integrate its content into the main Deezer service.“You can be more creative about what kind of digital content you put on the platform: more sports, more comedy,” Deezer chief executive Hans-Holger Albrecht told the Guardian.“To have a perfect lean-back experience, it’s music, but also listening to your favourite news show, your favourite comedy, to listen to football one day if you’re not in the stadium.”Deezer is not yet planning to throw its hat in the ring for live football audio broadcasting rights, although Albrecht noted that these rights are “not that overpriced” away from the English Premier League.Albrecht joined Deezer in early February, replacing its previous CEO Axel Dauchez at a crucial point in the company’s history.Deezer has 16 million active users including six million paying subscribers, making it the second biggest pureplay streaming-music service behind Spotify, which has 60 million active users including 15 million subscribers. Both are preparing for fierce competition fromAppleandGoogle/YouTubein the months ahead.“They will help educate the market: it’s good if a big company like Apple moves in: it tends to accelerate understanding in the market and floats every ship upwards,” said Albrecht, of theimminent relaunch of Apple’s Beats Music streaming service.Related:Spotify financial results show struggle to make streaming music profitableHe added that Deezer’s eagerness to strike distribution deals with mobile operators will be one of its key advantages over Apple.“Our belief is that there will be several players in the segment – up to five players, and we’re going to be one of them,” he said. “Apple will not go for [telco] partnership deals, for example, so we’ll be serving different segments of the market.”Deezer is also rolling out itsDeezer Elitehigh-definition audio service around the world through a partnership with connected hi-fis maker Sonos – a strategy that puts Deezer head-to-head with Tidal, the streaming service now owned by a collection of musicians led by Jay Z.“Tidal is trying to follow us, which is fine, but we feel we have the upper hand,” said Albrecht, predicting that hi-def streaming will be “a niche, but a pretty big niche if you look at the numbers those hardware manufacturers are publishing”.
A foul-mouthed Bert and Ernie are giving YouTube Kids an image problem. A video of the Sesame Street duo swearing is a key exhibit in a petition sent to US regulators on Tuesday calling for censure of the Google-owned app.In an update toa recent complaint against YouTubefiled with the Federal Trade Commission on Tuesday, the watchdog groups catalogued all the gross things kids can find using the app’s search function.Among the available clips: beer ads, graphic talks on sex, and video of the Bert and Ernie delivering theprofanity-laced dialogue from Martin Scorsese’s 1995 classic Casino.The complainants include the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, the Center for Digital Democracy (CDD), and several others, some of whom contend that the solution to kid-unfriendly content (including advertising) popping up on kids’ apps is strict regulation of the kind that currently governs children’s TV.“Google is operating in an unfair and deceptive way and we’ve documented this in a number of cases, so we expect the commission to require Google to change a number of its practices on the app,” said Jeff Chester, executive director for the CDD. “This is a digital deja vu – any time there’s a new market, the industry wants to push it because there are no rules. And there have to be some rules for children.”Chester has been lobbying the FCC for years, including on rulings throughout the 1990s that limited commercial time on TV and made it illegal to collect young consumers’ data online. Advertising to kids on TV is a fraught business – even if you’re within the letter of all the laws, there are stillpublic shaming campaignsby lobbying groups and savvy competitors when, for example, Nickelodeon advertises sugary cereals.But YouTube Kids and other kid-targeted web products are almost totally unregulated, with the exception of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which governs data collection. The content of online material consumed by kids, and the amount of advertising, isn’t subject to any existing laws – which may partly explain why kids like it so much.“What we’d like, frankly, is for the FTC to begin creating those safeguards,” said Chester. “We’d like to see the FTC standing up and saying you can’t have endless ads disguised as programs on YouTube Kids.” (The initial complaint cites YouTube Kids’ sponsored McDonald’s channel as an example of content that runs counter to YouTube’s own privacy policy.)“We work to make the videos in YouTube Kids as family-friendly as possible and take feedback very seriously,” a Google spokeswoman said in a statement. “Anyone can flag a video and these videos are manually reviewed 24/7 and any videos that don’t belong in the app are removed. For parents who want a more restricted experience, we recommend that they turn off search.”
Apple, Google, other tech giants and a number of noted cryptologists have signed a letter to the Obama administration urging the US government to preserve strong encryption against pressure from law enforcement and surveillance agencies.The letter argues that “strong encryption is the cornerstone of the modern information economy’s security,” and that the government should “fully support and not undermine efforts to create encryption standards [nor] in any way subvert, undermine, weaken or make vulnerable” commercial software.Itwas obtainedby the Washington Postin advance of its publication on Tuesday. The letter is also signed by three members of Obama’s five-person review group set up in 2013 to reassess technology policy in the wake of Edward Snowden’s leaks that summer.Richard A Clarke, one of the review group signatories, made a comparison to a failed attempt to institute back doors in the phone network in the 90s. “If they couldn’t pull it off at the end of the cold war, they sure as hell aren’t going to pull it off now,” he told the newspaper.Law enforcement agencies such as the FBI have been increasingly outspoken in their opposition to ubiquitous encryption. In October, the bureau’s director, James Comey,slated the decision of Apple and Google to turn on encryption by default.With the launch of iOS 8, “the information stored on many iPhones and other Apple devices will be encrypted by default”, Comey told the Brookings Institute in Washington DC last year. “Shortly after Apple’s announcement, Google announced plans to follow suit with its Android operating system. This means the companies themselves won’t be able to unlock phones, laptops and tablets to reveal photos, documents, email and recordings stored within.”Related:Encryption won't work if it has a back door only the 'good guys' have keys toComey said: “At the outset, Apple says something that is reasonable – that it’s not that big a deal … Apple argues, for example, that its users can back up and store much of their data in ‘the cloud’ and that the FBI can still access that data with lawful authority. But uploading to the cloud doesn’t include all of the stored data on a bad guy’s phone, which has the potential to create a black hole for law enforcement.”In response to such fears, many, including the British prime minister, David Cameron, have suggested that firms could build back doors in to their encryption – special weaknesses which allow law enforcement and surveillance agencies to break into otherwise secure connections. But the security industry is adamant that such back doors are technologically infeasible.Due to the nature of modern encryption, “there is no way to put in a back door or magic key for law enforcement that malevolent actors won’t also be able to abuse”,argues the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s Jeremy Gillula.
It’s Tuesday.
When app developer Rob Tong’s son Freddie was born, he’d proudly tell his friends what a great sleeper his baby was. But many babies are during the newborn phase – they sleep most of the time anyway and are usually in the same room as their parents, comforted by their murmurs in the background.Then Freddie hit the 12-month mark, moved into his own room, and decided he wasn’t going to shut his eyes without a lot of coaxing. Tong had to get used to existing on a lot less little sleep. And the only thing that seemed to soothe his fretful son was the sound of his “rubbish” singing: “So I started recording my warblings on a Dictaphone, laying it down by the cot and then creeping out of the room.”But being an app developer, it wasn’t long before Tong realised he could create something himself that would work a lot more effectively. Driven to distraction by lack of sleep, Tong came up with a sound-activated mobile app to help parents settle their children when they wake in the night. And so theSleepHeroapp was born.Apart from a few white noise apps, nothing like SleepHero had been created before. White noise often works because it sounds similar to the sound of life in the womb: a constant noise that blocks out sudden, sharper sounds. It’s even said to reduce stress in babies. SleepHero has a few on offer for free, and more that you have to pay for. Choose from the gentle hum of “Aircraft Cabin” or the soothing “Café Chatter”, but skip the Hitchcockian “Birdsong” and avoid “Campfire” unless you want to keep leaping up to grab the extinguisher.But it’s the next option for the caffeine-dependent parent that is so innovative: SleepHero allows parents to record their own voices into their phone – and the recording of talking, singing, or even just shushing is then automatically activated when the child begins to stir and make a noise.Rob found that his friends all had different ways of settling their children. “Some babies had songs they liked, some had repeated words, some enjoyed their grandparents telling them a story. It made sense to me to have a function that would allow you to record exactly what you wanted. I’ve even included the words to a selection of nursery rhymes on the app because sleep deprivation made me forget most of them. Then the autopilot feature effectively takes the nightshift, detecting when your child is awake and playing the audio at a volume you decide.”Rob also realised that once a baby could grab a phone, you wouldn’t want it within reach. “So the app has a sensitivity setting – the highest level is so sensitive you could leave it in a doorway. It also allows parents to set how much noise their child has to be making before it starts to play and how long their child needs before the audio ceases to loop.”When Freddie was joined by his baby sister Gracie, Rob realised he had a brand new set of sleep challenges to deal with. Freddie was now a toddler and his “big boy bed” was an exciting milestone – but it also meant he was getting wise and could no longer be convinced that the voice in the room was Rob himself.“He knew it was the phone, not me, so I tried to think of a way I could make the app work for older children. We were potty training him at the time and he seemed to respond really well to the sticker chart we used for that, so I decided to build a version into the app. It’s a simple as getting a star for staying in bed and not coming through too early. The first time Freddie got seven stars we asked him what he’d like as a reward, and he said a flamingo. He actually meant a real one but thankfully we were able to fob him off with a soft toy.”Rob has spent a year designing and testing the app, which is now available on theApp Store for iPhone, iPod and iPad. Like most things involving babies and children, it’s not failsafe – but combined with strong coffee, it should help.
Sony’s Xperia Z4 Tablet is the Japanese firm’s best yet, with small bezels, a bright screen and a waterproof body – but it’s when you add a full keyboard that things start to get interesting.Sony has a solid heritage in tablets with two excellent entries into the Z series before now. While they have failed to sell particularly well, they have been some of the best Android tablets available. In fact, they have only been let down by the poor amount of tablet-optimised software for Android. That app gap between Android tablets and Apple’s iPad no longer exists.This review is based on a near-final pre-production sample of the Xperia Z4 Tablet – some aspects could change,although this is highly unlikely.Thinnest and lightest 10in tabletAt 6.1mm thick, the tablet is as thin as the thinnest smartphones, with an exposed but waterproof micro USB port.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z4 Tablet will be familiar to anyone who has laid eyes on a Sony smartphone or tablet made in the last couple of years: a thin, waterproof body, black bezels and a brilliant LCD screen.The big change for the Z4 is the size of the housing. The screen is the same 10.1in, now quad HD with a pixel density of 299 pixels per inch, but the bezels around the screen have shrunk – the tablet is 12mm shorter and 5mm narrower, making it one of the smallest 10in tablets available.The body is thin with a thickness of 6.1mm, light at 393g, and discrete with hard-wearing black plastic back, and nylon corners that are meant to absorb the energy and stop the screen shattering if the tablet is dropped. It’s an understated design and the thinnest and lightest large tablet yet.The 2K screen is great: it’s pin-sharp, very bright and with very wide viewing angles. It’s not quite as fantastic as Samsung’s OLED screen on the Galaxy Tab S but is in line with the subtle colours of LCD screens such as Apple’s iPad Air 2.The screen is not covered by Gorilla Glass – the scratch-resistant glass used in most smartphones and tablets – but instead with Sony’s own scratch-resistant glass. In the past Sony’s own glass has proved to not be as scratch resistant as rivals. A screen protector might be a wise purchase.SpecificationsScreen:10.1in 2K (2560x1600) LCD (299ppi)Processor:Octacore Qualcomm Snapdragon 810RAM:3GBStorage:32GB + microSD card readerOperating system:Android 5.0.2 LollipopCamera:8.1MP rear, 5.1MP front-facingConnectivity:Wi-Fi, GPS, Bluetooth, FM Radio, optional 3G/LTEDimensions:254 x 167 x 6.1mmWeight:393gLong battery life for work, short for gamingThe 2K LCD screen is pin-sharp and bright, but surprisingly power efficient.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Z4 Tablet is fast and snappy throughout, running Qualcomm’s latest top-of-the-line processor, the octacore Snapdragon 810 with 3GB of Ram and 32GB of storage, plus a microSD card slot.The Snapdragon 810 has allegedly been plagued by overheating issues. The Z4 Tablet does get warm during heavy use such as installing a bunch of applications at the same time, but quickly cools and the performance is not noticeably affected in general use.Overall the Z4 Tablet is not quite the fastest Android device I have used this year –that would be the Samsung Galaxy S6 – but is considerably faster than last year’s best Android tablet, the Samsung Galaxy Tab S.Battery life is a mixed bag. It is excellent for less demanding jobs – giving a full working day of more than nine hours when word processing (more on that later) – but not spectacular when playing games or anything that requires more processing power. That’s likely to do with the difference between the lower-power quad-core chip and the higher-performance, more power-hungry chip that it switches to when needed.Sony’s excellent power-saving modes can extend battery life by days, including modes that barely limit capabilities but dramatically prolong standby life.Is that a start menu?Is that a start menu or are you just pleased to see me?Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAs with the outside of the tablet, the inside should also be familiar to anyone who’s used a Sony product in the past five years, such as a Sony TV or a PlayStation 4.The Z4 Tablet runs Google’s Android 5.0.2 Lollipop but with a custom look. It’s not radical, and looks mostly like Android with only small visual tweaks. The main additions have been the integration of a task-bar-like additional menu of icons in the bottom left of the screen, and a start menu with recent apps and other settings that is triggered when a keyboard is connected.Sony also bundles a load of its own apps, including the solid Walkman app and a decent photo editor. A Navigon satnav and AVG antivirus app come pre-installed but can be deleted.KeyboardThe keyboard accessory turns the Z4 Tablet into a decent Android-based PC, with keys good enough for touch typing despite its small size.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony’s big push for its new tablet is taking it into the crossover space between PCs and tablets. The firm has made a new Bluetooth keyboard into which the tablet slots. It has a fully angle-adjustable hinge and when docked in the thin and light keyboard the machine behaves like a laptop.It’s one of the best tablet keyboards I’ve ever used. The keys are quite short, but are almost full width with good travel and feel. It has a trackpad at the bottom that invokes a traditional mouse cursor on screen, responds to multi-touch gestures and is responsive, making it useful for fine-grain control.The keyboard has a separate battery and is changed by microUSB. When closed, it protects the screen and creates a very thin and light PC replacement. The keyboard weighs 365g, which makes the overall package, with the tablet, weigh just 758g: around 200g lighter than any laptop.The keyboard was good enough to use to write the whole of this review and many other articles sat at a desk or on my lap while on the train. My only real niggle was that the right-hand shift key is placed to the right of the directional arrows, meaning I kept hitting backslash while touch typing.CamerasThe tablet has a solid camera, but you shouldn’t use it in polite company.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSony makes some of the best cameras in the mobile business – the iPhone and OnePlus One use Sony’s cameras for instance. The 8.1 megapixel camera on the back of the Z4 Tablet is decent, if not exceptional, and is probably one of the best fitted to a tablet. The front-facing 5.1MP camera takes decent selfies and makes for an excellent video-chat camera.PriceThe Sony Xperia Z4 Tablet is available for pre-order, costing £499 for the Wi-Fi only version with the a keyboard shipping at the end of May. A version with 4G mobile data will be available at a later date, with a higher price tag.For a comparison, Samsung’s 10.5in Galaxy Tab S costed £399 at launch and Apple’s iPad Air 2 costs £399, both without keyboard accessories.VerdictSony’s tablets have always been excellent, but have failed to stand out from the pack. The Xperia Z4 Tablet is the best yet and is thinner and lighter than most, with a great screen and solid battery life.It’s also waterproof, without any fiddly doors covering the charging or headphones ports, which means there’s basically no downside to being waterproof.But the best bit is when the tablet is combined with the keyboard, making a very capable and simple laptop replacement that is thinner, lighter and lasts longer on battery than most.Pros:Thin, light, waterproof, excellent keyboard, microSD card slot, 2K screenCons:Not quite as sturdy feeling as some, expensive, variable battery life, no Gorilla GlassOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a new benchmark for screen quality•Apple iPad Air 2 review : Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?•Microsoft Surface 3 review: one of the best tablet-laptop hybrids
Activist investor Carl Icahn has embarked on a new campaign to encourage Apple to increase returns to shareholders by arguing the iPhone maker’s shares should be trading at nearly double their current price – $240 each, rather than $128.On this basis, the Californian company would be worth about $1.5tn, more than seven times as valuable as Shell, one of Britain’s biggest listed companies.A customer tries on an Apple Watch in Hong Kong. Icahn is enthusiastic about the company’s prospects.Photograph: APApple has becomethe world’s most valuable companybut Icahn has set out ina letter to the Apple bosswhy he believes the shares should be worth almost 90% more than they are already.“Apple is poised to enter and in our view dominate two new categories (the television next year and the automobile by 2020) with a combined addressable market of $2.2tn, a view investors don’t appear to factor into their valuation at all,” Icahn wrote in the letter to Tim Cook.The corporate raider has previously sent public letters to Cook.In October2014, he argued the shares should double in value – that time to $203 each – as he encouraged the company to buy back shares from investors. As one of the 10 biggest shareholders in Apple, he upped his forecast in February to $216 a share.In his latest letter, Icahn wrote: “We are pleased that Apple has directionally followed our advice and repurchased $80bn of its shares [yielding the company’s shareholders an excellent return], but the company’s enormous net cash position continues to grow while the company’s shares are still dramatically undervalued.“With Apple’s shares trading for just $128.77 per share versus our valuation of $240 per share, now is the time for a much larger buyback. We appreciate that the board just increased the share repurchase authorisation by $50bn, and that it continues to prioritise share repurchases over dividends (as it should).”He had outlined the importance of Apple TV in his previous letter and again highlighted the potential market value of this business as well as the cars. “We believe the rumours that Apple will introduce an Apple-branded car by 2020, and we believe it is no coincidence that many believe visibility on autonomous driving will gain material traction by then,” Icahn said.Icahn is enthusiastic about the prospects for Apple TV as he said people spent 25% of their free time watching television. “We view TV’s role in the living room as a strategically compelling bolt-on to the Apple ecosystem,” he said, arguing that a high-definition set could be followed by pay-TV channelsThe letter cited products such as a larger screen iPad, the Apple Watch, Apple Pay, Homekit, Healthkit and Beats Music as justifying his higher valuation.In itsresults in April, Apple said it had ended the quarter with $193.5bn in cash, though much of this is held outside the US and would incur a large tax bill if repatriated. It added another $50bn to its share buyback programme, taking the total being returned to shareholders to $200bn by March 2017.Icahn’s letter was published as an appeal court issued a ruling which couldreduce the damages Samsungmust pay to Apple for copying some features of the iPhone.
The cold war may have ended in the 90s but Russia is still fighting to free itself from American influence over its technology sector, with the country’s minister for communications announcing plans to create a new mobile operating system to challenge iOS and Android across all theBricsnations.Meanwhile, another Russian company is designing its own central processing units to take on Intel and AMD.According to Russia’s RBCfinancial newspaper, the country’s ministry of communications instigated the project to replace Android and iOS, meeting with Finnish developer Jolla to discuss the creation of a new mobile operating system based on Jolla’s open-source Sailfish OS.Russia’s minister of communications and mass media, Nikolai Nikiforov, told RBC that he wants to see the use of non-Russian mobile operating systems drop to just 50% by 2025. Android alone accounts for 81% of the country’s OS market share, according to analysts at Gartner, while iOS picks up another 15%.Sailfish OS has just 0.5% of the market in Russia at present, below even Windows Mobile and Blackberry. But the open-source nature of the operating system, which lets any interested party use it as the basis of their own software, as well as the lack of ties to the US (unlike Android, which, while also open-source, is heavily controlled by Google), makes it a strong contender for a future Russian open system.The company is formed around a core of former Nokia employees, who left after Nokia decided to abandon its fledgling MeeGo operating system in favour of working exclusively with Microsoft on smartphones. The core components of MeeGo were open source and Jolla’s new employees built Sailfish around it.In the long run, Nikiforov hopes to expand Sailfish into a fully international effort. Shortly after the meeting with Jolla,he tweetedthat the operating system “creates a Finnish-Russian-Chinese company”, which could one day include “India, Brazil and South Africa”, involving all members of the Brics group of developing nations. To that extent, he hopes to involve IT companies from other Brics nations, he told RBC, encouraging their employees to give 20% of their time, paid for by the state, to work on pan-Brics initiatives like the new operating system.ProcessorsIn other areas, Russian companies have already begun to ship their homegrown alternatives to foreign technology products. MCST, a processor company set up in 1992 as a direct descendent of the Soviet-era state-run Moscow Center of SPARC Technologies – SPARC is short for scalable processor architecture – recently shipped the Elbrus-4C computer, the latest in a line of hardware dating back to the 70s.But unlike previous Elbrus models, the 4C includes a feature known as “x86 emulation”, allowing it to run software written for the hardware found in most western computers that contain processors made by companies such as AMD and Intel.According to technology news site Ars Technica, the new chip “is probably a few years behind western chips, but it’s difficult to make a direct comparison”.The Elbrus computers still work primarily using their ownsui generisinstruction set, but are capable of translating software written for the more common x86 hardware in real time. That means the computer can run software such as Microsoft’s Windows operating system, and the company is selling a complete computer that comes with a version of open-source operating system Linux, also called Elbrus.
1. ‘I wonder how many local delivery companies have him flagged as the guy who’s never home when they show up’greykid15 May 2015 11:01amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateThere's some guy living in the Pacific NW who has apparently spent the last three years thinking his email address is my email address.I get *so* much stuff for this guy, I can more or less plot a vague outline of his month-to-month life at this point. He works as some sort of freelance consultant, and I wonder how it's going because he's presumably missed a number of important meetings, updates and debriefings in the last 24 months, owing to the fact that I get updates about them rather than him. He's also been having a lot of renovations on his house in the last year, and much as I'd like to confirm Tuesday would be a good time for the roofer to drop by for a quote, I can't, because I live 4500 miles away and don't know if he's free on Tuesday - the same reason I can't confirm that his air conditioning unit was delivered last week, or that it's ok for his party of four booking at a local restaurant on Friday to be pushed back an hour. He appears to be having difficulty selling his former property; I'm not that surprised.I worry about him - about the changes to meeting locations and apologies for missed barbecues he most likely never hears about. I wonder how many local delivery companies have him flagged as the guy who's never home when they show up; how many times he's walked away from empty conference rooms 15 minutes after the meeting was due to start, wondering why he's always the last to know.I know his 'life' well enough by now that it's pretty clear to me whenever I get one of these emails, and which ones are important or personal, and which ones nobody's going to miss. And wherever possible, I have replied with a shorter version of this post - to Lauri at the air conditioning company, to Steve from the outside consultancy firm, to Wendy about the barbecue, to the restaurant about the booking - and begged them to let him know that, somehow in this day and age, this poor guy either a) doesn't actually know *his own email address*, or that b) he has an email address that SOUNDS like mine over the phone, and he needs to clarify that people have jotted it down properly.The most I've ever got back has been one or two very brief apologies, never confirmation that they have an alternative contact for him and that they'll pass on the message. Never an email from the guy thanking me for taking the time, perhaps laughing about all the years he just thought people were ignoring him. I've even worked out various versions email addresses I can think of which might regularly be mistaken for mine over the phone, and speculatively written to those too. Nothing. Although two of them didn't bounce back.On we go.2. ‘A horrible hairy dick pic selfie that I fear will haunt my sleep for weeks to come’@alexhernMy best friend has a common name as well as me, we&#39;re discussing your articlepic.twitter.com/MtFfptdh8c&mdash; David O&#39;Neill (@daveirl)May 15, 20153. ‘I received an email from him suggesting I broke the law for reading emails which are not addressed to me’SybilSanderson15 May 2015 10:38amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateThe most disturbing one was from a (well known) UK solicitor who was handling the divorce of his client and there was a lot of money involved. I replied immediately and pointed out their mistake. A few weeks later the same, again I replied.And again. This time I called the solicitor directly and told him if he doesn’t get his act together I will inform his client. After all he did not only provide details of physical abuse, bank statements, her whereabouts (she was in a “safe house”) to a complete stranger who is aware that her husband is looking for her and is pretty loaded; but also his intended tactics.I then received an email from him trying to intimidate him and suggesting I broke the law for reading emails which are not addressed to me.I printed out the emails, send it to his client with a letter assuring her that I have no malicious intention but want to protect her (I was going through a divorce myself at that time and could sympathise with her worries) and suggested she should change her solicitor. Which she did.A***ole4. Searching for ‘the man with the magic mouth’@alexhernMy name is much more common in the States than here - the best misaddressed email I ever got was this onepic.twitter.com/bWs4CpyfMh&mdash; Chris Applegate (@chrisapplegate)May 15, 20155. ‘Living in Wales, a nation not renowned for its wide variety of surnames, I get this a lot.’Rich Thomas15 May 2015 10:52amI feel your pain.Having the name Richard Thomas and living in Wales, a nation not renowned for its wide variety of surnames, I get this a lot.My work email is constantly filling up with misdirected requests and I frequently find my personal account signed up to random services.A highlight was receiving an email thanking me for signing up to an online dating site when my then girlfriend was sat right next to me...6. ‘My favourite alt me’@alexhernmy favourite alt-me is the sheriff from the US who orders cars parts and signs up to hook-up websites to cheat on his fiance.&mdash; James Hunt (@JamesHunt)May 15, 20157. ‘ Every few months I receive emails addressed to one of my lecturers who shares the same first name as me’ldjbUK15 May 2015 10:33amAs a university student, every few months I receive emails addressed to one of my lecturers who shares the same first name as me, but whose surname is completely different. The contents of the emails have ranged from other students on my course asking me questions about material covered in lectures (of which I have no real authority on) to academics congratulating me on the publication of papers I hadn't written.When I receive such emails, I make sure to forward it on to my lecturer, copying it to the original sender in the hopes that they won't repeat their mistake. I am a bit puzzled as to why this keeps happening though. Do people simply enter my lecturer's first name and department into the directory search facility and pick the first option on the list? That seems to me like a rather foolish thing to do. Perhaps my university should offer a course on the proper use of email.8. The cheating fiance@alexhernA friend once got congrats on his (non existent) upcoming wedding and so told his &quot;friend&#39; it was off as his fiance was cheating.&mdash; ruairí (@rubot)May 15, 20159. Not quite Alcoholics anonymous@alexhern@chrisapplegateFor ages I was cc’d (not bcc’d) in on all the correspondence of the Arkansas chapter of Alcoholics Anonymous.&mdash; Tom Phillips (@flashboy)May 15, 201510. Email trollingBlindWanderer16 May 2015 9:32amLol.For several YEARS I had mailerdaemon as my account at comcast.net. You are saying &quot;so what?&quot; What happens when you send an email and you typo the name? You get an email saying: &quot;I'm sorry that address doesn't exist -- signed mailer daemon.&quot; That email is generated by your mail provider BUT they make up a return address for it. They forge the address. And so some isps would forge mailerdaemon at comcast when comcast would bounce the message. &quot;So what&quot; you say, &quot;is this going to end with Tree Fiddy?&quot; Nope. There are idiots out there who REPLY to those bounce messages with questions like: &quot;why didn't you deliver my message&quot; yeah I may have trolled a few people.I had that account for like 10 years before comcast took it away. They were really nice about it.11. Vote for me@alexhernEvery few years I&#39;m bombarded with emails from people standing for the election in North Carolina.&mdash; Kevin Q Anderson (@KQAnderson)May 15, 201512: ‘There is some guy in America with a name similar to mine who a) is desperate to find a girlfriend, and b) doesn’t know his own email address.’marksg15 May 2015 1:40pmThere is some guy in America with a name similar to mine who a) is desperate to find a girlfriend, and b) doesn't know his own email address. Whether these are related is a matter of debate, but nonetheless has resulted in me getting a steady stream of emails from various dating agencies thanking me for signing up and offering me various possible matches.Dealing with this has ranged from the amusing to the infuriating. In some cases,a simple unsubscribe has stopped them. In a couple of cases, I've logged on to the site (well, it's my email address, so I get to reset the password) and changed &quot;my&quot; profile to be about as unattractive as it can possibly be. One site didn't allow me to unbsubscribe or change the profile, so instead I changed the email address and redirected the new one to the site's founder.In other, similar incidents, I regularly get invoices from a private hospital in Singapore. More recently, some unfortunate traveller is not going to be able to fly from Washington to Dallas, as I have his e-ticket. And on one occasion, some chap's girlfriend sent me a selfie that was, well, not really what I think she would have wanted a stranger to see.
Most professions have a uniform of some kind, whether it’s the suit and tie of corporate culture, or the brand-asserting mono-wear of the world’s major retail outlets. Sometimes, however, dress codes can be much more insidious. In the world of video games, a young creative industry that seeks to assert its rebelliousness and vibrancy, we aren’t required to conform through necessity or tradition. But one thing I discovered very quickly when I started working here is that thereisa uniform: it’s just that this one is the result, not of workplace rules, but of a lack of diversity. And it can be just as excluding.It was the night of my very first launch party. I’d just finished my internship at a video games TV channel and I was going through the familiar routine of choosing an outfit. In other words, I was trying on everything in my own wardrobe as well as the wardrobes of all my flatmates. I eventually decided on something I’d been saving for a special occasion: a patterned mid-length dress with black panels down the side. I sent a photo of it to the colleague who’d invited me, but her replied surprised me: “It’s lovely, but a bit too dressy for tonight.” I wore it anyway.When we arrived at the event, I realised straight away that she was right. I was greeted with a sea of plaid and denim, amid which you could sometimes pick out the odd T-shirt, usually bearing a video game or movie reference so obscure only the wearer and four of their friends would ever understand it. There were barely any women there, and most of those were publishers or in marketing, rather than developers. I felt like a lone speck of femininity in a musty fog of identikit men.The white guy in checked shirt, jeans and trainers. Possibly with a beard. It’s the joke we often make about the industry, but there is plenty of truth in the stereotype. This tweet from developer 2K Games (although clearly a joke) pretty much sums things up:Just another day at the 2K offices...pic.twitter.com/PZs1VRslI8&mdash; 2K  (@2K)March 26, 2015Go to any games event, whether its a major premiere or an indie expo, and the room will be filled with people in this ensemble. It’s not that menshouldn’tdress as lumberjacks – everyone deserves the freedom to wear what they want – but the unremitting casualness of the games industry has almost become a stifling uniform in itself. Most of the time, you’ll only ever see anything smarter at a formal event, like the Bafta awards – and even then, we’re talking hired Moss Bros suits or emergency polyester purchases from the nearest budget clothing outlet. In this industry, “smart” means wearing your box-fresh Adidas Sambas rather than those battered Converse with the sole flapping off. I’m fond of dresses, but whenever I dared wear one to the office I would be met with a chorus of “what’s the occasion?”I entered the games industry as a 19-year-old woman facing a professional environment dominated by men. In its2014 workplace study, the International Game Developer Association found that the number of women in the industry has doubled in the past five years, but it still stands at just 22%. And at industry events it can feel like a lot less. I was acutely aware of standing out, the clothes I liked to wear didn’t fit in with the consensus of casual boyishness. Consequently, I found myself consciously wearing more androgynous outfits, my dresses and skirts were pushed to the back of the wardrobe, and I started choosing plainer clothes that I wouldn’t have really considered before. Goodbye beloved floral A-line dress, hello plain black T-shirt.As a woman who often appears in front of camera I was particularly self-conscious of choosing anything that could be considered “sexy”. I was once told by a seasoned industry professional that they were reluctant to let myself and a female colleague stream video together as they didn’t want to look like they were “selling sex”. Somehow, internet commenters started to have an influence – they made me think that my body wasn’t something that belonged to me, but to those who looked at me. The way to combat that was to tone down the way I dressed. To be taken seriously as a video games journalist, I had to avoid looking “sexy” or “girly”.It’s taken me over a year, along with meeting and befriending other inspirational women in the industry, to realise that changing my style so that I can fit in is wrong. A uniform implies control and regimentation, and this is a young and creative industry, where those constraints should not apply. Indeed, we are lucky to be part of a culture that is still forming its own identity – that can be a wonderful thing. We joke about the stereotypical games industry look, but we need to be aware that it is the product of a lack of diversity, both in terms of gender and ethnicity – as such it can seem just as exclusionary as the tailored suit and tie of the professional world.Of course, I’m not saying that the whole industry needs a makeover, but it has to be more welcoming toward different concepts of style and identity. Creativity begins with how we feel and how we see and present ourselves as people. This industry isn’t just dressing identically, it draws its inspiration from the same music, movies and books. This homogeneity leads to staid ideas.I now happily wear my floral A-line dress to video game events, and yes, I do stand out, but that’s fine. In an industry that lacks it, difference is a good thing to have.
