A software engineer working for America Online was last night charged with stealing the internet service provider's entire subscriber list and selling it to spammers, the senders of unsolicited junk emails.Jason Smathers, 24, was arrested on conspiracy charges at his home in West Virginia, close to AOL's headquarters, where he had worked since 1999. Sean Dunaway, 21, who bought the list of 92m screen names, was arrested in Las Vegas.Although detailed customer information was obtained, there is no evidence that any credit card details were stolen.According to the indictment, Mr Smathers used his skills to steal AOL's database of customer account screen names in May 2003. He sold the list to Mr Dunaway and possibly others. Mr Dunaway allegedly used it to promote his own internet gambling website and is said to have boasted that spamming was bringing in up to $20,000 (&#163;11,000) a day.Mr Dunaway is said to have sold the list on, including to someone marketing herbal penile enlargement pills. The buyer apparently paid $52,000.Realising the value of the list, Mr Dunaway later paid Mr Smathers another $100,000 for an updated version, which he again sold to third parties.The pair face up to five years in prison and fines of $250,000.Mr Smathers is alleged to have used a colleague's identification code to gain access to the customer details. He was able to download screen names, related zip or postal codes, credit card types and telephone numbers. AOL has around 30m subscribers but many of them have multiple accounts, which is why the number of screen names is far higher.But he was not able to secure credit card numbers, which are stored by AOL in a separate, highly secure data warehouse.AOL said Mr Smathers had been fired last week. It said in a statement: "We deeply regret what has taken place and are thoroughly reviewing and strengthening our internet procedures as a result of this investigation and arrest."
EBay has staked a claim in India's hothouse economy, agreeing to buy the nation's largest online auction company,Baazee.com, for $50m (&#163;27.5m).The deal enables eBay to establish a presence in the second most populous country in the world at a time when internet use there is still relatively low. An estimated 17m of India's 1bn-plus population is online, a figure expected to rise to 30m within two years.EBay is now in 29 countries and the overseas operations of the Silicon Valley-based online marketplace are becoming increasingly important to the bottom line.In April, the company reported a 59% improvement in revenues during the first quarter to $756m and credited its international operations for much of the increase. Overseas sales now account for 40% of group revenues, up from 33% a year ago.Germany and the UK are the biggest eBay sites outside the United States but a year ago the company paid $150m to take full control of EachNet, an online auction business in China in which it had first invested during 2001.China's internet penetration is projected to grow at the same rate as India's, up from 84m to 126m by the end of 2006. Gross merchandise sales on the Chinese site reached $50m in the first quarter.In the US, there are 188m internet users, a figure forecast to reach 216m in two years.Mumbai-based Baazee.com is the brainchild of Indian-born Harvard MBAs Avnish Bajaj and Suvir Sujan.The pair quit their jobs on Wall Street at the height of the internet boom to set up an online auction site in India. They raised $21m in venture capital, some of it from a division of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, and began operating in January 2000.Baazee.com claims to have around 1m registered users, and some 50,000 listings in categories including jewellery, electronics, home furnishings and Bollywood collectables. That makes it similar in size to EBay websites in Switzerland and Singapore.EBay has driven overseas growth through a combination of acquiring local operators which have copied the EBay model as well as building new sites from scratch.
Saturday night at a secret location in east London and the sweetheart of the music press, the feisty MC Shystie, is on a stage in the subterranean Tardis Studio in the fashionable quarter of Clerkenwell.The secret gig is being hosted not by the 20-year-old's record company, but by the mobile operator 02. To help signal the connection between music and mobiles, a novel idea of inviting the audience to send text messages to the diminutive rapper has been devised. Shystie reads the texts from a screen on the stage and uses the suggestions to help improvise her act. Her rapid-fire raps echo the rat-a-tat-tat tapping of text messages from the packed dance floor."I have two phones," says Shystie a few days earlier in a recording studio beneath the Heal's department store in Tottenham Court Road. "One for business and one for my friends. I store my lyrics in my Nokia. If I'm on tour or sitting around waiting and lyrics come into my head, I just tap them into my phone, save them and when I go home, I incorporate them into my actual songs."The Shystie campaign typifies the newer, subtler type of mobile marketing campaign aimed at Britain's youth. The 300-strong audience gained entry by text message and each is now added to the operators' mailing lists. It is a world away from the serious image projected by O2's predecessor, BT Cellnet.Shystie is surprisingly complicit with the marketing campaign. She is upfront about her contract with the mobile operator, product placing the brand within the first few minutes of our interview. Not bad for a girl who   has yet to release her first album.As alcohol is flowing at the Tardis Studio, everyone at the gig is over 18. O2 says it is using Shystie to promote its music download service to its core demographic of 18-26 year olds. But according to the latest data from the mobile industry, the indirect recipients may be people much younger.Thanks to the Stewart Commission report of 2001, it is against the mobile operators' formal code of conduct to market phones to the under 16s. But according to a recent report, the fastest growing sector is the under nines - school kids.New research from Mobile Youth - a mobile telecoms consultancy - found that 700,000 (20%) of primary school children own mobile phones   and that the under 10s "represent the fastest-growing segment of mobile phone ownership within Britain"."They are the key fashion accessory which no self respecting child can do without," says the report. It predicts that by 2006, more than one million primary school kids (a third of all five-to-nine year olds) will own mobiles."For very young children, mobiles are like toys and it's all about having the best in the playground," says Wyndham Lewis, of Mobile Youth. "The older generation is more interested in the applications and cementing their peer group around it."As the market saturates, nine year olds become the only people who don't have mobile phones."Mobile operators, especially Virgin,   O2 and Vodafone, are developing packages that are likely to tempt the young. Virgin uses teen idol Christina Aguilera in its recent TV advertisements, while Vodafone has signed Robbie Williams."Youth represents a key market for us," admits Glen Manoff, communications director of 02. "It is crucial for two reasons. First, they are newcomers. Older people who haven't bought a mobile are not likely to come in now. Second, along with the business market, they like to try new services. But we don't market to younger kids."No one is suggesting the mobile operators are targeting children in their campaigns. But some analysts believe that each needs to attract an ever-younger generation of customers as they offer the greatest potential to grow data services.Just look at the leading data services in the UK: text messaging, ringtones, Java games and downloadable music - not one is a serious business application. The implicit understanding within the mobile world is that it is kids who will drive the data services the mobile operators need to drive up revenue now that most adults have a mobile phone.Adopting and adapting mobile phone technology are skills that come naturally to two young musicians from north-east London. Ironik, 16 and his mate D.Dark, 15, use their mobiles to create ringtones. Locked out from the expensive download market, the youngsters make ringtones and share them with friends. "I use the phone's internal composer to compose music," says Ironik. "It's pretty easy, really."But is this such a bad thing? According to Steve Gordon, of Twice is Nice, a nightclub promoter turned "urban" marketing guru, mobile phones often act as a "gateway" technology that prepares Britain's youth for the online world they are born into. "It's a creative tool," he explains. "Already, there are tracks played on pirate radio that were composed on mobile phones."So are the mobile operators being disingenuous when they say they are not targeting the youth market? Just tune into MTV to see how many ads for mobiles and services there are. Or visit any playground in Britain and you see that kids and phones go together like jelly and ice cream.As the science-fiction visionary William Gibson opined: "The street always finds its own use for this stuff."
As politicians ponder how to promote (or, in some cases, wreck) Europe's constitution, officials are already creating a single European Union on the web. The goal is a web portal through which citizens wanting to live, work, set up a business or study in another member state would be able to find out what they need to know, and tackle the necessary bureaucracy online.The portal, called Your Europe, is supposed to go live later this year.Whether this is realistic remains to be seen: most member state governments are having enough difficulty putting their own official procedures online, without worrying about other member states.Europe already has a website, the gatewaywww.europa.eu.int, revamped this year to handle the   EU's 20 country languages. It is packed with information for Euro-junkies, including the draft constitution, but there's little of use to people's everyday lives.Hence the need for Your Europe. In its strategy for the new site, the European Commission's Interchange of Data between Administrations project warns that individual countries' e-government services could become barriers to freedom of movement if they don't work across borders.A pilot Your Europe is already athttp://europa.eu.int/public-services. The site contains pointers to information, especially for businesses, but is not a compelling experience. A search for "social security" turns up a page for employers, information on family allowances in Luxembourg and a link to the European Agency for   Health and Safety at Work.According to the commission, Your Europe will answer useful questions, such as whether a qualification is valid in a particular member state. The strategy recognises that the only way to assemble this kind of information is to do it locally. However, central coordination will be essential to control quality and set standards for terminology and processes.The project may be good news for thousands of monoglot Brits relocating to France, Spain and elsewhere: the portal's home pages will be fully multilingual, while information it finds in national sites "should be available in at least one official language" in addition to languages spoken in the country concerned. However, the choice of additional language would be up to local administrations.The project has a modest cost: &euro;750,000 this year, with an annual cost of &euro;500,000 to sustain it.Even so, the project isn't getting a particularly warm reception. Most e-government programmes are surprisingly inward-looking, and are busy sorting out the balance of power between national, regional and local web portalsinternally. If Your Europe lives up to its promise, it will add another layer of complexity. One suggestion is that the portal should be accompanied by cutting one other tier of e-administration.As most public services are run by local authorities rather than national government, a good candidate for the chop would be national web portals. Which is yet another reason why a great many people would like to see Your Europe strangled at birth.
Healthcare software business iSoft, which merged with competitor Torex late last year, reported better than expected annual profits and gave an upbeat assessment of its prospects yesterday, sending its shares racing upwards.The software firm made pre-tax profits of &#163;36.8m in the year to the end of April, up from &#163;23.5m a year earlier and several million better than the City expected.In addition chief executive Tim Whiston gave an upbeat outlook statement. "We believe that the current year will be one of continuing progress prior to an acceleration of growth in 2006 and 2007," he said.The company has secured itself an important role in the transformation of the IT systems used by English hospitals and healthcare trusts. During the last year the government has awarded five such contracts. iSoft picked up three of them - more than analysts had been expecting.Originally iSoft reckoned the long-term contracts would bring in &#163;300m in revenues, but yesterday the company revised its assessment of that amount to some &#163;500m. The company also confirmed yesterday that it expects to make cost savings of &#163;10m a year through the merger with Torex.
This month saw the first Women in Games conference, celebrating the brave few females in the
   games industry. The occasion, organised by Mark Eyles at the University of Portsmouth, was an
   extraordinary congregation of digital-savvy ladies with much to say about gaming and, finally, the
   platform from which to say it.The prevailing attitude of interactive entertainment publishers is that women don't play games
   and they don't want to play them, so why bother? What they fail to realise is that the titles that the
   predominantly male developers churn out - heavy on brutality and sexual innuendo - are games
   the majority of women don't think are worth playing.Although the figures for girl gamers buying software for consoles are shockingly low, women
   make up 62% of players on gaming websites, according to Suzie Cardwell, of 3RD Sense. It's on
   quickfire puzzle titles such as Tetris that they spend their limited time and hard-earned cash, not
   on Grand Theft Auto. That's 5.4m women playing per month, with a combined disposable income of
   $14bn.It is a gross oversight to ignore the potential cash cow of female gamers, explains Sheri Graner
   Ray, the author of last year's Gender Inclusive Game Design and this year's keynote speaker. The
   console gaming market of 15 to 25-year-old men isn't growing as fast as the videogames industry,
   which churns out more than 760 titles per year in Europe alone with budgets up to $10m. Only 5%
   of those break even. If the men in suits don't tap the pocketbooks of the female market,
   interactive entertainment will strangle and collapse before we can say "Game over".The answer, argues Ray, is not to put traditionally male games in a pink box, nor is it to make titles
   for women featuring fluffy kittens. Men and women appreciate complementary elements in games,
   such as exploration and choice. She argues that simply stating in development meetings that an
   audience could be part female will change the design of games, widening the buyer base.Re-assessing employee demographics will also help. Women only make up 11% of games industry
   professionals, and are mostly in support roles. Exposing women to the world of games art,
   programming and design through role model schemes or school visits should increase the
   number of female applicants. Throw men and women into a room together to design a product and
   the range of perspectives will result in something vastly different from one created by only men.The Women in Games conference gathered a hard-nosed and curious group of industry
   professionals, academics and journalists, more than 90% of whom were female. Few had realised
   there were enough women in the industry to fill a room. By the end of the event, however, these
   ladies were no longer a fragmented minority, dispersed among the hundreds of game companies
   in the UK. For the first time, they were a cohesive unit, ready to make changes from within.There
   was even a queue for the women's loo. In the history of male-dominated computer games expos,
   that was a first.
Crash Bandicoot FusionGame Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 VU Games/Vicarious Visions&#42;&#42;&#42;Crash Bandicoot games are becoming a frequent sight on the GBA ever since VU Games secured the rights from Sony. This latest adventure for the triangular-shaped one sees him entering the realm of VU's other cutesy franchise, Spyro the Dragon. The little purple reptile also gets his own GBA game (Spyro Fusion), in which he enters Crash's world.It's a gimmicky concept, considering you don't get to play as both characters, although you can link the two and trade cards, allowing you to unlock secrets, cheats and characters.The game consists of mini games loosely strung together, with platform elements to get you from one challenge to the next. Although the mini games are the best thing about Fusion, they are sometimes repetitive and not as much fun as the bigger "section" games in the last Crash GBA game, Crash 2: N Tranced. They are inspired by everything from Breakout to Mario, so it plays like a spot-the-retro-game exercise.The ability to link up with friends to play in the Party Mode section, which includes all the mini games,   will give this title longevity, along with the card-trading aspect. But look to the previous N Tranced if you want top-quality Crash action.Rhianna PratchettBoktaiGame Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Konami,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;While we wait for Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater, its creator, Hideo Kojima, has created a bizarre side project. Boktai is Kojima's first Game Boy Advance game, and he has said it was designed for his young son.Kojima does not do things by halves, and Boktai can claim uniqueness. Its GBA cartridge includes a sunlight sensor - designed to distinguish between natural and artificial light. You take on the persona of a vampire-hunter aiming to save the world using a sunlight gun, which you can recharge only when you place the sensor in real sunshine.Kojima, with his take on how to move the games industry forward, has tapped into the debate on obesity, for which the industry has taken a lot of flak. As it would be nigh-on impossible to play in the height of winter, if you managed to complete it indoors, in December, you could achieve legendary gamer status.Boktai is good but not great, reminiscent of Castlevania, with extra stealth-based gameplay and its mix of shooting with puzzle-solving.Steve BoxerRed Dead RevolverPlayStation 2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Rockstar Games,&#42;&#42;As creator of the massively popular Grand Theft Auto series, Rockstar has a reputation for grown-up games. Its latest release, Red Dead Revolver, continues this trend, although it gets nowhere near the heights of GTA.Set in the Wild West, Red Dead Revolver is a gunslinging shooter that keeps boredom at bay with its brevity and style. Like Max Payne, the beauty is in the killing, with numerous ways to dispatch bad guys. You can also target enemies in slow-motion.Each section is similar, with hordes of sharpshooters standing between you and the next level. There is variety with the duels - RDR's finest moments - which capture the Wild West nicely, causing stressful moments as you strain to get a good hit in. As the game progresses, your skills increase, giving you the chance to cause more damage. With train levels and horseriding sections, this starts to look like a class act.However, the cartoon violence gets tedious very quickly and you can't help wishing for something more stimulating. Blurry visuals and a flimsy plot don't help and the difficulty level seems to be set quite low.While the western setting is welcome, Red Dead Revolver lacks variety and ambition, omissions not normally associated with Rockstar games.Greg Howson
Back to collegeI'm about to re-enter academia as a mature student, and I'm wondering what today's young things use for electronic study aids. I can't believe there isn't a modern alternative to feverishly taking notes and trying to decipher them later.Linda MitchellJack Schofield replies:Most students seem to have ordinary notebook PCs, which they use for downloading MP3s and movies, as well as writing email and essays, but you can ask the university, department or course tutor if a particular system is recommended. Some universities and colleges arrange for manufacturers to supply systems at reduced rates. They can all get Toshiba notebooks under the National Higher Education Laptop Agreement, which is managed by theLondon Universities Purchasing Consortium.The "modern alternative" would be a Windows XP Tablet PC with OneNote software, chosen for one standard feature: it will record a talk or meeting (on the hard drive) and synchronise it with notes handwritten on the screen. You don't have to convert your handwriting to text: just scribble away and save it as it is. If you can't decipher a word later, just listen to it. However, if you go this route, check that the built-in microphone is good enough, or consider getting an external one. Also, get a Tablet that includes a keyboard, so it will still work as a conventional notebook PC. If you can't already touchtype, start learn  ing now withKAZ. You could also consider a pen scanner so that you can capture text quickly. The leading suppliers includeC Technologies,Iris, andWizCom.Phishing?I just received an email apparently from BT Yahoo! warning me about the need to change my browser settings to match its new authentication system. It provided a link for me to do so automatically. According to the status bar, the link was to http://link.btowb.com/45820/2059/53fc.html. Is this a browser hijacker or redialler?Alan DenhamJS:I pasted btowb.com into a Whois database, and it says the domain is owned by BT Openworld. Then I pasted the link intoMegaproxy, and it resolved tohttp://help.btinternet.com/help/smtp. Here, the link is genuine, but it's better to be safe than sorry.Trouble in restoreAVG anti-virus has thrown up several virus warnings recently, and most have been removed except one. It's located in C:/_RESTORE/ TEMP/A0249950. CPY, which cannot be healed or deleted. RESTORE/TEMP is about 2GB in size, and I have no idea what it is for or how it got there.Mike WilliamsJS:Recent versions of Windows have a System Restore feature so that if something goes wrong, you can go back to a date when everything worked. Windows keeps copies of these files it needs to do this, and protects them from deletion. It also protects any viruses that have been backed up with them. So you will have to turn off System Restore to delete the virus. Go to Start| Programs|Accessories|System Tools and select System Restore. However, you may lose your restore points.Find and destroyI was very interested in your comment that Windows XP's indexing service is "the dreaded Find Fast reborn". I have Find Fast on Windows 98. What is dreaded about it? Can I set it to manual by default?  When I type in services.msc it says it cannot find the file.Barbara TilbrookJS:Find Fast was probably installed with Microsoft Office. Its job was to index files in the background so that the search facility could find things faster. Unfortunately, it often seemed to start indexing when you were trying to do something else, slowing the PC to a crawl. You can stop Find Fast from loading automatically by removing it from the Windows StartUp folder The services.msc command only works with NT-based versions of Windows.Backchat&#183;Tony Wyers wanted a secure way to maintain his online bank accounts while travelling. Ed Riley from Brussels recommends Egg: "The multilevel security can be irritating when logging in on a slow connection but none the less always works, is 128-bit SSL compliant, and also allows you to access other online non-Egg accounts."&#183;Last week, I said there was currently no way to stop your email address being spoofed to send spam and viruses. Neal Cartwright and Andy Ducker have pointed out thatSender Policy Framework (SPF)- formerly Sender Permitted From - is one scheme being developed to do this. It fixes the security hole in the internet's SMTP mail system, but has yet to be adopted by the Internet Engineering Task Force.
Blair ditch projectGetting under the skin of politicians is something political blogger Tim Ireland knows a lot about. As well as "cyber-stalking" Tim Yeo with a blog dedicated to the Tory MP's downfall, his latest ruse is an online petition to oust the prime minister. Ireland is part of a group of political bloggers who have decided to use their "reach and influence" to persuade the public to contact their nearest Labour MP and ask them to change their leader.A long shot, perhaps, but before you write the bloggers off as timewasters, consider that Aussie-born Ireland successfully campaigned for a publicly accessible email facility for the PM and drew up specifications that were adopted for the eventual service. Ireland has also campaigned for the wider use of weblogs by MPs and produced one for the Labour MP for West Bromwich East, Tom Watson, arguably the first genuine weblog by an elected official anywhere. It is worth noting, for all this loathing of Blair, that Ireland and his compadres are decidedly left wing.www.bigintervention.org.ukwww.dumpblair.co.ukhttp://tim-yeo.blogspot.comhttp://www.tom-watson.co.ukUnforgettableThere is a cute site on show at Kiasma art gallery in Helsinki. Pocketsfullofmemories.com features a fascinating database of objects and the memories connected to them.www.pocketsfullofmemories.comHit over the netThis year's Wimbledon website looks like the best yet. As well as the usual player profiles and stats, it also offers a real-time scoreboard that works as a stand-alone application, live commentary on the top match of the day thanks to its online radio service and a new online shop. There will be also webcams dotted throughout the leafy environs of the All England Club offering a live video feed, while the IBM "zoom cam" allows you to direct the action.www.wimbledon.orgSlick clicksExxonMobil, the world's largest oil company, is the target of more online political activism. It is the subject of a devilishly clever Flash-enhanced website that asks: is ExxonMobil funding climate change sceptics? To prove its argument, ExxonSecrets.org uses a database compiled by the Clearinghouse on Environmental Advocacy and Research (Clear) that lists institutions funded by the Exxon Foundation. It then allows you to map these connections by tracing individuals to institutions. It's the sort of thing that visitors to the They Rule website - which examines the interconnections between board members of the top 100 Fortune companies in the US - may be familiar with, as ExxonSecrets is also the work of Josh On and Amy Balkin. The site, the first chapter of a larger Greenpeace project, links to Thedayaftertomorrow.org, a clever twist on the official website of the recent Hollywood movie.www.exxonsecrets.orgwww.thedayaftertomorrow.orgwww.theyrule.netwww.exxonmobil.comLondon callingTom Reynolds lives on his own in a "terrible" block of flats, with "no pets and no plants". He is 32 and has no idea where his father is or "even if he is still alive". He trained to be a primary school teacher but left because of his "loathing" of children. Why am I telling you all this? Because Reynolds is an ambulance man and writes one of the most compelling blogs doing the rounds.Reynolds's descriptions of life as a member of the London Ambulance Service is often an unsettling ride as they cover the nature of his work in detail, complete with pictures and heavy sarcasm. A previous incarnation of the blog was called Why I Hate Humanity, yet his most compelling recent entry describes his efforts to keep an elderly lady alive long enough so she can die in her family's arms. He says he likes the job because of the "fresh air, you are your own boss, you get to drive on the wrong side of the road and you only have to look after patients for 20 minutes".http://randomreality.blogware.comOn the MendNearly 1,000 mobiles are stolen in the UK every day. The Mobile Equipment National Database (Mend) helps you register your electronic devices, so if the worst happens, you might be able to retrieve them from the police. The service is free and you don't have to mark the object.www.menduk.orgNew &amp; notedBloggers against fascismwww.zeli.co.uk/uaf.htmlBack to the futurewww.retrofuture.comSix of the bestBest of the festGlastonbury festivalwww.glastonburyfestivals.co.ukLocal infomationwww.glastonbury.co.ukRadio Avalonhttp://radioavalon.co.ukLocal historywww.isleofavalon.co.ukEssential listeningwww.bbc.co.uk/music/glastonburyEssential readingwww.guardian.co.uk/arts/glastonbury
Final frontierYou recently mentioned the Electronic Frontier Foundation's campaign to overturn some US software idea patents that may be legally invalid(Web watch, June 17).While such campaigns can chip away at the problem of software idea patents, the European Union today has a real chance of solving the problem entirely. If the European parliament upholds its decision of last September (which rejected software patents), the EU will be free of them. Your readers in the EU can help bring this about by talking to their newly elected members of the European parliament.See theFoundation for a Free Information Infrastructuresite for practical advice on how to convince them. We have done it once already, so we have a shot at doing it again.Richard StallmanRadio headIn your article about music download systems(Take your partner, June 17), you omitted to mention the obvious system (the one I use): Standard MP3 download sources (or make your own from broadcasts); Media - CD-R or CD-RW; MP3 CD players. All are widely available, inexpensive and standard, which means it is unlikely to become obsolete.The free sources are not necessarily illegal - I make excellent quality MP3s from digital radio. The 1989 copyright act allows recordings for personal use to be made from broadcasts or performances.Mark TaylorSheffieldWherefore?Tell me the old, old story: US $0.99 (54p); Europe &euro;0.99 (66p); UK 79p. To pluralise Falstaff: "I am as poor as Jobs, my lord, but not so patient."John WhysallLondonIn the dollarA recent letter argued the British were losing out by not being in the Euro, demonstrated by iTunes music costing 79p a song here, compared with 66p in France and Germany. By the same argument, it would be better to be in the dollar because in the US, iTunes songs are 99c (54p). Somehow, I don't think this is what your correspondent had in mind.Dick CaveCambridgeHear my voiceRichard Wray(A new century calling, June 17)says that BT's first VoIP product is expected next month.I beg to differ - I already have its first VoIP product, BT Broadband Voice, installed in my flat. Plug an ordinary phone into the converter box, plug the box into your broadband connection and "bingo" - instant VoIP.Andy DruckerA friendly faceI was fascinated to read about Telecare, the inhouse surveillance system that could allow older people to remain in their homes for longer by tracking household activity and raising the alarm if something suggests an individual is in danger or unwell(The walls have eyes, June 10).Women's Royal Voluntary Service (WVRS) has more than 95,000 volunteers across England, Scotland and Wales helping people maintain independence and dignity in their own homes and communities, particularly in later life. I welcome technology's contribution towards this goal. However, it is important not to lose sight of the value of regular face-to-  face contact with people.A WRVS survey conducted earlier this year found that 72% of the older people we work with see two or fewer people each day and 8% see no one.  The loneliness that can develop from lack of human contact leads to increased risk of health problems such as depression and a huge reduction in the quality of life for older people.Technological advances must be employed with the complete needs of older people in mind. Savings should be channelled into schemes enabling increased human contact, such as Good Neighbours and social transport. My hope is that this technology will be seen as a real opportunity to improve quality of life for older people and not just another way to cut costs.Mark LeverChief executive, WRVSVirgin on ridiculousFeedback attracts many gripes about BT's services. However, a recent experience with Virgin Net suggests that rivals are just as bad.I use BT broadband and have used Virgin Net for nearly seven years, as a backup dial-up connection. Last month, I decided to switch from BT to Virgin broadband. I received an email confirming the order, followed by an email telling me that for technical reasons, I was "currently unable to receive broadband". It added: "We have received the following information from BT: there are incompatible rented products on the line." I could not understand this - I placed the order through the internet on broadband - and emailed Virgin asking them to explain.Despite four emails to Virgin's broadband support team, I have not received a reply. I have now given up switching to Virgin broadband. If they're this bad when you're trying to give them hundreds of pounds a year, what hope would you have of getting technical support?Rob SkinnerChalfont St Giles
The PC world changed over the weekend. Technologies that have kept us going for a decade were given the black spot, and new ones were nominated to replace them for the next 10 years.The new Socket-T processor slot, DDR2 memory chips, PCI Express expansion slots and Serial ATA hard drives are obvious examples, However, items such as cooling systems, fan connections and power supplies have also changed.Most of these technologies will be familiar to people who track the PC industry. The cause of the change was that Intel has launched two new chipsets, codenamed Grantsdale and Alderwood, to support them. Rival suppliers such as VIA Technologies and SiS will have similar chipsets out this summer.Over the next year or two, PC manufacturers will move from selling machines with PCI expansion slots, IDE hard drives, DDR chips and AGP graphics cards to systems based on the new stuff.This is not about producing the PC equivalent of "hot rods", it's about bringing high-end features to the mass market. The price of upgrading is, as usual, incompatibility with past technology.Intel's launch of its new chipsets trumpeted their appeal to home users, because of their enhanced sound and graphics. For example, the High Definition Audio (HDA) supports 192kHz 24-bit 8-channel audio and 7.1 surround sound - a big improvement on the antique AC97 baseline standard.More important for businesses is the support for Raid drive arrays as standard (with data written   across two hard drives, in case one fails), plus the ability to support up to eight USB 2.0 ports and 4GB of memory. All users will benefit from minor tweaks such as the addition of an extra pin to the fan connector. This will make it simple to vary the fan speed according to the temperature of the processor, so PCs should run quieter.But don't run out and buy a new PC immediately, because new technologies always have problems. For example, Intel has delayed the release of wireless support for Grantsdale, and it is already working on an enhanced version that will provide a faster 1066MHz FSB (front side bus) for its fastest Pentiums. In another year, Grantsdale could well be replaced by the Lakeport chipset, with support for dual-core processors. So, wait for the bugs to be shaken out.However, if you need a new PC in the near future, then it could soon be a good time to buy one based on the "old" technologies. The arrival of new high-end PCs based on Grantsdale and Alderwood will probably knock all the current models down a price level, making them more affordable.Those companies that bought PCs in bulk to avoid the Y2K problem should soon be able to replace them with much faster, cheaper and better systems running Microsoft Windows XP with the increased reliability and security of the SP2 service back.Then, in 2007, they can think about whether to replace them with PCs running Longhorn (the next version of Windows), or a version of GNU/Linux that should, by then, be mature and well supported enough for general desktop use.PCI Expresswww.pcisig.com/specifications/pciexpressSerial ATAwww.serialata.orgIntel Socket T (LGA775)http://legitreviews.com/reviews/lga775DDR2 (JESD79-2A)www.digit-life.com/articles2/ddr2-rmma/ddr2-rmma.htmlwww.jedec.org/download/search/JESD79-2A.pdf
Orange has updated its SPV range of high-end mobiles by releasing a new smartphone and a connected PDA. The SPV C500 smartphone has a similar feature list to its predecessor, the SPV E200, namely Windows Mobile 2003 for Smartphone and applications such as Pocket Explorer and Outlook. It has the E200's VGA camera and its Bluetooth facility. The key difference is that the C500 is smaller and has a faster processor. The only mis-step is the awkward switch that controls the phone's menus.The connected SPV M1000 PDA (&#163;350 with a contract), is almost identical to the XDA II from rival network O2. The key difference is that the M1000 doesn't share that model's excellent secondary interface to network services. With its superb, large 64K-colour screen, fast processor and 128MB of storage, the SPV M1000 is one of the best specified mobile devices available. Its only real weaknesses are its bulk and the fact that Pocket Explorer is no match for Opera.www.orange.co.uk
&#183;Independent internet  service provider Star Internet  has issued a warning to small  businesses, saying that they  are failing to update their  security software and  hardware, and are therefore  open to attacks from hackers  and viruses. The company  points to firewalls - the  protection a company has  against intruders on their  intranets - as a particular  area of concern since so many  businesses regard these as  static rather than something  that needs updating in the face  of numerous new forms of  attacks. Star Internet is  offering an upgraded version  of its own security package to  existing customers.www.star.net.ukfor details.&#183; Disk drive specialist  Seagate is launching an  awareness campaign about its  diagnostic tools in the belief  that a number of companies  are ditching computers that  are rescuable. Seatools are free  on CD or for download atwww.seatools.info/en/prand  include an online calculator to  work out how much returned disk drives are actually costing  a business. The push comes after Seagate realised that one in three drives being returned  were actually in perfect  working order.&#183; Amacom has released its largest portable or back-up  drive to date in the shape of the 300 gigabyte addition to  the ez2 range. It also includes the company's FlipBack software that makes a mirror image of a desktop or laptop, so if a computer is stolen, it can be replicated immediately. Amacom is aiming the product at anyone who needs to be  mobile with their data or who wants to back up, but it believes that photographers and film-makers in particular  will benefit from the large  capacity of the new drive, which is available from computer retailers at around  £345.&#183; Invitations have been  sent out to companies eligible  to enter the Queen's Awards.  The deadline for applications  is October 31. The awards  bring a number of benefits -  other than prestige - such as publicity, a boost to staff  morale and business benefits. High-profile winners in the  past have included the likes of  Aston Martin, but it should be stressed that the awards are open to any business with two or more people involved. Entry is free and there are no limits to the amount of awards that will be made each year. If a  business deserves one, it will get one. Although a number of  companies have already been invited to participate, it's an  open field and entry forms  are available fromqueensawards.org.uk.&#183; Good news for the  ecologically-minded: the  Carbon Trust has released  figures that suggest new  advanced metering technology  is saving business up to 25% in their utility bills. One engineering company involved in a trial of the new equipment estimates that it will shave £20,000 per year off its operating costs, while a school in Tiverton was able to isolate a water leak that will save the  same amount in the first year. The system works by sending information to a desktop computer every 15 minutes on the amount of power being consumed, so when there's a surge, the business managers  will know about it. Costs  depend on the size of the  business involved. For  information, e-mailinfo@thecarbontrust.co.uk.&#183; More and more people are gaining access to broadband  services, which is good for businesses selling online and consumers alike. Information from Ofcom, published this month, says 40% of Internet users now have a broadband  connection. The Access to Broadband Campaign,  however, believes the positive  spin is masking an underlying  trend in which people are using the internet only for a little e-mailing and web surfing, whereas it's only through file transfer, video and telephony integration that broadband will actually deliver on its potential. Medium-sized companies  are among those struggling  with their data requirements  following the explosion in email and other incoming information that needs storing on company servers, according to PMP Research. Data needing to be stored has grown by 200% over the last two years for most of the respondents. Growth in the  amount of attachments sent by  mail is the main cause, with  organisations taking various measures against this including limiting the size of  attachments they let in, limiting personal use by  employees and issuing  management guidelines for users on how to archive and  manage their own desktop  system. The majority of the organisations in the survey were of the larger variety, having their own IT support resources, while around a third had gone as far as appointing someone to the board with responsibility for business continuity and IT management.
&#183;Sony  Ericsson P900Often touted as the market leader, the P900 has a decent  screen that's  touch-sensitive,  Bluetooth, and a  full-blown hand-held  computer based on the  Symbian system that synchronises with your  desktop and picks up your  emails while you're out. But a lot of phones will now pick up email if they're GPRS-enabled, and the P900 is starting to look larger than  some. It's also a questionable  advantage to have all of your mobile functions on the one  device - if it breaks down or is lost then you can have a  problem. Remains an  excellent phone for  completists. £469 fromwww.Livetelecom.com&#183;Hanspring  Treo 600Another Smartphone, this one without the  Bluetooth other than through an  add-in card and  without the touchscreen. This means data entry through the thumb-pad. Looks bulkier than it is and can be had from Orange for as little as £99 with a contract. Handspring's owner, Palm,  said that a Bluetooth version  would probably be available by the end of the year.&#183;XDA IIThe easiest way to explain 02's XDA II is to call it a hand-held iPaq-style computer, with a phone attached. This means full integration with Microsoft Office software and the ability, subject to having enough memory, to download any extra applications that would go on your iPaq. It also means carrying media files and memory cards to make the thing into a mini-MP3 player if you wish, Bluetooth and a slot for a WiFi card if you're somewhere that offers  the right connections. £299  plus monthly charge.&#183;Nokia 3510iNot a Smartphone, this Nokia model is for people who want to use phones as phones, and it's free with a contract or £59.99 on pay as you go. Orange counts it among the most popular phones with  business users, with a range of  ringtones and snap-on wrappers letting a customer select whichever colours they  want. It also has a "WAP  wallet" so you can store credit card details for shopping sites, and Java technology so you can download applications.&#183;BlackberryAvailable from 02, this started off as a corporate-only  emailing  device but is perfectly usable as a phone and diary as well. The  thumb-pad keypad makes emailing simple and it'll cope with up to 10 email accounts. Its "push" technology also means your mail comes straight to you rather than waiting for you to dial in. Preloaded software lets you see files including Adobe  Acrobat, Word, Excel and PowerPoint. £239 plus monthly network charge.&#183; Motorola V500A small phone with  Bluetooth for headset users  and GPRS for people wanting mobile data as well as an internal camera for photo  messaging- this one is a favourite with people who want to use the phone  primarily as a phone. A quad band phone for the best international experience  currently technically possible, it will receive email and store up to 1,000 numbers (never  forget to back up your phone's numbers). Free on a monthly  plan or £129.99 from Orange on pay as you go.Connecting the mobile sales forceSpencer Smith is financial  director of ST1, which supplies bespoke stone floors to houses and offices.  Following the acquisition of another company, it employs between 50 and 60  employees. The original company was founded in 2000, and initially just a few  people had a mobile phone. " Then we started expanding our sales operation and had sales representatives on the road. We were predominantly, that time, a wholesale  distributor rather than retail," says Smith. "We needed to  communicate with them - so they had their handsets."  The company also started  issuing laptops so that people could be on the corporate intranet as well, but the reps found they couldn't use those during the day. "Eventually, when the  technology was available, we decided to arm them with pocket PCs that could  communicate using Bluetooth with the Orange phones." At the same time, the company wrote a very small website for display on an iPaq hand-held computer so the reps could log on to that using a GPRS  connection. "They can now  communicate live with the database at our office so we can see exactly how they are performing." They use HP iPaqs, and there is no additional software involved. "Our strategy has always been to use something that's absolutely standard. The  investment is in the database," says Smith. The scheme started six months ago and the company has noticed fewer calls coming into the office and an increased visibility of what the reps are doing and how they are performing.Instant feedback from the fieldAbleflame is a two-year-old 15-person company that serves social housing institutions by inspecting their gas installations. Steve Rose explains that eight months ago, the company decided to  increase its workforce's mobile capacity by buying 13 XDA II smartphones for its  engineers. With the addition of some software from ESB Technology, the company  has enabled the engineers to put information onto the company in real time.  "Working for a housing association and doing local authority work, some of the  equipment in the properties does get abused," says Rose. "The beauty of the  XDAs is they have a digital  camera so you can take  photographs of the damage,  attach a report to the photograph and email that  directly to whichever authority we're working with." The pictures are filed  simultaneously onto the company's main database, enabling it to see the state of  the property or the appliance. "We can fairly quickly get answers from the local  authorities - we're designing a website now that will give local authorities access so they can type in the address of a property and see the photographs and the engineer's report while the engineer is still on site." This means getting  instructions on how to proceed immediately. Rose can't say exactly how much  time is being saved in this way, but it's a vast amount. He is clearly delighted with  the return on his £3,000 investment.Saving on mobile to mobile callsFinding the right tariff has been less than straightforward for  Raj Kohli of specialist recruitment company HCP International.Supplying staff to the major motor dealerships involves a lot of phoning, but when you're calling between mobile networks, the costs shoot up. "I said: 'how can you charge 40p a minute for a cross-network call?' They said that was how all the networks worked - it's how they made their money." He negotiated with his supplier, T-Mobile,  which was flexible enough to come up with a bespoke tariff. They offered 1,000 minutes for £9, which sounds good as long as it's the only line in use, but this doesn't suit Kohli's business. "They told us to keep the BT line in and use ourphones for the first 1,000  minutes - that gives you 9p a minute as opposed to the 18p you're paying with BT - but if you're contacting a client and mobile phone doesn't give you the quality you want, it's not the best way of doing  things."Three businesses, one phoneBy day, Leon Du Platel is a  full-time tennis coach. He  also owns a sporting holiday company, which often takes him to Spain, and in his spare time he runs an agency for  entertainers. Understandably, he isn't on top of his tariff. "My phone bills are extortionate," he  says. His answer has been to go to a broker, Yes Telecom,  which keeps an eye on his charges and advises when he ought to change. "They ring me up about once a month and say 'we've just looked at your last bill and you've got to change tariff'. That's the first time anyone has done that for me," he says. "I've got such strange working hours with the three businesses, so I'm always on the phone. I'm always abroad and I need to get onto a tariff that includes all of that." Du Platel prefers a proper Spanish phone rather than a  call roaming facility as he doesn't wish to be hit by extra charges when customers call from the UK. It's a tricky balance, but having someone to look after your personal and business lines has been a boost.
Britain is in the  middle of a skills crisis. More school-leavers than ever are going  to university, but a shortfall of highly trained young workers means that 600,000 job  vacancies are lying empty.The Confedreation of  British Industry (CBI) believes that technological advances and economic growth will  have created two million more high-skilled jobs to be filled by 2010. The question is where these workers - not just  plumbers and sparks, but staff  in areas as diverse as IT, business, science and catering - will come from.The Learning and Skills  Council (LSC), part of the  Department of Education  and Skills, is trying to raise  awareness of modern  apprenticeships among employers with an £800m relaunch of the scheme.At present, there are 255,500  over-16s in 150 different programmes. A government target of 28% of 16-21 year olds  entering apprenticeship  schemes by 2005, radical steps are needed.One new initiative is the Young Apprenticeship scheme, which will allow motivated  school pupils aged between 14 and 16 two days' vocational work each week. These pupils  will be encouraged to do  vocational GCSEs with the aim of advancing to full apprenticeships. A pilot scheme covering business  administration, logistics and  creative industries, as well as  engineering and the automotive sector, will initially be available to 1,000 teenagers in England from September.Other changes include tweaking the standard apprenticeships and advanced  apprenticeship schemes, as well as introducing  apprenticeships for adults,  which will scrap the arbitrary 25-year-old age limit for those entering into training.The LSC also aims to create a "clearing house" for school  leavers that will match  prospective trainees to employers, much like the UCAS does for undergraduates.The government describes  these apprenticeships as "an exciting prospect for any pupil  wanting to pursue industry-specific vocational programmes". So what can  businesses gain from becoming  involved?For starters, they can  improve productivity. Bryan  Sanderson, chairman of the  LSC, says: "A recent survey showed that 44% of  organisations that reported  skills shortages said they lost  business as a result."  Richard Wainer, a policy  adviser in the learning and skills department at the CBI,  adds: "Studies have shown that apprentices are highly  productive in their first year, after which time they actually  start adding value to the  business. There are advantages  for businesses of all sizes."The LSC is keen to make  sure its reforms meet the needs of business and is considering  financial incentives to encourage more small- and  medium-sized employers to get on board. It sees trainees as a  positive force in the workplace  as they are motivated and keen to learn. An added bonus is that recruiting and retaining able young staff should be easier for businesses that take on trainees.Amanda Brade is an example of the  kind of talent and dedication the LSC wants employers to nurture. At the age of 12, her  mother died and she was forced  to care for her younger brother. Her father died earlier this year leaving Brade, now 20, to assume responsibility for the  household and its finances.Despite these challenges, Brade has completed three years of training, culminating in an advanced apprenticeship in IT support and now works in the Skills Development Office at Richmond upon Thames  College in Surrey.She has developed and implemented procedures that  benefit the way the college deals with new trainees and built a database to monitor  trainees - which has provided  the college with important statistical information.Brade recognises that this was a chance given to her  through her apprenticeship. "The scheme has allowed me to get into my dream career, while  learning and getting paid at the same time. The mentoring I  received was brilliant, especially as I had financial problems on top of all the work I had to do."The benefits cut both ways. Richmond upon Thames  college's Diana Holden says:  "Amanda's extensive IT skills and knowledge mean that she frequently assumes the role of  IT support within other teams, although this is not part of her job description. Her service knowledge and organisational  skills are second to none." Brade is now keen to begin a  degree in computing. Her  achievements have been  recognised by the LSC and she  is shortlisted in the personal achievement 19-24 category in the Modern Apprentice  Awards. Brade will find out if she has won at a ceremony The Hilton Park Lane Hotel in  London next week.How can more employers, especially SMEs, get involved in training people like Brade? "There is a problem with smaller firms taking on apprenticeships, as most of them don't have a dedicated HR department, getting  involved presents a bureaucratic burden," says  Wainer."We are pushing for more support for small employers in terms of better access to information about  apprenticeships. We believe  that would greatly improve take-up."The NVQ qualification framework also needs to be examined,he says. "To increase employer take-up the programme is going to have to be more filexible.The CBI is pushing for 'bite-size' NVQs which would have a more  modular approach."There would be a core set of  subjects, then employers would be able to choose other components that specifically met their business needs."To many people, apprenticeships will always conjure images of grim factories where the trainee makes the tea and suffers at the  hands of the shop floor joker. Those days have, to an extent, passed. Almost all areas of our modern, service-led economy are now represented in the  apprenticeship scheme, with  business administration the second most popular area after  engineering.Anyone in doubt about the  worth of MAs to employers and  employees need only talk to Brade. "I wish I had known about the scheme sooner. I would recommend it to anyone," she says. "I would  never have been able to do this  without it. It has made me ready for life."Employers who wish to  find out more about  apprenticeships should call  08000 150 400 or visitwww.apprenticeships.org.uk
A bid to help  Britain's  entrepreneurs  plug the small  business "equity  gap" has moved a step closer  with the publication of  proposals for the introduction  of US-style Enterprise Capital  Funds (ECFs).The 2003 consultation,  Bridging the Equity Gap, found that a significant  number of small businesses  had trouble attracting modest amounts of risk capital, with  start-ups and risk-heavy  businesses seeking up to £2m hit the hardest. ECFs, privately managed  commercial funds investing up to £2m of private and public money in small, growth-oriented  businesses, are seen  as the answer. The funds, based on the Small Business  Investment Company (SBIC)  programme that has been in operation in the US for the past 45 years, were first mooted as a source of small business finance by Chancellor Gordon Brown in his 2003 pre-Budget speech.The Chancellor believes private investors will be encouraged to pour money into the funds because low-interest government leverage will boost their investment  return. Subject to European Commission deliberations on whether such schemes  constitute state aid, the government is set to invite applications to raise and  operate a pathfinder round of  ECFs and has issued draft guidance for applicants.David Bishop, of the  Federation of Small Business (FSB), welcomes the new  initiative. "In the consultation  document, the FSB commented favourably on the US model and recommended looking at ways to transfer it to the UK," he says. "We think work needs to be  done on the demand side as well as the supply, as there's very little experience among small business owners of these  kinds of alternative forms of finance. If understanding and experience of these non-secure  loans is developed, we would  expect take-up to be high."The initiative could be of most benefit to riskier businesses. "The work we have  done in this area recognises that there is a genuine finance gap where small businesses find it hard to find money from around £200,000 to the £1m mark," says Bishop."With these amounts, traditional forms of finance are not accessible - especially for start-ups and hi-tech  businesses. For these kinds of  ventures, ECFs are going to be a real bonus." The idea has not been  welcomed by everyone. Ernst  &amp; Young says the scheme has "shaky foundations" and  believes it does not offer  adequate compensation for  the risk of investing in earlystage  companies.It has said that Government resources might be better  spent introducing venture capital into areas where it does have weaknesses, as it did with  Regional Venture Capital funds. Here, says E&amp;Y, there  was a need to inject funds into  businesses in deprived areas.Four fixed-life funds will be set up in the pathfinder ECF round. There will be no  maximum size, but the government will provide up to two-thirds of the money, up to  £25m. Fund management teams will have a say in the running of the companies they invest in, for example choosing  key personnel such as directors where necessary.The funds will not be tradable and will have two types. The first follows the standard limited partnership venture fund approach, where  a professional FSA-authorised fund manager is appointed to manage the fund on behalf of "passive" third-party investors.The second adapts the standard model for "active" investors such as business angels who wish to invest and manage their own funds through an ECF.Details of how to apply to an  ECF for funding are sketchy at this early stage. The main criteria are that a business must meet the EU definition of an SME, which from January 1, 2005 means it must  have fewer than 250 employees, an annual turnover of less than À50m or a balance sheet total of less than À43m.Each investment made by an ECF has to be related to or for the benefit of the UK economy, and there has to be a realistic possibility that the fund will  make a "material capital gain". A detailed business plan will need to be submitted.Businesses that receive  money from an ECF may find that their eligibility for other government support schemes  is reduced in the future, although the funds will be able to invest in companies that have previously received state  help such as Regional Venture Capital funding.The European Commission  is to invite interested parties to  submit their views on the proposals, a process that will  take several months. The  government will launch the  bidding process for the  pathfinder round after the EC comes to a decision on the state aid issue. Perversely, past lack of financial support for UK entrepreneurs may help  overcome any regulatory concerns.Bishop says: "The 'state aid' hurdle means that the  government has to prove that there has been a market failure in terms of capital provision. It will be interesting to see if the EC thinks that our small businesses have been let down."
Selecting the right mobile phone and tariff for your organisation has never been more complicated. Wading through the small print in all of the contracts is time consuming  and tedious - and the devices themselves are less and less  straightforward.There are, of course, fairly  simple phones - the ones  where you dial a number, the  person at the other end picks up and you speak to each other. But more can be done.A refinement on the way from most operators is "push to talk". This will work in the same way as an instant message  using email - you record your message and send it effectively like a text, so if you need someone to know something but don't have the time for a natter, they just get your voice  message whether they're diverting to voicemail or not.Other additions have been  around for a while. Picture phones are now commonplace and inexpensive, and they're not only suited to the consumer. Several businesses  find the technology useful as well ( think of estate agents wanting a photo or three  for a property's details very quickly). Clearly, not everybody  will want every function  available.What businesses do have in common, though, is a need to drive costs down and the need to have their mobile network  available the whole time.Paul Tollett, head of business marketing for 02, confirms that when he arrived at the company six months ago, the way it serviced small business  was either an extension of the way it served consumers, or a  cut-down version of the  offerings for the corporate  market rather than looking  specifically at the SME sector."One of the things &#91;that  concerns small business&#93; is  network availability. We've actually divided the country up to analyse the concentration of  small business by postcode, and  we're mapping our 2G network and GPRS investment to where the potential is to service small business," he says.This isn't as straightforward  as beefing up the signal a bit during the daytime, says Tollett. The consumer market, and  indeed many large businesses, exist and operate in large conurbations, or villages and  towns, and it has been  important to ensure that the  railway and motorway  networks are covered.This has left some gaps in the area of trading estates, for  example, O2 has also put a new  small business care centre into its support offering, and added  a small business tariff that includes the care scheme.The other thing 02 has done is its much-publicised "business zones" scheme, in which customers can have 40% off the  price of any call in two dialling codes of the customer's choice.Promotions and schemes crop up often in the mobile arena, but a lot of focus remains on the support and care areas.Graeme Good, small business manager at Orange, believes the 1-49 employee market has very specific  requirements compared with the rest. "Their mobile phone is not always central to their  working lives, but it's important as an enabler, so they can stay in touch with their customers and their suppliers - and it's anessential communications tool to make sure they don't lose out on any business."This contrasts with, for example, the corporate market in which there will be specific  decision makers and IT  managers responsible for communications.Orange's support tool for small business is called the  business standards package, including free insurance and answerphone for example, and  it continues to monitor pricing  against the competition.  Marketing is also tailored for the smaller concern. "Smaller business tends to be alienated by overarching national campaigns," says Good."So we try to keep it local."Regardless of what people say about service, however,there are companies to whom getting the right tariff is the  most important thing. This is why there have been moves to make the tariffs more  straightforward.02's move to offer discounts is one obvious promotion in this area. Vodafone UK has recently  launched its "perfect fit for  business" campaign, which  includes free calls back to the office for people needing to work on the move, as well as shared inclusive minutes. So if  employee A is on  holiday or doesn't need the mobile, employee B or C can pick the unused minutes up.Other companies in the area are also stepping up their activities. TMobile is focusing mostly on the service area - think  account management and  rapid resolution of faults, plus flexibility about tariffs  - while Virgin remains mostly committed to the  consumer.You can expect the next  big battleground in the  mobile arena to be around the 3G services that will no  doubt arrive sometime  over the next year. 3G, or 3rd Generation, is a faster connection through the phone. This allows companies like 3 to offer video calling and fast  networking.The other players paid heavily for 3G licenses and  will want to do something withthem, although T-Mobile has linked up with partners to provide Wi-Fi hotspots that will offer similar services.There is also movement on the services that go around mobile phones. Smartner, for  example, is about to launch its Duality Always-On product line, a service that will push emails to your phone regardless of who the manufacturer is (as  long as you have a reasonably  current phone).And, of course, the replacement handset and third-party carrier market is starting to hot up with entrants like Primus offering the PTL 888, whose advantage is a built-in global call saver that  takes you onto a cheaper network for international calls with a simple hotkey.
If the two certainties in life are death and taxes, then  for small businesses  there's a third: insurance. Insurance can be a  significant burden for many  SMEs, but there are ways of reducing the bill.There are two kinds of  compulsory insurance for  businesses. The first is third-party motor insurance for any vehicle used by your business. The second is employers' liability insurance, which  covers you against compensation claims by your employees if they become injured or sick through work, and this is compulsory by law.  All paid employees need to be covered by the insurance, but you don't need cover for self-employed  contractors or volunteers. The legal minimum cover is £10m.In recent years, the cost of  liability insurance for small businesses has soared. One  reason for this, says David  Bishop, a spokesman for the Federation of Small  Businesses, is the poor  performance of the stock  market. Another is an increase  in "long-tailed" diseases -  illnesses such as asbestosis  that don't show up for many  years but then require huge  payouts. "Insurers are  particularly nervous because  they find it difficult to calculate  the risk of something which  perhaps won't show up for 25  years," says Bishop.A survey by insurance company Axa in 2002 found that 210,000 SMEs in the UK hadn't taken out employer liability insurance. However, this really isn't a good idea.  When the Health &amp; Safety  Executive inspects your premises, it will ask to see your  certificate of employer's  liability insurance: you can be fined £1,000 for failing to produce the certificate, and a further £2,500 a day for every day you don't have cover.To minimise the cost, you should carry out an assessment of the risk your employees face, and make sure that they have got all the right equipment and  training. It can be worth hiring an independent health and safety adviser to carry out this  assessment for you.Unfortunately, for very small  businesses, this may not make much difference, says Bishop,  because it's not cost-effective for insurers to visit every small business and assess the risks. "More responsible businesses don't get the rewards for their  responsible behaviour."Although not compulsory, most businesses will want to  cover both their premises and  their contents against criminal damage (such as arson or theft) and weather damage, such as floods or lightning  strikes. Many small businesses  make the mistake of underinsuring  their premises - you  need to insure them for the full rebuilding cost, not just the  market value. The best way to  find out the rebuilding cost is to consult a chartered  surveyor.Crime is on the increase, and the cost of crime is rising, says Neil Mercier, property insurance manager at Axa. "The average amount of a  claim for crime &#91;by business&#93; is  running at £4,200 in 2004,  which is double what it was two years ago." You can reduce your premiums by taking  sensible precautions. Begin by auditing the risks of your own premises. Install burglar alarms, fit window locks and make sure doors and windows are locked at the end of each  working day. The longer you go without making a claim,  Mercier points out, the cheaper your premiums will be.It's easy to become complacent. RM2, a firm that administers share option schemes for SMEs, recently  became the victim of a particularly audacious crime when a burglar took a laptop  and projector from a  conference room in full view of staff. "He just walked in,  packed it all up and just  walked off with it," says Geoff  Bond, senior partner at RM2."We thought: 'he's just come in to fix something', and he  basically packed it all up in the  bags provided and just walked out." The burglar left the office  via the back stairs, got into a car and drove off. Luckily, RM2  had not made any previous  claims, and although the insurance company initially asked awkward questions about why the front door wasn't locked, it paid up in full  within four weeks.Increasingly, businesses are  taking out other kinds of  liability insurance. If you have  premises, you should seriously  consider public liability  insurance. "The no-win no fee  solicitors have encouraged people looking for compensation," says Mercier.  "Every person that comes into your premises has the potential  to have an accident. You have to make sure that your aisles and  alleyways are clear, and that if you spill things on the floor  they're cleaned up."Professionals such as accountants should also look at indemnity insurance. "This covers your legal liability if you're giving advice, and if as a  result of your negligent advice someone suffers financial loss," says Malcolm Tarling a spokesperson for the  Association of British Insurers.  If you make or sell a product,  you may want to take out  product guarantee insurance, in  case you are sued for damages  as a result of faulty design.What is the best way to reduce your insurance? Tarling  is succinct. "Assess your risks,  and get expert advice." Instead  of going directly to an  insurance company, consult an  insurance broker - you can  find one through the British  Insurance Brokers' Association.Brokers can advise on what types of insurance you need to take out, and hunt around for the best insurance for your kind of business. This may often be in the form of a  tailored package rather than a  set of individual policies. Bishop points out that good advice is also available from trade associations, such as the  Federation of Master Builders or the Federation of Small Businesses itself.And don't neglect the risk assessment. As Mercier points out, it is to your own advantage  to minimise the risk to your  employees and others. "If  you've got employees off sick,  it's going to affect the success  of your business as well as  what it might cost you in  insurance terms."Insurance options for SMEs&#183;Employers' liability  insurance:This covers you against compensation claims by your employees for ill-health or  accidents, and it is  compulsory.&#183;Third-party motor  insurance:This is compulsory.&#183; Buildings insurance  and contents insurance:This covers your premises and contents against criminal or weather damage. It is not compulsory, but it's  highly advisable.&#183; Public liability insurance:This type of insurance covers  you against being sued by a member of the public who suffers an injury on your  premises.&#183; Professional  indemnity insurance:This covers you against  being sued for giving out bad professional advice to clients.&#183;Product liability insurance:This insurance covers you  against being sued for a faulty  product.
Ever since BA introduced the flat bed in January  2000, "flat is better"  has become  something of an axiom in  long-haul air travel. If you are  flying long-haul on business,  reasoning goes, you want  spend as much of the flight  possible sleeping. And how  humans sleep best? Lying  flat, of course.BA certainly think so. The  airline employed an ex-Nasa  flight expert in the  development of its flat bed and  concluded that a good night's  sleep depended on reaching the  rapid-eye movement (REM)  stage of sleep. REM kicks in  after between 60 and 90  minutes of undisturbed sleep.  That, BA says, is only achieved  when people can shift position.Talk to neurophysiologists  about sleep, however, and the  picture becomes much more  complex. Not everyone needs  sleep flat; not everyone can  especially those who suffer  breathing problems. We all  know people who can sleep  perfectly happily in chairs and  trains. Yes, most of us will  sleep better on a flat surface,  if you are more than 5ft 10in tall and always fall  asleep on your back at home,  may find an economy class  seat more comfortable than  BA's 6ft flat bed.That's because, unless your  point to the sky rather than curling over, the BA bed  effectively prevents you from  stretching out - the capsule at  head and the top of the bed front act like headboards. That would not concern you greatly if you habitually sleep on your side. But anyone who sleeps on their front, cushioning  their head on their arms, will  find the constricted space at the head equally uncomfortable.A position that suits one traveller may leave another  insomniac. A flick through  some of the reviews posted at flatseats.com (www.flatseats.com/Reviews/psngrentry.htm) reveals a healthy difference of opinion on just about every seat in the sky.Virgin Atlantic was quick to seize upon the narrow  dimensions of BA's bed when  airline launched its upper class suite. Their new seat is designed to flip over to become  bed with a separate mattress thus ensuring there are no joints where the extended seat  meets the ottoman supporting  lower third of the bed.Most importantly, for taller  and stouter passengers, the  bed is up to 10in longer and  wider at the shoulders than  BA's. On both airlines, it is  worth asking for a seat on the  upper deck. Virgin's beds are  longer there and BA tends to  assign noisy families seats  downstairs.Japan Airlines recently  weighed in with a new twist: their new business class seat is flat but not horizontal, extending to an angle of 170  degrees. The airline JAL  claims the difference goes unnoticed during a flight  because aeroplanes fly at a  slight angle and all its seats  face forward.The "shell flat seat", as JAL  calls it, also has a built-in  massage function for the lower  back - and it is certainly  detectable on land, although  whether it can really be felt  amid the general vibration of  an airline cabin, it's hard to say.The thought of a totally flat  bed may be reassuring, but not  everyone is convinced of the  need for it. "When it's a  question of 20 degrees, I  would be surprised if you  could tell the difference," says Dr Oliver Bernath, a neurologist who used to run a sleep clinic in Los Angeles  before joining McKinsey as a consultant. What really helps travellers to achieve good quality sleep, he says, is light -  or the lack of it."Light will interfere more with the body clock. It's important to get the right light." The sooner the cabin  lights are dimmed and the  later they go up before landing  in the morning, the better you are likely to sleep.BA confirmed that the recent  introduction of "sleeper" services from New York and Dubai appeared to have gone  down well with business class  travellers. Passengers dine in the BA lounge before departure,  and cabin lights are dimmed immediately after take-off, with  no full meal service on board. "It  was very well received," says a  spokeswoman. "We do a  nightcap service &#91;on the plane&#93;. And then we serve breakfast as  late as possible."Finally, of course, there is  the effect of noise. Earplugs  are an obvious recourse. If you  sleep on your back or front,  you could also try noise-cancelling  headphones:  Maplin (www.maplin.co.uk)  are currently selling a very reasonable fold-away pair for  just under £20. Be warned: "People are more likely to snore if they sleep flat," notes  Dr Bernath, ominously.
This month: Tim  Slatter from  www.thecakestore.  com explains how  going to the  internet saved his business.GC:Tell me about the  BusinessTS:It's really a traditional  bakery shop in Sydenham,  and we employ 25 people. My  dad had raging successes in  the 70s and 80s when  everybody was buying that  type of thing. It has been  running across the  generations for 70 years, but  it's only since 2001 that we  launched the Cake Store as a  new company.GC: So, what was the  business problem you were  trying to solve?TS:My brother and I joined  in about the mid-80s and  then throughout the 90s we  got absolutely clobbered by  the supermarkets and  changing eating habits -  fresh cream cakes went out  the window. The overheads  were massive so we decided  to do something the  supermarkets couldn't  compete in which was  celebration cakes - it would  be too hard work for them to  do that.GC:How did you go about  finding the solution?TS:In 2001, we took on a  cake decorator. He'd been  with us a couple of years and  was very dynamic with new  ideas. We realised there had  to be promotion. The  technical problem was how to  supply this nationally.GC:Was it important to go  national rather than local?TS:We thought really big at first, but then realised there would be enough business within the M25 and London  area to be successful.GC: What made you think the web was the way  forward?TS:I've always been into  computers. I started with  &#91;accounting software  company&#93; Sage, which  brought out a web trader's  system. I went right down  that avenue but it was very  much designed for businessto-  business, whereas every  consumer is new to us and  they all want something  different. Sage had a website  showing what other people  had done and I realised one  of them had this much more  dynamic website. I wondered  how they'd changed it so  much and got round  restrictions in the software.  So I rang them and they told  me they were using Actinic,  so I started looking into it  and realised how simple it  was to use. This was  important because I didn't go  to college or anything, and  instead I trained as a chef.GC: What did you actually  have to do?TS:We refitted the shop  completely and I bought the  software. We had to take  pictures of all the celebration  cakes &#91;which involved buying  a new digital camera&#93; and  uploaded them to the Actinic  website. My brother started  studying professional  photography. He bought all  the books, because a  consistent image is so  important. &#91;When buying the  software&#93; I did a search on  the web and found people  who hosted as well. I used a  company called Techlan.  We'd already set up the  cakestore.com website with  Sage, so I had to transfer the  name to their control. They  supplied the website and all  had to do was upload. This  was in October 2001.GC:How long did the  process take?TS:From the start, with the  Sage version, it took about  two years, but we're forever  changing it. The Actinic  segment took about six  months, but then I did a  crash course in Dreamweaver  to get the home page to look  really good. The customer  clicks on that and is taken to  another site, which is the  Actinic site.GC: What benefits have you  noticed so far?TS:Colossal benefits. We get  about eight cake orders a day  confirmed through the  system, and a massive  amount of orders through the  freephone. We sell to a lot of  housewives who are still a bit  sceptical about whether they  should use their credit card  number on the internet. Also,  they all want something quite  bespoke - they'll see our  fairy castle cake and they'll  think "my little girl's into  dolls" or something, and they  want that put on top. So they  order by phone. Web  customers come to collect  their cakes from our newly  refurbished store and they  buy additional products. It's  completely a virtuous circle.GC: Do you think the  business would have  survived without the  technology?TS:No. It put us on a level  playing field with large  competitors, and we're just a  small business. Jane Asher  had huge public awareness of  the cakes she did, but  automatically by promoting  ourselves on the web, we're in  that market.GC:How did you market  your site?TS:We got loads of free  advertising. We contacted the  press. For example, when  Peter Andre was in the  jungle, we did a cake for the  Sun newspaper in the shape  of Jordan's cleavage to be  taken to Peter. The Sun loved  it, so they took it to him and  presented it to him. Also,  we've done "how to make  your own Christmas cake"  columns. We ring the press  with ideas and they're  receptive. We also pay £150  per year for someone to  continue to submit our site to  search engines.GC:How much did the  system cost?TS:It was £400 for the  software when we bought it,  but it's about £700 now.  Including hosting, the  camera and everything, we  spent £3,000.GC:Has it paid for itself  and how long did this take?TS:Within about six months  we started getting orders  through, so I'd say about six  months before we realised we  were really onto something.
Small to medium-sized businesses often put data storage low on their priorities. But the massive growth of email and the need to store vast amounts of electronic documentation is forcing them to think about faster, better organised storage systems. Storage vendors such as blue-chip US firm EMC are hoping to meet these needs by bringing sophisticated systems within the reach of smaller firms.Now, the race is on to deliver storage area networks (Sans) and Network Attached Storage (NAS) systems to firms that have traditionally managed with simple file-servers.Sans are particularly attractive to firms because they pool storage devices across a network, and make use of a dedicated high-speed network - typically Fibre Channel - to ensure fast archiving and retrieval. NAS systems pool storage but without the overlay network. Pooling means storage is more efficient, and centralised management makes it easier to archive and retrieve data. The arrival of cheaper Sata hard drives from firms such as Seagate, Maxtor, Western Digital, Samsung and Hitachi is now bringing these systems within the reach of SMEs.The price war started last month, when storage market leader EMC announced its Clarion AX100, formerly dubbed Piranha. Essentially, it is a cheap disk array aimed at SMEs and branch offices. It will be sold through resellers and, most importantly, by Dell, EMC's alliance partner. This should make it widely available.Piranha can be directly attached to a NAS gateway, or bought as a pre-configured San for around &#163;6,000 using a Brocade Fibre Channel switch - now nicknamed the San-in-a-can. It can store up to three terabytes of data. Beyond that, the simplest option is to add a second device.EMC claims the launch is a wake-up call to competitors. "It undercuts rivals' offerings and shows that San technology is within reach of smaller firms," says Nigel Ghent, EMC's UK marketing director.Some suggest it has massively reduced the complexity of setting up a San. "This dispels the myth that Sans are too expensive or too complex for SMEs," says Brocade's Paul Trowbridge. "I think SMEs will start to look at Sans for applications such as email, and resellers will help manage the systems in addition to using simple web-based management tools."Larger firms can pay around   &#163;50,000 for a San. The Piranha comes in much cheaper thanks to using 12 serial ATA drives and a dumbed-down management package instead of the Navisphere Management Suite that runs on high-end Clarion enterprise systems.But some competitors are not impressed. "Low-cost Fibre Channel disk arrays have been with us for   over a year," says Laurence James, online business manager at competitor StorageTek. "There is going to be a low-end storage war as Sata costs fall, but the thing to watch is total cost of ownership and the degree of lock-in with any vendors' products."Others claim the cheap San technology comes at a cost, due to the lower reliability of Sata drives.   Recent research at the University of California, San Diego concluded: "The current interest in Sata backup is of concern because these are PC drives sold with narrow profit margins that limit drive reliability." The research calls for further testing by vendors to assess reliability levels.EMC says the research relates to Sata drives used for offsite archives, and that EMC does not provide removable archive drives because it compromises drive reliability. However, it adds it has not yet completed testing on Sata drives for enterprise Clarion devices, although they are already shipping on the AX100.But, regardless of the price/performance debate, most see this as the emergence of a range of storage products aimed at SMEs. "HP is the obvious contender while sales through the EMC channel overlap with Dell sales. It depends on the type of services users want. If they are only looking for new backup processes and data protection procedures to support tape backup, then NAS can be positioned against the AX100," says Hamish Macarther, chief executive at researcher company Macarthur Stroud International.IBM, Sun and Intel are preparing similar offerings. To some extent, this reflects the trend of IT vendors to target the SME sector, due to increasing saturation of the enterprise market. However, SMEs are notoriously hard to reach, and vendors increasingly have to rely on channel partners to make sales. Not surprisingly, EMC's sales through Dell will be closely watched.Tony Ruane, sales and marketing director at UK reseller Redstor, is sanguine. "EMC has to launch products like this to keep the ankle-biters away. They are aiming for a one-stop-shop approach to storage. This clearly helps broaden their appeal."Firms will increasingly focus on storage for practical and legal reasons. What remains to be seen is how well complex systems can be scaled down to meet the needs and budgets of the smaller firms - and whether the margins they offer vendors represent a loss leader or a new business opportunity.
If you vote, you can do so because your name is on an electoral roll, a database managed by your council. That database is to become national or part of a linked national system. Meanwhile, your council is probably joining up much of the data it holds on you.The trend towards bigger databases, combining the local with the national, the specific with the multipurpose, can be seen across the state sector. Six national projects are planned or under way, merging or linking databases or building new ones.Councils are implementing customer relationship management (CRM) systems - those in England are required to do so by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. This normally means putting most of their data on citizens on a single database, but sensitive material such as that from social services is kept separate.Why the rush to big databases? David Cameron, Conservative MP and a member of the home affairs select committee, says that the government suffers from an "excuse culture", referring to what is likely to become the key government database, the National Identity Register, used for identity cards. "Because there's a problem of illegal immigra tion, of asylum, of crime, the national identity card and register became a cure-all, the great answer - rather than having proper policies," he says.The register plans seem to overlap with those for a Citizen Information Project, which could be due to interdepartmental rivalry. But the two register schemes may cooperate.Some countries use population registers to make life more convenient. Here, councils are introducing CRM to allow call centres or offices to deal with requests ranging from library book renewals to abandoned cars. The project would allow you to change your address across all state agencies in one go, while the NHS Care Records Service will make your medical notes available to any walk-in centre or A&amp;E ward you visit.Joined-up databases are also useful for their owners. Some councils have used CRM to cut costs. Another justification is that the specific-function government databases need a spring clean. There are some 82m national insurance numbers, for example, far more than the UK's adult population.In some cases, the database would be a byproduct. The Commission for Integrated Transport, an independent government-funded adviser said in 2002 that vehicle tracking would   allow sophisticated road tolling.Such databases should make life easier for government investigators. Those on children aim to detect abuse by bringing together concerns, rather than detailed information, entered by agencies that deal with them.Some will see any big government databases as worrying, although official investigators have rules: for example, the Home Office says the police do not have access to health records without a patient's consent, although much of the supervision of such work takes place in secret.There are other drawbacks. If you want to access individual NHS records, you currently need to break into each person's GP surgery to obtain files. The NHS Care Records Service database will have far better security than one surgery, but it will provide remote access, and a   hacker might only need to find a way in once.Richard Allan MP, the Liberal Democrat IT spokesman, says database building may come back to haunt the government. "A lot of attention has been focused on identity cards, but it's really these databases that have the potential to change the relationship between state and citizen." He thinks they may have more to do with performance management than improving services. "I think they appeal to a centralising government that is addicted to targets."In retailing, big customer databases are used to track, analyse and influence customers' behaviour, though membership is voluntary. A few councils are following suit. Southampton city council's points-for-rewards smartcard is used to pay for school meals at a secondary   school: pupils get points for choosing healthy meals. The Department of Health has backed a similar scheme at a Coventry school, where pupils get points for healthy breakfasts and pre-school exercise classes. The London borough of Southwark's Karrot scheme for teenagers awards points for school attendance, punctuality and good behaviour.Politicians have tried to change behaviour with "sin taxes" and advertising. Joined-up databases could do this more efficiently: why tell everyone about the evils of smoking when you could target smokers through the Care Records Service? Such ideas would require individuals' permission. But pressure is growing for state intervention in previously personal areas, such as obesity. The big databases that would be required are already under construction.Tracking devices&#183;Citizen Information Project: National Statistics plans a population register of everyone in the UK, providing one place to update details and improving government statistics.&#183;National Identity Register: to be built from scratch for the ID card scheme. To include every UK adult, subject to parliamentary vote, it will include reference numbers for databases such as national insurance and NHS numbers, and biometric measurements.&#183;NHS Care Records Service: the national project has started building a patient database to contain summary medical records for all in England.&#183;Coordinated Online Register of Electors: plans are to merge or link the electoral rolls managed by all UK local authorities.&#183;Local databases of all children in England are being trialled.&#183;The Department for Transport will produce a feasibility study on installing tracking devices in all vehicles this summer, allowing road pricing.&#183;Private sector databases include credit reference agencies, loyalty cards and bank databases of card data.National Statistics Citizen Information Projectwww.statistics.gov.uk/cipHome Office identity card schemewww.identitycards.gov.ukNational Programme for IT (NHS Care Records Service)www.dh.gov.uk/PolicyAndGuidanceCoordinated Online Register of Electors consultationwww.odpm.gov.uk/stellentCommission for Integrated Transport on road-pricingwww.cfit.gov.uk/reports/pfruSouthampton smartcard schemehttp://society.guardian.co.uk/e-public/storyCoventry breakfast and exercise schemehttp://observer.guardian.co.uk/uk_news/storyKarrot scheme in Southwarkwww.karrot.org.uk
Wrong but romanticA survey by Vanson Bourne reveals that cavalier IT directors are implementing applications regardless of the risks. The study of 100 IT directors was commissioned by Compuware and revealed that 70% do not quantify the cost of failure when introducing new applications. They estimated the cost of poor quality software to their companies in the region of &#163;100,000 to &#163;500,000 each year. Just under half of the sample said they were given no clear guidance when it comes to assessing which parts of the applications are business critical, and 61% admitted that they try to test as much of the application as possible for reliability.www.compuware.co.ukGetting an eyefulFive British airports are to install an Iris Recognition Immigration System, or Iris. As part of its e-borders programme, the Home Office has signed a five-year contract with Sagem SA to install the system at Birmingham, Gatwick, Heathrow, Manchester and Stansted. Use will be voluntary, and the Immigration Service "will invite certain groups of foreign nationals to take part who have a track record of complying with the UK's immigration laws". Once enrolled, "those deemed acceptable" will be able to take a special iris recognition channel through UK immigration. The system will start operating at Heathrow next summer, and the Home Office expects to have more than a million users within five years.Cheap as chipsAdvanced Micro Devices (AMD) is turning its attention to low-end chips and resuming its attack on the Intel Celeron market. With other chips to fry in the form of the high-end Athlon XP and the 64-bit Opteron ranges, AMD's development of Duron low-end processors has suffered. Now it is developing the Sempron range to replace Duron in August. The company says it will concentrate on multimedia files to ensure good performance for DVD viewing and image editing. Sempron pricing should also AMD more competitive in the notebook computer market, the company claims.www.amd.comSuite sorrowOracle is ending its brand licensing agreement with NetSuite, an online enterprise resource planning company that has built its business on Oracle's Small Business Suite. NetSuite chief executive Zach Nelson claims that the move is the result of increased competition between the companies. With no royalties to pay to Oracle, NetSuite is cutting its subscriptions for online access to the renamed NetSuite Small Business Suite to $99 (&#163;54) per month.www.oracle.com/ukTagging risksRSA Security is offering a service to help companies introducing wireless product tagging. The RSA Professional Services Team and the company's research labs are addressing growing security concerns surrounding the radio frequency identification (RFID) technology, which promises to replace bar codes for some applications. Because RFID uses radio signals, there is a danger that highly sensitive receivers will enable competitors to snoop around each other's warehouses to uncover pricing and stock information. There are also concerns that scanning customers' shopping bags will reveal their contents. RSA is offering an in-depth security review of a company's RFID deployment plans to pinpoint risks.Intranet awardsNielsen Norman Group (NN/G), a product strategy consultancy, cites two UK companies in its Top 10 Government and Public Sector Intranet Designs review. The worldwide study shows how changes to intranets can offer impressive gains. The UK examples are the Department of Transport and London Underground. The Department of Transport is praised by NN/G for saving &#163;130,000 by changing its employee newsletter from a paper publication to an intranet. London Underground is highlighted for improving the usability of its intranet and increasing employee visits from 1,000 to 70,000 per week.www.nngroup.com/reportsSlamming spamIBM Global Services is offering a managed email service to block spam and viruses before they reach a company's network. Email Security Management Services is based on products and techniques developed by MessageLabs, an email management and security firm. The system uses scanners and predictive technology to detect viruses, and scans images to try to identify and block undesirable material entering or leaving a company's email servers. Suspect messages are quarantined and the user and/or administrator can then be notified. Blacklists and whitelists are used to identify and block the majority of spam.http://www-1.ibm.com/services
At last, your ingrowing toenail is getting attention. Equipped with an electronic booking service and online NHS waiting list figures, your GP finds you a slot for an operation next week.There's a snag: it's in Harrogate and you're in London. How are you going to get there with a sore foot? Another government web service, Transport Direct, provides transport options from your home to the hospital. Public transport doesn't appeal? The same site works out a driving route, taking into account the time of day, school holidays and roadworks along the way.Your brother, who has a car and owes you a favour, still isn't keen. "I haven't sent off for my new tax disc yet." No problem: point your browser towww.vehiclelicence.gov.ukand do it now.OK, so the scenario is contrived, but all these e-government services are now running, though mostly still as pilots under wraps. Their public launch over the next few weeks will underpin the prime minister's claim to be revolutionising public services around personal choice.Although e-government itself is not new - some local councils already have all their services "e-enabled" - the three new services take it to a different level. They operate country-wide (though Scots may have to wait longer for NHS booking) and integrate the back offices of government with local services and, in one case, private industry. Together, they lift Britain into the premier league of e-governments.Politically, NHS booking, online transport information and vehicle licensing have high priority. They were named by the prime minister   in his "e-summit" speech back in November 2002, in which he sketched out a vision of broadband Britain: "For the public services, the real opportunity is to use information technology to help create fundamental improvement in the efficiency, convenience and quality of our services."Partly because of the prime ministerial link and partly from harsh experience of bad publicity generated by previous failures, all three projects are shrouded in some secrecy. Everyone's nightmare precedent is the historical census website, which was overwhelmed by demand when data from the 1901 census was put on line at the beginning of 2002.That said, the Guardian has managed to uncover information about three projects, Transport Direct, online car tax renewal and NHS e-booking.Transport Direct, the government's long-awaited site for joined-up travel information, is on the web awaiting ministers' permission to be made publicly available. The site, now atwww.transportdirect.info, is a world first. "This is not a timetable service, it's a 'travel between two points service'," Nick Illsley, chief executive of Transport Direct, told the Building Transport Confidence conference in London last week."It takes you to a place, not just to a station." Users enter their location, which can be as precise as a postcode, and their destination, which can be another postcode, a landmark, or an event such as "Glastonbury". The site will describe how to make the journey from door to door by public transport and will include numbers for taxi firms when necessary.For drivers, the site will show a route and calculate "realistic journey times" based on data about congestion at specific times along the way, timed in 15-minute blocks. The calculation also takes into account factors such as school holidays. Users can print out the map and, before travelling, check the "live events" section for sudden cancellations and delays.Transport Direct has been a long time in the making: it was announced in Labour's 2001 election manifesto, but shelved during the chaos in rail timetabling that followed the Hatfield crash. Although the IT was developed on time and on budget by contractor Atos Origin, the launch will be about a year late because of the mammoth task of entering local details. "There are 330,000 bus stops in Great Britain, all have been located to an accuracy of one metre and given a unique name and number," says Illsley.The launch is a nervous time. The   team has little idea of what demand will be. They also know that such a complex, constantly changing, service can never be 100% accurate. "Because we have billions of pieces of data in there, some of it is going to be wrong," says Illsley. "We're asking users to tell us, and we'll put it right."Illsley says that providing citizens with this level of information will have profound consequences, including persuading them to use buses and trains. "Most transport choices are made habitually. The way to tackle that is to give people a better choice."Electronic vehicle licensing is available already, but by invitation only. Vehicle owners whose tax discs are expiring have begun receiving reminder letters offering them the option to renew them online. This "soft launch" strategy is designed not to put too much strain on the system.Car tax is a complicated transaction for government to put on the web because the process isn't just   about raising money. It is the only regular annual check of insurance and MOT certificates. The system could not be e-enabled until these were both already online.Electronic vehicle licensing is being led by the DVLA as part of a modernisation project carried out with IBM. This is a massive IT project in its own right: the agency handles 200m transactions a year, 43m of which are to do with road tax.Car owners who have been invited to use the e-licensing service identify themselves with a reference number issued in the letter and complete a form online. Their details are then checked against the DVLA's records and the Motor Insurance Database. As a database of MOT records is not due to go live nationally until December, the service is not yet suitable for cars more than three years old. The site accepts payment by debit card but not credit card, as this would require a change in the law. As a large percentage   of motorists are also internet users, the DVLA expects the service to be popular. "We're looking for 30% take-up by 2005-06," says Mike Turley, of IBM.Apart from saving drivers the bother of queueing at Post Office branches, e-licensing will help the agency work faster. "At its worst, the manual channel took about six weeks from showing your documents at a post office to updating the records," says Turley. This will now happen instantaneously.In the long run, electronic vehicle licensing opens the way to doing away with tax discs altogether. Police forces are installing systems to read number plates automatically, which will check that a car is taxed. (People in untaxed cars are statistically likely to be committing other offences.) However, this will need another change in the law, to remove the offence of failing to display a tax disc.The NHS e-booking project, now branded as Choose and Book, is the centrepiece of Tony Blair's NHS reforms. It is about to be launched at primary care trusts in London and Yorkshire and then extended nationally. Patients facing a waiting time of more than six months to see a consultant will be offered a choice by doctors equipped with the two systems.One, the NHS directory websitewww.nhs.uk, is already live and has been upgraded without publicity to include waiting times by speciality for every hospital in England. To access the information, click on "performance" and then "waiting times". The site says the figures "will give you an idea of how long you might have to wait for a routine   appointment or admission". However, it warns that waits may vary "as this can depend on a number of factors".The second system is the national e-booking service being installed by the &#163;6bn NHS National Programme for IT. It relies on scheduling software from the US firm Cerner, run by Atos Origin and piped through the new NHS broadband network to thousands of GPs and hospitals.Up to now, Britain has been in the second tier of e-government nations. The three new services, when combined with existing functions such as online tax filing and local council services on the web, add up to an e-government programme that is winning worldwide acclaim for scale and ambition. "The UK is a thought leader in e-government," says Edwin Lau, head of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's e-government effort.Whether the electorate is as impressed remains to be seen. The e-government programme is far from complete. On average, public bodies are still about 30% short of the national target of "e-enabling" 100% of services by January 2006. Much work still needs to be done to join local authorities, which run most public services, with central government.But the most important thing is to persuade people to use the services. That won't happen until civil servants steel themselves, take the passwords off, and start advertising the fact that Her Majesty's government is now (more or less) online.
Getting sued, laying off most of your workforce, losing your third chief executive and then being bought out doesn't sound like the history of a successful company that could teach internet businesses a key lesson. But Napster's problems make it one of the best examples of the value of "network effects" and how you can make your users build your service for you.The internet and the open source movement have made huge changes to businesses in recent years, but the jury is still out on how those changes add up to a new way of doing business. Speaking at BEA's recent eWorld conference, Tim O'Reilly, chief executive of computer book publisher O'Reilly &amp; Associates, suggested that the licensing question that exercises many open source advocates - and the companies that see open source as a way of saving money by switching away from Microsoft - is actually irrelevant.The most popular Linux applications aren't databases or office tools, he points out: they're services such as Google, Amazon and PayPal, which run on servers running open source tools such as Linux, FreeBSD, Apache, MySQL, PHP and Perl. Just saving money on software licenses is not what makes them successful. Also, they don't need to let anyone see the source code because they don't distribute them."These are all fiercely proprietary companies, so something is wrong with the idea that once we have open source software, there will be no intellectual property," says O'Reilly. "We have people like Jim Allchin &#91;of Microsoft&#93; saying that open source is an intellectual property destroyer. It's just not true. Here you have these companies with huge amounts of intellectual property but it's sitting somewhere else in the business."When tools and services get more valuable as more people use them, that's known as the network effect. Telephones, fax machines and email are the most obvious examples, but network effects drive many successful businesses. New users pick Microsoft Office because it is what most employers want you to know, and the more people who use the Office file formats, the easier it is to share documents. Thus, network effects don't just bring you new customers, they make what you sell more valuable to old and new customers alike.O'Reilly thinks that is the key for open source and internet businesses. "What really matters is the architecture of systems: open source is ultimately about systems that create and manage   and magnify network effects."That means if you design the system right, you won't need to do the hard work yourself: your users and partners will do it for you. Not because you are paying them (like Yahoo!'s editors) or out of the goodness of their hearts (like the volunteers who compile the Open Directory or the Wikipedia), but as a side effect of what they're doing for their own self-interested reasons.Napster and other file-swapping services didn't spend time building a complex network for their users: they   gave users the tools and the incentive to do it. They are not the only services to take advantage of their users. eBay's customers don't just provide the products and content on the auction site, they police each other by giving feedback. Google's search tools help users find information on the web, but the PageRank algorithm exploits the millions of links that individual web developers create to pages they think are interesting.Amazon uses customers' searching and spending habits to suggest relevant products: when you search, you don't get the newest or cheapest books unless you specifically ask for them, you get the ones that are most popular in terms of reviews and sales. Look for information on Microsoft's support site and, as well as official resources, you will find links to relevant discussions in public newsgroups, so you can see if some one has already found a solution.These are ideas any company can use on its site or in a service, so you need to make sure you own the user-generated data and metadata that give your service the network effect. For example, while you could buy a DVD you have found on Amazon from another store, that store can't use the ratings and reviews contributed by Amazon users to give its own customers a more personal experience.One new company seems to have learned the lesson. Eurekster's combination of search and social networking aims to make search results more manageable and more personal by letting users see just the links that people they trust think are worth looking at.The name of the service combines Archimedes' cry of Eureka ("I've found it") with a tip of the hat to   user-driven services such as Napster and Friendster. It does have tools to make your own searches easier, such as a list of sites you have found through Eurekster before, becausemore than a third of the time, searchers are trying to get back to a web page they have already visited. But the main idea is to share search results to save time.Grant Ryan, Eurekster's chief executive, calls most search engines "all knowledge and no management" because everyone who searches gets the same results. That's only useful if everyone is looking for the same thing. Eurekster helps users pick people they expect to look for similar results.You can set up a group of friends and colleagues or join special interest groups. We like relying on personal recommendation but most of us don't know whose recommendations to trust online: the social networking tools of Eurekster's sister service Real Contacts could certainly help there, and Eurekster has just started powering a custom search for members of the Friendster site.When you join a group, you search through that group. If you are more interested in skiing than computers, searching for Longhorn as part of a winter sports search group will give you the links about the ski resort rather than the next Microsoft operating system.It's not that Eurekster knows the difference: the service simply analyses the behaviour of other searchers in the same group to see which results they found interesting, which links they clicked on, which sites they looked at and then abandoned, and which pages they spent time reading.That filtered view of the internet is an ideal service to sell to companies, whether it's for an internal research service designed for a company's main area of business, or a targeted search tool to add to a website. Use it and visitors to your e-commerce site should get news and information relevant to what you're selling, while Eurekster gets more users to keep refining the results.
Mobile phonesSon of SiemensSiemens has unveiled the successor to its popular SL55 phone. Due in August, the SL65 keeps its predecessor's design, including its slide-down flap, which features the phone's keypad, but adds more features. These include a VGA camera with a 5x digital zoom, attachable flash, video capture, Java for downloads and a 64K colour screen. .Also new from Siemens is the CFX65, a clamshell handset aimed at outdoor sports enthusiasts. It features a VGA camera with LED flash and a built-in torch. It, too, will go on sale in August.Digital music&#163;21m music saleBritish music downloads pioneer OD2 has been sold to US-based Loudeye for &#163;21m. Former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel, founder of OD2, said the sale would create "the world's largest licensed catalogue of music available for digital distribution". The deal will take OD2's offering from 350,000 tracks to more than 1.3m, which compares to 700,000 tracks on Apple's iTunes Music Store, and 750,000 tracks on Roxio's Napster.The company also said it would look to move into mobile phone downloads, and video downloads to PCs. The move comes as the digital music race hots up in the US and Europe. Apple's iTMS currently has a commanding 70% market share in the US, the largest digital music market, and launched in the UK, France and Germany last week.Page 19:Can iTunes keep rivals at bay?M-Ager or cyborg?Are you an "M-Ager"or a "cyborg"? A "prosthetic" or "connected but unattached"? A new study from the Teleconomy Group (see Stat of the week, below) has sliced and diced Britain's mobile phone users into this range of curious-sounding groups in an attempt to understand our developing relationship with our mobile phones.The newest demographic is the M-Ager: a new generation of children between 10 and 14 who have been born into a generation of mobile users so emotionally attached to their phones they can't imagine lives without them. Researchers say the new generation is highly technically literate, and could have a profound influence on the way   mobile phones develop, because their parents are buying them the latest models. For instance, 71% of M-Agers were aware of video calling, against 54% of adults; 64% were familiar with Java applications, against 44% of adults. And 55% of M-Agers knew about video capture on their picture phones, against 37% of adults.Drive the iBMWIn debates about its single-digit market share of the desktop PC market, Apple has often been happy to have itself compared with BMW - a premium manufacturer that owns about the same percentage of the US car market as Apple does in PC shipments. Now, the companies have made the connection more tangible, in the form of a new system of iPod controls to be plumbed into BMW cars. A new adaptor, priced at $149, will let iPod users plug their music player in to a special cable in the car's glove compartment, and then control the device using buttons on the car's steering wheel.www.ipodyourbmw.comListen for 30 hoursCowon has a pair of new digital audio players slated to launch in July. The key feature on the &#163;299 iAudio M3l is a battery life of 30 hours - more than any    of its rivals. It plays back both MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) files, features an FM radio tuner and offers direct MP3 recording from a CD player/hi-fi. Also set for a July debut is a 40GB version of the company's ultra slim iAudio M3. Similar to its predecessor, the &#163;289 model has most of its key controls and its LED screen built into the remote control   rather than on the player itself.www.mp3-plus.netHardwareOnce seen...An innovative camera designed to be attached to a pair of glasses or baseball cap to record everything a person sees is to go on sale next month. The Camwear Model 100 from Deja View uses a buffer system to constantly capture video footage. However, as it is paired with a small capacity 64MB SD storage card, only the last 30 seconds of video can be recalled at any one time. Users can, however, press record to capture whatever is in front of them and continue filming. The device will go on sale via the Deja View website next month for around $300.www.mydejaview.comDell and IntelDell has launched two PCs based on the Intel chipsets announced this week. The Dimension 8400 and XPS models feature PCI Express expansion slots, 512MB of dual-channel DDR2 (Double Data Rate) memory, Serial ATA hard drives, Gigabit Ethernet networking and   other high-end features. Users can have up to 4GB of memory, up to 800GB of hard drive space, and double-layer DVD+RW drives holding up to 8.4GB per disc. Prices start at around &#163;700 for a Dimension 8400 with a 2.8GHz Pentium 4, but you can spend &#163;4,000. The XPS system is aimed at gamers, and includes a dedicated support line "staffed by advanced technicians who share a passion for 3D gaming and enthusiast applications". Other PC manufacturers are also launching PCs based on the new Intel support chips.Wireless walletsIn Japan, NTT DoCoMo has unveiled four new handsets that will allow users to pay for lunch, go to the theatre, book a flight or even open their front doors using their mobile phones. The handsets have an integrated FeliCa smart card from Sony. Customers can pay for things wirelessly by holding their mobiles next to compatible cash registers and vending machines. The payment is then taken directly from the user's bank account or charged to a credit card. So far, about 40 suppliers are supporting the system, including All Nippon Airways, am/pm convenience stores, and McDonald's. DoCoMo is planning to license the technology to other mobile phone operators. Sony's FeliCa is already used in transport applications around the world, including the Hong Kong underground. The handsets are being supplied by Fujitsu Ltd, Panasonic, Sharp, and Sony. It adds a whole new meaning to the idea of a pay phone.Stat of the weekYou and your mobile phoneResearch from Teleconomy splits UK mobile users into four groups: mobile-addict "cyborgs", "prosthetics" who see mobiles as a useful tool, "unattached" users who wouldn't really miss theirs, and "deniers" who are really in the first two groups, but can't admit it.
"Comdex producer MediaLive International announced Wednesday that the 2004 version of the long-running trade show has been canceled. MediaLive expects to resurrect the show in 2005, but tech executives said the company will face a tough time battling declining attendance numbers and the growing prominence of a rival Las Vegas conference, the Consumer Electronics Show, better known as CES," reportsCNet.Comment:I don't think this bit of news will surprise anyone. In my last Comdex report, last year,A fight for survival, I wrote: "The question is, will there be a show next year?""Absolutely: we've already booked," Comdex's executive director, Dave Rosenberg, told me this week. "We had a terrific response from the vendors at the show, so I can pretty much guarantee it's going to be larger, with more vendors, next year.So much for that....
Apple claims to have sold more than 800,000 songs in Europe in the first week of the European iTunes music stores, with more than 450,000 downloads being sold in the UK alone. Apple CEO Steve Jobs says that makes the iTMS "Europe's top online music store", with sales "16 times as many as OD2, its closest competitor".To put this in perspective, record industry body the BPIannouncedtotal digital music sales in the UK, between January and the end of May, for all vendors, of 500,000 tracks. Looks like Jobs' claim in ourinterviewlast week - that the download business was not yet developed in the UK - was spot on. Such sales also imply, even at this early stage, that Apple will move on to take as dominant a market share here as it already enjoys in the US.
The Digital Living Network Alliance has been formed to "align industry leaders in the CE, mobile, and PC industries through digital interoperability", says the group's Web site,here. The revolutionary idea is for consumer electronics, mobile phone and personal computer manufacturers to make their systems work together.The basic structure is based on IP (Ethernet and Wi-Fi) and UPnP (Universal Plug and Play).Members of the 145-strong group are currently having a Plugfest (June 21-24) at the DoubleTree Hotel in San Jose, California, and according to thepress release: "Digital Living Network Alliance anticipates that member companies will begin marketing products based on the Interoperability Guidelines v1.0 by the end of this year. Consumers will soon be able to quickly identify compliant devices when DLNA launches its official certification and logo program in mid 2005."It also says: "DLNA is led by 16 founding members including Fujitsu, HP, Intel, IBM, Kenwood, Lenovo, Microsoft, NEC Personal Products, Nokia, Panasonic (Matsushita Electric Industrial), Philips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, STMicroelectronics and Thomson, all of whom have promoter-level status in the organization." The names are in alphabetical order, but it must be fun having Nokia, Microsoft and Sony on the same committee.
OD2, the music download service co-founded by Peter Gabriel, was sold to a US rival yesterday as competition intensifies in the online music market.Digital media firm Loudeye will pay $38.2m (&#163;20.9m) in cash and stock for OD2, split between an upfront payment of $20.7m and $17.5m spread over the next 30 months.Founded in 2000, OD2 is a pioneer in the online music industry and licenses its download technology to MTV, Microsoft's MSN and internet service provider Wanadoo. Its catalogue of 350,000 tracks is also licensed to download sites.The deal follows a surge in activity in the European online music market, with the European launch of Apple's iTunes last week following the rebirth of Napster, the former enfant terrible of the digital music industry. As a 20% shareholder in the business, Gabriel stands to make &#163;4.1m from the deal and OD2 shareholders could make an additional $18.8m if the company hits earnings targets over the next 30 months.Charles Grimsdale, co-founder and chief executive of OD2, said the company had considered taking an AIM listing or launching a new round of fundraising, but a sale to a US partner was the best way of entering the world's largest record market."What was attractive about this deal to us was it gives us the opportunity to build the business into a global business. The alternative was raising capital to expand our business in the US, which was very expensive and would have taken a lot of time," he said.Mr Grimsdale said the European launch of iTunes and Napster did not present a competitive threat to OD2, and Loudeye was already the largest supplier of music to the iTunes and Napster services thanks to its extensive catalogue.The Loudeye deal will increase OD2's catalogue to 1.3m tracks, adding to existing rights deals with the five major record companies and independent labels. Loudeye said the deal would give OD2 the opportunity to move into mobile phone downloads and video services."I'm delighted with OD2's extraordinary achievements," Gabriel said. "It has created the most successful European platform for the distribution of music for independents and majors alike. By combining with Loudeye, we create the world's largest licensed catalogue of music available for digital distribution."Last week OD2 unveiled a pay-as-you-play jukebox service which enables fans to listen to tracks for 1p before deciding to buy or download the album or single.OD2's retail partners include internet service provider Tiscali and Coca-Cola, which launched the mycokemusic site in January.The growth of the legitimate online music market is a significant factor in the record industry's fightback against four years of declining sales. The International Federation of Phonographic Industries, which represents record companies, said sales fell 7.6% to $32bn last year as online music piracy took its toll.
Championship Manager 5 is on the way, but will you want it? Eidos has opened a Web sitehere, but bear in mind that this is about thenewfootball management game being developed in house by BGS (Beautiful Game Studios) with the help of "Leeds' legend" (sic) Mervyn Day. Real CM fans are, of course, following the development of Sports Interactive'sFootball Manager 2005: SI developed theoldChampionship Manager game, which Eidos used to publish before the companies split. Both firms are aiming to get their games out before Christmas.Amazon UK has CM5 coming out on September 24 and FM5 on December 10. It is already taking pre-orders, and is offeringboth games together for £51.98(PC only).
A Swiss appeals court yesterday ruled that the US computer giant IBM may have helped Adolf Hitler pursue mass murder more quickly and more efficiently than would otherwise have been possible, opening up the prospect of a $12bn lawsuit against the company by Gypsy organisations.In the first case of its kind, the Geneva-based Girca organisation - Gypsy International Recognition and Compensation Action, representing around 600 Roma associations - won an appeal and the right to sue IBM after a lower court last year dismissed the case on the grounds that Switzerland did not have jurisdiction on the matter.IBM's pioneering punch cards and prototype computer systems were used by the Nazis to systematise and collate information on the Jewish population and others under the Third Reich from the 1930s, an operation that oiled the wheels of the Holocaust.At least 600,000 Gypsies as well as six million Jews were ultimately murdered.A book published three years ago documented how the model capitalist firm was implicated in mass murder.The book, by Edwin Black, the son of Polish Holocaust survivors who has also written that Hitler's extermination policy was partly inspired by American eugenicists of the early 20th century, was the trigger for the initial lawsuit in Switzerland, launched in January 2002 and dismissed last year.News of the appeal court ruling came yesterday from the Gypsies' lawyer, Henri-Philippe Sambuc, who argues that Geneva was the nerve centre of IBM's European operations in the 1930s. He told the Associated Press news agency that IBM's Geneva office organised business between the Nazis and IBM operations across Europe.The litigation is being pursued on behalf of five European Gypsies who were orphaned in the Holocaust. Each is claiming $20,000 (&#163;11,000) in "moral" compensation from IBM.If they win, the ruling would open the way to Gypsy organisations demanding billions.In 1936 IBM set up its European "headquarters" in Geneva. The appeals court ruling said: "It does not appear inconsistent to conclude that the respondent &#91;IBM&#93; facilitated the task of the Nazis in their committing of crimes against humanity - acts which were counted and codified by IBM machines ... IBM's complicity through material or intellectual assistance to the criminal acts of the Nazis during world war two via its Geneva office cannot be ruled out."The lower court, dismissing the suit last year, did not find that IBM's European headquarters was based in Geneva.Thomas Watson, who created IBM after starting his career as a sewing-machine salesman, was an admirer of Hitler and was decorated by the Third Reich in 1937.IBM's German subsidiary, Dehomag, which became IBM Germany in 1945, was principally involved in helping to automate Hitler's Holocaust through a punch card computer system.The punch card system codified those murdered as D8 and numerically differentiated people by ethnic background, 8 for Jewish, 12 for Gypsy, according to Black's book, IBM and the Holocaust.
A former RAF man escaped a jail sentence yesterday after he admitted hacking into a rival website for reuniting members of the armed forces.John Thornley, 31, of Chorley, Lancashire, was ordered to do 60 hours community service and pay &#163;520 compensation and &#163;55 costs after sabotaging the Forces Reunited website in November and December last year under the user-name Harry Potter.Chippenham magistrates court was told that Thornley uploaded a program on to the website which caused members' details to be deleted, after becoming mistakenly convinced that a rival webmaster, Dominic Hayhoe, had stolen email addresses from his site and uploaded viruses to his computer.But sentencing Thornley, the magistrate, Caroline McLean, said: "If you think of a fight in a playground, because somebody hit you that doesn't give you the right to hit them back."Last month Thornley, who was in the RAF for nine years, was told after pleading guilty to four offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1990, he could face a jail sentence. However yesterday Ms McLean said that magistrates had taken into consideration his remorse and cooperation with the inquiry.
"British defense contractor BAE Systems has developed a stealth wallpaper designed to stop electronic eavesdropping on Wi-Fi networks," reportsCNet."The FSS (Frequency Selective Surface) panels are made in the same way as printed circuit boards, with layers of copper on Kapton polymer. These materials are also used in stealth bombers and fighter jets. The panels come in two varieties: passive, which is permanently turned on, and active, where various areas can be switched on and off to enlarge or limit the area of the network."
"A US Army contractor has purchased a $5.8 million, 1,566-server supercomputer from Apple Computer, a real-world cousin to an academic system that briefly appeared high on a list of the most powerful machines. In November, a machine called System X with 1,100 dual-processor Power Mac G5 workstations climbed to third place on the Top500 list of the most powerful supercomputers. On Monday, Huntsville, Ala.-based Colsa announced it's buying a larger system called MACH 5 to run Army simulations of the aerodynamics of flight much faster than the speed of sound," reportsCNet."MACH 5, which stands for Multiple Advanced Computers for Hypersonic, G5, will occupy 42 racks and 600 square feet of floor space, said Anthony DiRienzo, a Colsa executive vice president. Apple was the winning bidder among six companies, DiRienzo said, declining to name the competitors."
"IBM has regained dominance on a list of the 500 fastest supercomputers and has also landed two unusual prototypes in the top 10. Of the systems on the latest Top500 list, Big Blue built 224 and Hewlett-Packard built 140, giving IBM back the lead it lost in 2001. Two new systems, ranked No. 4 and No. 8, are prototypes of Blue Gene/L, a system that uses vastly less space and power than its competitors," reportsCNet.More than half the Top 500 systems (281, in fact) are clusters:"Clusters, often using Linux running on computers with Intel or AMD processors, don't run some jobs as efficiently as more monolithic designs. But they work well enough at a low enough price that major customers are snapping them up. For example, of the seven Boeing supercomputers on this Top500, six are clusters using Xeon processors and one is a Cray X1."And clusters let Dell, a company better known for its reliance on Intel and Microsoft research than its own engineering abilities, build the No 5 system called Tungsten at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications."Comment: Intel will be pleased: the list includes 287 machines based on Intel chips, compared with 119 last year. The Thunderer at Lawrence Livermore, the world's second fastest, uses 4,096 Intel Itanium 2 processors.Also, while the US has the more than half the supercomputers on the list -- 255 -- the UK comes second with 36.Update: Today, Intel has sent out a press release to say that more than half the 500 fastest are based on its chips. It adds: "Three years ago, Intel only had three systems on the list." That's quite a shift.For those keeping count, there are 61 Itanium systems and 225 Xeon systems.
In a CNet Commentary,Declan McCullaghputs the boot into European censorship, anti-business regulations, statist intervention in free markets (Hello, Mario Monti), high taxation levels, shortage of entrepreneurs founding start-ups, and other regrettable socialist tendencies. However, it's an advantage for America that Europeans are so second rate.
Steve Jobs and co entered a large and diverse club today, filled with everyone from Tony Blair to asylum seekers, Europe and "liberal values", when Apple got its first monstering in the Mail (The Mail, for our overseas visitors, is right wing daily newspaper that sells more than 2m copies a day in the UK).The story (sorry: can't find it online) under the headline "The great iTunes rip-off" pretty much does what it says on the tin, laying into Apple for pricing songs at 79p here, against 54p in the US, and 65p in France and Germany. The paper quotes "Phil Evan, of the Consumers' Association" (they mean PhilEvans, but not to worry) saying he feels it "makes a mockery of the concept of a single market". Meanwhile Andy Evans of "ITportal.com" (they meantheitportal.com, but not to worry) says it is "totally unfair and I feel short-changed".His is certainly a widely held view, even if it feels a little unfair to bash iTunes when its rivals in the UK are charging more - much more, in some cases - for the same music, often with much tighter DRM. But Apple's excuse that music simply costs more in the UK sounds hollow when you consider the company's pricing policy with hardware over the years. We still await their price announcement for the iPod mini, which - according to their initial plans, at least - will cost far more in the UK than in the US.Of course, were we in the Euro you'd imagine the extra transparency that would shed on pricing issues would make it far harder for Apple to pull its little currency conversion tricks. But, then again, that's hardly a point the Mail is likely to raise...
"One of the more interesting trends to emerge lately is the practice of book authors inviting strangers to collectively edit their manuscripts online before they are published. Mercury News columnist Dan Gillmor posted chapters of his upcoming book on his blog and invited reader feedback. East Bay writer J.D. Lasica went a step further recently and created a Web site (www.darknet.com) where anyone can edit the chapters of his new book, Darknet: Remixing the Future of Movies, Music &amp; Television,'' reports Michael Bazeley in theMercury News."I just think this is where our culture is headed,'' Lasica said, "where things are more collaborative.''
"Tiny, even microscopic, cameras, deployed ubiquitously, should worry us in any number of ways. Individuals will lose even more of their privacy. Companies will find it difficult to maintain traditional notions of trade secrets. And governments will confront a world in which, to some extent, people will spy on the official snoops, not just the other way around," writesDan Gillmor, the Mercury News technology columnist, considering how we can adjust to a changing world.
Digital rights activist and sci-fi writer Cory Doctorow was at Redmond on Thursday, to talk to Microsoft about digital rights management. Having seen him speak in various places, including a briefing recently at Guardian Unlimited, I know he's a great speaker, and his Redmond talk was typically sound. In brief, he told Microsoft that DRM it was a bad idea, in a talk based around this introduction..."Here's what I'm here to convince you of: 1. That DRM systems don't work 2. That DRM systems are bad for society 3. That DRM systems are bad for business 4. That DRM systems are bad for artists 5. That DRM is a bad business-move for MSFT It's a big brief, this talk. Microsoft has sunk a lot of capital into DRM systems, and spent a lot of time sending folks like Martha and Brian and Peter around to various smoke-filled rooms to make sure that Microsoft DRM finds a hospitable home in the future world. Companies like Microsoft steer like old Buicks, and this issue has a lot of forward momentum that will be hard to soak up without driving the engine block back into the driver's compartment. At best I think that Microsoft might convert some of that momentum on DRM into angular momentum, and in so doing, save all our asses."Read the full text atCory's website. [viaThefeature.com]
For music companies, there ain't no sound sweeter than the almighty ker-ching - unless it's the customised mobile phone ringtone. Here's why: kiddies download a track as a ringtone and record companies trouser an estimated $3bn in royalties on sales. But for every winner, there's a loser, and this is where things start to pong a bit. Loser one: ringtone resellers - sure, their constant ads are as annoying as sin, but if you had to pay a 25%-55% royalty rate to record execs, you'd be pushing your products hard, too. Loser two is the kiddies - paying up to &#163;4.50 for a 10-second rendition of a chart single, around four times the cost of downloading a whole track from the net. Two words: 'easy' and 'prey'.Loser three is the public - having had to put up with 'funny' sounds coming out of a phone for long enough (the sound of a cat farting, anyone?), we now have to put up with more cack. What's at number three in the ringtone charts? Shane Richie's I'm Your Man.
Apple's iTunes launch in London may have hogged the headlines but there were a couple of other very significant technology announcements made last week, both of which may play a huge part in the development of the mobile phone and the digital music player.Over in Japan, JP Morgan analyst Kazuyo Katsuma confirmed what industry insiders had known for months, that the first phone with integrated hard disk storage was on its way.Meanwhile in Helsinki Nokia announced it was testing fuel cells powered by tiny hydrogen-based energy sources. The company claimed the cells could triple the life of existing mobile phone batteries.While mobile phone handsets have travelled a huge distance in the last three or four years, manufacturers have yet to address the two core issues preventing phones from becoming the &uuml;ber-gadget of the decade: storage and power consumption.The arrival of hard disk storage on mobile phones is very significant. Until recently it was widely expected that flash memory cards such as the Secure Digital and Memory Stick would deliver the storage phone users needed to house music, image and video content. Yet the arrival of high-capacity (512 megabyte/one gigabyte and beyond) cards has been painfully slow, and their prices have remained high.By contrast, hard disks have shrunk to the point where the leading manufacturers Seagate, Hitachi and Toshiba have models smaller than an inch that are capable of storing many gigabytes.The arrival of hard disk phones in the UK, which will probably happen at the end of next year, could be particularly bad news for the makers of digital audio players: the Americans may have a slightly different view, but Europeans seem to prefer to carry just one gadget rather than fill their pockets with devices. In short, why lug an iPod around when you have a phone that can store as much music, features a superior screen and also allows you to take pictures, shoot videos and even make voice calls?For the Japanese, the main driver for adding hard disk to handsets is TV. Over the past year several manufacturers in both Japan and Korea have unveiled sets that tune into analogue TV stations. By factoring in hard disks, users will now also be able to view programmes they recorded at home as well as access Sky Plus-type functions, such as pausing live TV when the phone rings.And it is not only Japan that will be watching TV footage on mobiles. Mario Rivas, the executive vice-president of Philips Semiconductors' communications group, told Guardian Unlimited tuners integrated into handsets would be a common feature on phones next year.In Helsinki this week Nokia screened TV over a variant of the digital terrestrial TV standard, DVB-H. The company first indicated its commitment to delivering content of this sort when it announced the 7700 handset in Autumn 2003.DVB-H is ideally suited for handheld devices with smaller screens and lower battery power.There are two other major hurdles for phone manufacturers to overcome before the TV phone comes of age: the size of the screen and battery power.Even the largest screens on mobile phones, such as the Sharp TM100 and Sony Ericsson P900, are too small to deliver a picture users will want to view for more than couple of minutes. So phone makers are banking on new technologies delivering fold-up screens that could in theory be much larger than existing LCDs.Another possibility would be to separate the screen from the mobile phone, thereby creating miniature projection devices. Several years ago manufacturers showed prototypes illustrating how this might work, including an innovative but perhaps a little too left-field concept from the UK's own Psion.As for battery life, the announcement by Nokia in Finland is certainly a step forward. It is, however, just the tip of the iceberg, for every major consumer electronics player from Toshiba to Motorola is pursuing alternative power- enhancing technologies.Just a few years ago accessing a news story with a few lines of text via the internet on a mobile was seen as significant achievement; now Nokia, like several of its rivals, boasts that the mobile phone will kill off low-end digital cameras and PDAs and all but see off the music player. After this week there at last appears to be a degree of substance to its claims.
After the 1999 Columbine high school shootings, finger-pointers in the US were jabbing digits at the violent video game Doom - a favourite of the two killers. Members of Congress hurriedly raised it as an issue in the House while victims' families filed lawsuits against games companies. Folks were apoplectic.So what did the US army - with trademark sensitivity - do? It began production on the most technologically advanced, most expensive and supposedly most realistic kill-a-thon the videogaming world had ever seen. Released in 2002, America's Army (www.americasarmy.com) was given out at recruitment stations (which frequent US school playgrounds, like predatory ice cream vans) and put on the internet for free download. Essentially a playable piece of PC propaganda, America's Army saw 1.5m downloads in its first six months - the most successful game launch in history. Now, it has two million registered players worldwide, meaning it's still in the top five most popular online action games. As the website says: "No   one knows military simulations like the world's premier land force, the US army."Next Saturday, with soldiers and civilians still dying daily on the streets of Iraq's cities, another mega-budget US army-developed video game is released, this time simulating urban combat against Middle-East "terrorist" opponents. Full Spectrum Warrior brings the fight to the family-friendly Xbox. And this is just the vanguard, a probe before the big push. The Pentagon has a battalion of projects in development, all conforming to a double doctrine of neo-con world-view and boorish lack of taste that's both shocking and awful.The US army is the biggest games developer at work today. It's channelling around $1.1bn a year of US taxpayers' money to a war chest for software development via its simulations arm (www.peostri.army.mil) and spent $50m setting up its very own LA-based dream factory, the Institute Of Creative Technologies, the Hollywood-linked high-tech research centre behind the Kubrickesquely named Full Spectrum Warrior.FSW is a "tactical decision-making trainer" designed to   instruct you in urban warfare methods. Your squad spearheads a Nato-led, humanitarian intervention to liberate the fictitious central-Asian nation of Zekistan. The mission is to slaughter evil-doers, with something about "liberty" and overthrowing former Mujahideen leader-turned despot Mohammad Jabbour Al-Afad going on in the background.With its minarets, dusty streets and rusty cars, Zekistan conforms to trailer-park perceptions in being some kind of Afghanistan/Iran/Iraq composite. That Al-Afad's "hatred of the western world is well-known" should convince some that the cause is just. If not, when they hear his country is "a haven for terrorists and extremists", in particular "Taliban and Iraqi loyalists", who will blame the army for reaching for that industrial-sized can of whoop-ass?Colonel E Casey Wardynski, America's Army's project director, offers this defence of the fledgling military-entertainment complex: "Young people need to know the army is engaged around the world to defeat terrorist forces bent on the destruction of America and our freedoms." Thing is, the army isn't engaged in virtual combat zones where no one really dies. These games may be ultra-realistic down to the calibre of the weapons, but when bullets hit flesh, people just crumple serenely in a heap. They're like Tom Clancy novels made into episodes of the A-Team. No blood. No exit wounds. No screams.Concern for matters of sensitivity among the military makers of these games is scarcer than evidence of WMDs. When questioned whether any of FSW was in bad taste, an army spokesperson replied recently: "Damn it! Haven't you played Grand Theft Auto III?" Michael Macedonia, chief technology officer for the army's simulations   division, says: "People will always find certain aspects offensive. I believe censorship in video games is ill-considered."These two games are not the end of it. The next wave of the assault sees America's Army mass-market release on PlayStation 2 and Xbox next year. The current PC version regularly offers new missions and equipment for free download, but at a guess, the instalment that lets you try your hand at interrogations and prison guarding is on a back-burner.Other projects include Asymmetric Warfare Environment (AWE), an online world that will allow hundreds of thousands of players to simultaneously train in combating terrorism. Starting with Baghdad, the plan is to model every hotspot the world has to offer. And if it's not the army making games, it's ex-army men. Take Kuma/War (www.kumawar.com), another online action/ shooting game, this time with constantly updated missions based on recent events. Relive the glory of blowing seven shades out of Uday and Qusay in Mosul last July, with the expert guidance of a board of retired US officers.Why is the Pentagon going crazy over the youth-oriented video games market? The US army   has a shortfall in recruits, and it knows only young people are dumb enough to sign up - the average age of a US soldier is just 20. The flipside of recruiting Generation Xbox is that their TV-centric skills are more attuned to controlling a Game Boy than a grenade launcher. So as well as simulations, the army's creating battlefield equipment that functions like the games consoles its recruits are used to, such as robot scouts operated with devices based on the PlayStation control pad.If you were a sensationalist, you might describe this colonisation of youth entertainment as the biggest militarisation of an adolescent population since the Hitler Youth - at once a ridiculous    and strangely seductive concept. Imagine it: the US army is stretched to breaking point after Dubya sends it into Iran and North Korea. But the generals have an ace in the hole. Two million square-eyed reservists, all mindful of the kill radius of an M203 fragmentation grenade, fully indoctrinated with neo-con zeal, and au fait with small unit infantry tactics. Send them an email, give them a toughening two-day bog-wash at Fort Benning, then ship them to Whateverstan. Just for God's sake, don't give them cameras.
The [PC] industry's drive to transform home entertainment may get a major boost Saturday when PCs with new innards from Intel Corp. go on sale. The Intel chipsets — basically, chips and circuitry with specific functions that support the main microprocessor — take the place of a variety of add-on equipment that otherwise would cost hundreds of dollars," reports theLA Times[free reg req'd]."Santa Clara, Calif.-based Intel, the world's biggest chip maker, hopes the technology will usher in a new generation of PCs that help people manage their growing libraries of digital photos, music, games and videos. 'This is the most ambitious and significant makeover of the PC platform in more than a decade,' Bill Siu, vice president of Intel's desktop group, said Thursday."Comment: Intel is promoting its new chipsets, code-named Grantsdale and Alderwood, for home entertainment, since they provide "better high-definition video and audio playback, including theater-like SurroundSound 7.1." The more interesting aspects are the chance to move to DDR2 memory and PCI Express as standard. The bad news is that: "To enable the wireless access point, the Grantsdale chipset will require an Intel-specific PCI card that won't be available until later this year, Intel officials said. OEMs that want to ship their own Wi-Fi-enabled desktops next week will have to buy their own components, and they won't be able to connect to the Intel chipset," sayse-Week.
CIO Todayreports on Mycokemusic.com getting jumpy over iTunes Music Store's arrival in the UK, issuing a press release claiming to still be Europe's most popular music downloads site.Comment: little wonder they're getting anxious. It's not just that mycokemusic is, basically, a pretty poor effort, with far too many complications put in front of its users both before and after they buy music. In the longer term, I suspect running a music store will be a bit like running an internet service provider was in the 1990s - something a few brands consider a good thing, Down With The Kids 'n' all, but which ultimately loses them lots of money and becomes more trouble that it's worth. Only a few survivors will be left - my money would go on Apple, Sony and Napster, with the rationale behind most, if not all, the OD2 services a lot harder to find.
"Disney executives said Moviebeam — a computer drive that connects to a television and stores and shows movies like a DVD player — is a first step in a broader technology push aimed at becoming more like a retailer in new, digital business arenas. By shedding its current position as a wholesaler that packages films on videos or DVDs, Disney would reap all the rental revenue instead of sharing it with retail outlets," reportsUSA Today."Moviebeam is a set-top box like a satellite, cable, or other TV receiver. Its hard drive can store 100 movies, and an antenna receives new films via broadcast airwaves. Consumers rent the box for a monthly fee ranging from $6.99 to $8.99. They pay another $1.99 to $3.99, depending on the title, to rent each film for a period lasting 24 hours."
"For the first time, the No 1 album in the United States is loaded with anticopying protections, marking a clear step into the mainstream for the controversial technology. According to figures released by Nielsen SoundScan, Velvet Revolver's Contraband was the top-selling album in America last week, despite being prominently labeled on its cover as being "protected against unauthorized duplication," reportsCNet."Like other recent copy-protected albums, the Velvet Revolver disc includes technology that blocks direct copying or ripping of the CD tracks to MP3 format. It also comes preloaded with songs in Microsoft's Windows Media Audio (WMA) format, which can be transferred to a computer or to many portable digital music players."The article points out that this means iPod users can't play the files, and SunnComm, which developed the copy protection that BMG uses, is looking for a solution. CNet continues: "We are actively working with Apple to provide a long-term solution to this issue," a posting on SunnComm's Web site reads. "We encourage you to provide feedback to Apple, requesting they implement a solution that will enable the iPod to support other secure music formats."Comment: iPod owners can simply rip the CD in iTunes or download the album from iTunes, so it's not a big deal. There's also aSlashdotdiscussion....
"Roxio Inc's Napster said on Wednesday it is offering free digital music players with a one-year subscription in the latest bid by an online music service to lure consumers with promotional offers," reportsReuters."On its Web site, Napster said it would give consumers a Rio Chiba Sport portable music device, valued at about $130, if they sign up for the subscription, which is valued at $119.40. The device features 128 megabytes of storage capacity and includes a stopwatch, sports headphones and an armband."Comment: Napster's press release ishere.
One researcher who has been examining the likely changes is Dr Michael Bull, a lecturer in cultural and media studies at the University of Sussex. Bull is studying the behaviour of 600 iPod users, finding out where they use their music players, and how they control their environment - and mood - using music they have stored.He says important changes are taking place among digital music trendsetters. First, iPod users are listening to more music, possibly because of the vast choice they can carry with them. "Putting your whole collection into the iPod means you have instant accessibility to anything you want to hear".Second, going digital broadens your musical taste, he says. "With iTunes &#91;Music Store&#93;, you can sample loads of stuff. A lot of people have said it has opened their ears to new music they wouldn't have otherwise listened to," he says."If you look at people after a certain age, they tend to return to the same music again and again, or they don't listen to the radio stations that play new stuff because they think they'll not like enough of it. Scrolling down the iTunes listencourages you just to listen to clips of something and say 'I'll buy that'."
