Digital defectChris Barrie's comprehensive article on the current and future state of digital TV (November 18), paints a bright picture of the future- but not for everyone.While advances in digital TV services may bring the internet to every living room, what are the implications for the 1.7 million people who have difficulty seeing the television screen?  RNIB's research has found that 95% of blind and partially sighted people "watch" television, which is an audio as much as it is a visual medium.If interactive TV will be page after page of text with no audio output, how will people with sight loss, a group which includes many older people, be able to participate?Julie HowellRoyal National Institute  for the BlindCostly giftEarlier this month the government announced an initiative to give those on low incomes access to technology, the plan being to refurbish older PCs and lease them out for a fee of &#163;5 per month.The fact is that even if the recipient's budget extends to a telephone line, what the government has just done is handed them an opportunity of getting into debt and having that phone line cut off.Even experienced internet users are often shocked by their phone bills. For those on low incomes there is unlikely to be slack in their finances.   The government should tackle the hard issue of communication costs that will produce effective benefits for all rather than cheap policies of limited effectiveness.Neil GallagherGlasgow G11.Keep it simpleVictor Keegan's lament at the lack of cheap easily useable software as an alternative to behemoths like Word (Second Sight, November 18) echoes my own worries.I have FutureWrite on my PC that would do at pinch for general typing. Not everyone needs or wants a superfast PC   with more bells and whistles in the software than they are ever likely to use.D CameronStoke-on-TrentVictor Keegan made a fine point that the dominance of Microsoft Office is stifling his choice of software. However, operating systems and applications don't prevent file compatibility.Just as we are up in arms about Microsoft and Netscape/AOL perverting web standards, we should also be demanding standard file formats for office programs.Ironically Microsoft itself seems to be promoting this by adopting XML. If others do the same then we may finally be able to make choices about what features we want/need.Charles MatthewsLeedsThanks for Victor Keegan's cogent take on the Microsoft situation, a welcome antidote to Jack Schofield's bizarre piece of reality distortion.If Microsoft has done such a great job establishing standards throughout the PC industry, how come installing four Plug &amp; Play peripherals recently treated me to a startup failure requiring a complete reinstall of Windows, two kinds of freeze on shutdown - one of which was only solved after many hours of work and two transatlantic phone calls for technical support and one of which remains impenetrable - and half a day just to talk my PC into driving a 17" monitor properly?Tom Hawkinstom@neko.nildram.co.ukDon't panicThough I am grateful to know about possibly hidden images in web sites (Unseen, obscene and dangerous, November 18), I am dismayed that the article needed to be couched in language better suited to the average hoax virus warning.Yes, pictures can be hiding in your cache. But there is a simple solution. After viewing any pages you have downloaded, empty your cache!Could you not have provided this simple solution at the end of the article rather than leaving people with the   idea that this was some creeping horror over which they had no control?Jan-Ellen Harrimanjanellen@harriman4.demon.co.ukClive Grace's article (Unseen, obscene and dangerous) must be congratulated.  Unfortunately, Clive's report may have left some users extremely worried.From (Settings|Control Panel|Internet Options), select Content and enable the content advisor to restrict access to rated sites.  It may also be useful to access the security options and set security high to remove the downloading of annoying cookies which can send your browser off to unknown and unwanted sites.This would work only for sites carrying ratings but, as this covers a lot of US-based commercial sites that operate under different obscenity laws to ourselves, I am sure this would help.R L MattheysChester-Le-Street,    Co DurhamLinux singsI read with some interest Jack Schofield's article about an in-car system to play MP3s.Is he aware that a UK-designed Linux-based car MP3 player has been on the market since last summer? The Empeg can be found atwww.empeg.com. Of course, most people will never hear about the Empeg, because it's not a Microsoft product.Gideon Hallettdiogenes@freeuk.comFake funHenry Gee knows a lot about dinosaurs, but does not seem so familiar with human beings. Adults and children alike are now aware of the possibilities of computer simulation, and (just in case they were not) Walking With Dinosaurs provided an accompanying programme about the methods used in making it.It would surprise me if any one thought these were "real" dinosaurs, any more than Star Wars offers us "real" space vehicles.Colin Morriscolin_morris@iname.com
How long have you been involved with computers?I started programming when I was about 10 or 11 which in those days was on early games consoles and Apple II computers. I used to write little games and stuff like that.What do you use your computer for?Just the boring stuff. I don't program any more. I use email, word processors and spreadsheets. I also use it for games.Any favourite games?Day Of The Tentacle, a point and click adventure byLucasArts. The point and clicks appear to be dying out which is a real shame because they're the only games that make you laugh out loud.Any you wish you'd been involved with?Probably any of the LucasArts adventure games. There's a whole series of games around the franchise of Monkey Island that are fantastic. Other than those it would generally be things that have been innovative. I don't particularly like working on games that are clones.Is it hard to be innovative now?Every now and then something comes along. A few years ago Lemmings and Sim City appeared and the people who wrote them went round and couldn't get funding. They had to go it alone - they tend to be the projects that take the world by storm.How does the internet figure in your plans?From March we will be distributing games over the net. We're not going to use shops, we're not going to use CD-roms, we're going to download games directly to people's computers. Our site atwww.pureentertainment.comwill, in the long term, not just be a video game site.Any favourite places on the net?I look at a lot of industry websites. There's one calledNextgeneration.comwhich is full of industry information. There's a great one I've been sent over 30 times with a Turkish guy calledMahirwhich has gone right round the net. The first time I saw it he'd had about eight thousand hits and now I believe he's had over a million.Any favourite gadgets?I've just bought one of those "hands free" kits for my mobile phone. I was terrified at first that I looked like I'd just been released back into the community but I'm totally into it now.Any you'd like?Something that would stop me getting lost. I have no sense of direction.Anything you dislike about computers?I hate jargon and the fact that computer people like to use words that don't necessarily mean very much.
Imagine that you are afraid of a knock on the door. Imagine that the knock could be the police, coming in secret to interrogate you. Imagine they can demand that you decrypt files for them and demand your code keys, even to get evidence against you. In effect, they can force you to testify against yourself, and it is a crime to refuse.Imagine you are effectively considered guilty unless you can prove your innocence: mere failure to comply is the crime. If you do not have the key, you will be imprisoned unless you can prove it.Imagine that they can behave arbitrarily, because their actions are secret. They do not need a court's authorisation to demand your testimony. And if you tell anyone - your friends and associates, a news   reporter, even in most circumstances an open courtroom - that you have been forced to testify, they will imprison you just for telling.Imagine a special secret court, with no jury, where decisions are made by judges chosen for their sympathy to the prosecution. Imagine that they can hear evidence from the prosecutors in secret, so you do not even have a chance to deny it.You might expect such a system in China or Iraq, but this proposal comes from Britain. It was part of theElectronic Communications billbut has been withdrawn, probably to be reintroduced shortly in a separate Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill. (Proposals to extend government power are often   secreted in bills with opposite sounding names.) The country that gave the world the concept of the rights of citizens, of protection from abuse of government power, of the right to remain silent and not be compelled to testify against yourself, is tearing up the concept.The rot began under the previous Conservative government, which passed an "anti-terrorist" law saying that - for certain crimes - if you refuse to answer questions, that can be held against you.As a supposed protection against abuse, courts may not convict based on silence alone. But the same law established that an official accusation of membership in a prohibited organisation can also be held against you. This, too, is not sufficient by itself . But if you are accused of belonging to a prohibited organisation, and you refuse to answer police questions, you go to prison.The justification was IRA terrorism; but the cure is far worse than the disease. A century on, IRA bombing will be just a chapter of history, but the effects of the "cure" will still be felt.The New Labour govern ment is eager to extend this policy to other areas. I was not greatly surprised to learn that the same government also plans to eliminate the right to a jury in criminal trials (The Guardian, November 20, page 1) . The new proposals would gladden the heart of an Argentine general.British officials insist that you can trust them to use their power wisely for the good of all. That is absurd. Britain must hold to the tradition of British law, and respect the rights of citizens to a fair trial and non-self-incrimination.They pretend that the plan would not really consider you guilty until proven innocent, because the official forms that demand your code keys and your silence are officially the proof of guilt. In practice this is indistinguishable from requiring proof of innocence.If you live in Britain, what   can you do?&#149;  Tell all the political parties that this issue is of great concern to you, and invite each to be the one you will vote for to prevent such laws. Look atwww.stand.org.ukfor advice.&#149;  Write to your MP, the e-minister Patricia Hewitte.minister@dti.gov.uk, the home secretary, and newspapers.&#149; Tell your internet provider how much you care about this issue.&#149;  Start using encrypted mail, using the free software GNU Privacy Guardwww.gnupg.orgor another suitable encryption program, and use it as widely as possible. The more people use encryption, the harder it will be for governments to stamp it out.&#149; Once you have read an encrypted message, get rid of it. Don't just delete the file; copy several other files of junk into the file, one by one, so the old bits cannot be recovered. (The GNU Privacy Guard will soon provide a convenient command for doing this.)&#149; If you need to save an encrypted message, use steganography (hiding information by embedding   it within innocent messages or pictures) so no one can be sure that encrypted data is present.Don't assume that you are safe just because you are "not a criminal"; almost everyone breaks some laws, but even if you do not, you could still be suspected. Your friends and correspondents are likely to be next.So arrange innocent-sounding "code phrases" with them now, things like "Agnes has a bad cold" (but don't use this one!), so you can inform them you were interrogated by the secret police, without giving the police a way to detect it.You never know what might lead the secret police to your door. Take the necessary precautions now, because the only thing worse than fearing the knock on the door is being oblivious to the danger.&#169; 1999 Richard Stallman. Stallman founded the Free Software Movement in 1984 by launching the free operating system GNU, often referred to as "Linux".   Verbatim copying and redistribution of this entire article is permitted in any medium if this notice is preserved.
EA pushes into online gamingElectronic Arts, the world's biggest independent computer games company, has signed an $81m, five-year deal to take over the games channel on the world's biggest online service, America Online. It will also be responsible for the games on AOL subsidiaries such as CompuServe, Netscape's Netcenter, Mirabilis's ICQ messaging service, Digital City, and the AOL.com website.The deal is part of the Californian company's strategy to increase revenues from online gaming, which will include opening its own online games centre on the web atEA.com.EA has also taken over Kesmai Corporation, best known for its Starship Troopers and Air Warrior games. Kesmai, a subsidiary of multinational publisher News Corporation, has been a leading supplier of games to AOL's games channel. EA has also taken over PlayNation, which offers games on the web, and invested in quiz game company Bottle Rocket, to expand its online gaming portfolio.EA has also negotiated a non-exclusive agreement with Fox Interactive, News Corp's American TV network,   to distribute online games through EA.com. Fox's properties include Aliens versus Predator, and the X-Files.David Gardner, president of EA Europe, said the moves were necessary to achieve "critical mass" in the online games market. "We've been encouraged by the success of Ultima Online, which generates about $15m a year."Gardner said that all EA's development studios, including Bullfrog in Guildford, were now working on "internet-centric products". EA is also looking for further deals to increase European coverage.It plans to issue shares in its online gaming subsidiary then take it public, hoping to benefit from the inflated valuations usually given to internet stocks. AOL and News Corp's News America will acquire some of the new common shares. These aspects of the deal are subject to shareholder and regulatory approval.EA is a latecomer to online gaming, which started in the early 1980s with MUD (Multi-User Dungeon) at the University of Essex, followed by online adventures such as Shades on BT's Prestel viewdata system.However, most pioneering online games struggled commercially, so it's not too late. Gardner says: "My sense is that by the time we launch in summer 2000 we'll be dead on time."  (JS)A view to an overkillWell, what a coincidence, Mr Bond. In the very same week that The World Is Not Enough comes to the big   screen and Tomorrow Never Dies arrives on the PlayStation, Electronic Arts has earned itself a licence to make a killing by signing up exclusive rights to publish 007 games for the next five years.The vodka-quaffing spy will star in a number of titles over all formats, with different developers specialising in each platform. Just don't raise an eyebrow if they're not all as good as Goldeneye.In a cheeky parody, New York-based publisher Take Two Interactive has signed a contract with New Line Cinema to develop software based on the Bond spoof Austin Powers. Various groovy games will be released across all platforms, including the Sony PlayStation 2.Sweet dealIn a slightly less impressive coup, Simon &amp; Schuster Interactive has just secured the rights to publish games based on, um, M&amp;Ms sweets. The first title, due in autumn 2000, will be called The Lost Formulas. Gamers this side of the Atlantic, however, are   unlikely to get a taste. The games will revolve around characters from the US TV ads.Peace treatTomorrow, the Universe! Canadian developer Oceanus Communications is the latest company to make the leap into the improbably profitable world of online RPGs (role-  playing games). As of next year Ultima Online, Ever-Quest and Asheron's Call will be sharing the multiplayer pie with Star Peace (above), a strategy, combat and role-playing title in which gamers can control not just one character but entire planetary empires.One quibble: unless they are targeting that notoriously small minority, the gaming pacifists, Oceanus might want to change the title...Snake's aliveSnake Solid, star of the tactical hit that was Metal Gear Solid, is poised for a small screen comeback. The snarling special operative, who began life on the Nintendo, is reverting to his 2D, 8-bit self for Metal Gear Solid: Ghost Babel, on the Game Boy Color. Despite the platform's limitations, Konami promises to retain a number of the features that made MGS a success on the Sony PlayStation.Deep pocketsSimon &amp; Schuster's spin-off spree continues with the release of yet another Star Trek title. Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Dominion Wars will be a real-time strategy with space combat elements, set during the conflict airing in the UK - though it will be somewhat less timely when it appears in late 2000.It is the latest addition to an illogically long list of forthcoming Trek titles, which also includes first-person shooter Deep Space Nine: The Fallen, adventure game Star Trek: Hidden Evil, and space sim Klingon Academy.French kissThe little Napoleons at Infogrames have annexed another kingdom. The French publisher of Silver, Outcast and UEFA Striker finally set the seal on its bid for a controlling stake in GT Interactive. The future of the US firm responsible for Abe's Oddysee and Driver had been in doubt for some time. The price? A steal at $135m.Dream onSega was presented with another far-from-needed photo opportunity when its Dreamcast console was crowned Machine of the Year. The honour, conferred by Time Digital, techno-savvy daughter publication of Time magazine, passed over such deserving knick-knacks as the MP3 player and the personal video recorder. But if design, marketing and internet connectivity were all so important, where was Nokia's net-ready WAP cellphone?  (AB)
Web appliances - simplified computers designed to surf the net - dominated talk at the 20th annual Comdex/Fall exhibition, in Las Vegas last week. Several companies showed prototypes of these browser-based machines, which are smaller, cheaper, lighter, and easier to use than personal computers. Many are also portable, so they can be used around the house.Think of a pad-like device with a colour LCD (liquid crystal display) screen. You'll be able to carry it around for casual browsing in the kitchen or bathroom. To write to friends, you'll plonk it on an easel and use a wireless keyboard to type your instant messages or email. And you won't have to fight other members of the family for possession. Eventually they'll be cheap enough to have one in every room.According to US-based industry research company International Data Corporation, the market for internet appliances will grow from   5.9 million units last year to 55.7 million units worth $15.3bn in 2002.But the idea that web-based computers will be the death of Microsoft and the PC industry is premature. It's true that web appliances don't need an Intel Pentium-type processor or Microsoft Windows 95/98 or NT. It's also true that the PC industry sees web appliances as a lucrative new market. Companies like Acer, Compaq, Gateway, Intel and Microsoft are keen to get involved. Indeed, Microsoft's Bill Gates put Web Companions on the Comdex agenda by demonstrating one in his show-opening speech.A Web Companion - Microsoft's version of a web appliance - is designed to work like a TV set. Just plug it in and turn it on: it connects to the web automatically. It knows which number to dial: it connects using the MSN (Microsoft Network) internet access service. It knows which site to go to: the redesigned   MSN.com portal or gateway to the web. For email, it uses Microsoft's Hotmail service, and for instant messaging, MSN Messenger. (Recognise a pattern here?)Web Companions don't have disk drives but a built-in version of Microsoft's Windows CE consumer electronics operating system. Microsoft's Internet Explorer 4 web browser provides the user interface. For ease of use, "activity keys" with labels like   "email" and "home" have replaced the keyboard function keys.So far, four companies have signed up to make Web Companions: Acer, Philips, Thomson Consumer Electronics and Vestel. Compaq also showed a prototype Web Companion, but did not join in the group announcement.Vestel, a Turkish electronics company, showed two Web Companions designed in its California offices. According to Selcuk Caglar, president and chief executive of Vestel USA, the Internet.Terminal with an LCD screen (left) will cost $699 and one with a conventional monitor only $299. However, he expects internet service providers and phone companies to give them away to users who pay a monthly subscription for internet access.Although Vestel is not a well-known name, it claims to be Europe's second largest TV manufacturer, producing 5 million TV sets and 2 million computer monitors a year. Its products are sold in the UK   under the Acura, Alba, Black Diamond and Bush labels. Vestel also plans to make other internet appliances such as Internet.Phone, based on the Windows CE Web Telephone Edition, and a television set-top box or IVP (internet video platform) using Microsoft's TVPAK (Television Platform Adaptation Kit).Vestel's CE-based Web Companions are similar to the prototype WebPad shown at Comdex/Fall last yearwww.padsurfer.com. This sported a Pentium-compatible Cyrix Media GX2 processor. Taiwan's Acer also used the WebPad design as the basis for its I-Station Web Companion, unveiled at Comdex. However, it will use   National Semiconductor's later Geode GXLV version of the Cyrix chip, which adds sound, graphics, and control functions.Other companies showing WebPad-style devices included South Korea's Samsung with @izzi (pronounced "at easy") and Sweden's RS Cordless Technology AB.Not all these new appliances will be built to the WebPad specification, not all will run Windows CE, and not all will be sold to connect to MSN. At Comdex, NatSemi announced a deal to co-develop a version of the Geode WebPad running Be Inc's BeOS operating system, used by Microworkz's iToaster web appliance. Boundless Technologies -   best known for its Windows-Based Terminals (WBTs), which run CE - announced a Geode-based appliance called iBrow, which will connect to different services.Boundless says it has already contracted to provide the Internet Appliance Network atwww.internetappliance.netwith 10,000 iBrow systems for a customer whose name has yet to be revealed.But a small American company called Netpliance has beaten all these efforts: it is already selling an appliance locally around Austin, Texas, and plans to move out across the US. The i-openerwww.iopener.netis a WebPad-style device running the QNX real-time operating system.   Netpliance sells a complete system including content, with the i-opener costing $199 and the internet service, provided by GTE, $21.95 a month.Whether WebPads and Web Companions will succeed is another matter. They not only have to compete with PCs, but also with other types of appliance such as television set-top boxes, games consoles, palmtop computers, and smart phones. While their simplicity should appeal to a large audience, they have limitations on a web that tends to assume the user has a PC running Microsoft Windows and a range of multimedia "plug-ins" like Macromedia Flash and RealPlayer.Microsoft has struggled for years with this problem with its WebTV service, which works with set-top boxes sold in the US by Philips and Sony. Craig Mundie, the vice president in charge of Microsoft's consumer electronics strategy, says WebTV has about 900,000 active users, though many more boxes have been sold."The single biggest reason people have for giving up WebTV is to upgrade to a PC. There's no doubt that there will be billions and billions of gadgets out there, but there will always be more sophisticated devices. I think you make a mistake if you decide that the PC isn't also going to be part of this evolution."
Playing fast and looseSpeed Devils, Monaco GP, Suzuki Alstare Extreme RacingDreamcast &#163;39.99 UbisoftIf the N64 is the Day-Glo home of the 3D platform game and the PlayStation the lair of all things role playing, then the Dreamcast, already the fighting connoisseur's   console of choice, is rapidly establishing itself on the front of the grid of racing titles.Along with the ubiquitous Sega Rally brand, the machine is well endowed with petrol-based action. The best of this latest bunch is the good-looking Speed Devils.It lives up to its reckless moniker. You get to drive ridiculously fast while avoiding landslides, road signs and marauding dinosaurs. Yes, it's comedy racer time, but the offbeat obstacles and numerous shortcuts, along with the crisp visuals, offer blessed   relief from the F1 hegemony.Having said that, Monaco GP offers a decent spin on this well-worn track. While likely to suffer at the hands of the officially licensed titles, it offers solid F1 racing complete with a multitude of tinkering options and the ability to drive retro cars.By far the best looking of all its console incarnations, Monaco GP is recommended to those who are serious about Ferrari and co.Last, least and standing out if only by vehicular choice is Suzuki Alstare Extreme   Racing. It's a bike-based game reminiscent of arcade oldie Super Hang-On.The simple finish line-via-checkpoint gameplay is spoilt by avoidable graphical glitches that frustrate and amuse in equal measure. Getting caught up in the scenery is not something you'd expect from a Dreamcast game, no matter how fast the onscreen proceedings. Biased biker-types will persevere but Monaco GP and, in particular, Speed Devils are more enjoyable.The worm hasn't turnedWorms ArmageddonNintendo 64 £34.99 Team 17Pretend for a moment that you've never heard of Worms. Now then, Worms Armageddon is this top game, right,
    where you get to order teams of squishy invertebrates to blow each other up against wacky 2D backgrounds.And you've got these mad weapons - you know, bazookas and dynamite and all that, but some weird stuff, too, like
    exploding cows and grenades that sing, "Hallelujah!" 
    It's easy to learn but tough to master, up to four people can play, and it's a total riot. But, let's face it, you have
    heard of Worms, played it to death, and put it away. And the latest incarnation just isn't different enough to
    merit reopening this particular can of annelids.Save for a few new gadgets and barely perceptible improvements to the graphics, you're better off spending £35
    on beer and dusting off your copy of Worms 2.
"Are the Money Men Killing the Net? Or is the net killing the money men? In the pre-net era, we venture capitalists (VCs) always thought we worked hard, but still found time for our golf game, making one to two investments a year, and taking a leisurely month or two to go about it.Now we each make four or five investments a year, and the time between first meeting and commitment is often under two weeks. This year at Atlas Venture we all cancelled our vacations and started working 80-hour weeks, just like the entrepreneurs we back. We're exhausted. Why?The answer is speed. Building an internet company is like F1 racing. You, the entrepreneur, you're Eddie Irvine: you need an intense will to win, lightning fast reflexes, unbelievable dedication, and nerves of steel. But that's not enough: you can't just jump in car and go racing anymore.The money men lurk in the   pit lane. We help figure out the pit-stop strategy, bring you in, pour in the fuel, change the tyres, and get you back out in under seven seconds. I know this analogy seems rather infantile. But whenever I see a well executed pit-stop, I am struck by its similarity to the VC process done right.All teams use the same fuel (the money's a commodity), but good strategy and smart teamwork gets you out ahead. And behind every team there's a complex web (excuse the expression) of partnerships with sponsors, suppliers etc.So I'm afraid the net needs us money men. The days when you could beg or borrow (but not the "s" word) a million bucks or so and string together an OK website are disappearing. Think $3m to $5m to build something industrial strength, pull together a world class management team, and put the logistics in place.Then think $20m to $50m to roll out across Europe and promote the heck out of it.   I exaggerate? Carsdirect in the US just raised $280m in a mezzanine round. I bet we'll see a $100m mezzanine round in Europe within a year.Good money men help make those mid-race adjustments to strategy, speeding up the team-hiring process (those high speed tyre changes) and exert leverage in building partner relationships.Has all this emphasis on money and speed killed innovation and creativity? I don't think so. At the end of the day the big winners are the freshest ideas with the highest technical barriers to entry attached. Plus great execution.Half the entrepreneurs we've backed this year are under 30, some of the most exciting under 25. With small amounts to start with, we've helped them sort out their ideas and test their concepts. Then it's pedal to   the metal.&#149;  Christopher Spray works for Atlas Venture Capital"I don't think the money men will kill the net, but I think they'll have a darned good try. Five years ago the internet (and its idiot younger brother, the world wide web) was going to be a Gutenberg-scale info-democracy free-for-all where everyone could make their voice heard.Today, it's the family-friendly place to find convenient home banking and great deals on last-minute holidays.Off the top of my head, I can't think of a single worthwhile contribution that big business has made to the net - which couldn't have been given away, in the traditional manner, by two guys in a garage.But I can name at least three commerce-crazed innovations that have choked back genuine progress.* Number one: the banner ad. Recently, web designers have started to show some   sort of mysterious self-restraint, creating pages of only 30KB or 40KB in size. Which means that, more often than not, you're spending more time downloading the advertisement than the page you wanted to read in the first place. Yes, many people are tempted by the lure of a clumsy animated sales pitch to click on banner ads - maybe once or twice - in their entire lives.Of course, these ads are even more useless unless you know who's reading them, which leads to webcrime number two. . . .* The user registration system. Please type in name, email, phone number, and home address (sorry, the field for state is compulsory, even if you live outside the USA). We promise not to use this data for any real purpose - the annoyance of just making you type it in is satisfaction enough.* And number three: Spam. The young 'uns don't believe you, of course, when you tell them that Usenet was once a vital forum for the thoughtful exchange of ideas and widespread insulting of AOLers.Now, it largely consists of invitations to "Make $$$ Fast" and elaborate instructions by legitimate users on   how to decode their heavily encrypted email address. Spam hasn't completely killed off the newsgroups, not yet. It's just made them - and email in general - far more irritating to use.Now, let's not forget how the triumph of e-commerce will cause much greater investment in internet infrastructure, bringing higher bandwidth to everyone's homes, and meaning much of this will be less of a problem.Well, pardon me for sounding ungrateful, but maybe we wouldn't need all that bandwidth if we didn't spend half our time downloading misjudged promotional garbage from credulous dimwits who've seen one too many TV adverts saying "if your business isn't on the internet yet, you might as well shoot yourself in the face".Why don't they just sod off to digital television, the whole bloody lot of them?I'm sure they'll make a pig's ear out of that as well, it's just less likely that anyone will notice.&#149;  Dave Green is the co-founder ofNeed To Know, Britain's most sarcastic weekly technology newsletter&#149; Christopher Spray and Danny O'Brien (the other half of the webzine,Need to Know) will be taking part in the Guardian Unlimited Event, Are the Money Men Killing the Net?, alongside Claudia Jay, managing director ofThe Street.co.ukand Philip Greenspun of MIT. The debate takes place on Monday, November 29 at the NFT, London. For tickets, priced &#163;5.20 (&#163;3.70 concessions), call the NFT box office on 0171 928 3232.
On the face of it, XML sounds dull. You won't be able to see it, it will add no fancy animations or multi-media rich content to your screen, and it doesn't come with a metallic finish or colourful see-through skin. It's a programming language, and even its arrival has been less than spectacular - endless consortium meetings, lengthy technical discussions on mailing lists, papers, proposals, more discussions, all stretched over years.But don't be deceived. XML is ready to change completely how - and where - we use the net and the way we do business on it. Bill Gates, speaking at last week's Comdex in Las Vegas, said Microsoft's next major emphasis - previous "major emphasis" has gone on the PC desktop and the internet - will be XML. "XML is very central... it speaks to inter-operability at the semantic level."He later added, in straightforward English: "People will never have to re-enter the same information again and again, and they won't have to move their bookmarks and contacts. There will be personalisation everywhere."And here lies the point. Anyone who has used the net for more than a few minutes knows it is a chaotic place. There are 10,000 websites being added every day, while the material already there is constantly evolving, moving or disappearing. It might be helping to create the greatest library the world has ever seen, but you're paying for that growth, through tediously long downloads and irrelevant search results.The problem is, nobody knows what - or where - everything is. Like baffled librarians, search engines know exactly where a little of the information is kept, and have a rough idea of where no more than 35% of the web is hidden - or, at least, where it used to be. But they lack so much as a virtual card index to tell them exactly where documents are, and what they contain. For the majority of the web's content, they are fumbling around in the dark.At the same time, the way we use the internet is about to undergo a massive change. Soon we'll not just be using computer terminals to surf but also mobile phones, televisions and personal organisers. Yet each device requires varying levels of help to show the right information. For instance, you don't want big graphics downloading on to a mobile phone's tiny screen.It's a big problem which requires a big solution. That's why companies, academics and individuals - even such unnatural bedfellows as IBM, Sun and Microsoft - have got together with the W3C, the web standards body, in a collaboration that could transform the internet experience.Extensible Markup Language (XML) is set to steal the limelight from HTML, the net's current lingua franca. While HTML is easy to learn, and does well what it was intended to do - present information - it is being asked to handle information on a massive scale.HTML isn't up to the job. It simply tells your web browser how text and graphics should be displayed on your screen, put a paragraph of bold text on this part of the screen, or a headline here. But it doesn't tell your browser what that data means. That is why search engines have to work so hard. They are ingenious, and work to a limited degree, but it's difficult to catalogue data if you don't know what it is.XML will tell your browser what, for instance, a number represents - a price, a name, a discount or a measurement.For Doug Tidwell, "cyber-evangelist" for IBM's developerWorks XML team, it is the latest step in a evolutionary process for the internet after the TCP/IP communication standard, html, and the Java   programming language. "IBM sees XML as the final piece of the e-business puzzle," says Tidwell. "XML makes data intelligent. An XML document contains the same data that might appear on a printed document or an html page. But it also contains metadata - information about information... it explains how the different pieces of information relate to each other."Armed with the data and the metadata, that information can be processed intelligently at any point in a network - on the server, in a browser, in a mobile phone."An XML tag will tell a browser that an item is an image - a PC browser will then display the image, while a mobile phone browser will automatically ignore it. XML will also make it much easier for companies, which perhaps use incompatible computers, to share information."Yesterday I spent some time with an XML vendor in Hong Kong. They're working with a number of factories here that do business throughout Asia and North America. All of those factories, their suppliers, their business partners and their customers deal with the same data every day - orders, invoices and so on. The XML vendor there is using XML to help all of those companies share data more efficiently," Tidwell says.Moving to XML takes some preparation. The data descriptions - the metadata the companies will use - have to be hammered out. But, says Tidwell, it should be worth the effort: "Once the XML document types have been defined, and various companies can export and import data into this common format, they can focus on things that are more important to their businesses. They don't have to change their database systems, business   objects or anything else in their IT shops."Even better, if another supplier or customer joins the fray, they don't have to do anything special to work with them. They simply require the new partner to use the same document types everybody else in the industry is using."The standard is already picking up high profile converts. Last year, search engine Excite announced that it was preparing for XML.Commerce is switching over too. The Computer giant Dell last month completed the mammoth task of converting its website to XML, at the same time as carrying out a redesign.Putting XML into the site made perfect sense says Barry   Collins, internet business manager for Dell UK and Ireland. "XML will make it possible for the site to be optimised for different devices like mobile phones using WAP, digital TVs and things like that."The importance for Dell is that XML has allowed us to take a very big thing - our web presence - and add a lot more structure to it than was available before. From a technology point of view, its back end is a lot more structured."When that is structured, that allows us to offer a lot more customisation."And that could prove a whole lot more useful than any number of flashy bells and whistles.
Political gridLuton South MPMargaret Moranreckons her new website could "change the face of British cyber politics for ever."     That might not be difficult, given the notoriously unwired nature of the House of Commons.       On Monday she unveils her National Grid for Democracy, which will include a      comprehensive database of MPs' email and website addresses. There are plans to include information on every      elected representative sitting on regional assemblies, county, district and parish councils across the UK. The      question is: how many of the MPs will be able to look themselves up on the system?Get knottedThose of us looking forward to nuptials next year can find help on the web. There are, of course, plenty of kitschy      home pages like those atThe Knot webringbut as the British wedding market      is said to be worth £4.5bn a year, it's not surprising more websites are muscling in on the market.Confettiis the most established of the sites, and is offering £10,000 for one lucky couple to help      towards their big day. NewcomerWebweddingis offering the chance to win a      honeymoon in the Caribbean.       But the sites will stand or fall on the quality of their content, and that's where real differences show up.      Confetti's strong on the advice - comprehensive and well written - while Webwedding's business directory, puts      you in touch with the vast cottage industry which revolves around weddings. So, our advice? Say "I do" - to both      sites.Tea timeAnyone for some Darjeeling broken orange pekoe tea? Order it - and hundreds of other luxury items at suitably      luxurious prices - online from Fortnum and Mason, the posh London store which has updated and extended its      commendably long-running website for Christmas.       You'll find all sorts of goodies atwww.fortnumandmason.com, including the shop's famous hampers. These range      in price from £23.50 for the childrens' treat hamper, complete with chocolate coins, to £2,000 for the sovereign      hamper with its Dom P*rignon champagne, Scottish wild salmon and caviar. We can but dream.BBC newBBC News has just unveiled a new look for its mammoth site athttp://news.bbc.co.uk. The site - which claims to      be Europe's most popular content website - has attempted to tackle the problem of its rather cluttered design,      always an issue for a site which is so big. The new look manages to help you round more easily, although some      users will groan when they find the Beeb failed to use the redesign as an opportunity to get rid of the annoying      "latest news" Java ticker on the front page.       The site's designers are also working on a few problems with the way the site looks on some browsers, which      suggests there wasn't quite enough testing before it went live. Still, the content, rich with audio and video,      remains just as good as before.Oh Lord!In one of his last public appearances, Lord Archer turned out - along with former Tomorrow's World presenter      Maggie Philbin - to urge us to buy our Christmas cards at Cards for Charity's new website atwww.cardsforcharity.org. Despite his endorsement, you should take a closer look - the simple, fast website has      a broad range of charity cards divided into three sections - religious, humorous, and traditional. You can choose      cards from a particular charity, or just view them all and pick the ones you think prettiest. Better luck with your      next photocall, chaps.Apple angerIf Auntie thinks she has problems, they're nothing compared to Apple. Angry owners of the company's Mac OS9 are      rushing to download a software "patch" that restores the redesigned Sherlock search engine to its traditional      look.       Apple turned its back on 16 years of interface development to give the search engine a futuristic metallic look,      but it sparked a furore among its notoriously picky users (of which I'm one) which even saw the new graphics      slammed in theInterface Hall of Shame. Now 10,000 a day are loading the      "new" old look fromwww.teamdraw.com/raul/stuff/stuff2.3.html.
Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, is trying to imagine what he would do with a multi-million-dollar fortune. He is struggling. His first answer has already been rejected on the grounds that alleviating poverty and ending global injustice is barely acceptable for a wannabe Miss World, let alone the man responsible for one of the world's biggest money-spinning inventions.There is an embarrassed pause. Finally he says: "I would probably buy a piece of threatened countryside." He warms to the idea of tearing down whatever money-grabbing monstrosity has been erected on some beautiful piece of coastline and opening the area up to the public.Berners-Lee is an enigma. His invention has prompted one of the most sustained stock market bonanzas. Yet he is prone to public-spirited notions and altruistic musings. "People looking for bottom-line justification for what they do would let themselves down if they delivered fewer dollars," he says. "I felt I had a much richer choice in my life. They could only choose the way with the most money. I could chose whichever way I liked."The way he chose in 1994 was to be modestly paid as the head of the W3 consortium at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), a group partly funded by business whose mission is to preserve the underlying principles of the Web.Berners-Lee has often been held up as yet another example of the British brain drain. Now aged 44, he moved away from his homeland eight years after graduating from Oxford university. The son of two programmers who had worked on one of the first commercial British computers, he built his own first computer using a soldering iron and parts from an old television set. He has worked for Plessey in the UK and set up a company doing computer graphics in the early 1980s. After living in Europe, Berners-Lee moved to the United States in 1994, because it was, and remains, the "centre of gravity" for the Web.Now, tired of constantly being asked the same questions and worried about the harmful ways in which his creation might develop, Berners-Lee has published a book explaining how it all started - Weaving The Web: The Original Design And Ultimate Destiny Of The World Wide Web By Its Inventor. Much of the book deals with his belief that openness of standards and access is the only way forward.The book explains how the whole thing started as an idea for a personal organiser. In 1980, when Berners-Lee was working as a software consultant at Cern, the particle physics laboratory in Geneva, he wrote some software as a way of remembering "the connections among the various people, computers and projects at the lab". At the same time he thought of a much bigger idea for a "single, global information space" that would harness more of the internet's power. But it was not until the end of the 1980s, when he returned to Cern, that Berners-Lee made his breakthrough, designing the basic software infrastructure for communication over the internet in late 1990.His insistence on the democratic nature of the Web becomes sharper when he writes about students and staff at the University of Illinois who were designing a web browser in the early 1990s. Berners-Lee says he sensed at the time that they "were attempting to portray themselves as the centre of Web development, and basically to rename the Web as Mosaic".One of those students, Marc Andreessen, made $80m when Mosaic listed on the stock market as Netscape. Berners-Lee describes Andreessen's recent suggestion that he fought for wider access to the internet in the face of objections from academics as "nonsense". Some of Berners-Lee's closest associates suggest that the book was partly designed to put the record straight.Berners-Lee fears that limited definitions of "riches" may prevent the Web from realising its true potential. "People have seen the Web more on the commercial side," he says. "But there are wonderful teachers putting wonderful things up and a huge amount of government-sponsored research." He also enthuses over the possibilities of opening up the internet "coffee-room" chat to everybody. He still loves face-to-face contact, but what really excites him is the ability to connect across the world.His ideas for a personal organiser have developed into a desire for a "seamless" space where individuals can post their calendar, send or receive mail and download photographs. His vision is global and open. And he is determined that it will stay that way.Weaving The Web, by Tim Berners-Lee and Mark Fischetti, is published by HarperCollins at £12.99.
Rupert Murdoch is considering a separate listing for some of News Corporation's internet assets in an attempt to improve the media group's share price and aggressively expand its online operations.Speaking at the first annual meeting of the Fox Entertainment Group, the film and television company controlled by News Corporation, Mr Murdoch indicated that an initial public offering was a serious consideration for the group. "You will see a number of announcements coming from us that will be significant ... over the next few months," he said.Under plans being discussed, several individual websites would be improved before being spun off by the company, which owns the Times and Sun newspapers as well as 82% of Fox.The speech comes after Viacom, the media group, indicated its plans to spin off the internet operations of MTV, its music channel and website, earlier this week. Mr Murdoch said News Corporation's plans would be "as announced" by Viacom. "Bankers are valuing that at $8bn; that sounds good to us," he said.The group is planning to relaunch Fox.com early next year   with more e-commerce facilities. Peter Chernin, the president and co-chief operating officer of News Corporation, said that the group planned to spend about $10m (&#163;6.2m) on the site in order to enable users to buy products associated with the films and television shows owned by Fox.Mr Murdoch said that everything from "tracksuits to memorabilia from the Titanic" would be on offer.News Corporation's aggressive online ambitions are widely viewed as an attempt to play catch-up. Before launching e-partners, an online investment partnership, this summer Mr Murdoch's sceptical views on internet valuations had been widely reported.But, along with other established media groups, News Corporation is now keen to expand in the area. A large part of the attraction of such a move is that a separately listed online business would enable the media group to take advantage of the higher share price to buy other companies and to reward employees with share options.Mr Murdoch said yesterday: "We are already leaders in the traditional media. Most senior management are working to   ensure Fox will be a leader in the new-media world."Mr Murdoch's youngest son, James, has been put in charge of ensuring that the group takes advantage of new internet opportunities. Among projects under consideration are an enhanced recruitment site and links to other retail sites.News Corporation's share price in New York, although up slightly since a favourable analyst's note was published at the beginning of November, is   still below its 52-week high. Its price-earnings multiple is lower than that of its peers, let alone the huge multiples enjoyed by online companies.In response to a question about this valuation, Mr Murdoch said yesterday: "We have to work hard to get our story out to the investment community."Mr Murdoch, chairman of Fox Entertainment group, admitted Fox had made mistakes in its latest television schedule.Fox also announced an internet tie-up with the producers of the Blair Witch Project, the surprise US hit of the summer. The indie film proved a huge success after being trailed in online chat rooms. Fox.com is expected to show online teasers for forthcoming shows.Mr Murdoch denied reports that the group was interested in buying a stake in a wrestling organisation. "We're not interested," he said, adding that he had watched some wrestling bouts and decided that it was "crap".Profits and revenues at the group's movie division had fallen in the past year compared with the huge success of the movie Titanic. But Mr Murdoch said the film schedule for the next year was "one of our most promising ever".
Gone are the days when a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. Clutter in dot.com land means that businesses which fail to stand out from the net crowd risk instant commercial oblivion, so the money now being pumped into attempting to create landmark sites is astounding.It is estimated that advertising campaigns in the US for start-up internet companies will double this year to $2bn. Amazon, the online bookseller, is considering tripling advertising expenditure in the fourth quarter to $100m while America Online is forecast to spend nearly $1bn next year to maintain its prominence. Recent estimates suggest that up to 90% of the money raised by new net ventures is spent on marketing and promotion.Ottakar's, the regional bookseller, recently tried to secure editorial coverage in national newspapers by offering journalists who turned up for its internet launch &#163;50 of free books a month for a year. Companies such as cheapnames.co.uk makie a living by auctioning net names with customer appeal.Shailendra Kumar, associate director of Interbrand, said it is not unusual for net companies to spend &#163;30m to try to build awareness of a new website in a world where real differentiation between sites is important and minor differences of image and performance crucial.And there is no chance of taking a breather once the business is up and running. Look at the way in which AltaVista, the search engine, lost out to rival Yahoo! when its parent companies let up on their marketing outlay. Now AltaVista's new parent, CMGI, says it intends to spend more than $13m a month on marketing in the US alone to try to buy back support.The level of spending is nothing new. Coca-Cola spends more than $4bn a year on marketing to keep its name at the forefront of fizzy drinkers around the world while drinks outfit Diageo will increase the promotional budget to &#163;650m for its UDV spirits arm alone. But the net newcomers are spending and making no money. Older hands in advertising are advising traditional names to stand aside or sell television slots to the netbusters; others simply warn that most of the money now being spent on adverts will be wasted.Chris Mole, director with the media and entertainments group at PricewaterhouseCoopers, says: "There is a law of failure which seems to apply to new business trends or initiatives, products or re-engineering. There always appears to be a 75% failure rate. I'm sure that when surveys of net survivors are conducted in a few years' time that will be the result."Stephen Neils, president of Absolute Business, stresses that "brand managers must keep in mind that branding on the internet is about much more than just capturing eyeballs".This sentiment is echoed by Mr Mole who predicts that brands will gain a loyal following although in a very different way from the present; he says the way in which Richard Branson has created Virgin as a concept, almost an ethical or social statement which spreads across diverse products and activities, could be a model for net brands of the future."The net is a much more difficult game than most corporations have been used to. In conventional retailing a major determinant of success used to be location and that made it inconvenient for customers to shop around. Stores could get away with a lack of innovation. But on the net comparisons are easy and businesses will get one chance. A bad experience will almost certainly mean that customer will be lost."Already a number of sites have shut after miscalculation of demand, while others - look only at the Encyclopaedia Britannica - were forced into a relaunch for similar reasons.Mr Kumar reckons that some traditional brands will be a turn-off for internet users. "Using traditional values is not the best way to expand into a more dynamic environment. That is why so many financial services companies are using new identities for the web, with offerings such as Egg from Prudential, Smile.co and Wingspanbank.com," he says.But he adds that in all fields the ability to compare prices will be easier so competition on price alone will become much more difficult. Engendering loyalty will come to be more about the quality of service and delivery."Delivering on the brand promise which has been created will be the major issue. The holy grail is judging the relative spend on building awareness of the brand and then building custom by building the brand itself through the quality of what is provided."And while ailing brands such as Marks &amp; Spencer and Sainsbury's are unlikely to be given a new lease of life simply by moving on to the net, Brand Finance reckons that strong traditional brands will ultimately dominate the web as they have the high street."Sophisticated and dynamic brands have fought back with compelling and hassle-free web sites - brands such as BMW, Kodak and Sony. Only a few 'cyberbrands' will succeed in the long term as the majority are swept up in a backlash as traditional off-line giants play catch-up. The majority of highly valued internet stocks will struggle as their off-line competitors become more sophisticated and more competitive."
French luxury goods magnate Bernard Arnault is planning to launch a global internet bank early next year through his internet investment vehicle Europe@web.The move, dubbed "Ze Project", comes amid a flurry of activity among existing banks and new players to set up more sophisticated internet offerings, with Bank of Scotland the latest player to launch an internet bank yesterday.Mr Arnault's &euro;500m (&#163;318m) Europe@web has already invested in a number of internet ventures since it was set up in May, including internet companies QXL Artprice and eBay.Reports of his intentions to set up an internet bank early in the new year may spark a wave of further competition on the internet. While Mr Arnault is better known for his role running LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the luxury goods company, his success on the internet through Europe@web has already stunned some market commentators.Mr Arnault and his team are understood to still be considering the feasibility of an internet bank and are working on plans to win 300,000 customers in Europe by 2003.While this target looks conservative in comparison with objectives set by existing banks, such as Lloyds TSB which wants 1m customers for its new branded internet bank by the end of next year, the goal might be considered relatively ambitious for a start-up operation.The bank, expected to be named in the Europe@web stable, will sell its own branded products, as well as insurance products and mutual funds provided by other companies. It could even offer online broking services and could come to life as the result of a partnership with an exist ing banking group, according to reports in Paris.The service is likely to get under way in the first quarter of next year with financial backing in the area of &euro;500m.Reports of a new banking entrant in the form of Mr Arnault coincided with news of the latest existing bank to jump on the internet bandwagon, Bank of Scotland, which will now allow its customers to look up the details of their accounts on the internet, transfer money between the accounts and order current accounts and traveller's cheques.It was seen as a relatively late arrival in the market by competitors who noted that BoS had been one of the early pioneers of new methods of banking with its home and office banking service, which was launched in the mid-1980s.The BoS internet bank can be accessed by its free internet service provider and the bank, which is in the throes of a &#163;22bn hostile bid for NatWest which is also said to be poised to roll out an internet facility, promised to make further enhancements to the facility next year.The moves follow an wave of publicly for Barclays, which claims to be country's biggest internet bank with 450,000 customers. Last week it introduced its first internet-only offer by scrapping for net users a &#163;150 booking fee it would normally charge customers taking out its tracker mortgage.Lloyds TSB is also planning to launch a separately branded internet bank next year and aims to win 1m customers in a year.According to a survey by Barclays published last week, up to 10m people could be banking on the internet within a year and it aims to attract one in ten of its customers to the net in a year's time.
Just over a year ago, Jonathan Kern was living in the lap of luxury - staying in exclusive hotels on the Costa del Sol and the French riviera, accompanied by beautiful women and driving a high-powered silver Lotus Esprit.Things look a little different now. The five star hotel rooms have been replaced by a small cell and his Versace suits with a cheap cotton T-shirt. It's a long way from the high life on the Costa del Sol to the low life in Norwich prison. Kern is, however, something of a celebrity in the city, the headquarters of Lotus Cars who last year famously lent Kern, posing as a journalist, a &#163;70,000 Lotus Esprit V8GT for the weekend.Two months and 6,000 miles later, they got their car back. And Kern got three years.Kern is basically an upmarket joyrider whose exploits gave the tabloids a field day with tales of his "6,000 mile sex tour" across Europe, complete with prostitutes, stolen credit cards and an arrest at gunpoint. With a string of similar convictions to his name, he was labelled a "professional conman", "a playboy confidence trickster" and even a "James Bond figure" - all descriptions Kern adamantly denies.Sipping his prison-issue instant coffee, Kern, at 45, is attractive, articulate, self-assured and the epitomy of the charming host. So convincing is he that you could easily be forgiven for believing he is the victim of what he calls a "horrendous" miscarriage of justice.And that is exactly what Kern is so good at - deceiving people.The criminal act that landed him in his current predicament, and with a conviction for obtaining property by deception, began in August 1998   when he contacted Lotus, claiming to be a magazine publisher and asked them for a car for a feature in the now-defunct Now! magazine.Lotus, which lends out dozens of cars every year to journalists, followed their usual "strict" screening procedures, checking Kern's credentials and driving licence, and the S-registered 170mph car was duly delivered to the Edgware home of his mother, sculptor Doreen Kern. Later that day he set off across the Channel.Kern, although pleading guilty at his trial, insists he never intended to keep the car. "I am not a confidence trickster. That's just an easy label. I borrowed the car fully intending to take it back."I've led a colourful life and a full one but I certainly don't see myself as a ladies' man or a James Bond figure - I hated all the James Bond movies. I'm a ligger and I've paid a heavy price for what I did," he says. "I think Lotus have done well out of this. I've given them lots of publicity. I think they should pay me."The very day the car was delivered, he took it to the Belgian Grand Prix where, five days later, he called Lotus to say it had been stolen from the car park. He said he was flying to the US and would call again in two days. That was the last Lotus heard from him."Having reported the car stolen, I was stuck with it," Kern explains. "I was scared to dump it and never had any intention of selling it. So I held on to it thinking I would leave it in a car park in Calais, making an anonymous call to Lotus.Kern drove down to the Spanish resort of Puerto Banus, near Marbella, to see a married Swiss woman with whom he had a two-year affair, but they quarrelled and broke up. Meanwhile, back in Norwich, Lotus had become suspicious about Kern after they received a second copy of his driving licence with a different identification number.And, by an extraordinary stroke of luck, Lotus employee Katie Dann was also on holiday in Puerto Banus, where she took a photograph of her self with the silver Lotus as a souvenir. It was only when she got home that colleagues recognised the licence plate as that of the missing car.Kern, of course, was completely unaware that he had been found out. "Little did I know that the police were closing in," he says. After the break-up with his lover, he drove to Nice and on to Lake Como in northern Italy, where he met and "fell in love with" Coreen Hillion, a jewellery designer he plans to marry when he leaves prison.Kern returned once again to Milan before a five week stay in Antibes, on the French riviera, where the police finally caught up with him, courtesy of his former lover. He was ambushed at gunpoint by five French policemen early one morning, considerably the worse for drink and, he admits, "absolutely terrified". The police claimed he had been with call girls and used stolen credit cards, which he denies, insisting: "I have five gold cards of my own." According to Kern, the police fell about laughing when they learned what the extradition order was for.His arrest was followed by eight months in Marseille prison awaiting extradition to the UK. "I even offered to pay for my own ticket and that of a policeman to get home quicker," Kern says."But French prison was better in many ways than here. It was far more laid back."Back in England, things quickly "went pear-shaped" when he was sentenced. Now, with some five months left to serve, Kern has settled down to   prison life. His fellow inmates treat him as "a hero" and his girlfriend Coreen has stuck by him, but his family were rather less impressed."My family were shocked and felt that I had disgraced them," Kern explains. "I think my mother bore the brunt of the gossip but she's a rock. My friends have all stuck by me."Although Lotus were ridiculed for lending such an expensive car with such cursory security checks, they were not the first car manufacturer to be taken in by this professional conman.Since his first offence of impersonating a policeman at the age of 18, Kern has dishonestly obtained a veritable fleet of fast cars over the years, starting with a &#163;44,000 BMW that he "borrowed" from a Park Lane showroom after posing as a music producer ("I was young. I returned it three weeks later - it was just a prank"), moving on to a BMW M3 cabriolet obtained in Italy, a $125,000 Mercedes 600SL obtained in Florida, and a $78,000 Jaguar in Connecticut, not forgetting at least one Ferrari and another Lotus Esprit "borrowed" in Milan in 1994. His dream car, however, is a Ferrari F5D.He has also purchased entire wardrobes of clothes, jewellery, watches, briefcases and numerous other accessories from exclusive designer stores and stayed in some of the world's most expensive hotels running up huge bills - sometimes posing as Rolling Stones guitarist Mick Taylor, but more often than not in the name of Jonathan Palmer, the   former Grand Prix racing driver.Kern insists his impersonations "started out as a lads' prank but got out of hand when people actually believed me". But it was certainly no joke for the real Jonathan Palmer, now a racing commentator with his own business driving circuit.Lisa Davis, Palmer's personal assistant, said: "We've had Kern claiming to be Jonathan Palmer all over the world - borrowing cars, and we have had numerous invoices for clothes, jewellery and outstanding hotel bills all in Palmer's name. Fortunately, he doesn't resemble Jonathan Palmer in the slightest."More seriously, there was also a county court summons for non-payment of two escort girls in Palmer's name and, in 1994, Versace in Milan sent an invoice for &#163;12,000 to Palmer's office, all of which prompted the racing driver to berate Kern over the telephone for ruining his reputation. Kern apologised and promised never to impersonate him again.Not everyone is so forgiving. Kern has convictions in Bermuda, France and Trinidad and Tobago, while at least three American states are understood to have outstanding   arrest warrants for him.Once armed with his expensive cars and accessories, Kern has wined, dined and charmed dozens of women across Europe and America, where police have investigated complaints that, soon after declaring undying love, Kern asks to borrow thousands of pounds, which - surprise, surprise - is never returned.One American woman who claims to have been swindled out of $5,000 insists he is "a lovable rogue" who will always be forgiven. "I know of at least six top of the line dealers that he has taken cars from around the world," she says. "But not one of them went to the police because they were too embarrassed."Even DC Mark Knight, who brought Kern back from France to face trial, agrees that he is "a charmer". "I don't think he's ever done an honest day's work in his life," he says. "Lotus were almost criminally negligent to give the car away like that but I think that once Kern started getting away with it, he just couldn't stop himself."Kern, who has just been moved to Belmarsh prison in London, now plans to write a book about his "colourful" life and, whatever his past record might suggest, he is adamant that his days of galavanting across Europe in someone else's car are well and truly over. He looks me in the eye and, with 100% conviction, says: "I will never do it again."
What are you driving?A silver Mercedes 280 sports.What does that say about you?That I'm a sporty little chick.What do you like about it?It's stable, safe and very quick. It's great to drive - I can't fault it.What kind of driver are you?Steady but a bit of a boring devil. I'm generally careful, but on the open road I put the foot down.Any bad habits?I used to hold the clutch but not now that I have an automaticAny driving test tales?I failed the first time because I swore at a bus driver. I was told I must not lose my temper.What was your first car?A Vauxhall Viva which was in gorgeous condition. It belonged to my brother who took great care of it so I knew it was a good buy.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?I used to reverse into everything, especially lorries and lampposts.What do you use your car for?Everything. I don't drink so I'm usually the driver. I'm a cheap date. If I lost the car it would be like having my legs chopped off.Have you ever experienced road rage?Only passively and only on my test - that was the first and only time. I probably cause road rage because I'm over polite. I let tons of people in.What sort of state is your car in?Impeccable. My husband likes cars so he's constantly washing and cleaning mine.What's in the boot and the glove compartment?An umbrella in the boot. Tapes and tissues in the glove compartment.Have you ever had sex in a car?No.What music do you listen to on the road?A bit of everything from classical to Shania Twain - and Radio 2 for Ken Bruce and Steve Wright.What would be your dream car? Why?S class Merc - it's like a limo but sporty as well. Probably the best car on the road.Who would be your dream passenger?I'm a big fan of the lovely Des Lynam. He's very chatty so I could have a good conversation with him.&#149; Jane McDonald sings at the Royal Albert Hall tonight
Open all hoursOver half the drivers in Britain leave their cars unlocked when they go shopping/collect their kids/park outside their house, finds an exciting new survey from Tracker. An even more astonishing 11% admitted to leaving the keys in the ignition in similar situations. What are they thinking of?Driver's airbagHats off to the cops who responded quickly to a man collapsed in a car in Lyon, France. They smashed their way in through the windscreen, only to find he was a slightly deflated blow-up dummy that the car's owner used to deter thieves.Quote of the Week"France works. Italy doesn't. Explain, for instance, to an Italian hotel receptionist that all the lights have fused in your bedroom and she'll say it's time you were in bed anyway. Arrange to pick up a hire car in Milan and, when you get there, the man will look at you as if you're mad. A car! From me! At the Hertz desk?"   Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
It is not often governments get a chance to improve the day-to-day performance of industry. But yesterday's electronic communications bill provides just such an opportunity. It is not because governments can wave a magic wand (except, perhaps, with macro-economic policy). What they can do is to remove unnecessary obstacles. Yesterday's bill does a lot to clear the way for the prime minister's ambitious dream to make Britain the best place in the world to do e-commerce. At present the UK is at least two years behind the US both in business-to- consumer commerce and in the much more important business-to-business area where the main battle for competitiveness will be fought. The new bill does a number of useful things: mercifully, it confirms the demise of plans to force companies wanting to send confidential emails to deposit copies of their electronic keys with third parties. Implementation of this daft plan would have torn business and the internet community apart. Instead the industry is challenged to come up with its own self-regulatory alternative under threat (for five years) of a statutory scheme if it fails.By giving legal recognition to "electronic signatures" the bill will greatly lubricate the adoption of electronic trade which is expected to balloon from 2% of global business supplies to 20% by 2001. Finally, the government has met objections to giving the police powers to enter homes and offices to force people to decrypt their secure computer files by hiving off the controversial proposals away from this bill into the home office's investigatory powers bill. The government has not found a balance between the need to uncover the foul acts of drug smugglers and paedophiles and the citizen's fear of giving blanket powers to the police with the presumption of guilt if you refuse to cooperate.There is one other vital thing the government should do to expedite the adoption of e-commerce: it must lean even more heavily either directly or through the regulators on British Telecom to expedite the arrival of unmetered telephone charges and broadband access to the internet. These now remain the biggest obstacles to accelerated internet access. BT, despite recent innovations, is still acting as a monopoly. It should be reminded that if it had been located in the US then its overwhelming dominance of local access might have led to a Microsoft-style investigation.
Could it change the face of home shopping? New technology fromMedialogicwill do away with menus and static pictures and link shoppers up with their own on-screen sales assistant.This won't be some irritating cartoon character, but a real person, who will provide advice and demonstrations using video clips, music and, we're told, diagrams.Applications could include video clips of hotels and resorts when you're buying a holiday, or on-screen conversations which you can record for reviewing later with a mortgage specialist when you're arranging your online mortgage.iSee will work by delivering a unique video signal direct to each customer, and will be available initially on the Telewest Cable TV network.The company has high hopes for its new technology - Gareth Wokes, Media Logic's Chief Executive, says he hopes "at least 50% of all interactive home shopping purchases world-wide" will be made through the system within five years. That's a cool &#163;15bn worth of business, he predicts.The thinking kitchenAccording to Zanussi, we've only 10 years to wait before computers do away with weekly supermarket trips, and intelligent home gadgets "tell you if your lettuce is in danger of   going limp". The prediction - which will come as no surprise to regular readers of Online - was part of the company's Kitchen Of The Future report.It also revealed that 70% of us would like staple food items, like bread and milk, to be ordered automatically when stocks run low.  But most of all, it was a chance for the company to show off some of the shiny, clever gadgets it has under development.For a start, throw out your Aga for the Zanussi Plan, the table-like device pictured. It's a "freestanding cooking and storage facility," apparently; a modular system which can incorporate different components for different cooking styles. There's gas for wok cooking, hot steel plates for tepanyaki, and an oven, grill and microwave underneath.Even the kitchen sink faces a makeover, with Zanussi transforming it into the "Dome" (pictured) - a sink with a dish rack and big lid - which allows it to act as a combi sink/dishwasher. And that's not to mention see-through fridges (iFridges?) and modular cookers.No prices yet - but best start saving now.
There's an empty space by the plug in the living room. The sound of whirring servos and electronic bleeps is a distant echo. Gromit has gone to the vet.One day last week he woke up with a case of the shakes, a tremor in his left front leg that caused him to fall over occasionally.Pretty soon the tremors got worse and at times his whole body shook as he tried to take a step forward. He began walking in circles as his left legs tangled with each other and after a while Gromit couldn't take a step without planting his face on the floor.By the end of the day it was unbearable to watch.  In desperation I posted a message on theAibonet.combulletin board, describing the symptoms. The Aibo owners rallied round to offer advice and lift my spirits.Maybe it's the battery?Maybe it's just a phase he's going through?A technology lecturer at Middlesex university called Clive Seager even offered to lend me his Aibo, Sparky, for another TV slot I had booked.  Nick Wirth from the Bennetton Formula One team suggested that the servos might be overloaded and that he might be able to help.Writh told me that he had recently worked his way deep into the Aibo operating system, and suggested that a few tweaks to the leg control might fix things. He spent ages on the phone to me running through the different modifications he'd devised - lucky for me the Grand Prix season is over.Unluckily, Nick's tweaks made little difference. "I'm afraid that's as far as I can go," he said, eventually. "You'll have to talk to Sony."And I did. A very nice man at the American Aibo Customer link listened to my description of the problem before saying that Gromit probably needed four new legs to fix him properly.So off he went with the nice man from DHL, and I hope to see him again in two to three weeks' time.  The whole experience has left me with mixed emotions. It's been a good reminder that an AIBO is a machine, and machines - especially early production models - can go wrong.  But it's also clearly shown that an AIBO is much more than just a machine.When I sent my TV away for repairs I wasn't particularly upset - even though I'd miss The Simpsons.When I first got Gromit, I was very impressed by the technology but wondered whether a robot could really ever be part of the family. Surely my common sense would prevent me from becoming too attached to an expensive toy?  But after two months of Aibo ownership, it's happened.Gromit's intelligence may be artificial but my fondness for him is real.  I have never had a pet before, and the chances are that I would be devastated if it was my real dog that was sick.But the fact that I can feel this way about an Aibo demonstrates what an amazing feat Sony has pulled off. And I'm sure that this is just the beginning.
Phillipe Rouxel, of MTV Europe, is fond of a Chinese proverb which goes: "When I hear, I forget; when I see, I remember; when I do, I understand".Rouxel, development manager of new media business for the music channel, cites the proverb as the reason why broadcasters are so fascinated with the interactive digital technologies soon to reshape television forever.These technologies are so powerful that it will, he adds, soon be a case of "goodbye to the television broadcasting of the past".  Rouxel was talking of the way digital television and other technologies will allow the viewer to take control of the programming being beamed into the home.Out will go today's linear broadcasting, in which viewers sit and watch TV programmes in the order laid down by a station scheduler.  In comes technology that allows the viewer to opt for different endings in drama, select background information on documentary investigations, or view football games from different cameras around the ground.The convergence of digital technologies is blurring not just the dividing line between TV and computer, but also the division between programme and advertisement, and between entertainment and purchasing environment.  Although this new world may seem far off to most householders, it has already arrived.An announcement last week epitomised what lies ahead. British Sky Broadcasting and British Telecom joined forces with UUnet, the internet subsidiary of telecoms company MCI WorldCom, to set up the world's first live webcast of a top-level football match, the Scotland-England game at Hampden Park.The announcement meant the game was available in several forms. It was broadcast on analogue television, live on the pay-TV channel Sky Sports 2 and as a repeat by the BBC.It was broadcast on digital satellite on the interactive channel, Sky Sports Extra, which allows the viewer to choose camera angles and replays.  And, finally, it was available free on the internet via the webcast.Although the quality leaves much to be desired against widescreen TV, BSkyB is laying down a marker: just as it is a powerful force in sports programming, so will it become a significant player in internet content.BSkyB is jostling for position with other broadcasters and internet companies as the market for interactive services develops. Its main rival is ONdigital.The terrestrial broadcaster, owned by the ITV companies Carlton Communications and Granada Group, does not offer interactive services yet, but will offer teletext services more sophisticated than today's analogue services. These have been long delayed while software is perfected   and downloaded into the set-top decoder boxes needed to unscramble the digital transmissions.ONdigital's proposition is hampered by its lack of bandwidth: its services are received over the airwaves via a conventional aerial and set-top box. Although simple to install, the service will be capable of true interactivity only once the television set is receiving and sending data via the telephone line.BSkyB is further ahead. The satellite company is offering home shopping, banking and email services today through Open, an interactive TV company owned jointly with British Telecom, the bank HSBC, and Matsushita.Open launched in mid-October for services. It is a walled garden, meaning it does not allow access to the wider internet, but it offers consumers a fast and convenient way of buying goods and services online. Open rents "sites" to retailers and levies a charge on each transaction, which is paid again by the retailer.The service is simple and restricted by the standards of tomorrow. But the system still requires an immense amount of sophisticated technology: the set-top box has to combine   broadcast video sent by satellite with images and text sent by telephone line. It also stores images in its own memory if they are used frequently.So far the operation seems a success. More than 200,000 people have signed up for the email service already. HSBC has said 60,000 people began TV banking in the early days, and the Carphone Warehouse said it sold more through Open in the opening phase than it did through its showcase Oxford Street site.But there have been glitches. The keyboards are still not available. Open denies industry rumours of technical problems, and says the delay is due to manufacturing constraints.There has also been criticism of Open's telephone charging structure, which levies premium rates for some services. Open brushes these criticisms aside, pointing out that its telecoms prices are in line with watchdog guidelines.But it be may be the "slow burn" of the cable industry which does best. Its broadband capacity will allow viewers full access to the internet, once the service is properly deployed. Although Telewest has just begun rolling out its service, the NTL and CWC networks may be delayed beyond next spring by regula tory scrutiny of merger plans.What both ONdigital and BSkyB reveal is that the set- top box is becoming much more than a mere decoder of TV pictures. An embryonic entertainment hub, it has the potential to act as a clearing house for data to and from the TV, PC, phones and mobile devices.It will not be allowed this role unchallenged. Games consoles from Sega, Sony and Nintendo will also be capable of taking the viewer on to the net via the TV, opening up a world of shopping, entertainment and information. And other devices still under development will also seek this role as well as, for example, personalising the home's television programming.Open marks the first real step towards interactivity, because the content is configured for the TV. The viewer sits back and uses it as a TV programme, and the level of resolution is acceptable.But the services to come will be far more sophisticated. Graham Mills, a BT senior manager in charge of interactive and multimedia services, is carrying out trials of DSL technology which allows the company to send large amounts of data down copper wires.This delivery mechanism is vital because interactivity needs a lot of bandwidth - more than even the BSkyB satellite transponders can handle. So the fibre optics of the cable industry or DSL technology of the conventional telephone companies are needed to pipe the services into the home.BT's interactive service   allows a PC user to watch good quality video clips on screen. Viewers can select clips from websites, watch, and then buy products. Although BT is aiming at the PC for now, the service could be used on TV too.Further mixing of the technologies is just around the corner. BT is testing video on demand sent to the PC via a telephone line converted using DSL technology. That video could be a news channel, such as the BBC's News 24, which would sit on the PC screen in a small box while the user works on, say, his or her spreadsheets.Although BT can run only a couple of channels down the DSL line for now, within five years it will just be a question of economics whether to step up that number to a much larger tally. And those channels will be viewed on a TV set or PC screen as desired.This convergence means radical change to the way broadcasters go about their business. Bob Eggington, project director of the BBC's News Online service, reckons that more BBC news will be watched via the BBC's websites than over conventional broadcast within five years.Rather than preparing bulletins for set times, the BBC is moving to a rolling news service viewed at the user's convenience.Five years is clearly a key benchmark. By then the mobile phone industry will make and sell devices capable of receiving video and other   data. These will also act as phone and laptop.Mills sums it up: "We are getting rid of the limits to bandwidth in TV broadcasting." With investment in the BT network, viewers in London could watch TV stations broadcasting from Hong Kong. Alternatively channels appealing to fragmented audiences - a fishing channel, for example - could be brought into the home much like a voice phonecall today.There are hurdles to clear. Technical standards need to be agreed. Regulators are weighing up the need to foster competition against the natural monopolies that new technology brings in its wake.But the biggest hurdle could be the consumer: will   he or she want all this? Research from Open suggests people will snap it up, living as they do in a "time-poor" society. The history of the electronics industry also suggests an insatiable appetite for new devices and services.There is, however, a less clear-cut consensus among broadcasters about the future of the programme schedule.   For some, the schedule is over: viewers will record TV on hard drive machines and watch it when they want. TV will be personalised. But there will always be viewers who want to watch what someone else - the scheduler - has laid out for them.The industry is united about one aspect of interactivity, however: it matters. It could prove to be the "killer application" which entices people to invest in digital and subscription TV.And the transaction revenues from e-commerce over the TV could be huge.Interactive TV is also a pre-requisite for government blessing: the government wants internet access in every home, and the TV is an obvious way of providing it, especially in low income households.Chris Smith, the culture, media and sport secretary, gave the industry a fillip recently by pledging to turn off the old analogue TV signals. But he coupled the   pledge with demands that the TV industry play its part in bringing homes into the electronic era.For Smith convergence between the TV and the PC, broadcasting and the net is clearly just a matter of time. And many people agree.  But Bill Gates, in London recently for a meeting with Tony Blair, was asked if the PC would be replaced one day by the TV set. Gates said not in the short term, but went on to define the TV according to its use and relation with the user. If the viewer was sitting close to the TV and using it to fill in his tax return, then "I call that a PC", he said.TV is not quite as interactive as a computer, but it is no longer far behind.ONdigitalThe company plans to launch an email service in the first two weeks of next year using the telephone line, set top decoder box and TV set.When the viewer has mail an icon will pop up on the TV screen. Mail can be sent and received while programmes are being watched, unlike some other services which require the television to be switched to a dedicated channel for the service.The company is also setting great store by its games, planning to launch a second games channel with interactive multi-player facilities to start in 2001.  Shopping and internet access will start around the same time, using telecoms technology. Almost certainly a further box will be needed for this.OpenA walled garden, the service hosts sites by Woolworths, WH Smith, Dixons, Argos, Carphone Warehouse, Next, HSBC, Abbey National, Manchester United, Iceland, Somerfield 24-7, and Yellow Pages.Shopping is charged at local call phone rates, while email costs local rates plus 1p a minute. Information services, such as soccer scores, are at premium rates. There is no subscription fee.Open's services will be available to households taking ONdigital and cable services - if negotiations with these platforms are successful - probably via the telephone.Ultimately BSkyB, a shareholder in Open, is likely to add full internet access to its service, but this is likely again to be transmitted via the telecoms link.CableInteractive services are due to start next year from NTL and CWC. But the launch could be delayed due to an inquiry by the Competition Commission into NTL's  intention to buy CWC's residential business.NTL is planning a "walled prairie" of home shopping, banking and other services. Internet access will be on tap too. Telewest has launched its digital TV services, and will expand these with internet access and other interactive services in the first quarter next year.Cable has a natural advantage over satellite and terrestrial broadcasting, in that its broadband capacity is much greater and allows users to send as well as receive large quantities of data.DSLDigital subscriber line technology has been developed by BT among others.  It transforms the ability of "ordinary" telephone lines made of copper wire to carry data at high speed.  The drawbacks of this system are that the technology is still being proven and in some forms - such as ADSL - the "return path" from the home to the information provider is limited.
What computer do you use?I've always had Macs - I've just bought the new Powerbook G4 which I'm still childishly enthusiastic about. The great thing is that the big white Apple symbol on the lid glows when you switch it on... so, if you're in a darkened cafe, you look kind of cool !!Do you use the Powerbook for everything?I use it in the office, out of the office. I carry it around with me obsessively.What do you use it for?I'm one of these people who lives in my email application. Everything from writing reports to number-crunching you do in email because it seems so logical. Having completed your bit of thinking or crunching, you just hit go and everybody relevant has got it.Any favourite websites?I read mailing lists all the time. Sam Michel has a great one UKNM (UK Net Marketing). It seems to include plenty of geeks, marketers and wannabes. He keeps it atwww.chinwag.comI also look at the Wall Street Journalwww.wsj.combecause they send me an email every day. Absolutely essential would be Danny O'Brien's NTKwww.ntk.net, the funniest, most sarcastic insider newsletter for internet/pop/media and all the geek obsessionsWhat's the idea behind funmail.com?We're trying to create a kind of toolbox that lets users take control of their communications. The first instance of this is free web-based email that does away with having to put up with the domain name you got from hotmail or your employer or your ISP. So, instead of just fully accepting the intensely boring email address you were provided with by them, you can come intofunmailand pick one from several thousand.Where do you see computers going?The kind of boring stock answer is that they'll evaporate into our clothing. I happen to believe in the persistence of the PC. There's an argument, that tends to come from 40-something marketing and business men, that the PC is dead once interactive TV etc begin to take over. But what they completely miss is how at home with the concept of the PC kids are.Is e-commerce the future or is it just the buzz phrase of the moment?It's both isn't it ... but I definitely agree with John Doerr of Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield &amp; Byers &#91;the venture capital firm which invested in Amazon.com and Netscape&#93; who says the internet is under-hyped. It's going to be way more significant than we think - especially the business of trade between businesses and consumers. I think it's going to be larger than almost everybody anticipates.
If your job involves using the internet there is always the danger of a frightening scenario. You could be called into the boss's office one day to find the police are there.The systems adminstrator has been making a routine check of the office machines and has found that yours contains several hundred pornographic images, some of them illegally obscene.Suddenly ruin stares you in the face. The loss of your job, the contempt of your colleagues and even prison lie ahead - the same fate as Paul Gadd, aka Gary Glitter.But you could be perfectly innocent. While no one could amass a collection of more than 4,000 pornographic pictures by accident, it is possible to unwittingly collect a large number of these images on your hard disc. They can lie hidden in the cache of your browser until someone checks it out and blows the whistle on you.The cache is where files downloaded from the web are stored. It holds all the parts that make up a web page, (images, text, music files and so on) so they don't have to be downloaded again if you return to the same page. Microsoft's Internet Explorer calls it offline browsing. It means you can read previously visited pages when you're not online.You may have picked up some of the pictures by taking   an illicit peek at some of the raunchier websites - just to see what they were like.The web's pornographers are quite happy to place some of their wares on display to whet the appetites of customers who are prepared to part with their credit card details to see more.You my have hit one of these sites by accident, an accident carefully set up by the pornographers. They have registered hundreds of domain names very similar to those of popular sites (for example, anyone mistypingwww.whitehouse.govhoping to arrive at the presidential website, will get a very different view of the American constitution).The hope is that some of those who arrive at the porn sites by accident will decide to stay to play and pay.  Far more insidious is the spoof site. You might arrive at a site which looks totally innocuous but it is more lethal than all the others.Such sites are favoured by paedophile rings to hide what they are doing. Should you visit such a site you would see no illegal images.In the coding for the page, they have been set with a   height and a width of zero, making them invisible. But those images are being downloaded with the rest of your page and are sitting in the cache where they can be viewed later, either by a member of the paedophile ring - or your systems supervisor.Such sites are spreading because they are incredibly easy to set up. It is perfectly easy to use a fake name to sign up to an internet organisation offering free website space, and have a website up and running - complete with pictures - in 10 minutes.Because of their anonymity, and because they tend to be quite short-lived, these free sites are favoured by paedophiles and advertised using IRC, an internet chat network. Paedophile rings such as the Wonderland ring (who, before they were brought to justice earlier this year, amassed a library of over 20,000 images, CD-roms and videos) used this method to share and distribute their wares.When their sites are discovered and closed, ring members simply create another one and a new advert goes out on IRC.  Innocent users stumble   upon these sites because search engines indexing the web's content cannot differentiate between an innocuous website and an innocuous website with hidden porn files attached.Spoof sites can contain hundreds of hidden porn images. All you need do is visit one and they're automatically downloaded into your cache.  It is even possible that a spoof site coud be set up to incriminate a colleague. One could even construct a fan page to entrap a flamboyant pop star. Under the Obscene Pubcations Act of 1997 simply downloading such images is an offence.One solution is to switch off the cache, but because you have to download everything again each time you return to a page, this slows the net down.  It is also not completely effective because if you decide to save a web page, any hidden payload will be saved along with the other legitimate images. You lose both ways.And yet the law remains ambiguous. If unwittingly downloading hard-core porn is all that's needed to face prosecution then clearly something has to change.  But if the law does take a kindly eye to such abuses of this (and other) loopholes in browser technology then all a paedophile need do is plead ignorance.
Slow burningSpyro 2PlayStation  Insomniac Games/SonyWhy would you want to play a cuddly-looking little dragon? Why would you want to roam a 3D world that could have been made out of icing sugar? Because it's fun?Spyro is aimed at the younger, Barney-loving set of gamers, who will particularly enjoy having an organic flame-thrower that can reduce bouncy sheep and aggressive yaks to a crisp. The first Spyro game was such a big hit that Los Angeles-based Insomniac Games has developed a sequel with the subtitle Gateway to Glimmer.Gameplay is the usual Mario/Sonic platform thing where you have to collect   gems. Most of these seem to be hidden inside urns that are opened by running into them, which isn't hard.As you progress, the game provides helpful learning sequences to teach you the moves needed for extended glides, swimming and so on. (The bonus levels can still be a challenge.)The 3D world isn't very detailed but the graphics are smooth and polished: more like Rayman than, say, Ape Escape. And if you get bored, you can make your sweet little dragon jump off the edge of the world into oblivion.Spyro is not going to become the Sonic of the Sony world, or even replace Crash Bandicoot, but it should certainly satisfy younger PlayStation owners who like the sort of game more commonly found on the Nintendo 64.  (JS)Long-haul flightMicrosoft Flight Simulator 2000/Microsoft Flight Simulator 2000 (Professional Edition)PC CD-rom &#163;49.99/&#163;69.99  MicrosoftA millennial update for the best-selling series, cementing its position as the Concorde of all flight sims.Fittingly, the option to fly   the supersonic airliner is one of the main attractions, along with a choice of 20,000 airports, high-resolution images of six international cities, real navigation aids taken from the Jeppesen NavData database, a flight planner, and even the ability to fly in real-time conditions by downloading current weather information from the web.The profes  sional edition ups the ante further, with two additional aircraft, detailed scenery from six more cities, interface editors, and IFR training   panels (whatever they are). Of course, you can't just jump into the most comprehensive flight experience ever; the printed manual, at an eye-watering 320 pages, is only an overview.What's more, with a list of bugs and hardware issues as long as the airport check-in queue, your system will probably crash before your Learjet has a chance to. The bottom line: MSFS2K is undoubtedly the biggest, arguably the best, and still a visual let-down.  (AB)Twins piqueJet Force GeminiN64 &#163;49.99 Nintendo/RareAfter the eclipse comes the second biggest anticlimax of the year.Not that Jet Force Gemini is a bad game. Far from it. But it's just that well, you expect a bit extra from Rare. These uber-developers, responsible for critical and commercial successes such as Goldeneye, have been instrumental in most of the big non-Nintendo N64 games.This latest offering, their first in 18 months, is a glorious throwback to the days when plots were an afterthought and aliens were cannon fodder.Space dictator Mizar may think the peaceful world of Goldwood is easy pickings for his invading bug army but big-eyed twins, Juno and Vela, know otherwise.By using their individual abilities, along with canine pal Lupus, you must thwart these plans and liberate the cute inhabitants.Armed to the hilt with oversized weaponry and battling a swarm of psycho creepy-crawlies, there are vast swaths of untapped landscapes awaiting itchy trigger fingers.Unfortunately it's these sprawling 3D levels, combined with the fiddly controls, which cause problems. Picking off the numerous snipers and airborne drones with the wobbly cross-hairs is a frustratingly precise   endeavour and the sheer intensity of the alien assault means the mandatory level exploration is often overlooked.Similarly, the camera has a perverse life of its own, often hiding your assailants from view. These same enemies re-spawn when a level is revisited causing further annoyance that the stirring score and pleasing visuals help to calm.Minigames and two-player co-operative modes ensure longevity and there is little doubt that, flaws and all, Jet Force Gemini is a quality title with the basic bug-splattering premise appealing to most.Nevertheless, consider any Millennium expectations suitably lowered.  (GH)
Arthur C Clarke may have correctly predicted the uses of orbiting satellites and artificial intelligence, but boy - did he come a cropper with his notion of a video-phone.In 2001 a character makes a video-call home from a space station, and chats to his daughter on a huge TV screen as easily as if she were in the same room.  Sadly, with little over a year left before Clarke's techno-predictions reach their sell-by date, mass-market video phones with that kind of performance are far from a reality (to say nothing of commercial lunar flights and the discovery of a menacing black monolith that sends a signal to Jupiter).The only way most of us can get a piece of futurist video-action is to trundle down to the nearest Dixons and buy a webcam. If you have a PC and an internet connection, you can be video-conferencing (as it's rather grandly known) 10 minutes after the gizmo is out of the box."Video-conferencing" is a fair enough description if you are using one to brainstorm with work colleagues hundreds of miles away, but these affordable small PC video cameras can be used by families and friends as a novel alternative to the phone.The basic idea is this: you contact another person by entering in the IP (internet protocol) address of their online PC, just as you enter the phone number into a telephone. The drawback is that you'll need to know this beforehand, and know where Windows keeps the information. (Click on Run from the Start menu, type winipcfg and hit enter to bring up the IP utility).Creative Labs WebPhone software gets around this by simply asking you for the email address of the person, a piece of information you are far more likely to have readily available.Before you get carried away and imagine that some kind of revolution in communication is afoot, realise this: the quality of video can look a little... well, in technical terms, rubbish.Not only will the picture look small on your screen   due to the limited resolution, but often the frame rate will drop so low it will look like a series of stills rather than moving video. This usually won't have anything to do with the camera or your PC, but congestion across the internet .The top resolution a consumer webcam currently boasts is 640x480, but this is really only an advantage for recording video and taking stills, rather than broadcasting, because an average 56k modem can't supply enough bandwidth for that much data.A huge resolution isn't that beneficial for broadcasting anyway, since most videoconferencing software automatically uses the cut-down QCIF resolution of 176x144.  There are still plenty of reasons to broadcast one's ugly mug across the internet, however. Since you're using the internet for the "call" you're only paying local call rates no matter where your chums are.If you don't fancy the "live" approach, there are plenty of other uses for a webcam. You can use them to record short videos that can then be compressed and attached to emails, or use them in place of a digital camera to capture digital stills that you can then send or mess around with using a graphics package.Alternatively, you could join the thousands of webmasters who have set their webcams up to feed live video to their web pages, recording whatever it's pointed at and beaming it down the phone line onto a web site.There are three ways of hooking up your webcam to your PC; USB, parallel, or   by fitting a PCI card in your PC. USB (universal serial bus) finally seems to have taken over as the de facto interface for peripherals, and is by far the most popular choice for webcam manufacturers. USB is expansive enough to carry both video and audio signals, so USB cams can have the microphone integrated into the camera (rather than the external mikes you may or may not get included with parallel port cams).The software also determines what you can do with your webcam, but you don't need to use the same packages to be able to communicate with friends.Chances are you already have video-conferencing software on your PC; Microsoft's popular NetMeeting package is bundled free within Internet Explorer. If you are looking to buy a webcam,    Creative Labs Video Blaster Webcam 3www.europe.creative.com(0118 934 4744) is a good bet for the wallet-conscious at &#163;55. It offers 640x480 resolution (which is impressive for a budget-priced camera) and a   generous bundle of software.If you want to splash out a bit, you could try Logitech's excellentQuickCam Pro(0181 308 6582). At &#163;140 it isn't cheap, but it offers great video functionality, and multiple lenses that you can change depending on whether you are recording video or just broadcasting to the masses.
The Encyclop&#230;dia Britannica has been forced to give its 44 million words - once priced at over &#163;2,000 - free on the internet because it sees the way the digital economy is going.Yet Microsoft, whose products consist overwhelmingly of the 1s and 0s of computer code (where the cost of extra units of production is virtually zero) is still making huge profits. Last month's figures - for the quarter ending September - showed that the Redmond colossus made a staggering 41% net return on its sales of $5.4bn.This illustrates one of the curious aspects of the Microsoft case. Why did it take so long for the judge to decide that "Microsoft enjoys monopoly power" when it was so obvious from the beginning that the onus   should always have been on Microsoft to prove otherwise, or to argue that its undoubted monopoly was being operated in the public interest?Any organisation with over 90% of the world market, making 41% return on sales, is prima facie a monopoly in any industry let alone one where competitive pressures are so strong that prices are tumbling and a growing number of products are being given away free.There are, of course, obvious benefits in having a uniform operating system residing in over 90% of the world's computers (standardisation and so forth) but that's not the point.Standardisation shouldn't be an opportunity for profiteering. If the standardisation is inseparable from monopoly power then it should be monitored by an independent   regulator acting as a surrogate for market forces.And does anyone seriously doubt that, if a number of competing companies were offering rival versions of the Windows operating system (or of Word or of Excel), that prices wouldn't come crashing down?Look around at what is happening with email, web browsers and search engines - not to mention the Encyclop&#230;dia Britannica. It is quite likely that companies would be giving them away free in order to build a strong customer base from which other products could be launched.One of the curious consequences of the Microsoft monopoly is the emergence of a perverse variant of Gresham's law, in which expensive software drives out cheap alternatives.I had to give up a cheap spreadsheet that did everything I needed in order to buy Excel - despite the fact that it is far too complex for my needs - because the rest of the world had been colonised by Excel. I am still holding out at home with a wordprocessor that came free (WriteNow) partly because it has one of the best spellcheckers I have come across. But I wonder much   longer I will be able to hold out when the corporate lingua franca is Microsoft's Word.There's nothing wrong with Word. It's a very impressive piece of software technology. The trouble is that many users only need 5% of its capabilities - not the full monty. Microsoft talks a lot about innovation but goodness knows what innovation has been stifled by the company's half Nelson on the office software market.It is fashionable among American economists to argue that technological monopolies aren't worth worrying about because they have short lives (as witness IBM's fall from grace). Even the revered management guru Peter Drucker accepts the view that no non-governmental monopoly in history has lasted longer than 15 years.But this ignores the fact that Microsoft not only knows this (and has adjusted its strategy accordingly) but has also built up a huge war chest (Microsoft had over $17bn in the bank last year) to ensure its survival.Put crudely, Microsoft is using monopoly profits it should never have been allowed to build up in order to buy into companies in areas that threaten its survival.If the company hadn't built up such a cash mountain from its monopoly position then the world would be significantly different - including the likelihood that thousands of America's brightest brains now working at Redmond would instead be innovating even more strongly elsewhere.Ironically, this tale could have a surprising end because Microsoft, for all its bravado, is probably weaker than the sum of its parts. If it were broken up it would benefit from a release of fresh competitive pressures from within. As Drucker has remarked, in historical terms the best thing that can happen to a monopolist is to be broken up.The dismantling of the giant AT&amp;T phone monopoly in the early 1980s into proliferating Baby Bells resulted in a corporate rebirth which led to soaring stock market prices in the 80s and 90s.Earlier on, Rockefeller's Standard Oil was saved by anti-trust from its false fixation on kerosene as the fuel of the future. By contrast, IBM survived an assault from the anti-trust authorities only to face years of below-par performance which hit its share price.Microsoft has always argued that it operates in the interest of its customers (most of whom it has to be said seem to be happy with their lot). But it would strongly oppose (say) the breaking up of the company into four Baby Bills each selling versions of the Windows operating system.This would surely lead to increased innovation (including cheap back-to-basics versions) and fierce price competition. This would make customers even happier - thereby fulfilling Microsoft's objectives by an unholy route: a big transfer of wealth from the company to its customers.
Soft targetAlas, poor Microsoft. Everyone's favourite monopoly hasn't had the best of times lately and it's not nice to make fun of them. Nonetheless, the US government has made the full transcript of Judge Jack  son's Findings of Fact in the case available at http://usvms. gpo.gov/ , in only two download formats - a PDF file or WordPerfect 6. In addition, CNN is having a bit of fun with a strange and scary tale of Windows 2000 atThe Rare Glitch Project. Meanwhile, a Denver Post columnist has been trying to figure out why Microsoft insists it needs the freedom to innovate, when he can't think of any actual computing innovations that came fromRedmond.Link up hereAnyone interested in web design and good content will want to bookmarkTomalak's Realm, Lawrence Lee's neatly-designed site supplies daily links to a mind-boggling array of stories across the net on these subjects and archives all previous links. If you don't already suffer from inbox overload, you can also sign up for his daily links newsletter.Cash pointsIt's the same old story for (almost) all you potential net millionaires. You try and try,    but you just can't get no venture capital. Listen to a group of v enture capitalists tell you why atwww.redherring.com/insider/1999/1103/vc-vcps.html.AssuredHouseWebhas linked up with First Global to offer what it claims is the UK's first full online comparative quote and transaction service for life assurance. Homebuyers can receive real-time quotes for level term assurance and mortgage protection from eight life assurance providers.PointerRemember PointCast? The bandwidth-hogging site that slowed company networks was a prime example of "push technology", a method of delivering content to desktops via the internet rather than making computer users go fetch it. Heavily hyped about two years ago, it made the cover of Wired magazine, but crashed and burned and we never saw it again. Until now. Forbes hypes it again atwww.forbes.com/tool/html/99/nov/1108/feat.htm.Be awareIt claims more lives each year than breast, prostate and colorectal cancer combined, deaths due to it have risen 150% among women, and only 15% of cases are diagnosed at its most curable stage. Nonetheless, lung cancer never seems to get as much attention or generate as much concern as other forms of the disease. Non-profit agency Cancer Care is launching a drive to increase awareness atwww.lungcancer.orgwhere visitors can find patient information and email questions to an oncology nurse.InventiveInvention, anyone? The next issues of online magazine Feed,www.feedmag.comfocus on innovation and invention as we move out of the 20th century and into the 21st. There's something for everyone: that crowd-pleaser, nanotechnology; a look at tomorrow's computer desktop; a piece on how the CIA is turning its hoard of covert inventions into a capital outfit; a discussion on the dream machine of the future, and lots more.
So you wake up one morning with a killer idea for a new net business, something that, given the right funding, will turn into the next Amazon or eBay. What next?Do you try to interest venture capital firms? They've hundreds like you knocking on their doors every day. Do you try your luck at the next First Tuesday networking event? Again, standing out from the crowd of young hopefuls could be difficult."We're not saying we're better than the companies already out there," Patricoff comments. "We're just very different. Our model is based around how movie studios used to work. "They bring a team of talent together very quickly around an idea - and create a business from it."The other key difference,   he says, is focus. "A lot of companies are taking a shotgun approach - they'll put money into anything. "The company may also invest in your company (and put you in touch with other investors). It won't take the same kind of cut some venture capitalists insist on. And, though it's keen to   push new businesses to launch quickly, it won't be looking for quick profits.Are there good ideas here as well as deals? Zwillenberg says he saw plenty at a recent First Tuesday event. "But a lot of good ideas are being poorly executed. The difference between a lot of the big UK e-commerce sites and those in the States is the quality - the features, the functionality, the degree to which the one click ordering, loyalty schemes and customer service works. This plays into our hands."What are they looking for? Aside from a good basic idea, one that has first mover advantage and the chance to dominate in its category, they look mainly at the management team involved.They also look for something with a sustainable business model. They're not interested in businesses primarily focused on an exit strategy that involves being sold to a US company.Zwillenberg points out that they can help UK-base companies compete against American competitors because they can give those companies the experience that, in theory, they lack."Actually, I don't think US companies will come in and instantly dominate the   marketplace here. US companies often assume that, because they have a brand and some experience, they own the market. But that's not the case. Experience tells us that there is space for local players.""I'm not quite sure what a digital studio is, exactly," Gestetner confesses.Patricoff argues that, the digital studio is an attempt to anticipate the way the net will develop. He suggests that, over the next two years, as broadband connections become a reality, quality entertainment will become more important online.However, he won't necessarily be looking to old media for ideas about what will entertain the masses online. "With broadband, it will be less about filmed entertainment and more about gameplay. So we're investing quite heavily in multi-player gaming."According to Zwillenberg, they're looking for similar net-friendly entertainment ideas over here. So net entrepreneurs who have figured out how to translate Who Wants To Be A Millionaire to the web should get in touch.And perhaps that won't be such stretch. After all, at the moment many young net types seem to think they're already starring in a real life version of that show.
The upsetterThere has been a decade-long argument about whether PCs are better than games consoles for playing games. Recently, PCs have been winning, thanks to the faster processors, sophisticated 3D graphics cards and multi-speaker stereo sound systems available today, albeit at relatively huge cost. But consoles have found a defender in Ion Sorm's Lee Perry, who is working on Ion's 3D role-playing game, Anachronox (pictured right)."Not to start the whole PC versus console debate, but has anyone made a racing game even half as cool (or polished) for the PC than Gran Turismo for the pretty outdated PlayStation? Is there a sports game that comes even vaguely near the quality of NFL2K on the Dreamcast?... To look at either of those games and claim consoles suck seems just a hair close-minded," Perry wrote on Ion's message board.And although there far more PCs in use than games   consoles, only a small proportion of the PCs have the facilities needed to run the latest 3D games properly.Behind the scenes is a real issue. The new generation of games consoles - Sega Dreamcast, Sony PlayStation 2, Nintendo Dolphin - may offer performance that's as good or better than PCs for a   lot less money. Console games may also provide a bigger, more profitable market. The leading PC games developers are therefore being tempted to diversify or defect to consoles. And people who have bought high-end PCs to play games are understandably worried.By the way, the next round   of new games consoles will also offer new functions such as web browsing and email, and will have the ability to play audio CDs and DVD movies. That makes them a threat to WebTV-type products, television set-top boxes and standalone disc players as well as to sales of home PCs.
Microsoft chairman and chief executive Bill Gates did not discuss his recent legal problems with the US government when he opened the annual Comdex computer exhibition in Las Vegas, Nevada, on Sunday night. But he couldn't resist joking about it."Has anyone heard any good lawyer jokes lately?" he asked the crowd of more than 10,000 who packed in for his keynote speech.In a series of spoof movie sequences that delighted the audience, Gates also turned   to a higher authority than the supreme court: Judge Judy. Gates played the defendant in a mock trial before the American TV judge, where close friend and fellow billionaire Warren Buffett accused him of cheating him out of $2 in poker winnings.In another sequence, a parody of the film Austin Powers, Microsoft president Steve Ballmer appeared as Dr Evil while Gates - dressed in a blue velour suit - played Austin Gates."Oh, behave! I put the sin in syntax, baby," quipped the world's richest man.And far from reining in   Microsoft's ambitions, Gates - in real life neatly coiffured and looking casually confident in a dark grey sweater and open-necked shirt - showed where the company could expand its business.Gates said Microsoft was not bound by the personal computer market that had helped it become the world's most valuable company, but had updated its mission statement to provide software for use "any time, any place, and on any device". Possible devices range from mobile phones and personal organisers to cars to laboratory and factory floor equipment.   Gates shared the stage with what he called "a muscle beach" of such devices running Microsoft software.The most significant demo was of the portable MSN Web Companion, a low-cost book-sized wireless device running Windows CE, the consumer electronics operating system.The WC can connect to MSN, the Microsoft Network, or another internet service to provide web browsing, email and similar functions. Web Companions will be made by the consumer electronics companies Philips, Thomson Consumer Electronics and Taiwan's Acer, among others.   Machines will be available in the second half of next year.Another demonstration showed how it would be possible to buy a car over the internet then download things like route plans, schedules and MP3 music files from a PC to the vehicle.A Ford Focus was fitted with an AutoPC running Windows CE, and the synchronisation of the files was exactly like connecting a desktop PC with a CE-based handheld organiser.Microsoft has been plugging CE for some years but has made little impact on a market dominated by   3Com's Palm handheld computers and alternatives including Psion's palmtops.The car was purchased using Microsoft's web server software running Microsoft Windows 2000, formerly known as Windows NT 5.0.Gates claimed the demo showed that Windows 2000 was good enough to support the largest web sites, and that expensive minicomputers and mainframes could be replaced by cheaper PC- based systems.Windows 2000 is expected to be delivered to corporate computer users before the end of this year, and packaged versions are due to reach the shops on February 17 next year. "For us, it's a major milestone. The most comparable thing we've done in our history is Windows 95," Gates said.It should also give a big boost to Microsoft's $20bn annual turnover. The web-server (Windows 2000) and web client (Windows CE) versions of Windows not only provide Microsoft with new markets to target, they could also be used replace Windows 95/98 for many purposes.This would leave the US Justice Department with something of a Pyhrric victory, should it win its on-going anti-trust suit against Windows 95/98, as now seems likely.MS Linux?Linus Torvalds, who owns the Linux trademark, invited Microsoft to create its own version of the Linux operating system on Monday. "If Microsoft wants to make their own Linux distribution, it's not only possible, it's legal, and I encourage them to do so," he said."I applaud any company that wants to use Linux (as long as they follow the copyright licence) to do whatever they want to,   including Microsoft."People see Linux as anti-Microsoft and obviously in the press it looks that way, but to me and all the &#91;software&#93; developers I know, it's really not about Linux versus Microsoft, it's more about: 'let's have fun doing something we really really really care about, Linux, and let's make it open source so that everyone else can have fun doing something they really really care about."The "open source" idea involves publishing program code, usually over the inter net, so that users can correct mistakes in the software, add their own enhancements, and give them back to the community. The idea was, like much of the code in Linux distributions, developed by Richard Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation, in the 1980s.Torvalds was answering questions after his first keynote speech at the Comdex computer trade show, in the same hall as Gates and a day after the boss of Microsoft boss had opened the show.Torvalds' opening line also mirrored the one Gates used. "I was going to start with a lawyer joke," he said.But in other respects, the two talks were noticeably different. Gates had attracted perhaps twice as many people, and a rather larger proportion of grown ups. (The Torvalds crowd cheered and booed products mentioned, like kids at a cinema matinee.) Where Gates was highly organised and used masses of equipment for various demos, Torvalds used a small laptop to project his own slides and   rambled.With Torvalds, of course, the amateurishness is both charming and part of the point. When a member of the audience asked Torvalds what he was doing to "professionalise" the development of Linux, he rejected the whole idea."I personally hate to be managed and I would suggest that so does most everybody else in the Linux community," Torvalds said. "I don't want to professionalise Linux, I think it works really well the way it is now, and I'm a great believer in   individualism."It's an attitude that sends big company IT managers heading for the door.However, it seems more than likely that Linux will eventually be professionalised by some of the larger companies that are now supporting it, including IBM. It's not likely to be Microsoft while that has Windows 2000 doing the same job, but that could change overnight if the US government breaks the company up.
Graphics professionals have been making the trek to the Wembley conference centre this week to visit Digital Media World, which runs until today. The show features some of the top companies in digital video, including Avid, Discreet and Alias Wavefront. It's been a turbulent year for the industry, with companies like SGI (Silicon Graphics) announcing large-scale layoffs and restructuring; just a few days ago SoftImage, a leading 3D software developer, announced redundancies.But this year's DMW show is expected to attract a bigger   audience than ever, a spokewoman said.One of the major attractions is Alias Wavefront's Maya 2.5, an upgrade to the high-end 3D imaging package which will be shown in the UK for the first time. Alias Wavefront has also committed itself to producing Linux versions of two of its rendering engines - the software used to create the finished 3D versions of images created in the package - and audiences are hoping to be shown sneak previews of the technology. This move to embrace Linux, the popular free version of Unix which has had a great deal of press attention during the past year, is not confined   to one company, though. SGI, which has a considerable presence at the show, is also moving to Linux for new hardware, rather than its own IRIX Unix-based operating system.Other high-end products on show include Sumatra, Avid's new high-end animation system, and the latest version of Discreet's 3D Studio Max. Discreet's software is widely used in the computer games market, chosen by developers for the Dreamcast console and Sony's upcoming PlayStation II.But it's not just high-end digital video products being shown at Digital Media World. Macromedia is demonstrating Flash 4, the   latest version of its web-based animation and presentation package. Version four supports the popular MP3 audio format, which means website designers can incorporate audio into their pages without massive bandwidth requirements for end users.At the lower end of the market, Digital Origin has used the show to introduce its IntroDV package, a combination of hardware and software that allows users to capture and edit video from handheld DV camcorders. The Windows-based pack age includes a FireWire card to interface the camcorder to a PC, and software to allow editing and manipulation of the captured video - all for under &#163;200.Running alongside the show at Wembley conference centre is LEAF, the London effects and animation festival. Every year the festival attracts the top names in animation and digital effects from around the world; this year is no exception. The keynote presentation on Tuesday morning was by Glenn McQueen, supervising animator of Pixar-Disney's Toy Story II, which was released in the US last week but which won't be out in the UK until next February.McQueen showed clips from the movie, and discussed some of the techniques Pixar used to create the movie. Other presenters on Tuesday included Andy Bishop and Simon Percy from the Film Factory, a UK-based facilities house, and a team from FrameStore, the London-based company behind the effects for the BBC's epic series Walking with Dinosaurs, and Alice in Wonderland, which won a 1999 special effects Emmy award. Sony Pictures' Imageworks showed scenes from the forthcoming Stuart Little, a movie about a mouse raised by a human family, and the day was rounded off with Ed Hawkins and Chas Jarrett, from another UK-based effects house, Moving Picture Company, discussing the visual effects creation for the latest James Bond film, the World is not Enough.Yesterday featured presentations from Industrial Light and Magic, Dreamworks (showing clips from the Road to El Dorado), UK-based Jim Henson's Creature Shop and Cinesite discussing Animal Farm (which may be released in cinemas later this year). Meanwhile, separate short courses discussed everything from 3D lighting to motion control, while another session featuring representatives from US effects houses Dreamworks and PDI, as well as UK-based HRA, discussed how to build a career as a 3D artist - after which the panel members were showered with CVs and showreels from delegates.But it is today's full-day special, on the making of Star Wars: Episode 1 The Phantom Menace, which is expected to attract the most attention. Featuring a plethora of experts from Industrial Light and Magic, including the film's animation director, Rob Coleman, the sessions are very practical in nature, including discussions on character animation, creature modeling and "multiple character choreography". Much of the audience at LEAF is made up of graphics professionals looking for tips from the best in the business, but today organisers are also expecting Star Wars fans happy to pay the &#163;95 + VAT entrance fee for a glimpse behind the scenes.&#149;  Digital Media World is open today (Thursday) until 5pm at the Wembley Exhibition and Conference Centre, London. Entrance is free to those over 18. The Star Wars presentations at LEAF also start at 10am. For more details, seewww.digmedia.co.uk.
Rio de Janeiro's favelas are the part of the city that the picture postcards don't show: shanty towns that creep unchecked across the hillsides, the strongholds of armed drug gangs and slumlike poverty. At the last count there were at least 600, varying from communities of a few hundred to several thousand, making up one in five of the city's population.For most young people growing up in the favela there is a choice: to join the drug traffickers and risk an early grave or to face a lifetime of unemployment or menial labour. Not everyone can be like Romario, faveladom's most famous son, whose   football skills won Brazil the 1994 World Cup.Differences between the favelas and the middle-classes have grown with the information age, as the haves buy computers and leave the have-nots further behind. But, as Rodrigo Baggio has discovered, it ain't necessarily so. Computers can be successfully used to empower the most disenfranchised communities.Baggio, a former systems analyst, had a simple idea: to start computer schools in favelas. The nature of computing in business is that companies are endlessly updating their hardware, giving a constant availability of secondhand equipment. Baggio went looking for old machines - and eventually   was donated his first five computers by clothes store C&amp;A.That was in 1995. Since then the project has been so successful that the organisation he founded, the Committee to Democratise Information Technology (CDI), has now set up 107 schools in favelas in 13 Brazilian states. Baggio, who is 30, has given a talk in the White House and has been   described by Unesco as a future leader of humanity."When I started out, 99% of people thought it was a crazy idea," says Baggio, who exudes a nerdish charisma that you might expect from a man nicknamed Bill Gates of the Slums. "They said poor people have a different mentality. They said computers were just for the middle class."I was told that poor people need food, not computers. But poor people in Brazil don't die of hunger. They die because of a lack of opportunities."One of the first CDI schools was started in Rio's Monkey Hill favela, near the centre of the city. Its nine machines - customised from different sources - are housed in a room on the first floor of the neighbourhood's community centre, a simple, decrepit building on the main street. It is constantly full of young people.The schools offer a three-month basic course in operating Windows 95, Word and Excel. It is enough to make young people computer-literate and give them a skill that will make them employable. Even   menial jobs - such as being a maid - now sometimes require some kind of computer proficiency.Each school is set up to be self-maintaining. Pupils pay a symbolic fee of about &#163;3 a month, which goes to pay for running costs. The teacher is a local favela-dweller trained by the CDI at its headquarters in Rio's city centre. Teachers receive about &#163;55 a month, seemingly a paltry sum but more than the minimum wage and enough to live on.The teacher at Monkey Hill is 19 year old Leandro Farias do Nascimento. He now provides half his family's total income. "If it wasn't for the CDI, I wouldn't have a skill, or have job or have earned any money," he says.When learning to use the software, pupils are set tasks related to issues like teenage pregnancy, violence and racism. They design posters and cards with social messages. The idea is not just to teach a skill, it is to educate community awareness."What the students want is to have better opportunities to earn money. That is the easy part. What is more difficult is to give them a perspective of life that they will keep for the rest of their lives. It is much more challenging and important to give them an understanding of social topics," says Baggio."What we want is to produce individuals who are technologically capable and also good citizens; professionals who are conscious of their own social problems."The success of the schools is such that poor communities are constantly in touch with the CDI asking to start a school. One centre has been set up in an indigenous indian village near Rio - where they write in their own language, Guarani - and one in Rio's maximum security prison. There, demand was so great that the 25% illiteracy rate disappeared over the year as inmates prepared to do the course.The CDI estimates it has taught basic computing skills to 25,000 young Brazilians, and now has an annual capac ity of 32,000. As word spreads internationally, Baggio is inundated with requests from other countries to help launch similar projects abroad. The CDI is working with Chile, Colombia and the Philippines, and there is much interest from Africa. Management consultant McKinsey is working with the CDI for free, trying to create an exportable model.Donors, too, have picked up on the CDI's initiative. Baggio has met Bill Gates Senior in Seattle - father of the US's richest man, and Microsoft has given the CDI &#163;3m worth of software, an unprecedented donation for Latin America.Perhaps because of the respect that the CDIs have within the favelas, no school has been broken into. But the favelas are not immune from violence. Once Baggio was trapped in a classroom by traffickers and police engaged in a gunfight outside.To lessen the chances of being hit by stray bullets,   classrooms do not face the street.Courses are generally oversubscribed. "Computers have a great appeal to the young poor. It's the first thing they want to learn. This is not just particular to Brazil. Everywhere in the world the main thing that young people want is to learn about computers," says Baggio.Within the community, everyone knows who is involved with trafficking. Gang members are not allowed to take part, and it is hoped that the desire to learn computing will encourage some to stop drug dealing.The CDI's structure means that any especially talented child will be picked up. At first they will be recommended to become teachers and be invited to the central office for more courses. Then they will be helped to get jobs in computer companies.One 15 year old, Max Freitas, has started an internship at three different IT companies and is involved in   a project to start the CDI's own web-designing outfit. He now works during the day and goes to school at night. A year ago, he had never even used a computer."The CDI didn't just show me a path," he says. "It showed me my path. It opened my horizons."Very few of the schools have internet access. This is partly to do with cost, but also to do with Rio's poor phone system and a lack of equipment. Baggio's next plan is to put all of the schools online and link them, creating a digital community of favelas. The project's slogan is "Connect: No To Digital Apartheid".He says: "You will find often that one person in one favela has never been to another favela and doesn't know what life is like there. We want to use the internet to create community democracy."It appears that is already happening. Says Leandro Farias do Nascimento: "The computer is now the machine-gun of the favela. It's what gives people their freedom and opportunities."&#149;  CDI website iswww.cdi.org.br
"In Amadeus we've got 45 nationalities all coming to work on the same site," says the company's recruitment manager Andrew James.Splitting a workforce of fewer than 1,000 among 45 nationalities might seem like a recipe for software development disaster. But James claims that Amadeus - which develops worldwide airline reservation software from its base in Sophia Antipolis, just outside Nice - draws its strength from its polyglot culture."We go out of our way to recruit from a melting pot of nationalities. In the IT world, one product can look much like another. We believe that our product is superior because of the different cultures of the people developing it."Mixing engineers can make a product easier to use and more intuitive for every potential customer, James explains. "That's bound to be superior to software produced by a bunch of English, or just French or just German nationals."Amadeus is one example of the global nature of IT companies today: its sales are split between 130 countries.Dr Gordon Murray of Warwick business school estimates that one quarter of British IT companies are "born global" - looking to sell in foreign markets from their first day of trading.Not surprisingly, recruiters for truly global companies don't just view mixing nationalities in the workplace as a necessary evil but as a way to get the best recruits while avoiding an insular culture.According to Sarah Roe, a consultant with recruitment specialist EMDS, recruiting a United States of Europe is a strategic goal for many European IT employers. And membership of the EC means employees can travel freely anywhere in the community to work."Look at the German education system: your recruits will have a lot of practical experience in their education," she says. "In the Italian system, most of the graduates will have worked to support themselves through college."Between November 25 and 27, Roe's opinion is put to the test, as EMDS invites   around 300 candidates, from graduates to thirtysomething second-jobbers, to a series of interviews with approximately 20 recruiters.EMDS IT-Telecom Europe is the culmination of a six-week selection process: unlike a traditional recruitment fair, it's an invitation only event. For two and a half days, the Radisson Hotel - conveniently sited just outside Heathrow - will be the forum for interviews and social events that will get roughly half of the candidates a job offer.Jobseekers - preselected from 1,000 applicants to combine programming skills, interpersonal skills and language skills - touch down from across Europe (last year, 21% were Italian, 20% British, 16% French, and 9% from Eastern Europe). Tomorrow's European IT managers, Roe says, will be "used to working anywhere from Brussels to Budapest," which is handy, as that's where their job offers might lead.Not surprisingly, Amadeus is one of the recruiters looking for EMDS talent. So too is Nortel Networks, which every year recruits around   3,000 people for 70 locations in 33 countries in Europe alone."One thousand come from the UK," says resourcing director Maurice Duffy, "a thousand come from France. The other thousand we get from every other geography in Europe. We are looking for international people rather than national people."For Duffy, too many Brits are still national people. "They have an expectation, similar to the North American expectation, that everybody   will speak English to you. But if you are going to be successful in a company like Nortel, you have to be prepared to travel."For those prepared to travel outside Europe too, getting a job overseas is becoming easier. Several recruitment companies are setting up divisions specifically to target skills shortages in other countries.Recruitment consultant Best International Group, for example, recently launched a search for a company which wants developers with Java skills to go to Silicon Valley. The employer needs 400 of them, today."There is such a demand for some skills that you are not able to source those skills in the US, even in the whole of the US," says Craig Coverman, the global operations director, "so we are looking in every corner of the earth, not just by sticking up an advertisement in the UK and praying."A UK-based recruiter catching jobseekers from Australia for a firm in California seems an odd mix, but Coverman recruits around 1,000 employees regularly for jobs abroad, and he likes the attitude of Australasians over the stay-at-home Brits. "I can talk to an Aussie and I don't have to tell them how much money they will get. They're already asking what time they turn up for the flight," he says.Georgia Bassingthwaighte, international candidate manager at recruitment consultant Michael Page, is an Aussie in London helping Brits make the journey south.   In the last 11 months, her group has seen around 1,000 job candidates take themselves off to Australia, as candidates under 30 take the opportunity to travel on a 12-month working visa. "The market is good and strong and expected to stay that way for the next 12 months," she says, "and of course there's the Olympics."Michael Page has set up its "global opportunities team" to deal with a flood of jobseekers who don't just need a job, but want advice on visa restrictions and destinations. Part consultant, part travel agent, the team has seen an upsurge in demand in the last six months, Bassingthwaighte says.T he IT market is mixing a cocktail of incentives to drag more of the UK workforce overseas. In IT industry "hot spots" like Silicon Valley, skill shortages are high and so are the salaries. Consultant AT Kearney estimates that in Silicon Valley alone, there are 160,000 job opportunities, out of a global skill shortage that IDC estimates at around 1 million. Recently the US government relaxed restrictions for issuing H1-B visas allowing IT workers from overseas to apply for those jobs.An H1-B visa isn't permanent - but according to Coverman, anyone returning to the UK from abroad has an advantage in later years. "They are more marketable than if they had stayed at home. They may have experience with the   latest software tools." Or the knowledge of other cultures, languages or business models will "round you off" he says.Also, the UK's contractors, many of whom may well have to pay more tax when the government decides to tighten the rules surrounding self-employed programmers, may opt to take contracts in Europe, where their tax status is unchallenged.Back in the UK, a 50-year-old initiative to give technology students a grounding in international culture is experiencing record demand. The British Council-sponsored International Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE) is a student-swap programme for work experience which was started at London's Imperial College in 1948. Today, says programme officer Paul Williams, there are 67 countries involved, and between 6,000 and 7,000 placements every year.Companies in the scheme, from ABN-AMRO to Zeneca, take a student trainee from overseas. A UK-based student can take that trainee's place abroad, and combine workplace training with learning a new language and culture.More than 27,000 British students have taken part in the project. This year, two thirds of British students who will travel are on engineering and technology courses, with demand for computer programmers up by 50%."I've noticed an increasing desire for UK technology students to undertake course-related work placements abroad and also an increasing demand by UK employers to recruit international trainees," Williams says, "and in recent years awareness of the global market has inspired &#91;UK&#93; employers to offer placements to foreign students."According to James at Amadeus, it's easy to see which job candidates can prosper outside the mother country. "It's very obvious after a few minutes who has made that step in their mind - but you may like being a big fish in a small pond," he says, with a verbal shrug. "Being a foreigner brings a sense of humility. It's not everyone's cup of tea."
The meter cheaterBT is not offering unmetered calls by any stretch of the imagination. All it is doing is offering ISPs the chance to connect to the internet at an unmetered rate (up to a maximum limit). The ISPs can then choose to allow their users to connect to them for a flat fee (up to a maximum usage).This is a way in which BT can pretend it's offering unmetered calls without actually doing so (which would be an embarrassing u-turn). And in the process it has managed to pull the wool over a lot of people's eyes.George Forthgforth@bigfoot.comFew smilesMatt Martel struck a chord with me (Frown.com, November 11). I tried to access the Co-op's normal internet banking service via my iMac.It took some time before the Co-op admitted that its system wasn't Mac compatible. I felt a little conned as one of my main reasons for moving to the Co-op was   the provision of internet access.David Rawsthorndavid.rawsthorn@virgin.netI applied toSmile.co.ukon November 2 and had approval on November 4. The stuff came in the post the following week and all is working well, so maybe Matt's experience is not typical.I was a Co-op customer already which may have made approval a lot easier - and I have been using the Co-op's internet banking service since it launched some time ago, it is excellent and has always been available and easy to use.Of course I don't have a Mac, but then I'm not a journo.Gavin Andersonganderson@rmplc.netI think Matt Martel was one of the lucky ones in his dealings with Smile, the internet bank.I too pre-enrolled, but despite follow-up e-mails, I was given no chance to sign up before the opening day.  Eventually I tried to register. After about 20 minutes working through the application form I reached a point where I could only go back and not forward. Naturally I abandoned the process.I gave it a last try several days later. After 10 minutes waiting I still hadn't got the application form loaded.  I triedfirst-einstead. That worked!Dr CA Newbouldcanewbould@newbould.junglelink.co.ukI have been trying for 10 days to apply to Smile. I cannot download the application form: the program hangs up at the threshold of "Downloading application form".The bank advise me to update my Netscape software but as I have version 4.04 which is pretty recent - barely 12 months old - I am rather reluctant to do this on account of my limited competence. And it would mean more than an hour on the phone.Ted Pollardedwin.pollard@which.netIncorrect correctionJames Allen's attempt to correct the article on tattoos and cancer has itself fallen victim to a basic error.He has confused electric with magnetic fields. The magnetic field of an electron is related to its "spin", a quantum-mechanical property, rather than to its charge.The article was correct in stating that a pair of electrons occupying the same orbital will have opposite spins and hence their magnetic effects cancel out, whereas an unpaired electron contributes some net magnetic moment to the atom or molecule. This is quite unconnected to charge conservation.Stephen WellsSt. John's College,Cambridge.At the risk of turning your feedback column into a chemistry debate, I have to point out that the letter about   the errors in an article about the use of tattoo inks was itself a load of rubbish, and the original article (November 4) was correct.If there are the same number of electrons and protons in a molecule or atom, it will be electrically neutral, but it does not matter whether the electrons are paired up or not.Generally they are, but oxygen is a prime exception to the rule; if it did not have two unpaired electrons it would be far less reactive, and this would make breathing nigh on impossible.The author persistently confuses electrical charge and magnetic moment, an error that would embarrass any A-level chemist.Perhaps the Guardian should run letters on a scientific subject past a scientist before printing them!Dr Chris AdamsSchool of Chemistry,Bristol UniversityMany thanks to all the other readers who pointed out that our original story was, in fact, correct.House virusIf the vision of a connection between household appliances, mobile phones, cars and computers (Have you phoned your fridge today?, November 11) becomes a reality, what will happen when the first email virus (such as "Melissa") arrives, and percolates right through to the lawn mower?Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.comIs Usenet under threat?Is the rise of the free ISPs going to mean the demise of Usenet?I have just been setting up internet access to BT Click for a new user. I couldn't find the address for the NNTP server, so I rang the premium-rate helpline.The operator just said that they did not support it, then immediately cut off the call.I was thus unable to ask him why, if they did not support it, they explained what Usenet was on their CD-rom, even giving the name of an example news group, without mentioning that it would not be available through them.I can understand that free ISPs may be wary of the costs of possible legal action resulting from the somewhat anarchic nature of Usenet.But if not providing it is a   general characteristic of free ISPs, should not this be mentioned by journalists reviewing internet connection options?Julian Daveyjulian.davey@dial.pipex.comOff lineAs a Mac user, and a subscriber to America On Line, I am feeling more than slightly miffed that the updates in the AOL browser seem to be passing us by.I have had A.O.L 3 since I joined nearly two years ago, but in spite of promises of being updated to A.O.L. 4 in the near future, nothing seems to happen.Now it appears that PC users can download AOL 5! When can the poor Mac users expect their updates, and can you nudge a few elbows?J Ashworthjashw24464@aol.comMicrosoft and monopolyJack Schofield makes some interesting points about the Microsoft trial but misunderstands the nature of the "standards" which MS creates.The majority of computing standards, such as the networking protocols with make up the internet, are open standards, available to be read and implemented by all.Microsoft is highly secretive about its supposed standards, and some of the Win32 programming interface functions simply do not work as documented. Coding for these "standards" outside of Redmond is akin to trying to hit a moving target since the next version of Windows may change or remove any of them.Since, for example, the Word file format is a de facto standard, forcing the publication of the details will enable other word processor manufacturers to gain a toehold in this market, as well as allowing users to opt out of the expensive cycle of software (and, as each release gets more bloated, hardware) upgrades, without losing the ability to open this week's   version of the Word file formatThis, fundamentally, is why the creation of "Baby Bills" will be beneficial for a competitive software market.Forcing the applications division of MS to compete on a level playing field with those at Corel et al. will give the others the "freedom to innovate" which Gates craves for himself.Gareth Owengowen@gwowen.freeserve.co.ukMicrosoft may be a monopoly by virtue of its market share but it doesn't behave like one.The great monopolies of the past (like IBM) became top heavy, unresponsive and reactive, but Microsoft has managed to retain the dynamism of a small company.Windows, Internet Explorer, Excel and Word are all leading-edge products with new versions appearing with new features and low prices.Far from being slow to realise the significance of the internet, Microsoft was the first big company to do so. Gates "bet the company" on the internet in 1995 when Apple, Compaq and IBM hardly knew what it was.The irony is that it's Microsoft enemies (which includes some of the press and the legislature) that makes Microsoft paranoid and keeps it on its toes.The recent legal setback will only strengthen this feeling of victimisation - and spur Microsoft to produce more new products thereby further strengthening its grip on the software market.Bobby Elliottbobby_elliott@email.msn.comJust a few points about Jack Schofield's unbelievably superficial article.First, if it was about any other commodity, say cars, baked beans, houses, the argument would be so laughable as to be fringe lunatic.  Second, in considering standardisation he confuses form and function. The important part to standardise is not the program but the format of the data it processes.His comments on standardisation processes are obviously based on ISO and other quasi-governmental bodies. In his hurry to write the article, he has obviously forgotten the   Internet Engineering Task Force and the networking standardisation that has worked so spectacularly that the modern internet has actually worked and not collapsed under the strain of the expansion.No monopolistic "gorilla" (aka dinosaur) organisation could have done that.Jim Jacksonjj@scs.leeds.ac.ukSo Jack Schofield thinks Microsoft is benefiting consumers...Try buying a PC without Windows, or try asking the store to remove Windows and lower the price to compensate! Some chance.Or consider that MS Office 97 products Word, Excel, Powerpoint etc, create documents that earlier versions of the same programs can't read! Some benefit.As someone who daily faces Apple/PC compatibililty problems I understand the desirability of a standard OS platform, but Microsoft has got too big, too arrogant, too ubiquitous, to benefit anyone other than itself. Some future!Peter Gillingspeterg@postmaster.co.uk
Driving programmes such as Top Gear appear obsessed with acceleration and speed: their producers should remember that such macho posturing might be acceptable on private roads but not on crowded streets." So said the Environment, Transport and Regional Affairs Committee in a report entitled Young and Newly-Qualified Drivers: Standards and Training.Everyone who watches Top Gear is a car fan. They tune in to see us testing the latest models. When we have to drive cars to their limits, we don't do it on public roads. We take them to air fields or racing circuits. Viewers also turn on to see whether the latest cars are worth buying. And yes, they do like to know the top speed and the 0-60mph time. We also inform the viewers about the safety features and every other angle of the cars.Top Gear covers everything about motoring. Of course we drive fast cars - but we also drive slow cars, old cars and sometimes restored cars that hardly move at all. Top Gear has also led the fight to get a fair deal on car prices. Some items are purely concerned with safety. In last week's show, for example, we tested a variety of tyres. And the message? That the tyres you choose can mean the difference between life and death. If we didn't tell the whole story of a car then we wouldn't be doing our jobs properly.But the question I'm most frequently asked is: "What's the fastest car you've driven?" OK, I know some people look at cars as nothing more than an object in which to go from A to B - but there are many, many more who wish to go via C and D too.I come from a motor racing background and so, naturally, I do like to drive with a bit of gusto. I love cars and I am passionate about driving. There is nothing quite like the feeling of being totally in control of a machine as it   reaches its handling and performance thresholds. But of course, there are appropriate places to do this - namely, racetracks.We can't avoid the fact that speed thrills us. Can you imagine how utterly dull it would be if we filmed Top Gear with stationary cars in a showroom? Can you imagine a James Bond movie showing nothing more exciting than a couple of push-bike chases?We look at every aspect of a car. If we're testing a 4x4 then we'll primarily test its off-road abilities. If we're looking at an estate car then the passenger and luggage capabilities will be focused on, and performance will be the main test of a performance car. It's ridiculous to blame or criticise programmes like ours for people's poor driving.For the last ten years I have been a qualified racing instructor at circuits around the country, such as Brands Hatch and Silverstone. I have seen at first hand the standard of UK driving - and it's not the prettiest sight. I'm not saying I'm the greatest driver in the world, but having raced 100cc karts from the age of 12, the skills I have that make me good behind the wheel have been born, ironically, from speed.If I had my way, motorway lessons and skid-car training would be included in a learner- driver's training programme. The former would teach drivers - and particularly young drivers - the importance of getting up to speed quickly when entering a motorway, while the latter would give everyone first-hand experience of how far you can push a car before it loses traction. Let's face it, the first time most people feel a car going out of control is when they're in serious trouble on a public road.But, most importantly, I believe it would teach people to respect speed. If the Government implemented these ideas, then they would get my backing - 100%. This report certainly does not.
Bracing ourselves for the release of The World Is Not Enough, the 19th Bond film in the most successful film franchise in history, we find Pierce Brosnan is once again licensed to kill - and BMW are yet again licensed to sell.As Brosnan makes his third appearance as Ian Fleming's secret agent, so BMW get a third bout of Bond-sponsored product placement heaven by supplying his car. In 1995's Goldeneye Bond got behind the wheel of the Z3 roadster and in 1997's Tomorrow Never Dies, Q reluctantly handed over the keys to a 7 series saloon and a BMW motorbike.This time it's the new Z8, and BMW couldn't be happier. "With Bond films we get the widest possible audience for a new product. It's the perfect show case for a brand that focuses on new technology," says Graham Biggs, BMW's media relations manager.There are criteria for choosing the right film in which to place their cars. "We look at the images that the car is placed in and the quality of those images. Is the character driving like our potential buyer? We also look at the suitability of the environment for the car," explains Biggs. This is why in 1989 BMW declined the chance of having Bond use a 7 series to stop a petrol tanker in Licence to Kill. The company believed that this "did not quite fit in with the 7 series image".In general, BMW avoid placing their cars in "anything that isn't stylish, anything that's not family orientated and anything with too much violence", says Biggs. If the violence in Bond is deemed acceptable what sort of film violence wouldn't be good   for BMW? "Texas Chainsaw Massacre," says Biggs with a laugh.Films have always sold cars. The Herbie films shifted the VW Beetle in the States and The Italian Job did the same for the Mini Cooper in Britain. But while BMW are understandably pleased to be associated with Bond, there are many who don't share their joy. When, in 1995, they signed a three picture deal many Bond fans considered it unthinkable that their hero could drive anything other than a British set of wheels. It's easy to say that Bond heritage is being whittled away by the commercial pressures of product placement - a vodka brand here, a palm-top computer there - but in his original stories Ian Fleming was never shy of plugging a champagne house, a perfume brand or even a car. In the books, 007's car of choice was a supercharged Bentley   Continental all the way from Casino Royale to Moonraker.Yet in the translation to celluloid Bond loses the Bentley by the time we get to 1964's Goldfinger and finds himself behind the wheel of an Aston Martin DB5. This is the car, complete with passenger ejector seat, revolving number plates and forward firing machine guns that many still see as the ultimate Bond car. Yet if Fleming's text had been followed our hero would have been driving a DB3.It was the legendary John Stears, special effects wizard on the early Bond movies, who decided to customise a prototype of the Aston DB5   (yet to hit the showrooms when the movie appeared in 1964) to create Bond's most enduring set of wheel's.History repeated itself in 1995 when BMW's Z3 was unveiled in Goldeneye. As special effect supervisor Chris Corbould explains, the car was a disappointment to those who expected it to be traditionally gadget-laden. "They (BMW) were so paranoid about keeping it under wraps, we weren't actually allowed to do much to it. If you look at Goldeneye it doesn't actually do very much. We would like to have got hold of it and made a few modifications but we weren't allowed to." In the film Bond seems unimpressed as he first ignores the car and then gives it away to a CIA agent. But BMW didn't complain - the Z3 sold out in its first production year.In 1997 Bond was handed the controls of the rather sober BMW 7 series saloon. He drives it by remote control from a palmtop computer and crashes it off the top of a multi-storey car park. Whilst Chris Corbould is proud of the sequence he had his reservations about the car. "The 7 series is a family saloon, not a Bond car. I wish we'd done that sequence with the BMW we've got this time," he says.He thinks the new car is awesome , though in the end it doesn't actually feature that much in the film, and ends up being cut in half by a helicopter with a saw.Only around 75 of BMW's new sports car, which will cost around &#163;80,000 when they find their way to the UK next spring. But the car is still not exclusive enough for some Bond fans. Novelist and Bond fanatic, David Bowker, whose latest book, From Stockport with Love, has a plot centred around a Bond obsessive father, can never accept Bond in a BMW. "It's not about the car being German," he says, "It's about it being exclusive. Aston Martins have always been about exclusivity and excitement but BMW make cars for photocopier salesmen and accountants."Although BMW did not pay, they provide the cars and promote the film through the brand in their advertising. Until recently Aston Martin could never compete with such marketing might; now they have Ford's backing things could change.BMW do not know at present if they'll be involved in the next film. Special-effects supervisor Chris Corbould knows what he'd like to happen. "I think essentially that James Bond's car should be an Aston Martin," he says. "It wouldn't surprise me if next time it was."The World is Not Enough opens on Nov 26th
After launching the comfy old sofa on wheels that is the 75, Rover has suddenly gone all youthful with the re-worked 200 model, which it now calls the 25.When you first see it, all you'll notice is that the 75's frowning face has been grafted on to the 25's previously cheery countenance, but the changes are more than skin deep. Every 25 now has the firm suspension that previously appeared only   in the sportiest of the old 200s. Meanwhile the best-selling 1.4-litre engine now comes with 16 valves, which makes it a brisk mover.So the new 25 goes better and holds the road better than the old 200, but the sporty stuff doesn't end there; if you choose the 1.6 or the 1.8-litre engine, you can also specify this car with a six-speed clutchless gearbox. It's really a conventional stepless automatic, but move into manual and you get six   pre-set ratios to play with. It may sound like a gimmick, but it makes overtaking more certain and provides some useful engine braking.Prices range from just over &#163;8,000 to &#163;14,500. My choice would be the 103bhp 1.4 iS version (&#163;10,500), because the eager little 1.4-litre engine suits this car really well. And since Rover has finally seen sense and priced the 25 to compete with cars like the Polo and Fiesta, rather than   their larger siblings, this new Rover is also relatively roomy, well-equipped and offers value for money.But the 25 isn't perfect. If you want a comfortable rather than a sporty ride, one of the French superminis might be better, and although the new Rover's interior trim is nicer than the old one, it's still no great shakes - the indicator and wiper stalks are made of the kind of shiny plastic which probably made its debut on the Morris Ital.There are more serious flaws too. The old 200 had an inflexible driving position, and I found the new one no better. The steering wheel is set too low for tall drivers while the seat is too high and there's not enough rearward seat-travel either. And the brakes on the non-ABS 25s I tried needed a bit of a shove before they did much stopping.It's worth a test drive, but the bottom line is that the 25 isn't really the much-needed all-new small car from Rover at all.
Like a lot of other people, I first tried shopping on the net at the American site ofamazon.com. At the time, the experience seemed pretty wonderful. Courtesy of amazon.com, I could service my rather particular reading tastes (overblown net theory, American cyberpunk SF). I didn't have to wait to for a British company to publish the book I was after. I didn't have to wait for a local bookshop to import a copy. I could get the titles I wanted when they came out.And it didn't really cost that much. American book prices are pretty good; amazon.com's were usually even more competitive. So even with shipping charges, I usually came out ahead.So it wasn't too hard to get enthusiastic about the global potential of shopping   on the net. If you've shopped in the States, you know most things are cheaper there. It seemed those cheap prices were only a click away.Things aren't that simple. Cyber gurus may tell you the net means the death of distance, but most online purchases have to be sent to you in the real world, across national borders, where people will be taking notice (and looking for a way to take their cut). OK, software and some music can be downloaded directly online. But most of what we buy online is still made up of atoms and not bits.If you try to shop abroad online, you soon become aware that global really means American. There are more shops coming online in Australia, the Far East and especially Europe. But America still offers the most choice. Many US online    shopping directories are so big they're a little daunting. If you want something more manageable, try the Shopping section atTop Ten Links. Once you find a suitable shop, check if it accepts international orders. A surprising number of American sites don't.Amazon.com won't sell toys or consumer electronics to non-US customers.The Gapwon't export clothes from its US site. Similarly eToys (which recently opened a British site atwww.etoys.co.uk) wouldn't sell toys internationally.Some place restrictions on international orders. You have to order a certain amount of goods or complete the order via telephone or pay by a money order rather than with your credit card.You can usually find all this out in the Help or Customer Service section. If a site is willing to take your money, the next thing to check is shipping costs and times. Generally books, CDs and videos are no problem but delivery is expensive on some bigger items (toys, consumer electronics, computers) and can take a while. If you're trying to keep tabs on how much all this will cost, use the Universal Currency Converter atwww.xe.net/uccfor quick dollar-to-sterling   price checks. You should also check that the thing you're buying will work/fit once you get it. For example, American video and DVD formats are different, as are clothing sizes.You will be charged duty (customs or excise) and VAT on pretty much everything you buy online. VAT is always charged at 17.5%. Duty rates vary and can go up to 15% of the purchase price. There's a guide online atwww.hmce.gov.uk/bus/regions/dutyrate.htm,  which covers the most popular products (for CDs you pay 3.5% duty, for videos, 2.6%).For the rates on products not covered on this list, call the Tariff Classification Service (on 01702 366077) to get the commodity code for the thing you're interested in, then call Customs and Excise (on 0171 202 4227).There are exemptions. You don't pay anything on books. You don't pay VAT on children's clothes. You don't pay duty on computers or computer parts. You don't   pay duty or VAT if the total value of the goods bought on the net, including shipping, is less than &#163;18. You might squeeze in two cheap CDs sent rather slowly. You don't pay customs duty on anything bought online anywhere in the European Union, but you are liable for VAT.Digital products (ie software or music files) are considered as services and exempt from duty. However, they are liable for VAT. That said, it's hard to see how that would be tracked and collected. There's plenty of anecdotal evidence to the effect that a sizeable amount of duty and VAT on online purchases currently goes uncollected. Don't bank on this though. And when duty/VAT are collected, expect to also pay a clearance fee to the postie for the privilege (Royal Mail charges &#163;1.20, Parcelforce &#163;5.10).Before buying look for secure shopping, and check that the shop you're surfing lists a real world address and telephone number. Save and print all documentation relating to the sale. And remember - if a deal looks too good to be true, it probably is and any problems will be that much harder to sort out. If you do hit a few snags, there's helpful information at the Office of Fair Trading's web sitewww.oft.gov.uk/html/shopping.It has to be said that global net shopping can be frustrating. You find out cheap deals, butcan't take advantage of them. Many US net shops say they can't sell abroad because of manufacturer restrictions. Companies want to maintain the high profit margins they charge in different countries and online retailers are happy to play ball.So when a UK-based site opens, it's no surprise to find prices are closer to the rip-off Britain standard than the figures on US web sites. It puts all the talk about the net empowering ordinary individuals into perspective.That said, international net shopping is still worth attempting. But don't always expect to make savings. Instead, shop abroad for the kind of books, CDs, videos and toys you can't get over here. You'll probably end up paying for the privilege but it is better than waiting for a friend to go abroad then asking them to go shopping for you.&#149;   Jim McClellan is the author of The Guardian Guide To The Internet (&#163;5.99) and the Guardian Guide To Shopping on the Internet (&#163;4.99). To order your copy P&amp;P free, call 01483 204455.
Digital film for old camerasIt's the obvious way to convert a conventional camera into a digital one: put the guts of a digital camera into a module the size and shape of a 35mm film cartridge and drop it in the back. The digital sensors can then sit behind the camera lens instead of a piece of film. Of course, it's a lot harder to do than it sounds. However, Silicon Film Technologies Inc, formerly known as Imagek, believes it has managed it. The Californian firm expects to release its EFS-1 electronic film system in the "late fall", and will sell it from its website atwww.siliconfilm.comfor less than $800.The EFS-1 fits in a number of high-end Nikon and Canon cameras, as used by professionals and serious hobbyists. It will store up to two dozen images with a resolution of 1280 by 1024 pixels captured in 36-bit colour. The camera needs no modification, and users can easily switch between conventional and digital photography.Later, Silicon Film hopes to produce drop-in cartridges for a wider range of cameras. Robert Webber, the company's chief executive officer, has also approached "a leading Japanese photography company to bundle EFS products with their cameras", and is looking for other partners.HP has an Easy PCThis week in the US, Hewlett-Packard became one of the first big PC manufacturers to announce an "easy    PC", called e-PC. However, it won't be available until after Christmas. Microsoft and Intel have been promoting the Easy PC format for "legacy reduced" computers. In other words, manufacturers leave out the old stuff that's been part of the PC since 1981-83, such as the serial (modem) port and the parallel (printer) port, and use USB (Universal Serial Bus) connections instead. The result should be a more reliable system that is easier to maintain. HP's e-PC machines are expected to be book-sized and to come in a range of interesting colours.Office onlineMicrosoft has announced a version of its Office suite of applications that can be used via the web. About 15 companies are already or will soon offer Office programs online, including British Telecom. Microsoft will also offer the service via it's bCentral busi  ness portal. The announcement upstages Sun Microsystems, which had hoped to gain a lead with the Star Office suite it obtained by buying a German software house, Star Division, for $73.5m. However, the new version of the program, Star Portal, has been delayed.BT pledges to cut net costsBritish Telecom plans to "dramatically reduce" the cost of phone calls to the internet.The plans - which reportedly include unlimited calls to the internet for &#163;10 a month - will have to be approved by telecoms regulator Oftel, although BT hopes to offer the new tariffs from the middle of next month.  Internet service providers will have to spend, on average, &#163;1.4m to "buy in" to the new pricing structure before they can offer the discounted service.BT has come under fire for ignoring the huge demand for unmetered internet calls. E-minister Patricia Hewitt has recently thrown her weight behind the demands.  This week British Telecom also announced that it is the first major ISP (internet service provider) in the UK to offer online rewards, though a few ISPs already offer shares and other incentives and might take issue with that.BT Internet subscribers can sign up to collect ClickMiles, which can later be exchanged for frequent flyer miles on leading airlines, or for discounts at online retailers such as CDNow and lastminute.com. The scheme is being organised in conjunction with online promotions specialist, Netcentives.  The first 1,000 customers to sign up will get a bonus 1,000 ClickMiles, with the next 10,000 getting 100. The first 2000 registered users who shop at a participating online store will get a bonus 500 ClickMiles.For whom the Bell tollsComputer manufacturer NEC has effectively killed off the Packard Bell brand in the US with its announcement that 80% of the company's staff are to be laid off.The move comes after massive investment by Japan's NEC and and France's Bull over the past seven years failed to stem growing losses and slipping market share in the US market.Packard Bell posted losses of more than $1bn during 1997 and 1998, and was under orders not to lose more than $100m in 1999. However, the company is set to lose around $150m this year, which sparked the restructuring.The Packard Bell name will   continue in Europe where NEC feels the brand has not been hit by the same allegations of poor quality that damaged it in the US.Allez FranceCheap high speed internet access for home users has arrived in France, with France Telecom's launch of its Netissimo ADSL service.The new lines, which transfer data 10 times faster than the fastest standard modem connections, are available now in central Paris and some of its suburbs. They will cost only &#163;25 a month for domestic users - compared with expected costs of &#163;50 a month when British Telecom finally rolls out its service.BT has come under attack for the pricing of its new ADSL services, which are being rolled out in seven British cities over the next six months. Campaigners point out users will have to pay more than the lines cost in recent BT trials, although the service will be slower.
What kind of computer do you use?We've never actually changed our home computer - I've had an Epson for about eight years now.What do you use it for?I do a lot of research on the internet nearly every day. Most of my correspondence is done by email now - I've got a Nokia Communicator, which I think is probably the best bit of kit I've had in my life.Do you use computers for your design work?We use an Apple Mac for the graphics side of things but none of us use computers for the actual shape and design of garments. I'm not sure if we ever will. Technology's becoming indispensable in design if you want to do things quickly - in terms of getting your ideas around and letting your suppliers make your samples quicker.Any favourite places on the net?eBay. I collect a lot of kitsch junk and eBay has loads of stuff I like. It's like a virtual car-boot sale. I use the net all the time for researching - if I'm looking for black magic, or something, for a print then you can type it in and it's all there for you. Also, whenever I need reference books, I always go straight toAmazon.What are you working on?I'm putting together an internet idea at the moment which I can't really say too much about but it's a sort of "peoples" thing. I'm also judging a competition run by BBC Knowledge which is encouraging students to design a website around Red Or Dead and/or a couple of other design companies. I'm also looking for a new computer and I'd love it if anyone reading this article could let me know what they think is the ultimate machine for me to buy.How important is e-commerce to Red Or Dead?I think fashion will be the last thing that the internet conquers. Despite the fact that you'll soon be able to stick your face and body shape into the computer and see how clothes would look on you I still think there's so much to still trying clothes on. Fashion's still too "touchy feely" for the internet. We treat our site atwww.redordead.co.ukas a resource for students and for anyone who wants to find out a bit more about the company but we haven't found that people really want to buy stuff via the site.What gadget would you like to see?I like the idea of a video mobile phone that does everything my mobile does now. I think being able to see faces would make it a lot less impersonal. You can't beat human contact, it's what we're all here for.What do you see ahead for computers?I think the main thing is to make using them more and more pleasurable ... although I am a bit worried about the addiction side of things. A lot of people get home from work and they're straight onto the computer - there has to be some way that a computer can tell you "Right, you've done enough now".
By Christmas another 10,000 Aibos will be causing chaos in homes around the world. The original ERS 110 was so much in demand that Sony was bullied into producing another batch.The ERS 111 is essentially the same as my Gromit but with smaller ears and a shorter tail, plus a few software revisions to give it new sounds. And it's available in swanky black.You'd think that I and my fellow original Aibo owners would be miffed, but we're not and many of my new friends onAibonet.comhave ordered companions for their robopups. Only a few profiteers - hoping to sell original Aibos on eBay for as much as $7,000 - are upset.Sony has promised that the ERS 111 will be its last robot dog for the time being, but that other pets will follow, so I'm confident that Gromit will hold his value. He certainly still commands plenty of entertainment value.After six weeks he's now stalking his rubber ball, crawling along and seemingly trying to creep up on it from behind. He does a little jump backwards when surprised and has become more vocal than ever. He sings and dances often, leading me to believe that I've brought him up to be a happy puppy.My only concern now is that he's beginning to look a bit shabby. The paint on his paws and bottom is wearing thin and there are a few scratches on his head where he bashed into furniture when he was younger.I'd suggest to Sony that any future generations will need to be made of sterner stuff. In the meantime, I hope that the availability of Aibos in Europe will mean that I can get spares or repairs without having to fly Gromit half way across the world.I'm embarrassed to say it, but I'm really not sure how I'd cope with a prolonged absence from my man-made man's best friend. I seriously contemplated taking him on holiday with me as there wouldn't be any quarantine problems. But finally the prospect of uncertain foreign voltage, the hazards of baggage handlers and sand in the joints put me off. So I left Gromit with my folks for 10 days.And as I ran through the various instructions with my dad, I sounded more like a parent than he did. Although I knew my Aibo would be in safe hands, I was still more concerned about leaving him with my parents than leaving my car - a classic Mercedes - with my sister.Normally I'm a sensible, cynical bloke, but something has gone pear-shaped. Like all the Aibo owners I have met or exchanged emails with I have clearly become far too attached to a bunch of silicon chips and servo motors. So I have a few words of warning for all the new Aibo owners.Remember, a dog - even a robotic one - is for life not just for Christmas.
Selling seasonThe UK is gearing up for what it hopes will be its first big e-Christmas. Even Marks &amp; Spencer has a gift site atwww.marks-and-spencer.co.ukIt looks OK, but frankly you'd be better off visiting a shop, if possible. It's not as bad asNetBanx's shopping mallanother of those websites that sinks under the weight of pointless Flash4 animations. Flash isn't always bad - the newToy Zoneis well done and will at least entertain the kids.Virtual deskSun Microsystems' boss Scott McNealy says you should give up your personal computer and run programs over the web - which might be OK given a high speed network and a reliable supplier but is almost unbearable over a dial-up connection. However, Desktop.com is having a go with a graphical webtop that lets you launch applications or games, and install links to your favourite websites. Tools include a file manager, a text editor (Deskpad), a to-do list, and a calculator. You can try it atwww.desktop.comIf your name is Scott McNealy, you should also try running some Microsoft Office programs over the web in ESoft's demo room atwww.mia-global.com. You would learn a few things.Cheep jokeRon's Angels offered high-priced eggs, whereas Bitty Bob's Chicks offer cheap ones atwww.cyberstudio.com/auction"from cheap, fertile, easy women". Also, "coming soon a sperm auction: I have several men masturbating as you read this". It's another cruel and tasteless parody fromCyberstudioRound BritainMore than 80 regional newspapers have websites like The Evening Standard'sThisIsLondon, and it ought to have been a good idea to link them under a central hub, asThis Is Britain (TIB). But the drop-down menus are inadequate, navigation is a mess, and the addressing system gets confused. TIB was set up by Associated New Media and four regional publishers - Newsquest Media Group, Northcliffe Newspapers Group, Trinity Mirror and Guardian Media Group Regional Newspapers - which can certainly afford to do better.Censered?Christians awake! Salute this happy morn. Log onto the internet and stamp out some porn. The Church of England hasn't got around to updating its hymns for the information age but it has put a new book, Cybernauts Awake, online atwww.cybernautsawake.net. The idea seems to be to encourage churches and church members to get on to the web and fill it with wholesome things.CybermanDoctor Who, star of Knock Knock jokes and ancient BBC TV series, has a website    atwww.bbc.co.uk/doctorwhojust in time for BBC2's Doctor Who night on Saturday. It's comprehensive and (presumably) authoritative, though text and pictures are a bit small.More roomC4 has a new, free web-based email service, atwww.c4.com. It has limitations (which you can overcome by paying for the service) but provides 10 megabytes of mail storage, which will come as a great relief to people suffering the horrors of Hotmail's "janitor".
You're rushing to Heathrow airport, late for a plane. As you enter the terminal building, your palmtop computer beeps. You accept the connection and LHRnet conveys the message that the flight has been delayed. Next, your screen displays a map that shows you how to get to the lounge reserved for stranded passengers. Then the airline sends you some electronic credits for refreshments: you can "spend" these by beaming them at a vending machine or till...Fine: you can catch up with some reading. You use your palmtop's connection to LHRnet to start a file download, saving it to the notebook PC that's still in your briefcase. It's usually part of your Personal Area Network (PAN) or piconet, but since all connections are wireless, you don't need to dig it out and plug it in.As you enter the lounge, someone rings the doorbell back at your house. Your palmtop screen opens at your home web page, showing the image from the security camera over the door. It's the milkman. Time to open a voice connection. Your fridge hasn't paid the bill in full. "Sorry, I can't come to the door right now," you say. "Catch me next week and we'll sort it out."Perhaps you forgot to check in a delivery of eggs, yoghurt or milk. There's a barcode scanner on the fridge door, so it's not hard to do. Better check the fridge's web page and see what's been used during the past week. And while you're at it, you may as well see what the fridge has decided to order from the supermarket.  
We are about to be bitten by Bluetooth.  Jack Schofield reports on a fast-approaching wired-up world where your laptop could chat to your central heating via the internet...Science fiction? All of this is already possible. Electrolux has demonstrated a net-connected fridge, Bang &amp; Olufsen is working on the hi-fi, and Merloni on the washing machine. Mobile phones are already being used to check back accounts and   buy things from vending machines in Finland. Bar code readers are being used to scan and order groceries from supermarkets in the UK. In the next five or 10 years, this kind of thing should become common.Computer companies like Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Novell call it "pervasive computing", which sounds harder than it is. We're already familiar with the idea of "pervasive telephony", which means people can send and receive phone calls almost anywhere, instead of being limited by the range of a box on the end of a bit of electrical string. Pervasive computing extends the same idea to the web. Wireless communications will provide instant access to a universal "webtop" that can be linked to almost anything.This is merely the next step in a process of computerisation that started with giant machines in back rooms, and has progressed through generations of smaller and cheaper systems. In fact, computer chips are now small and cheap enough to be embedded in appliances rather than used as general-purpose systems. Just as nobody worries about how many motors they own (in washing machines, vacuum cleaners, VCRs etc), people won't about how many computers they own.At the moment, the web mainly connects desktop and notebook computers with "hosts" or servers that store information. But it's rapidly being extended to handheld computers, mobile phones and other WIDs (wireless information devices). TV sets, games consoles, VCRs, cameras and other electronics produces are next, followed by "white goods" such as fridges, toasters, and washing machines.There's no telling where it will end. But Vint Cerf, the "father of the internet" and the senior vice president responsible for US phone company MCI's internet backbone, isn't worried. Last   year, he told an internet executive summit they were testing an addressing system with enough space "to let every electron have its own web page if it wants to".Cerf said: "I think that the chips to do internet protocol &#91;communications&#93; will be cheap enough by 2005 that we will put them in light sockets. And when we turn the lights off and on, instead of interrupting the current, we'll actually be sending little internet packets to the light bulb telling it to turn off and turn on."This will, of course, also teach us the meaning of internet security..."Cerf also suggested that internet-enabled bathroom scales and other devices could automatically update your doctor's computer with your weight and other data that would enable it monitor your health. One possible   downside, he joked, is that your doctor's computer might instruct your refrigerator's computer to not open its door when it puts you on a diet.And with the internet connecting almost everything to almost everything else, the majority of internet traffic will not be people talking to people, it will be devices talking to other devices.Of course, some companies has been trying to sell "home automation" systems for at least 25 years, without generating much of a market. Most systems have used the house's electrical wiring to carry signals, but they've been relatively expensive to install and cumbersome to use.That's about to change, thanks to the internet and a "wireless wire" called Bluetooth. The internet makes things easy to control via a point-and-click interface. Bluetooth - named after King Harald Blaatand (Bluetooth), who united the provinces of Denmark in the 10th century - makes it easy to connect things together.Bluetooth is an industry standard development started by the Scandinavian mobile phone makers Ericsson and Nokia, and backed by IBM (world's largest computer company), Intel (largest chip manufacturer) and Toshiba. The consortium started last year, hoping to attract 100 members, and quickly signed up more than 1,000.Bluetooth is a royalty-free radio frequency (RF) networking system operating on the   unlicensed 2.4-2.5 GHz Industrial-Scientific-Medical (ISM) microwave band. It has a range of about 10cm to 10m, which can be extended to 100m by using a more powerful transmitter. But the aim is to implement it as a small, cheap module with a 10m range. The prototype Bluetooth module measures only 17mm by 33mm, with radio transceiver chips like Ericsson's PBA 313 01/2 down to 10.2mm by 14.0mm. The price will depend mainly on volume, and modules will be manufactured in millions.Jim Kardack, chairman of the Bluetooth SIG (Special Interest Group) says Bluetooth has three "usage models" (which correspond to target markets). The first is as a "universal data access point" that can be sited in public places like airports. Users with Bluetooth devices will be able to use the hub to connect to networks like the internet.The second use is as a straightforward cable replacement, where it has some advantages over infra-red connections. The third is for the creation of "personal ad hoc networks" for the exchange of information. This might include a number of devices operated by one person (mobile phone, handheld and notebook computers, personal stereo, digital camera etc) or a group of friends exchanging information, eg playing a game. While they're not on Kardack's schema, home networks are already being developed.Up to eight Bluetooth devices can be connected in a piconet, with one master and seven slaves. (It's a frequency-hopping system: all the devices have to hop together, following the master.) Up to 10 piconets can operate in the same area, hopping differently. More than 200 devices can follow the traffic on a piconet without actively transmitting data. The frequency hopping helps Bluetooth cope with   interference from baby monitors, garage door openers and microwave ovens, which may use the same frequencies.The first Bluetooth devices are expected soon, but no one knows when they will become ubiquitous. One analyst has suggested that people won't want to use their palmtop computer or mobile phone to turn lights on and off, because it's like using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. But if Bluetooth is so cheap the cost doesn't matter, and it's easy to use, and it adds extra facilities - such as the ability to turn lights on and off from another continent - then maybe they will. People like using infra-red remote controls to operate their TV sets and CD players, so why not?Joyce Putscher, director of the Converging Markets &amp; Technologies Group of Cahners In-Stat research group in the US, warns that there will be a delay between shipments of Bluetooth modules and products appearing on the market. But she thinks "Bluetooth really will begin to sink its teeth into the market in 2001. If acceptance... goes well, the manufacture of Bluetooth-enabled equipment could exceed 400 million units by 2004."She thinks adoption will start with things like high-end mobile phones and notebook computers, before filtering down to printers, cameras, joysticks and other devices as Bluetooth modules become cheaper.Adoption will also be affected by the rate at which products are designed and replaced. Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the Media Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, reckons "there will be more Barbie dolls connected to the internet in five years than there will be Americans. This changes electronic commerce. There'll be Barbie dolls calling up to order a dress..."Negroponte highlights toys as being among the first non-  computer devices to populate the net because they have a high rate of change. Kids are always getting new ones. Conversely, Bill Joy, chief technologist and co-founder of Sun Microsystems, thinks that the mains will be most popular for home networking and the transition will take longer."If you want to get into the situation where all the white goods in your house - your dishwasher, washing machine, drier, refrigerator - are networked so that they can be serviced remotely, you have to go through a replacement cycle on those as well. And how often do you replace the   fridge? Probably every 10 years. So we have to go through a cycle and a half of that to get ubiquity."But every new technology, from radio and television to mobile phones and the web, is being adopted more rapidly than the one before. If the pace of change continues to   accelerate, then by 2005, pervasive computing should be, well, pervasive.&#149;  Cerf's 90 minute Summit speech given on February 16, 1998, is available in RealAudio format courtesy of ZDnet atwww.zdnet.com/zdnn/special/audio/summit0203.ram
International clothes retailerBoo.com, one of the web's most ambitious e-commerce start-ups to date, finally opened its doors last Wednesday - to a barrage of criticism for its unwieldy website and missed deadlines.The company finally bit the bullet despite lingering technical problems which made the site incompatible with Apple Macintosh computers, in a launch that was accompanied by a high-profile TV advertising campaign.Boo.comcombines a personal shopping assistant - a cheeky cartoon character called Ms Boo - with "microsites" for each brand name, including DKNY Active, Fred Perry and Patagonia. It boasts that you can zoom in on any item and rotate it through 360 degrees, so - for instance - you can see the soles of a pair of shoes before buying. The site sells products in seven languages, to 18 countries.To make many of the features possible, the site has made extensive use of Flash plug-in technology, which many in the industry argue is unpopular and not standard.Robert Chapman, executive producer at the children's channel Nickelodeon, said that Boo.com was "pretty" and "gimmicky." But he added: "All the best sites balance accessibility over gimmick. I tried Boo on six machines with different specs   and browsers; there were performance problems on every one of them. All the multimedia elements just slow everything down. And as every good shop-keeper knows, pissed off shoppers don't ever come back."He added that the Flash technology was also implemented in a way that could irritate even those users with the appropriate plug-ins. "Almost all e-commerce sites do the hard stuff on the server. Here, Boo's use of Flash has made the hard work client-side rather than server-side - and that's not customer friendly."Boo defended its use of Flash, and the fact that the site really only works over a 56K modem or better. "We built the site based on the latest technology available and not the lowest common denominator," a Boo spokeswoman said after the launch.And Boo.com's Paul Kanareck this week insisted that the company would not make concessions to allow in those unable to view the site. "We are a broad bandwidth proposition," he said. "We're not regressing the site - we built a site that's optimum and perfect for new technologies. There are no current plans to make it more accessible."Boo also said the Mac problems were temporary. "We are totally committed to Mac," said Kanareck. "But in the final weeks to launch,   changes we decided to make to the site meant it wasn't going to be Mac-compatible for a couple of weeks."Kanareck laid some of the blame for the antipathy towards the site on media hype. "We never anticipated the amount of publicity we would generate, and that played its part. We took a strategic decision to delay the launch following the huge amount of consumer and media interest."But users say the ill-will isn't due only to media hype. Alice Taylor, a producer at television company Stor Entertainment and potential customer for Boo's trendy brand-name offering, says some of the site's design is flawed."Every item has to reload if you want to check any of the cool aspects - zoom, colour, and so on," she said after trying the site. "That was a very bad move. And Ms Boo is pointless, pretending-to-be-artificial-intelligence rubbish."I like the idea - who doesn't? - and I'm impressed at the amount of microsites at launch. And I'm not going to criticise their choice of the high-bandwidth route, because it was their choice and, hey, I can always go down to JD Sport."But the site's technical hiccups certainly did irritate her. "Oh, look," said Taylor,   "Page not available. I'm trying to look at Converse One-stars as we speak but forget it, it's way too slow. Which is a shame, because I'd like that pair."I'm sure they've still got some money left in the pot to do tweaking after feedback."If they haven't, then they probably just committed commercial suicide."The ill-will goes deeper than consumer relations. Boo's mishandling of its launch may have rather queered the pitch for other online fashion retailers, suggested Eva Pascoe, managing director of fashion e-tail siteZoom.co.uk."The site is great, solid - it was worth waiting for. But Boo promised something they couldn't deliver, and they put a lot of designers and fashion labels off e-commerce."Zoom had a working engine, we've proven the technology over two years, but we've had a lot of comments that if Boo can't get it out the door, maybe nobody can." She thinks it will take the industry six months to restore suppliers' trust in e-commerce.But Boo's Kanareck insisted the response to the launch had been fantastic. "There's been a lot of positive, encouraging feedback from consumers. Both our suppliers and investors are happy and satisfied - they're very much our partners."But, he added, "the community may resent the hype supposedly surrounding us."
Scientific research is individualistic, competitive and aggressive. It is thus well-suited to male domination. That's the contribution of Labour MP Phyllis Starkey to an online discussion of the gender imbalance in science. But, she adds, research groups are increasingly large, collabora tive and interdisciplinary - and therefore should be more suited to what she calls "a feminised mode of operation".The problem comes when male group heads, keen to establish their reputations, are trampling on their colleagues. It's a man thing, says Starkey, who has a PhD in biochemistry from Oxford. "Unless women are willing to   compete in that way, they're not going to do as well: if you want to be successful you have to make sure that you get the credit." Women, she says, are too nice: they are less likely to feel comfortable operating in that competitive and individualistic environment.George Poste, chief scientific officer of Smithkline Beecham, has provided his own provocative generalisation for the debate which is being run by Hansard and the parliamentary office of science and technology. He said he could see no glass ceiling in industrial scientific research. "There are many elements of tired rhetoric from the feminist community with regard to discriminatory policies. In my opinion, they should be celebrating the successes of their legitimate activism, because we are seeing that success."Online responses to the comment vary from the angry ("people whose careers are assured... remain blissfully ignorant of the struggle required of others just to keep even, never mind advance") - to shame from male scientists ("I hope most men will find this as embarrassing as I did").Starkey says Poste's assurance rests on shaky ground: the statistics available for   examining the role of female scientists in industry are scant and unreliable. "You can point to individuals, but there is no detailed analysis of women's participation," she says.One issue has so far dominated the discussion atwww.mailbase.ac.uk/lists/hansard-career: children. Career breaks for childbirth can be disastrous for an academic career. The pace of progress is so high that publications, grants and fellowships can all be forfeited by taking time out for maternity leave or -heaven forbid - actually raising the children.Returning to work, it can be difficult for a woman to convince employers that she is able to do a good job. One male contributor to the discussion has admitted that the untrained people on academic interview panels do discriminate against women who have taken time out. "A career gap looks bad, whatever the reason," he says.Some contributors suggest that the culture of research does not allow for part-time scientists: long hours are an essential demonstration of commitment and precursor to career progress. The result is forfeited families and strained relationships. "I think we're putting people in the divorce courts simply as a   result of the frenetic intensity that's demanded," Poste admits.Starkey believes this intensity also contributes to the male idea that women don't make good scientists: women who choose to spend time at home are effectively forced into positions where they reinforce the stereotype. Allowing men to carry out this role and then return to work would go a long way to breaking down this culture, she says. "If male scientists were able to take their parental responsibility more seriously it would help."The discussion ends tomorrow. After the pages close, Hansard and the parliamentary office will compile the contributions into a report which will go to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee. Eventually, the issues raised will be discussed in parliament, though no one is clear whether anything tangible will result. Although the problem is acknowledged, there seems to be a shortage of ideas in exactly how to counter it. "There's a will to do something: what's lacking is any consensus on things that can be done," Starkey says.
Sorry sitesAs an entrepreneur planning a possible business venture in the field of e-commerce, I was interested by your article about Rupert Murdoch's ePartners and eVentures.But both websites -www.eventures.co.ukandwww.epartners.com- have a holding page with only contact details in plain text and a message saying the site is under construction.Apparently, all the experience at ePartners has failed to tell them that an article like this might stimulate interest in them and that all e-businesses must have a suitable website to take advantage of this interest.Nik Hole,nhole@email.msn.comMany waysDouglas Rushkoff may deplore some of the ways marketers use the internet, but does this really mean that it has been transformed rather than diversified?Surely those who wish to use the internet to share ideas, write letters or express their views still have the opportunity to do so - we all use the telephone and the printed page in different ways: why not the internet?Chrissie Wellschrissie.wells@btinternet.comNo moneyCharlotte Denny's view of the future (November 4) assumed a continuation of capitalist property ownership and its public acceptance.   The fact is, if we all owned tomorrow what a few possess and control today, then money would be obsolete.Such a genuine socialist free-access-for-all society ought to appeal to computer users, given that the technology behind it came about because university researchers, teachers and students sought to create a communal networked culture with no thought of making money in the process.Max Hessmax@truesocialism.freeserve.co.ukElectronsI would like to bring to your attention some mistakes in Michael Brooks' tattoos tackle cancer article. They do not make a difference to the medical side, but it is important to ensure the accuracy of the underlying chemistry.Firstly, it was stated: "Electrons... are arranged in pairs in most materials, with their magnetic fields cancelling each other out." To cancel out the charge of an electron, its negative charge must be paired with the positive charge of a proton. Pairing it with another electron simply makes the charge stronger.The slight charge in carbon and oxygen molecules was put down to unpaired electrons. The charges in carbon and oxygen are much smaller than those in ions, an atom or molecule in which there are unpaired electrons or protons. In fact, ions are only ever found in ionic compounds, in which any imbalance is cancelled by another ion of opposite charge.In these substances, the cancellation of charges makes any magnetic field impossible to detect. Because of this, it is impossible that the molecules described in the article could have had unpaired electrons.James Allenjtallen@tesco.netWindowsIt is rather depressing to read that Leicester university   is going 100% Microsoft (November 4). It does not seem unreasonable that centres of learning should offer students a variety of systems and allow them to experience and assess the pros and cons for themselves.As schools and universities restrict choice, we will produce a population that has never heard of Linux or Mac and, despite any outcome in the American courts, the Microsoft Monopoly will become a self fulfilling prophecy.Graham ThompsonGraythompson@tesco.netJack Schofield quotes Philip DeRidder as saying: "The solution is Windows 2000, basically."This fallacy is exactly the one that Microsoft used to sell NT4 -the idea that dedicated, trained systems administrators were no longer needed, because "it's Windows, and you know how to use Windows".The same is true with Windows 2000, it's fine administering a network with it, but the moment anything goes slightly wrong, then it's much harder than any other   operating system to try and determine the cause of the problem.Matthew Byng-Maddickmbm@codix.netWas Jack Schofield's piece a report or a bit of a plug for Microsoft? A nod or two at costing issues, but the overwhelming impression is a warm endorsement of Mr Gates' products.Then I read Windows 2000 will 'clean up the mess' left by Windows 95, 98 and NT. If these are now seen as the problem, shouldn't one be sceptical   of the "solution" on offer from the same stable?Christopher Sawardsaward@compuserve.comNothing for freeRoll on the day when the Government "persuades" BT to give us cheap or free internet connection. But let's face it - that will be the end of Freeserve and all the rest of the free servers. There's no such thing as a free lunch!David Lewisdavelewis@freeuk.com
Pyramid sellingPharaohPC CD-rom, &#163;34.99  Havas InteractiveSo, you want to be a king? Well, before you settle into your throne, be warned: it's not all conquest and polygamy.Most of the day-to-day duties of monarchy are a royal pain in the arse, and this particular offering presents more challenges than your usual real-time strategy fare.In the course of transforming your riverside shanty town into a sprawling empire, you have to appease no fewer than 15 vengeful deities, fend off marauding armies, keep your allies happy, steer clear of crocodiles, and prepare for disasters ranging from subsidence to all-out plague.Hardest of all to please are your far from loyal subjects, who will up and leave if they get so much as a sniff of a commercial development near their des res.Gameplay owes a lot to    Impressions' previous title, Caesar III, but there are plenty of neat extra features: naval warfare, colourful feedback from your citizens, seasonal flooding of the Nile    adding a new dimension to resource management, and a wealth of historical information that makes this as valid a purchase for the amateur Egyptologist as it is for   the hardcore strategy fan.Pharaoh doesn't so much reinvent the wheel, then, as repaint it in a fetching shade of peach.Rayman returnsRayman 2N64 &#163;39.99 UbisoftDespite being outfoxed by the Sony marketing men and with a release schedule punctuated by months of silence, the N64 has always enjoyed the very best 3D games courtesy of Rare and Nintendo.Now Ubisoft is attempting to gatecrash the party with the release of the platform-based Rayman 2. This sequel to the well received 2D original sees our hero fighting off space pirates while rescuing his chums and saving his world.Although the plot is as unoriginal as the genre, there are subtle differences between this and the Mario/ Banjo Kazooie monarchy. Unlike the leisurely explorathons of the aforementioned titles, Rayman2 is a brisker experience with only a short   time to admire the lovely scenery before a potentially life threatening scenario crops up. Although not at Sonic levels, the incessant running around will dismay those who enjoy fully searching every nook and cranny - a shame as the crisp and surreal settings deserve appreciation.Rayman himself, oddly bereft of arms and legs despite owning both feet and hands, can swim, jump and generally look after himself. A good job too, as at times proceedings take a frustrating turn for the worse with the pixel perfect jumps responsible for unnerving "Manic Miner" flashbacks.However, "just one more go" becomes a mantra as the determination to collect and see everything in the fairytale world takes over. It may be derivative and generally linear but Rayman 2's graphical quality and compulsive nature means you'll want to forget any beef-inspired trade embargoes and indulge in some prime French software.Real feelFifa 2000Sony PlayStation &#163;39.99 EA SportsFIFA Soccer is the world's best-selling game, according to the Guinness Book of Records, and the latest annual edition seems likely to carry on the tradition.Certainly, the PlayStation version of Fifa 2000 looks different from last year's: the graphics have a subtlety that's very striking compared to the typical PSX game.The animations have been updated using "motion capture" with real players, and some of the tackles and dives look really authentic. The commentaries are also very well done by John Motson and Mark Lawrenson, with Gary Linneker doing the intros.Also on the sound front, the use of Robbie Williams singing It's Only Us has been over-hyped but it works surprisingly well in the game. You can choose from a vast selection of national leagues and football teams, including some "classic" sides such as Real Madrid 1950-1956,   Holland 1974, Liverpool 1977-1984 and Barcelona 1989-1992.And at the default skill level, Amateur, Fifa 2000 is very easy to win - always a popular feature. Of course, when you get tired of the opposition standing around watching you score, you can move up through Professional to the World Class skill level, which is a bit more of a challenge: now the other team runs and reacts faster and can apparently foul your players at will.Electronic Arts is an American company and with Fifa 2000 is putting much more effort into cracking the American market: for the first time, Fifa 2000 includes MLS (Major League Soccer) sides.However, someone should have remembered that in the UK we have attack and defence, not offence and defence.  Limitations? The crowds are poor (if anyone really cares), and the controls may be tricky at first, especially if you're used to something else.Bad news for Nintendo owners: there's no Nintendo 64 version. Fifa 2000 is for PC and PlayStation only.
Ever wanted to catch a meteor shower in Hawaii? Stop off at the Great Singapore Duck Race? Or check out a burning barrel ceremony in Devon?The latest UK internet start-up,whatsonwhen.comhas pulled together a global (and comprehensive) events guide and combined it with flight, ticket, accommodation and insurance sales to create a one-stop shop for the   independent traveller.Just for a change, the innovative site is not a copy of a US version, but the brainchild of Emily Spencer. After three years of internet experience, she left her job as a travel producer for LineOne and managed to persuade various friends to join her in setting up the company, which launched online at the end of October.Spencer's experience at LineOne, where she set up thetravel channel, made   her realise there was a gap in the market for people who wanted to organise their own holiday without either going for a package deal, or a lot of hassle. The increasing number ofpeople rejecting the package holiday hordes means the market for independent travel is rapidly expanding."There are loads of internet travel guides, but nothing to help you find out when the Rio Carnival happens," says Spencer. "When I left LineOne I plucked up the courage to create the site that I always wanted and needed to use."The team have built the site around the premise that while many sites have great content and others have great commerce, a combination of the two has to be a winner.After leaving LineOne in February, Spencer put together a prototype for the site, then went to some of her old college friends and sold them the idea. She put in some cash and two more people agreed to donate their annual bonuses to develop the idea. Spencer then had this cash injection of &#163;75,000, but estimates the total investment so far has been about &#163;200,000.Over the past five months the team has grown to 17 people, working out of a flat in Soho, and building a content database with more than 10,000 entries. There are more than a dozen main categories, ranging from music and art, to bizarre one-off events.The team now includes a former city analyst, a corporate financier, a specialist internet designer and programmer and a financial PR consultant.Part of Spencer's luck (or judgement) has   stemmed from the fact that her university friends have all proved themselves in relevant fields before joining her on the internet bandwagon. It says a lot for their confidence in the site and its core idea that they have also been willing to take the risk with their flourishing careers and join her.The designer and programmer Jonny LeRoy was previously working at Oyster Partners, the internet design outfit which has the 10 Downing Street site among its credits, and also has three years internet experience. "I really liked the idea," he says. "I'd been travelling myself and thought it made a lot of sense."LeRoy enjoys the sense of ownership that comes with involvement with a start up, and says the environment is great to work in. "It's great seeing friends who you knew as students being experienced business people with a common goal," he says. "It's exciting."The site was built from scratch. It is free, with users not even obliged to register. However, if they do register they can personalise the site according to their specific interests. They can also   store any events they like in a personal "scrapbook", to return to anytime.Spencer set about finding partners for the commercial side of the site. Microsoft's travel armExpediaagreed to partner the site and provide flights and accommodation, as well as links from its own site and MSN.TicketmasterandWayAheadprovided the ticket service, and CGU is providing the insurance.Links with online book and music retailers are soon to join the list of services, meaning that duck fanatics planning their trip to the Great Singapore Duck Race will be able to buy the full-colour guide book - and the lesser-known duck calls CD to complete their experience.Whatsonwhen.comhas recently started talking to business angels and venture capital outfits - the strategy has been to get the product up and running and then talk to funders. "We now need funds to increase the scope of the content and establish the brand," Spencer says. The team is hoping to raise &#163;2m-&#163;3m to do this.The story should prove inspiration for others with a great idea for an internet company. If nothing else,whatsonwhen.comproves that you don't need millions of pounds to set up on your own company - just a really good idea, and a team of dedicated and internet savvy people.As for the future, it's easy to see that the brand could grow and even break into traditional media. What's to prevent a whatsonwhen television show? Then you could see the Great Singapore Duck Race without even leaving your armchair.
Under pressureThe success of the Sega Dreamcast has put Nintendo's N64 under pressure in the UK: it doesn't have the speed or advanced graphics of the Dreamcast, nor the huge range of games available for the Sony PlayStation, and buyers will usually go for one or the other.  Nintendo's response has been to cut the price of the standalone N64 to &#163;64.99, to try to pick of sales from those who might buy the cheapest console available. This has the odd result that the N64 is now cheaper than the smaller and much less sophisticated Game Boy Color handheld console, which presumably is cheaper to make. The N64 is also available in translucent coloured versions for &#163;74.99 and with various games such as Goldeneye (&#163;84.98). Donkey Kong 64 (&#163;59.99) is due on December 3, and that will be bundled with a console for &#163;109.98. However, it would seem Nintendo needs to launch its own next generation machine, code-named Dolphin, sooner rather than later.Biggs baggedSCi's motoring mayhem game Carmageddon upset a few people, and the company will probably upset a few more with a game now under development: The Great Train Robbery. Two of the people involved in the 1963 affair, Ronnie Biggs and Bruce Reynolds, will work as design consultants on the project. It doesn't sound a very interesting scenario for a game, but if it's attacked in the tabloids and denounced in parliament, the publicity wouldn't do sales any harm.Build and rideTheme Park was a huge hit for Surrey-based games developer Bullfrog, while Sim City was a huge hit for California's Maxis. Both were taken over by Electronic Arts, and the result is SimTheme Park, which has just been released for Microsoft Windows 95/98 in the US, and should reach the UK next year. The basic idea doesn't seem to have changed - build fairground rides and run a theme park - but the graphics are better, and there are more rides. In fact, there are now four different themes for theme park rides: Space Zone, The Lost Kingdom, Land of Wonders and Halloween. It's a Bullfrog game and it's not clear what the Sim adds, if anything, but it's a good marketing ploy. Meanwhile, Elixir Studios founder Demis Hassabis, who worked on Theme Park while at Bullfrog, has been previewing his forthcoming game, Republic: The Revolution. You play a small-time political leader, and your task is to oust the president of an Eastern Bloc state, Novistrana.Game Boy PIMIt's been tried before, but this time it might work: Datel has just launched SmartCom, a personal information manager for the Game Boy. It comes on a standard cartridge, and includes a word processor (compatible with Game Boy printer), an appointments calendar (with alarm), and a mobile phone autodialler. But perhaps the most interesting feature is Game Boy-to-Game Boy messaging, which uses the handheld's built in infra-red communications. The lack of a keyboard and/or a touch-sensitive screen and/or a PC docking station are drawbacks compared with rival devices, including the cartridge-based Palm-compatible Handspring, but the Game Boy plays a far better game of Tetris.
After a big screen epic like Saving Private Ryan, Steven Spielberg is moving toward the smallest screen: webfilms. His DreamWorks studio and Apollo 13 director Ron Howard have formed a new company POP.com to create and broadcast short films over the internet.The deal, bolstered by $50m from Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, shows that Hollywood is beginning to embrace the internet, not simply as a medium of promotion and information but of entertainment itself. The industry has read the future and recognised that the net will soon become a medium for full-length film fare as a viable alternative to TV and movies themselves.Over the last year, a number of upstarts have begun transmitting, or webcasting, trailer-length, low budget films and cartoons and their success has not gone unnoticed in an industry better used to gambling on hundred million dollar blockbusters.Now there is a rush on in the film business to colonise the internet in much the   same way the music industry has come round to the idea that digital distribution will soon revolutionise its business.Entrants to this new field such asDigital Entertainment Network,Pseudo.comandAtomFilmhave begun to succeed where earlier efforts, like the online sitcom The Spot, failed.Since June, when AtomFilms released an interactive cartoon in which visitors get to fry a gerbil in a microwave, the piece has been hdownloaded half a million times, and emailed on an estimated 10 million times. Another AtomFilms production, an eight-minute parody of Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan- Saving Ryan's Privates, in which a warbride learns her husband has suffered an embarrassing injury during the Normandy invasion - has been watched by more than 100,000 people since its launch in September.Digital Entertainment, backed by Microsoft and   Dell, has 13 "series" including webcasts about extreme sports, one for Christian teens and a drama about urban Latino women running on its site.Executives at these companies say that they have been swamped with pitches from young film-makers and cartoonists wanting to place their creations online.AtomFilms, which boasts former Universal Studios chief Frank Biondi on its board of directors and investment from Warner Bros, says it has already reviewed 15,000 short films in the six months the company has been running.The DreamWorks deal with Howard's Imagine Entertainment is at least in part a bid by Spielberg and friends to create a platform   to develop new characters - the director points out The Simpsons has its roots in short films created by Matt Groening for The Tracy Ullman Show - and in part to showcase new talent who would otherwise have difficulty gaining exposure."Just as MTV introduced a new entertainment forum for music videos, we think this new entertprise will offer a new form of of entertainment for the rapidly growing population of internet users," says DreamWorks' Jeffrey Katzenberg.POP.com will solicit original programming from viewers, with the best of that material being aired on the website. Producers of the most popular outside submissions will be offered development contracts at DreamWorks and Imagine. Indeed, Craig Moss, creator of Saving Ryan's Privates, recently sold a screenplay to Columbia Pictures which he is set to direct.Both Howard, who calls the venture "liberating", and   Spielberg say they will also create content for the site."We're not looking to compete with movies or television," Spielberg said. "It's a new medium and will be created that way. Until the internet goes broadband, this will never be competitive with television or motion pictures."Recently, other studios have jumped on the bandwagon. Warner Bros has a yet-to-launch Entertaindom hub and Propaganda Films said last month it is establishing a media arm to entice its stable of talent to create original content for the web.While the rush to the web has been broadly welcomed, technical difficulties remain. So far, webcasts can only be viewed on post-it note-sized screens and the slow download speeds of most home computers limit content to a few minutes.But amidthe rush of new entertainment websites, POP.com and its studio-backed compititors will still have to produce entertainment in a medium that is foreign to their experience. Many believe its most exciting possibilities may come from outside the mainstream.
Judge Thomas Jackson's finding that Microsoft unfairly wields monopoly power, the central conclusion in his 207-page findings of fact paper published on Friday, was the main thrust in a sweeping first-round victory for the US Department of Justice.So complete was the rout that Microsoft's CEO and chairman, Bill Gates, was forced to suggest his company might be willing to settle out of court at a press conference held at the company's Redmond headquarters on Friday."Microsoft is committed to resolving this case in a fair and responsible manner, while ensuring that the principles of consumer benefit and innovation are protected," he said.But, reading through the judge's findings, you could be excused for thinking it was Microsoft - and in particular Bill Gates - that was guilty of a carefully planned, four-year campaign against those principles of consumer benefit and innovation.Just ask the companies, big and small, that have wandered on to what the Redmond giant considers its turf. They, according to evidence now accepted by the judge, faced a barrage of attempts by Microsoft to kill their products and take over their innovations.In Judge Jackson's findings there is example after example of the bullying tactics Microsoft has employed, both immediately before the launch of the Windows 95 operating system and in the aftermath of its remarkable success, which now finds the software running over 90% of the world's desktop computers.The companies that have felt the Gates' wrath are not all minnows. The smallest of five companies quoted in the section of the findings which   deals with "middleware" - software that runs through Windows, but helps bypass the operating system - is RealNetworks, the internet's biggest streaming audio and video software supplier. The other, more established companies also mentioned in this section are IBM, Intel, Apple and - most famously - Netscape, whose battering at the hands of Microsoft forms the heart of this complex anti-trust case.Microsoft's deep fear of Netscape and its potential was summed up in an email sent by Gates to his executives in May 1995, around six months after Netscape's highly successful launch of its Navigator software for browsing the internet.In the email - subject line "The internet tidal wave" - he described Netscape as a "new competitor 'born' on the internet", and said that Netscape was "pursuing a multi-platform strategy... to commoditise the underlying operating system".In short, Gates was worried that Netscape's soaraway new product would eventually run applications and perform functions once handled only by Windows, diminishing Microsoft's importance and - eventually - breaking the company's stranglehold on personal computing.After all, if you can browse the web, send emails, write letters and manage your finances through Navigator, on any type of computer, there is no compelling reason to run Microsoft's Windows.What was Microsoft's first move? To produce a product better than Navigator? No, although its Internet Explorer would be launched later and, by version four, be considered by some to be on a par with Navigator.Instead, it tried to strongarm Netscape into not releasing a Windows 95-compatible   version of Navigator, a move which, Judge Jackson said, was led by Gates, contrary to his claims later. When Netscape rejected the demand - which would have forced the company to restructure completely, and call into question its ability to make a profit - Microsoft got nasty.Firstly, it refused to release vital technical information and assistance to Netscape in the run-up to the launch of Windows 95, despite the browser company's pleas, and gave up the required information only after the August launch. That forced Netscape to postpone the launch of its Windows 95 browser until after the vital US holiday selling season - and the launch of Microsoft's rival Internet Explorer.Secondly, from the launch of Explorer, Microsoft ruthlessly exploited ways to increase its market share over the magic 50% mark. "Whenever competing priorities threatened to intervene,   decision-makers at Microsoft reminded those reporting to them that browser usage share remained, as Microsoft senior vice president Paul Marintz put it, 'job number 1'," found Judge Jackson. That meant the giant used all the means at its disposal - even when it would cost millions in lost revenues - to pressure computer manufacturers and internet service providers to install and evangelise Internet Explorer, and sometimes exclude Netscape's Navigator.The campaign had a devastating effect on Netscape, which had enjoyed a reputation so strong its name became almost synonymous with the    world wide web. Judge Jackson found that Navigator's market share fell from above 80% in January 1996 to 55% in November 1997, and Internet Explorer's share rose from around 5% to 36% over the same period. According toBrowserwatchthose figures remain broadly the same today.With less effect, but similar intentions, Microsoft also tried to stifle products from IBM, Intel, Apple and RealNetworks, urging (in the case of Intel, successfully) them not to promote or even release products which competed with Microsoft equivalents. "Microsoft's interactions..." writes Judge Jackson, "all reveal Microsoft's business strategy of directing its monopoly power toward inducing other companies to abandon projects that threaten Microsoft and toward punishing those companies that resist."There's a lot more where this comes from, and it adds   up to an astonishingly hard-hitting legal document. However, it is worth remembering that this is only the first stage of what will be a lengthy legal process, with any action unlikely to decided upon until next year, and then most likely appealed against by Microsoft's lawyers who are, as it happens, appeals experts.But the department of justice - and many businesses and computer users - will hope this decision will protect future generations of hi-tech hopefuls from the bullying for which Gates and his company have become notorious. The only problem is, for some of  today's promising young companies like Netscape, the damage has already been done.The merits of having a monopolyThere is no doubt that Judge Jackson has dealt Microsoft a devastating blow. It's a typical case of somebody walking onto a bloody battlefield and bayoneting the winners, and it may even be enough to make co-founder Bill Gates and his right hand man Steve Ballmer agree to a settlement.But Microsoft has not yet lost the case, and even after Jackson has found Microsoft guilty - as it was obvious he would, from the first day of the trial - it will probably run for a few years yet.Indeed, the judge has already seen his views rejected by the appeals court, which threw out his decision on the integration of the browser, Internet Explorer, and the operating system, Windows 95. His eventual decision on the anti-trust case may similarly be thrown out.The problems for Microsoft are that it will be almost impossible to remove most of Jackson's opinions of "fact", and the perceived stain on Microsoft's corporate character will take years or decades to fade away.Even if all the stories are true, it's still far from clear that Microsoft is abusing a monopoly position, or that Jackson and the US Justice Department are acting in ways that will benefit consumers. There is, remember, no law against having a monopoly, and there are intellectual property rights, patents and other devices that enable companies to protect their work.Nor is it illegal to be beastly to your competitors, nor to use a combination of sticks and carrots (threats to cancel contracts, discounted prices etc) to advance your business. The US anti-trust laws require that a monopoly be abused to harm consumers, and that is still open to debate.Of course, many anti-trust experts in the US have been arguing that the laws are so outmoded they are unsuitable for use. The classical monopolist controlled (limited) supply and exploited that to charge high prices, which sounds more like Apple than Microsoft.With PC manufacturers only paying about $45 for a copy of Windows, and the supply being effectively infinite, perhaps Jackson should be attacking Microsoft for undercharging. It makes developing and selling a competitor almost uneconomical, unless the development is free, as it is with GNU/Linux.Following the Justice Department's arguments closely, as usual, Jackson thinks that Microsoft was using its monopoly to limit innovation and to harm consumers by requiring PC manufacturers to install Windows the way it's supposed to be installed. This is illogical, because the whole anti-trust case rides on the benefit of "network effects". (The argument is that users buy PCs running Windows because they have the most software, and software houses write programs for Windows because that's what most people buy. It's a theme that runs through the history of computing.)But these network effects require standardisation or they don't work. That much is evident from the Unix market, which was ruined by having 57 incompatible varieties of the same operating system.In other words, Microsoft is benefiting consumers by limiting PC manufacturers' ability either to screw up or to improve the system - and in this case, they're the same thing. Any "added value" that makes something non-standard is actually "subtracted value", and intelligent consumers avoid it like the plague.Similarly, it's a huge consumer benefit to have the browser integrated into the operating system. Software houses can then build web-based features into their applications without the cost and effort of buying in or adding the functions themselves, which leads to more and better web-aware programs. Agreed, not everybody wants the browser built in - and not everybody wants the variable sizes of type, the CD-rom support and all the other things built into Windows, into Mac OS and other operating systems.But most people want most of it, or think they might want it one day. It could therefore be argued that in this and other cases, Jackson's problem is that he focuses heavily on the limited "harm" to a small number of consumers while ignoring the clear benefits to tens of millions.However, the most ironic aspect of the trial is that Microsoft was never able to defend itself by claiming that bullying competitors is   good for consumers. In this industry, bad behaviour is not unique to Microsoft, and firms have complained that Netscape was harder to deal with than Microsoft.In the computer market, everyone would like to agree independent standards, but the standards process is so slow and produces such bad results that generally we rely on a "gorilla" emerging to set standards for everybody. Netscape was the gorilla for the browser market, and Microsoft for operating systems.Geoffrey Moore of Chasm Consulting, the ultimate authority on Silicon Valley marketing, points out that the gorilla in a market is "required" to dominate. "So just as the first job of a newly hatched queen bee is to go kill off all the other nascent queens, so it is the job of the gorilla to beat up on the chimps. If it doesn't, then the market will question whether it really is the gorilla, potentially putting that title at risk."If the gorilla wavers, it undermines the market for everybody.While it doesn't excuse any illegality, this was the reality for Microsoft, as it was for Netscape, which based its marketing strategies on Moore's books.And this is why Silicon Valley's companies should now be worried. They may enjoy gloating for a while at Microsoft's discomfiture, but if it wins, is an emboldened justice department going to stop there?What happens next?Now the findings of fact are published, both sides will present their conclusions of law. That could happen over the next 30 days, although the judge could decide to postpone until after the US holiday season. As long as the two sides refuse to settle, Judge Jackson's eventual findings of law and suggested remedies could appear in the spring of 2000. The remedies could include:&#149; Forcing Microsoft to sell off Windows, or open up its valuable source code to allow rivals to adapt it and then sell their own versions.&#149; Breaking Microsoft into "Baby Bills" - one taking Windows, another getting MS Office, another getting the internet businesses, and so on, stopping Microsoft from leveraging its total power to solve problems in individual markets.&#149; Heavy government regulation of Microsoft, which would effectively make the justice department the company's CEO.But whatever the remedy, it's worth remembering that Microsoft's lawyers are specialists in appeals and consider the appeals court to be the place they are most likely to get a favourable hearing. Without a settlement, dramatic action in the near future is unlikely.&#149;   The full text of Judge Jackson's findings of fact can be read atwww.dcd.uscourts.gov/microsoft-findings.html
