Standards boffins need no longer get their knickers in a twist after Microsoftannouncedthat they'll be reversing their position on version targeting.What does that mean? Well, essentially, they'd built IE8 to be more compatible with accepted web standards (good news for designers and surfers alike). However, in an attempt to stop websites built to work with Internet Explorer 7's non-standard systems from looking bad, they'd decided that IE8 would behave exactly like IE7... unless it was specifically told otherwise.This angered plenty of digerati designers, who said that it penalised good work and encouraged bad behaviour. Among the critics was Brighton-based code guru Jeremy Keith (who I count as a friend). Hearguedthat this was Microsoft's way of making non-standard, proprietary code the norm:Let's say you're building a website right now that uses a CSS feature such asgenerated content. Any browsers that currently support generated content will correctly parse your CSS declarations. Future browsers that will support generated content should also parse those CSS declarations.This expected behaviour will not occur in Internet Explorer. IE8 will include support for generated content.But unless you explicitly declare that you want IE8 to behave as IE8, it will behave as IE7.(my emphasis)Anyway: the standards storm is now over. Microsoft's Internet Explorer team has reversed their decision: IE8 will now interoperability with the wider web above compatibility with its own, older products. Product manager Dean Hachamovitch says it's"the right thing for the web". It certainly looks that way.
Imagine that you are found on the roof of 10 Downing Street. You tell the protection officers who question your business there that you are simply examining the skylights to see if you can figure out which way they open. You can bet that you would be required to give a fuller explanation, perhaps over the course of several days.This is exactly what I am doing, however, from the privacy of my own home, via Google Earth, the global satellite imaging facility available free to anyone with an internet connection. Last week the Heathrow expansion protesters who made it on to the roof of the Houses of Parliament confessed that they had planned their route in part using images from Google Earth. If it sounds almost too easy to gain access to such images, it's actually a little bit easier than that. Already today I have admired the ductwork atop Buckingham Palace and memorised the layout at RAF Mildenhall, home of the United States Air Force's 100th Air Refuelling Wing.There is something strange and not a little thrilling about gaining a leisurely bird's-eye view of sites ringed by fencing, guards and warning signs. Every sensitive site I could think of in Britain is freely available on Google Earth, though the resolution is variable and it's not always clear what you're looking at. You can check out the roof of GCHQ's doughnut-shaped headquarters in Cheltenham, or count the cars in the car park at their monitoring post in Morwenstow, although in that case they may well know you're looking.Lots of governments and individuals have complained about Google Earth compromising security - South Korea is worried about North Korean spies getting a close look at its nuclear facilities, for example, and the Indian Space Research Organisation claims the images pose a threat - but few have succeeded in censoring their little corner of Google's model planet.One notable exception is in Washington - but it's not the Pentagon, on which you can clearly see little ladders and catwalks, and it's not the White House. It's the home of the true leader of the free world, vice-president Dick Cheney, at 1 Observatory Circle, which has been pixelated into a blur at his insistence. You can find clear pictures elsewhere, but be careful.
If you want to read the full text of those that we chose last week's letters and blog pingbacks from, click through. Remember, if you've got an opinion, observation or insight on something, email us at tech@guardian.co.uk. If you don't want us to consider it for publication, please say so. Otherwise, please do provide a post town. And no, we never post email addresses.FILESHARING CRACKDOWNIllegal downloading and freedom of speech are unrelated topics, and it is misleading to draw parallels between the two (Unease at filesharing crackdown, Technology Guardian, Thursday February 21 2008). The music business has no wish to restrict free comment, but it does want to protect creators and there is no human right to enjoy creators' work for nothing. The internet has allowed the music business to develop new models that provide immediate low-cost access to millions of songs at the click of a button. But too little has been done to address the unlawful downloading of music that infringes creators' rights and damages these new models that increase consumer choice. It is encouraging that government and the ISPs themselves are in agreement with us that this must change. Matt Phillips, Director of Communications, BPIAm I the only one who points the finger of blame for filesharing back on groups like the BPI, RIAA,and MPAA? For years illegal FTP sites showed there was a demand for electronically distributed games, movies and music, the companies behind intellectual property rights did... Nothing. Amazon showed e-commerce could work, the rights groups did... Nothing. Bittorrent showed them that you can even make the users host the file for you, cutting bandwidth costs, and just now finally, a few of their members are seeing the light. Funny thing about free markets is if you don't provide what the consumer wants, someone else will, and so they did. Chad Henshaw, Glasgow"Getting a workable system in France is easier as the country has less than a dozen ISPs." Er, what? There are 19 listedhere, and they are just the major players. I would have thought the converse true since most UK ISPs are mere BT resellers. LLU is prevalent in France. Andy Cook, Paris, FranceWhile the proposals to tackle illegal file sharing will be unpopular with ISPs and could, in practice, be unworkable (how are they policed?), they do highlight an important issue about businesses and consumers protecting their wireless network. How many times have you turned on your laptop, only to be greeted by a completely open wireless networks? Even those protected by WEP security can be cracked in under a minute by experts. Wi-Fi highjacking, phishing and drive by pharming – where DNS weaknesses are exploited – are all on the rise. Legislation is unlikely to help with these internet threats and some ISPs will be more vigilant than others to tackle illegal file sharing. Consumers need to lock the door on internet crime by securing their wireless networks. Mark Brooks, Marketing Director, Global Security One&gt;&gt; If the music industry can lobby to have these laws enacted to protect their content then what is preventing the porn industry from doing the same thing?slyck.com&gt;&gt; As Sun Tzu once wrote, "Keep your customers close and your enemies closer, and should someone be both, kick them off the Internet." At least that's what he appears to have written in the recording industry's well-worn copy of "The Art of War."digitaldaily.allthingsd.com&gt;&gt; US Gov to ISPs: Stop Privacy By 2009, Or Else. There is the revised headline.dslreports.com&gt;&gt; If the entertainment industries really want to stop file-sharing, they need to negotiate changed business models and create a legitimate market. Many people would be willing to pay a reasonable price to download TV shows and music if they could get in return reliable, fast, advertising-free, DRM-free downloads at or soon after the time of the initial release. The longer the present situation continues the more entrenched the habit of unauthorized file-sharing will become and the harder it will be to divert people to the legitimate market that eventually must be established.pelicancrossing.net&gt;&gt; So, this invasion of everybody's privacy - the treating of all broadband users in the UK as suspects, and as such open to the investigation of any corporation which provides ISP services - isn't even going to do anything other than "send out a message" about copyright. Let's hope they don't start publicising new records in the same way - "we're asking the government publishes people's health care records online to promote the new Kylie album".xrrf.blogspot.comYOUR PASSWORD IS..Virgin is no the only ISP doing this. I received a telephone call from Pipex. The caller asked for my address 'for security reasons'. I declined to give it. The caller agreed with my reasons but said she could not continue the call, or give any reason for it, without my response. I subsequently e-mailed Pipex &amp; after several days received a reply stating that they thought it was probably to do with their customer research! Ken Matthews, BrightonA lady phoned me claiming to be from "my bank" and asked for my mother's maiden name "to be sure it was really me". She identified neither herself nor the bank, and like an idiot I gave it to her. The next day I went to my branch of Barclays and told them what happened, expecting them to be horrified. "This is our standard procedure" I was told. I just couldn't believe it. I changed the maiden name, and in future I'll ask for some info like that branch's phone no. or the name of the manager - or politely ask them to write. Joshua Moore (no post town given)The solution to Virgin Media calls asking for your password is obvious to any idiot – although obviously not the tech people at The Guardian. Simply give them the wrong password – if they tell you that it doesn't match their records, then the call is genuine. If they say it does then the call is fake. Simple really. Brian McCaig (no post town given)&gt;&gt; My mate works for [Virgin's] general customer care department on the front lines. Generally speaking, he is dealing with nasty customers (half of which wouldn't be if they hadn't been messed around by people in other departments) and stupid policies and management.loganberrybunny.livejournal.comHOW MANY COMPUTERS?The opinions reported in Nick Carr's article suggesting that just a very few super-computers could run the whole Internet and all our personal computing needs, overlook completely the most relevant underlying principle of the Internet ! Surely its original idea and its consequent success depend crucially upon the clever way of distributing all its operative parts among a large number of servers and an even larger number of users, so that it is able to survive many possible causes of breakdown. Even if a few powerful machines could and did undertake the whole task, they would thereby kill the most important of all the Internet's benefits. Bob Pearson, Bourne&gt;&gt; I don't completely agree with it, but the metaphor than companies like Google are basically running one computer is interesting. It's also interesting to imagine what the world will be like once there is only one computer. More importantly, what would a second computer look like?jarodrussell.livejournal.comSEARCHING (VIC KEEGAN)We're not a human search engine. Our search service for news and current affairs is entirely algorithmic and based on semantic and statistical methods like relational analysis, entity extraction, clustering, and support vector machine learning. Everything is done on the fly as you make a query and there is no manual editing involved at all (except for the production of factsheets - company profiles, bios - which come from a structured entity database). Kristofer Mansson, CEO, Silobreaker&gt;&gt; That Google is dominant in the global search market is well known, but with competition from any number of vertical (i.e. specialist) search engines for those who are newly coming online, Google's biggest challenge is to keep their search results relevant and useful - which is something that I've certainly found has deteriorated over timethehermesproject.blogspot.comSUN ALSO RISES&gt;&gt; The article quoted a previous blog entry but didn't provide that context, so it looks like I'm trying to counterpoint or argue with Jonathan. Eek. I just want to clarify the point that I, myself, am part of the problem; note that I say "we" instead of "they" in the quote. This is a community matter and I am trying to help us all work toward a solution.cuddletech.com/blog/BLU-RAY WINSI am one of your readers from China. I am working for a DVD Player factory, so what you wrote (March 9 2006) impressed me. Judging from your article, I think Toshiba's HD DVD Player wins the advantage over Sony's blue [Blu-Ray] player, no matter pricing or performance. However, as I know that Toshiba's HD Dvd Player has failed the war against Sony's Blue Player, with finally Wal-mart and Hollywood choosing Sony's blud players as partner. Could tell me why Toshiba Was finally forced to abandon its achievements. Also could you please tell me if our factory's development should lean to blue [sic] Dvd player along with other leading Dvd player makers in china. Smith Yu, Huizhou, Guangdong, ChinaSECRET APPLEI think you really hit the nail on the head with this one. They have called Steve Jobs the scariest guy in Silicon Valley and also the best manager in the IT industry. (name &amp; address supplied)Found it fascinating and insightful and it made a real impression. I learned something interesting tonight. Anne Meyer, Sarasota, Florida&gt;&gt; If you define "immediate release" as actually available in stores (to see and touch), then Apple's brand new products rarely fall in this category. Apple TV, Apple TV 2.0, iPhone, MacBook Air all had week to month lead times before they were available. The iPhone, itself, was 6 months from release, and no pre-orders were possible.normalkid.comBROADBAND REDUXDavid Brown is not alone. The recent deterioration in my BT broadband downstream throughput speeds has been dramatic. What was once not significantly different from the near 8 Mb/s maximum my line can sustain, and was consistently so, now rarely exceeds 1/2 Mb/s and is often barely better than dialup. I am not surprised this has happened but it is certainly not "within the acceptable range" as far as I'm concerned. PL Hayes, AberystwythIPLAYER'S FUTURE?Following yesterday's addition of BBC Worldwide content onto the iTunes Store, I'm increasingly convinced that the BBC's upcoming "iPlayer for Mac" will actually have to be iTunes itself, rather than their own iPlayer application as on Windows. This would have several major benefits for both Apple and BBC Worldwide – but would raise some interesting questions around the BBC's dependency on another company's software and infrastructure. Dave Addey, Leamington SpaTINYURLS (AGAIN)I think your use of tinyurl links is very questionable. Firstly, they are not easily remembered - even long ordinary urls might use easily remembered words for folders. Secondly, while ordinary urls may take more print space, you forget the information that they carry in themselves as to the background organisation responsible, and they may consist of names familiar to readers. Thirdly, just by knowing the site url you can usually click through to the information anyway, or do a site search, via google if necessary. I would hope that you could at least give the root company url e.g. www.company.com corresponding to the tinyurls you use. Peter Douglas, Dublin
Either I'm getting soft, or perhaps I'm suffering from baby-induced sleep deprivation, but I've really been enjoying theSpiderwick Chronicles. Ok, it's no classic but the game of the film of the book - released next week - is a great example of how to properly do a kids game. The meat of the action involves exploring the pleasantly space-marine free New England environment - take item a to place b and create item c etc - while goblin bashing and platforming sections up the pace. Children - obviously the target audience - won't feel shortchanged while older gamers with an interest in the books and/or adventure-type games should take a look. Clips from the film are interspersed and the whole thing feels nicely put together.Sadly the same can't be said for the godawful Lost game. As anyone who bought the game this weekend will have discovered, the cave areas - which involve woefully inadequate torches, falling down holes and instant death - are already the gaming crime of 2008. Or even the 21st century. Lost fans will persevere for a while but it seems amazing that the developers included these hugely off-putting and frustrating sections in such a mainstream title.
Bill Gates - remember him? - announced today that Microswoft will be making more of its services available online to businesses. In the US, at least.Thepress releasequotes El Bill as saying that "The combination of software plus services gives customers advanced choice and flexibility in how they access and manage software."Ya think, Bill?He further explicated: "With Microsoft Online Services, businesses can deploy software as a subscription service, from servers they manage on-site, or a combination of the two, depending on their specific needs. In the future, customers and partners should expect to see this kind of choice and flexibility for all of Microsoft's software and server products."Well, OK. It's clear that Ray Ozzie and Bill (and even Steve Ballmer) have all cottoned on to the fact that organisations like Google and Yahoo are beginning to seem mighty tempting to small businesses that want people in disparate offices to be able to collaborate on work without having to pay the big bucks for stuff like, um, Microsoft's Sharepoint service - the conference for which Billg was speaking at.Microsoft also opened a limited beta trial of the new services - U.S.-based companies can register for the trial athttp://www.mosbeta.com. (No idea why British companies are excluded. What, our currency too strong for you guys?) The new services are "scheduled to be generally available to businesses of all sizes in the second half of the year."Nick Carr, our regular columnist, had a tipoff about this, and blogged:The construction program will be "totally over the top," said a person briefed on the plan. The first phase of the buildout, said the source, will include the construction of about two dozen data centers around the world, each covering about 500,000 square feet or more. The timing of the construction is unclear.If accurate, this report would be in line with comments that Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer made in an interview with the Financial Times a week ago. Echoing predictions already made by representatives of Sun Microsystems, Yahoo, and IBM, among others, Ballmer argued "that a new super-group of tech companies would dominate the cloud computing market, each of them managing what amounts to a giant centralised computer made up of a number of big datacentres. 'Amazon has one. Rumours are Google will have one. We've said we're going to have one,' Mr Ballmer said."Carr's take?I expect that all these announcements will reflect Microsoft's focus on what it calls "software plus services" - the tying of web apps to traditional installed apps - but they nevertheless promise to mark the start of a new era for the company that has dominated the PC age.
I'm late with this, but you may have missed it. In an interview with Famitsu magazine, father of Metal Gear, Hideo Kojima, hasapparently claimedthat Blu-ray does not offer sufficent storage capacity for MGS4."There's not enough space. We always talked about where to cut and what to compress," he laughed, impressing an internet full of gigabyte geeks who think, "hey it must be amazing if it's so big it won't fit on a 50GB dual-layer Blu-ray disc!" and not, the more accurate, "oh dear god, that meansdaysof cut-scenes!" or the less charitable, "oh shut up and just release the damn thing."Data bloat does not necessarily equal quality.MGS4 will be hitting the shelves, complete with its beta of Metal Gear Online, on June 12.
Monday's Chatterbox
Whistleblowing website Wikileaks is back online in the US after an extraordinary about-turn by the judge whoclosed the sitejust over two weeks ago.After athree-hour hearing on Friday, Judge Jeffrey White reversed a previous injunction by the Swiss bank Julius Baer against Wikileaks, which had published documents concerning the bank's offshore accounts.Judge White had previously ordered the removal of the documents and the permanent deletion of the site wikileaks.org, effectively closing it. Sister sites, including the Belgian-hosted wikileaks.be, remained unaffected.Backed up in court by a dozen lawyers from free-speech and civil rights groups, Wikileaks representatives heard Judge White acknowledge that the injunction raised serious First Amendment issues."There are serious questions about prior restraint, possible violations of the First Amendment, which the court can make no definitive findings about at this point," said the judge."It is clear that in all but the most exceptional circumstances, an injunction restricting speech pending final resolution of the constitutional concerns is impermissible."His ruling dissolves the injunction against Wikileaks and the site's host, Dynadot.Wikileaks reinstated its California-hosted site on Friday and also published a host of new documents supplied by Rudolf Elmer, a former employee of the bank.The site said it would continue to "be a forum for the citizens of the world to disclose issues of social, moral and ethical concern" by "shining that disinfecting sunlight on wrongdoing".A further hearing on May 16 will determine the final outcome in the case.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Surprising but true: America's National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year. Technically, it was legislated into existence on July 29, 1958, though the US had already launched its first satellite on January 31 of that year. The Nasa website offers a Historical Timeline to celebrate its birthday, along with lots of old photos, control room countdowns and launch videos.Nasa was set up in response to the Soviet Union's launch of the first manmade satellite, Sputnik 1, in October 1957. That was an impressive technological feat, but didn't have any useful applications. Today, of course, everyone is aware of everyday benefits of space technology. These include satellite TV broadcasting, and location finding via GPS (Global Positioning System) satellites.Although best known for putting a man on the moon, Nasa has many other achievements to its name. The most prominent are sending probes to the outer planets, the Hubble Space Telescope (whichhas its own site), and the International Space Station. In the future, Nasa also plans a permanent moonbase and hopes to put a man on Mars.Nasa is well aware that its funding depends on the American taxpayer, and it makes a tremendous effort to provide things that will entertain taxpayers who visit the site. It has anImage of the Day Gallery, Astronomy Picture of the Day, Flash animations, Nasa TV, videos, podcasts and a couple of blogs. There's also lots of educational material, plus a Nasa Kids' Club that includes games.Distant galaxiesIt's hard not to be impressed by colourful images of distant galaxies and other phenomena such as the Crab nebula photographed by Hubble. If you like that, Nasa also provides a2400 x 3000 pixel imagethat you can save and print out.Another important part of the site is the Mission Calendar, which provides details of launches (14 this year) and ongoing missions, which can attract worldwide attention. The next major event is probably on May 25, when Phoenix, the latest Mars lander, is due to reach the Red Planet.Nasa redesigned and relaunched its website last December to increase its appeal to the MySpace generation of 18 to 25-year-olds. It is certainly better organised, and now offers MyNasa where users can collect things they like. But it's also overburdened with pop-ups: even the pop-ups have pop-ups!Maybe the new site works for young adults, but it can get tedious for older users who don't like things that jump about. The new site also seems slower than the old tabbed design. Fortunately, thepreferences sectionlets you opt to "Always use Non-Flash Version" or "Always open Low Bandwidth" (a text version). The non-Flash Nasa site still has pop-ups and pictures that jump up, but it is quicker for users outside the US.In 1969, rocket scientist Wernher Von Braun quipped: "There is one thing I can promise you about the outer-space programme — your tax dollars will go further." I think he'd be surprised how far they go on the web.
Who killed KateModern? It's the question that has been occupying several million minds since the beginning of the year, when the heroine of the eponymously named online drama met her end. Kate, for those who have been living in a bunker since July 2007, is, or rather, was, a troubled teenage university art student living in London. She had a dark past that she was unable to remember and was somehow connected to a secret organisation called The Order.Billed as a cross between Buffy and Skins, the supernatural drama's second series killed off its main character in January, and now everyone is a suspect. KateModern is the brainchild of the team behind LonelyGirl15, an American web-based video series that was initially thought to be the video blog of a real person, until the writers admitted it was fictional.This blurring of fiction and reality, with unknown actors wandering round with hand-held cameras and audience participation, is being hailed as the future of drama. It is cheap, has a quick turnaround, and, in its brand integration (Apple iMacs, for example, are everywhere) is self-funding outside the confines of conventional advertising.I didn't get to know Kate during series one, but I attended her memorial service and met some of her friends. To be honest, it wasn't much of an event. Someone had raided the local Travelodge for several dozen purple padded chairs, which were unnecessary as it turned out, as only a handful of people were there. Kate's Australian room-mate Charlie turned up with a bunch of flowers clearly bought at the local petrol station and placed them next to Kate's photo on the cloth-covered table. A state send-off it wasn't.An old friend called Tommy announced: "I was lucky enough to meet her when she showed her artwork in the gallery." Lucky? If there was one reason to bump Kate off, it was to stop her from producing any more artwork.A man who entered the back of the room carrying a blue plastic bag wanted to have his say, too. This was Steve, who explained that Kate meant the world to him, even though their relationship was "not exactly normal" (very little in Kate's life was). Tariq was having none of this, accused Steve of being a murderer, and started a fight, during which Kate's photo was smashed to bits. Let's hope the same fate awaits her artwork.I'm not sure that Steve would be capable of murder. He is unhealthily obsessed with writer Rupert, a suspect high up the list whose book everyone seems to blame for the dark forces that were at work in Kate's life. Bumping into Steve at the scene of the crime, Rupert recently suggested that they go to the FTO (this video scene is titled Who Are the FTO? and I still have no idea) and confront Jeffrey over his accusations. "Holding on to anger never solves anything," explained Rupert (being the writer, he has all the best lines), threatening Jeffrey and his mate Jiffy with legal action.Could Gavin be the killer? I suspect he is too childish, and yet that might be a red herring. Certainly he came out well this week after Lee ate a peanut (cue brand) and suffered an allergic reaction."He's gonna die!" squealed Julia, as she continued filming and forgot to call an ambulance. In the end, she didn't need to because Gavin was straight in there, administering a shot to Lee's backside.The alacrity with which the audience responds to the storylines, and the empathy they have with the characters, is strangely disturbing. Following Kate's death, Charlie announced that she was going to keep her friend's Bebo page alive, and the response has revealed a bizarre inability among viewers to understand that what they are watching is not real."I didn't know Kate but I hope she RIP," says "Smile". "Did she die in real life?" asks Charlene. Francesca sends sympathy to Kate's family and friends. Even those who recognise the fiction have developed an unhealthy obsession with their heroine. "You were one of the bright lights in my life," writes Royston G. He really needs to get out more.KateModern might be original drama for the tweenage generation, but its place in their lives says something more fundamental about them.RIP, Kate.
YouTube, the popular video sharing website, is set to challenge established TV broadcasters by offering its own live channels. The plans would enable YouTube's millions of users to chat from their bedrooms, perform music or report on a breaking news story to a worldwide audience in real time. A birthday party or wedding could be broadcast live to family and friends who are unable to attend. The truly committed could start a 24-hour 'lifecast' of their daily activities reminiscent of television's Big Brother.Born just three years ago, YouTube is now the second most popular site on the internet, according to the online traffic monitor Alexa Internet. It currently hosts around 73 million video clips which are watched hundreds of millions times a day. Its hits have included the teen soap opera Lonelygirl15, a jungle battle between buffalo, lions and crocodiles, and Hollywood star Tom Cruise explaining his passion for scientology.The long-rumoured live extension was revealed, perhaps inevitably, not at a formal press conference but in a low-budget video shot at a trendy party in New York. Steve Chen, the co-founder of the Google-owned site, was asked by 'videoblogger' Sarah Meyers: 'When are you guys gonna do live video on YouTube?' Chen replied: 'We've never had the resources to do it correctly, but now, with Google, we hope to actually do it this year.'The move will further blur the distinction between traditional television broadcasters and online delivery systems. In its first seven weeks the BBC's iPlayer was used to stream or download 17 million TV programmes on to computers, while ITV, Channel 4 and Sky also have growing web services. Sites such as Amazon and Apple's iTunes sell thousands of films and TV programmes for download and new companies such as Joost offer 'TV on the internet'.A number of video streaming websites already exist but they are regarded by sceptics as largely a platform for garrulous teenagers and mindless minutiae. They include blogTV, Mogulus, Seesmic and Ustream.TV, which was set up by two former US army officers and broadcasts live political debates, talk shows, music concerts, school sports events and 'personal milestones such as holiday gatherings, weddings, grade school events, parties, even births'.Another contender, Justin.tv started when 23-year-old Justin Kan strapped a camera to the side of his head and invited the world to share his unabridged 'life-cast' in real time. Its current offering includes live weekly chats with a bodybuilder, a video game, the home of a student physicist and Ron Paul Television, a 24/7 channel from the US presidential candidate which at noon yesterday had 11 viewers.But YouTube, which turned online video clips from a niche interest into a mainstream phenomenon, will hope to repeat the feat with live streaming. It will dwarf its rivals and, after being bought by Google for $1.65bn in 2006 can call upon the search engine's relentless ambition and seemingly limitless resources.Bill Thompson, a technology commentator, said: 'It's an obvious thing for YouTube to do and lots of people will use it. When the major player in a market extends the model slightly then the chances of being successful are very high. More of us now have mobile phones and laptops with video cameras so the technology is in a lot of people's hands.'But Thompson warned that, with the iPlayer already pressuring home internet connections, mass streaming on YouTube could stretch the network to breaking point. 'If 10 million people are trying to stream live video, it may be the point at which internet bandwidth becomes an issue. If you've got a family of four and two teenagers are trying to stream video to YouTube, your emails aren't going to be delivered, potentially.'YouTube recently achieved a coup by enabling its users to submit questions to US Presidential candidates in a debate shown on CNN. If its live channels are ready before November's election, it could potentially show a head-to-head debate between the nominees itself.With webcams and hi-tech mobile phones, YouTube users could also broadcast live from breaking news stories before traditional media can get to the scene. The power of 'citizen journalism' was illustrated during the Virginia Tech massacre in America last year when witnesses provided minute-by-minute updates on  Wikipedia.YouTube said yesterday: 'We are constantly working to develop new features and improve the product for our users but we don't have anything to announce at this stage.'Best of YouTubeBattle at KrugerAn epic battle between Cape buffalo, lions and crocodiles in the Kruger National Park in South Africa.Chris Crocker: Leave Britney Alone!A 19-year-old fan makes a tearful plea for everyone to give his beloved Britney Spears a break.Evolution of DanceJudson Laipply's six-minute, elastic-limbed recreation of the history of popular dancing is the most popular YouTube video ever with 76.7 million views.'I Got a Crush... On Obama'An attractive young woman sings of her love for Barack Obama, adding some priceless glamour to his campaign.Tom Cruise Scientology videoThe film star boasts that Scientology can cure drug addicts, reform criminals and heal the world.
An explosion in the popularity of parenting websites has sparked interest from big business, book publishers and even the government, who all want to reach out to the millions of mothers who log in every month.Bloomsbury will announce a six-figure book deal with Mumsnet.com this week, while Hodder Headline recently secured an agreement withNetmums.comfor a five-book series inspired by discussions on its site. Meanwhile, Mothercare has launched a parenting website calledGurgleand Disney also has its own family site.Netmums will announce this week that it has received a substantial grant from the government so that it can provide expert advice to the thousands of its members who contact it with problems ranging from post-natal depression to domestic violence.Siobhan Freegard, co-founder of the website, which combines 150 local networks, said: 'Every week we deal with a truly terrifying number of mothers who are literally suicidal. It has become a common occurrence for our staff to send ambulances or police to people's houses after online conversations during which they say they cannot go on.'It's shocking how desperate many of the mothers who contact us are, and how little help they receive from a state that has simply let them slip through its net.'The grant will allow Freegard to employ experts in areas including depression and children with special needs, who will then train the site's 40 parenting advisers. 'All the necessary help for these mothers exists, but it is spread between different agencies and organisations, who simply don't know how to find the mothers who need their support,' said Freegaard, whose site has 800,000 visitors a month.'Mothers either don't know how to find experts themselves or don't want to go to an institution with their problems because they fear official procedures that could lead to the situation spiralling out of their control,' she added. 'Asking for advice from other mothers on a website is different; you're anonymous, everyone comes up with their own solutions so no one judges you and if one piece of advice doesn't work, you can try another.''Not all mothers are in so critical a condition. But even looking after a baby on your own can be lonely and boring. That sort of pressure can become intolerable, but can be so easily alleviated if you have just one person to share it with.'Mumsnetis also often described as a lifeline by mothers who feel isolated. It has seen a huge increase in hits - up tenfold on five years ago to 375,000 visitors a month. A bidding war was recently waged between five large publishers eager to produce a series of books by Mumsnet. This week it will be confirmed that Bloomsbury has secured the six-book deal with a six-figure sum.'Online parenting sites are a lifeline for thousands of mothers across the country,' said Lucy Nicoll, the Mumsnet member who will write the first book and whose criticism of parenting guru Gina Ford on the site this year almost led to its closure.'There's baby guru fatigue in the mothering world, which is marked by a certain cynicism towards these people who set themselves up as having the ultimate answer, especially when they don't have children of their own,' she said. 'Where else can you go when the baby is screaming at 4am and all you want is a bottle of gin? Or when you have a crisis over the fact that you're 42 and your second attempt of IVF has failed? With the internet, you can find women going through exactly what you're going through, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.'We're operating in a time when mothers have never been more alone, often not speaking to another person from the moment their husbands leave home in the morning to the time they come home,' she added.Dr Pat Spungen, founder ofRaisingkids.co.uk, has seen membership of her site double in the past year. 'These websites can save the sanity of parents and save the childhood of their babies from disintegrating,' she said.'We recently had a new member, a late mother with a child suffering severe Asperger's syndrome, who lived in a remote Scottish village where there was nobody to support her. Through our site, she's in touch with women across the country who have similar experiences to her own.'Rosina's story: 'it saved my sanity'Rosina, 36, has a two-year-old son and lives in London.'My husband started hitting me after we got married in 2003. It's a devastating thing to happen but I'm still with him, unable to gather the courage to leave him.'For years, I struggled to get help. A big thing in domestic violence is that the victim feels responsible, and that's what I feel. Occasionally I've attempted to leave, but the council has refused to house my son and me, and the only friend I managed to confide in simply told me I had to leave him. I know that's true, but it's not that simple with a small child and nowhere to go.'I was getting to the point of absolute desperation when I discovered Mumsnet four months ago. Because of the anonymity, for the first time I was able to be completely honest about what I was going through. Because no one knew me or my husband, they didn't judge me or leap to any conclusions.'Their advice is varied and I can listen to whomever I like with no pressure. I can log on to the website at any hour of any day when things are really bad and there's always someone there to give me a kind word.'Mumsnet has saved my sanity and given me the courage and strength to seek help for the first time.'Julianne's story: 'best advice around'Julianne Brightman, 31,has six children aged between five months and eight. She lives with her husband, Raj, in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire.'I discovered Raisingkids.co.uk two years ago and the difference it has made to my experience of being a mother is enormous. Neither Raj nor I have relatives who can help us with the kids. Before, if I had a problem I would spend hours trying to catch the health visitor on the phone or lug all the kids to the doctor's surgery which led to us spending a considerable proportion of our time in his waiting room.'I've bought lots of books for advice, but they only deal with mainstream issues while websites enable parents to be extremely specific about the advice they need: you can type in "I hate my teenager", or take a photo of your child's rash and ask if people know what it is .'
Volvo V70&pound;24,995Miles per gallon:32.8Seats:7Good for:Being lazyBad for:Going crazyEstates are to Volvos what topspin is to Roger Federer, or possibly faded denim is to George Michael. You can't imagine one without the other. Yes, you can buy a Volvo that isn't an estate, but why would you? The saloon looks as if it has something missing out back, that bountiful rear cruelly hacked off to leave the car looking as unfinished as a dog's docked tail. Picture the scene at Volvo's design studio in Gothenburg. The pointyheads have considered all the angles - there's room for skis on the roof, space for a flat-pack wardrobe in the back and two more children on foldaway seats in the boot - when Sven from global planning arrives with the bad news from Ford - the marque's owners. 'We'll need a saloon, too, boys ...'The latest addition to Volvo's long line of estates is the new V70. It's actually the third generation of the model which was first built in 1996, but Volvo has been building estates for more than half a century, so you'd be right in thinking they've pretty much cracked it. More than 80 per cent of V70s are sold in Europe, and a third of those are sold in Sweden. In fact, Volvo's V70 has been the bestselling car in Sweden for years. Our best-seller, by contrast, is the Focus. Clearly the Swedes have more money than we do ...The V70 was a development of the 850 station wagon, which in turn had its roots in the 940 and 760 series. The V, by the way, stands for versatile. This may sound like the kind of boast that only men who collect Dr Who memorabilia might make, but I have owned all three of these estates - indeed my beloved 940 only passed away a couple of months ago, a great creaking beast with more than 150,000 miles on the clock.So I was delighted to get back behind the wheel of its spiritual successor. The V70 is everything you'd hope it would be. It's big, solid, reliable, robust, safe, secure and economical. What I wasn't expecting was the addition of fun and the hint of a swagger. Whereas there were once slab sides and foot-thick bumpers, there are now curves, scoops and foxy details. Strips of chrome sparkle seductively along the door sills and window frames; the bonnet rises in an elegant V from the glinting grille, and a pyramid of twinkling red lights runs up each side of the tailgate. And for anyone with fond memories of the marque's classic Amazon, the word v o l v o is spelt out in well-spaced 2in-high retro letters across its rear.Inside, the V70 is a vision of well-executed high-end luxury, from the cranberry-coloured leather seats to the satnav which rises like Excalibur from the centre of the dash. The hinged dog guard that folds into the ceiling is a clever touch and the blind-spot information system which flashes whenever an approaching car disappears from your wing mirror is a revolutionary safety feature. But the feature that sums up the car's want-one combination of common sense and frippery is its self-closing boot. An unnecessary gizmo, certainly, but it's amazing how quickly closing the boot yourself can become a chore.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Rez HD, Xbox 360Originally released on the dear old Sega Dreamcast to unbounded critical acclaim, Rez is a game often accused of being art. For those uninitiated in the delights of videogame synaesthesia, Rez combines a conventional on-rails shoot-'em-up with music - so each time you shoot at or hit anything, it becomes part of the tune - and spectacular line-drawn visuals drifting through hallucinogen-inspired backdrops. The effect is trance-like, enhanced by the constantly pounding beat felt through the joypad's rumble pack as well as heard. Over five levels of steadily intensifying shooting and techno, the plot, such as it is, involves a Tron-style virtual flight into computer space to take out an errant AI. Now seven years old, Mizuguchi's classic is every bit as awesome as it used to be and looks genuinely beautiful in its shiny new HD trappings. Rez is a unique and deeply compelling experience.&middot;Microsoft, Xbox Live download, approx &pound;6.80Turning Point: Fall Of Liberty, PC, PS3, Xbox 360Set in an alternate 1953, you're a normal American - a builder presumably, given your starting position on the girders of a half-assembled New York skyscraper - as German forces invade in a fleet of Zeppelins accompanied by a rocket-powered Luftwaffe. Thrown directly into the heat of battle, your first impression of this situation is of no particular sense of danger or urgency, and this well-meaning but detached un-atmosphere persists. In spite of good ideas and a plot with a couple of unexpected twists, the quite terrible clunkiness of the controls, weak sound effects and visuals and decidedly uneven difficulty level just aren't acceptable in a world where Halo 3 exists. Watch in wonder as enemies blindly amble into the open in confusion and unconvincingly throw themselves off ledges when you shoot them. Compared with the awesome intensity of Call Of Duty 4 or the encroaching darkness of BioShock, Fall Of Liberty is a chronically inferior specimen.&middot;Codemasters, &pound;35-&pound;50The Club, PC, PS3, Xbox 360With a name so nondescript as to be almost Swiss in its neutrality, The Club features standard issue, tough-guy avatars and mud-brown scenery that is clearly designed to convey words like "gritty" and "urban". So far, so very, very tired. But what developer Bizarre Creations (previously responsible for the superb Project Gotham Racing series) has done with this distinctly unprepossessing front-end is where The Club gets interesting. Traditional over-the-shoulder shooting mechanics are paired with a combo meter that is continually ticking down towards oblivion - every second you're not shooting someone is a second your combo gets nearer to zero, making the game a constant balls-out charge to the next firefight, eschewing anything fussy like use of tactics or cover. With a very short single player mode, this is all about repeated play in pursuit of perfected high scores.&middot;Sega, &pound;35-&pound;50
As a robust Child of Nature, my usefulness as a guinea pig for certain types of beauty machines might seem about the same as sending an Inuk on a beach holiday.However, not only am I a two-litres-a-day girl with a brilliant diet and plenty of exercise, I also have a professional facial every fortnight. This little-known Winterson fact gives me some insight into the benefits of skincare. I am sure that water, fruit and veg, exercise, a sensible cleansing and moisturising regime at home, and regular visits to the beauty parlour are all anyone needs. What no one needs is a thing called the Hydro Test (&pound;24.99, fromiliftuk.com).This mascara-tube size device claims to measure the moisture content of your skin. You press it against whatever bit of the body you long to reveal its watery secret, and the digital display pops up a number that corresponds to a table that tells you just how desiccated you are.I tried this all over my poor old bod, and the reading was so dismal that I felt compelled to ring my friend who is a GP. She advised immediate hospitalisation and a saline drip. Crestfallen, but determined to further my experiments for the sake of Guardian readers, I tried the thingy on my cat - I can tell you now that it doesn't work through fur. Luckily, this cat had recently had a little shaved patch at the vet, so I tried it on that. Result? Cat obviously ready for taxidermist.Taking my dried-out self and my wrung-out cat to the pond, I laid a chamois-leather car sponge (skin, right?) on the surface of the water. The Hydro Test revealed that what I have always called the pond is, in fact, a sandpit. At this point I thought of chucking the thingy straight in the bin where it belongs, but it has a disclaimer on the info that says it mustn't be disposed of via "the waste stream". I expect to see lots of these at Bring &amp; Buy sales quite soon.My next item is called an iLift (&pound;249, fromiliftuk.com) and looks like a cross between an electric shaver and a vibrator. Like most sex toys, it comes in either black or red. Sadly, it isn't a sex toy, but a facial-rejuvenation product that "cleans, massages, nourishes, and lifts" by means of its deep-penetrating laser vibrations. You set your age range and whirl away. It offers to deal with uneven skin tone and broken capillaries, boost collagen production and so on, but I have no idea whether or not it works because I'm not going to spend weeks trying it out. Apparently it is very popular in Europe, especially among Italians, so maybe it would be fairer to send it to Carla Bruni. If you really have nothing to do in the mornings, then I suppose this little item would fill the gap between hot water with lemon juice and Bircher muesli.The TRIA (fromtria.co.uk) announces itself as "the future of laser hair removal at home".I decided not to try this out on the cat. I didn't try it out on myself either because it doesn't work on hair that is blond, red, grey or white, and you mustn't use it on fair Celtic skin like mine unless you want to turn into a bagpipe.My friend said she'd have a go, but she's black, and black or brown people can't use it either. So it looks as if the future of laser hair removal at home is only for white people with dark hair. The rest of us can stay hairy and scary in the clean, patented USA world of worryingly eugenic-like beauty products. No, no, it's just that only dark hair has enough pigment to absorb the laser beam.The thing looks like a hairdryer and costs about &pound;650. You must start on your bikini line four months before you "dare to bare", so the instructions tell me. Well, I'll just carry on with the razors and the occasional leg wax. That seems dignified and tidy. Unlike Barbie, I have pubic hair, and I'm keeping it that way. But if you really want to spend hours of your life "achieving" smoothness, instead of achieving something more worthwhile, then enrich the makers of TRIA.My own tip for smooth skin is daily exfoliation with a rough mitt and plenty of Jo Malone.
Is there some device I could attach to my spectacles (or keys) to help me find them when they're mislaid, preferably using a remote control?You want a sound-activated key finder. As the name suggests, these are rather better suited to keys than spectacles: the idea is that you attach them to a keyring, and if you can't find the keys, you clap and it will make a noise. They were the ne plus ultra in the 80s, but we must have all found our keys again because they're rarely sold these days. Still, there are loads on eBay from about &pound;2.20 (or try your luck at electronics stores). The only problem is there's no easy way to attach them to specs.Is there such a thing as an internet radio that can wirelessly access the internet to play shows from stations that aren't transmitted digitally, and that's small enough to sit on a kitchen worktop or bathroom shelf?Yes: Reciva's internet radio, sold by BT at &pound;120, tunes into your (or a neighbour's) wireless network, and from there to the internet (reciva.com). You can select presets from pretty much any online station in the world, and listen to any music stored on a PC on your network. It does need mains, so best not keep it in the bathroom.&#183;Bobbie Johnson returns next week
MondayEA and GTAEA promises to do things differently this timeMore art imitating game worlds/a&gt;TuesdayBig Brother is watching you fragLost disappointsSelect Committee considers game ratingsWednesdaySony opens PS3 to in-game ad-warsHaze set for May releaseInterspecies gamingGet ahead in the games industryThursdaySims Online goes EA LandXNA development: part oneXNA part 2ReviewsFridayTiny life for freeDress up and break a record
Perplexing though it is, the New York Times was first up with a story about the three biggest British ISPs - BT, Virgin and TalkTalk - planning tolink upwith a company called Phorm with the intention of grabbing some of that contextual internet advertising pie. You know, the one that makes Google so damn rich when it serves ads through AdWords and AdSense.Except that the plan has outraged at least some of the ISPs' customers, who are talking of leaving for smaller ISPs, complaining to the Information Commissioner's Office, and at the very least opting out of the service (for while it's not clear at present whether you'll have to opt in or out, the smart money is on the latter).Here's how it works. When you begin a broadband session - that is, fire up your browser once your broadband connection is established and the Phorm system running on, say, BT's side - BT will (via its servers sending you the page you've asked for) install a Phorm-determined cookie (sourced from oix.net) with a random number on your machine. The cookie, which is persistent across browser sessions and shutdowns (but obviously not across users or browsers) will then be used as a unique identifier. When you go to a web page or enter a search into Google/Yahoo/Microsoft/whereever, the page content or search terms will be passed to Phorm, which will class them by "category" and then (and this may be the key bit) throw them away, having begun to build up a profile of this cookie user.So, no personal information about you. No IP address information. Your search history and pages visited aren't stored. But many people are uneasy about it, feeling that it's spying.The ISPs argue that the benefits are that you'll see "more relevant" ads when you go to a page whose ads are served by the "Open Internet Exchange" - behind which we find Phorm, trying to encourage advertisers and web page publishers to come together in what should theoretically be a better marketplace for ads (since they'll be targeted at those unique cookies).Plus if you try to visit a phishing site that's on a list of URLs (or possibly IP addresses; it's not yet clear) held by Phorm, you'll get a warning in your browser. (But if it's a phishing site not on the list, you're on your own, buddy.)For the ISPs, the real benefit is the moolah. With margins tight, they'll get money from Phorm for adclicks and for the data they allow to be sent.Which has upset some customers, such as the people behind theBad Phormpage.You can read BT's position onhow "Webwise" (as it calls it) works; thefurious complaints in the Cable forum(about Virgin); andPhorm's FAQ.The question is, does this constitute an invasion of privacy? An IP address might be construed as identifying you (it does, to an ISP) but a random cookie doesn't. If no data is stored, can you be identified?So what do you think - good, bad, indifferent?(Update:as we reported on February 14, the Guardian is one of a number of media organisations thathave signed up with OIX, driven by Phorm, to better target ads. So now you know. However, it's up to the ISPs whether they implement the scheme. Without them, it won't work. And without users, the ISPs won't have a business.)Update 2:we've nowwritten about thisandblogged an update- please follow over there.
Microsoft saysit has cut the price of Several Retail Stand-Alone Versions of Windows Vista. According to Brad Broks: "In developed markets, the price changes will most notably impact upgrade retail versions of the new editions we introduced in 2007 -- Windows Vista Home Premium and Ultimate editions."Microsoft has been experimenting with lower prices, and there were some large reductions in the UK over Christmas. It is now rejigging prices with the SP1 version about to appear.CNetsays that, in the US, "The suggested price for Vista Ultimate drops to $219 from $299, while Home Premium falls to $129, from $159." CNet adds:Brooks said that Microsoft had done a lot of research prior to Vista's launch, but noted that both Home Premium and Ultimate were new products for the company. "We probably got the pricing mix wrong," he said. "You don't always get it right, but you make the adjustment."It will be interesting to see whether the new SP1 version actually provides an attractive upgrade path. The retail price of Vista Ultimate was ridiculous, but buyers were more likely to be put off by their inability to get drivers for old peripherals, or by not having a graphics system capable of supporting the Aero interface. A lot of drivers have appeared in the past year, of course, but so far it has been a far better bet to buy Vista preinstalled by an OEM who has worked through the driver issues.Driver and graphics hardware problems affected Microsoft's own staff, as has been revealed following a class action lawsuit about the "Vista Capable" designation.Todd Bishopat Seattle-PI has published some of these internal emails, where Steve Sinofsky (now in charge of Windows) writes:Intel has the biggest challenge. Their "945" chipset which is the baseline Vista set "barely" works right now and is very broadly used. The "915" chipset which is not Aero capable is in a huge number of laptops and was tagged as "Vista Capable" but not Vista Premium. I don't know if this was a good call. But these function but will never be great. Even a 945 set has new builds of drivers coming out constantly but hopes are on the next chipset rather than this one.Microsoft executive John Kalkman also writes:In the end, we lowered the requirement to help Intel make their quarterly earnings so they could continue to sell motherboards with the 915 graphics embedded. This in turn did two things: 1. Decreased focus of OEMs planning and shipping higher end graphics for Vista-ready programs and 2. Reduced the focus by IHV's to ready great WHQL [Windows Hardware Quality Labs] qualified graphics drivers. We can see this today with Intel's inability to ship a compelling full featured 945 graphics driver for Windows Vista.Intel "integrated graphics" chips (ie on the motherboard) are used in many low-priced PCs.Incidentally,my advicehas been to use the built-in Windows Experience Index test, and not to buy anything that scores less than 3 for graphics, preferably more. But this is still about buying a new PC. Buying Vista as an upgrade still looks risky, whatever the price.Charles Arthur adds:our regular commentator Nick Carrinterprets thisas the first clear signs of erosion of Microsoft's dominance:The real threat to Microsoft has always been that the battle would shift away from its turf, that its traditional hegemony over the PC would begin to matter less. The threat, in other words, wasn't so much that Microsoft would lose its control over the operating system and the personal productivity application, control reflected in market share numbers, but that its control would simply fade in importance. And that phenomenon - the loss of importance - would be revealed through a loss of pricing power, not a loss of share. That's what we're seeing beginning to see today.
Can you support Britain's current DNA database yet oppose plans for biometric ID cards? That's the question I've been wrestling with this week. The answer, as you'll see, isn't trivial.The past week has seen three men convicted of murder, and all three were either convicted or suspected of multiple killings. In two cases, DNA evidence proved vital: their DNA had been acquired through the current procedure whereby if someone is arrested his or her DNA is taken and recorded (as a set of 20 numbers) on the national database. Previous crimes where DNA has been recovered but no other match found are then checked against new entries.And DNA, being almost the ultimate biometric, is very indicative. There are even cases that have been solved because someone has given a DNA sample and the database has suggested that someonerelatedto them has a link to an unsolved crime.It is beyond argument that the database is a fantastic tool for solving crime. I think it is also right that arrest should be the trigger for taking a sample, since it's logical that someone who has committed a serious crime will probably commit smaller ones too. (And that's why I'm against thecase currently being broughtby two people who were arrested but not charged and want their DNA details removed from the database. Arrest may be a weak indicator, but it's still an indicator.)False convictionsEqually, I'm against widening DNA collection to the whole population. The reasons wereelegantly spelt out in The Guardian on Thursdayby Professor Allan Jamieson: "The larger [the database] becomes, the greater the chance is of a fortuitous 'hit', false conviction, and unnecessary stress on individuals and resource deployment by the police." And since the Home Office minister Tony McNulty agrees, I don't think there's much risk of the DNA database encompassing all of us.OK, but what about biometrics — iris scans, fingerprints, facial recognition — for ID cards? After all, consider benefit fraud, which isestimatedto have cost the taxpayer £2.5bn in 2006/7. There's aninteresting exchange in last year's Hansardin which a minister for the Department of Work and Pensions says that "the introduction of identity verification services, to be provided by the Identity and Passport Service as part of the National Identity Card scheme, will have a significant impact on the ability of fraudsters to make claims for social security benefits using more than one identity."That's fine — except that in an earlier question in that exchange, Derek Wyatt asks what estimate has been made of how much could be saved by having a verifiable national database ofaddresses(which presently doesn't exist). The minister replies: "There has been no estimate made of the value of fraudulent claims which could be detected annually if a definitive national database of addresses existed."So it's one of those things where the government has only worked out the answers to the questions it likes, rather than all the possible answers. It's a long way from what you'd call "science" - or even rigour.Ludicrous and expensiveMore to the point, an ID card would be used to prevent benefit fraud — not to prove who committed the crime after the fact. If you had to give an iris scan when making each benefit application, that would make multiple fraudulent applications harder. The fact that one woman could claim for an amazing18 non-existent childrendoesn't suggest that the system for detecting unusual claims is very robust at the moment. But making parents and children come to an office for iris scans and fingerprinting before they can get child benefit would create a ludicrous, expensive system that could still be gamed (what about children visiting from abroad? You'd have to iris-scan and fingerprint everyone).It is that presumption of guilt, though — the thinking that you're only out to cheat the system — that seems so wrong about the national biometric database. Leave aside the issue of how secure it might be. Nobody can change your biometrics, just as they can't change your DNA, so it's actually rare in being a database you could happily stick on CDs and post around the country. The key is that it assumes you're guilty. And that's what I don't like.The point about the DNA database is that it only comes into play after a crime has been committed, and when someone is suspected of it. At that point, you become a suspect in all unsolved crimes with DNA evidence. (And perhaps others where your details might match those from other crimes.)But in claiming benefit, or trying to board an aeroplane, we're not committing a crime. And in a society that likes to call itself "free", the presumption of innocence is surely the most important title we can give everyone, even if it is disappointed by fraudsters and killers. It has been the bedrock of our legal system for centuries.And that, in short, is why I support the DNA database, even for suspected criminals, but do not support a nationwide biometric database. Innocent unless proven guilty is an important freedom. Let's stick with it.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
In London on March 18th? Yup. Free at 11am? Erm, maybe. Keen to dress up as your favourite videogame character? Hmm. That's just me though. Chances are there will be plenty who are keen - won't there? - which is good as the organisers are planning a world record attempt. Guinness World Record's Gamer's Edition will be attempting the 'Largest gathering of Games characters' and are looking for anyone who likes to dress up as a videogame character to get along to the Millennium Bridge on the day. There's a "gift" for your efforts, though no indication what it is yet. Before you start polishing that Master Chief helmet you'll need to register first by mailing gamesgathering@guinnessworldrecords.com. So, anyone here ever donned a videogame costume?
Over there on the right of the page, about level with these words (if this is the top post, or being read individually) you'll notice a list of "Recent comments" - that is, who has recently commented on which post. I added it in the other day. Click and drop. Like that.It's a very easy thing to add or remove; I thought it might be more useful for people coming to the blog to see where the most recent action has been, rather than simply the "most active" blog posts (which was in that position, but is now further down).As it was before, you couldn't know which posts were actively getting discussion until they tipped into "most active" land.However, the "recent comments" widget is rather messy (I can't fix that; its CSS lies somewhere deep in the bowels of the content system), and so I'm wondering: do you prefer having "recent comments" at the top, or "Most Active"? And do you want rid of "recent comments" altogether, or to have them? What's your preference on blogs you comment on or read?
Back in the ancient mists of internet time, there was a virtual world calledLambdaMOO. I'm going to go right out on a limb here and say that every other mainstream social virtual world that has come since is based in a large part on this one. And in LambdaMOO, there was a society. Or at least, the people who used this text-based place formed a community which became a society when two avatars were virtually assaulted and the collective decided to kill the offender.You can read all about that story, A Rape in Cyberspace, in its original form in the Village Voicehere. Or you could start with that story and delve deeper into LambdaMOO, through the twists and turns of identity, sexuality, economy, religion, governance and politics in the book that emerged out of that articlehere.Julian Dibbell, contributing editor of Wired Magazine and author ofPlay Money, wrote the article in 1993, but finished the book My Tiny Life in 1996. If you're interested at all in this strange and wonderful cyber-space, this is an essential first port of call. Even better,you can now read the whole book for free.Highly recommended.
What's your favourite piece of technology?It's a toss up between myiFreq— an FM transmitter that plays your iPod through your car radio — and the button that makes my Volvo's wing mirrors fold in to the sides.How have they improved your life?The iFreq certainly beats changing the six CDs on the player. As for the wing mirror gadget, we live on a narrow lane so I have to fold the mirrors in all the time to creep past my neighbours' vehicles. It's such a pleasing procedure; a minor James Bond moment.When was the last time you used them?I use both several times a day.What additional features would you add if you could?Improved reception so that you get the same sound quality through the iFreq as you do if you listen through earphones. At the moment the transfer results in a little bit of interference. It's not for the purist.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I imagine the two devices (car stereo and iPod) will talk to each other through some kind of Wi-Fi set up.What one tip would you give to non-iFreq users?Make sure you set the device to a radio frequency that is nowhere near existing radio stations. Otherwise, it's a complete pain to find.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Luddite. I think there is an awful lot of technology for technology's sake. I have yet to be convinced by my husband that persuading our mobiles to talk to our computers is going to be quicker and more straightforward than scribbling a note in our kitchen diary.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My MacBook. Or possibly my credit card.Mac or PC?Mac. Mac. Mac.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?The Art Teacher, byRufus Wainwright. It's clever and poignant and funny. And I thought that if I put his My Phone's On Vibrate For You it would be technologically appropriate, but people would think I was pervy.Will robots rule the world?The way we're headed, they'd probably do a better job.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'm toying with getting a BlackBerry. But I have The Fear. I'm not sure I'm strong enough to put it down again.Jojo Moyes' latest novel,Silver Bay, is out now
Google bought Jotspot, a wiki site, in October 2006, and has finally launched its own version,Google Sites, to a round of barracking.TechCrunchnotes that: "Google Sites looks absolutely nothing like Jotspot, other than the fact that both are hosted wikis. All of the structured data templates launched by Jotspot in July 2006 have been stripped out." Many say it looks more like Google Pages.Another common complaint is that Google Sites requires Google Apps.At ZD Net blogs, Dennis Howlett reviewed the product inGoogle Sites - spoiled by usability issues, and complains that it's "dog slow". He says:After 16 months at Google developer's hands, the outcome is substandard. This is such a pity. In its JotSpot incarnation, it was far from perfect but that didn't matter because JotSpot was shedding light on a new way of collaborating. Since passing into Google's hands, the guts have been ripped out and then re-assembled with as much Google 'stuff' as they could cram in but rushed to completion. At the very least, Google should get rid of the gadgets addition facility and rework it. Otherwise, I sense the SMBs at which it is aimed will find the service a turn off.If a gutsy start-up is trying to do something new, people will cut it a lot of slack, as they did Jotspot. When a megacorporation appears to be muscling into a market with an inferior product, they generally won't. Maybe Google is now being held accountable for delivering products to a standard commensurate with its size and market power.
It was very odd for the European Commission to announce its disproportionate fine -- which it denies is"vindictive"-- on Microsoft in the middle of the company's biggest ever product launch (Server 2008, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2008) yesterday. A comment I had in the mail fromOvumresearcher David Mitchell said: "The timing of the European Commission announcement could not have been worse - for both sides." It looks to me like either malevolence or stupidity, and neither could be considered good.Mitchell argues that:The remedies introduced by the European Commission have been largely ineffectual in improving the dynamics of the European technology industry, having been badly conceptualised in the first place. The market has also moved on since 2004, with much greater competition being generated from innovative technology and services companies from across the world. In that context the European Commission's intervention begins to look like an attempt to regulate the market for monastic scribes after the introduction of the printing press - somewhat irrelevant. Microsoft is also a dramatically different company from the one that was brought to task in 2004. It has diversified its business into the online services market, is stronger in the database market, has a vibrant CRM and ERP business, has a more advanced games division, etc... It is no longer the Windows and Office company, and no longer behaves like that.Of course, zealots don't have to look far for an explanation. The EC seems to take much the same line as the European Committee for Interoperable Systems (ECIS). which sounds like it ought to be a Good Thing. But it isn't. ECIS is just a front organisation for IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Adobe and Red Hat: in other words, the Anything But Microsoft party. ECIS is just a roundabout way of manipulating markets to try to gain competitive advantage.Mitchell has also noticed the start of a backlash in responses and says: "Of course, there were many anti-Microsoft comments too but the fact that pro-Microsoft comments are increasingly appearing is startling. The European Commission needs to take care that it is not seen to be a servant of the ABM (Anything But Microsoft) lobby that is gathering momentum across corners of the globe.""A wave of adverse sentiment against the European Commission's handling of the case is building up and [it] needs to take care to protect and demonstrate the legitimacy of its actions."Well, it can try. But how much credibility can a body retain after its mind-numbingly clueless and stupid insistence on Microsoft offering European versions of Windows without Windows Media Player?
Three more games covered in this week's paperJack Keane(PC) is probably the most interesting. A point and click adventure game that shares the Caribbean setting of Monkey Island, Jack Keane goes some way to proving the genre still has some legs, albeit on a download rather than full price boxed basis. Less interesting but certain to sell more isFIFA Street 3. I've been playing the 360 version - those achievement points are too tempting, especially when the game practically gives them away - and it plays well enough for a quick blast. But it's hardly worth 40-odd quid. Last up isBeautiful Katamari, which sees the cult classic arrive on the Xbox 360. I've not played this one yet but spent hours on a PS2 version. Does the 360 game offer anything different bar HD visuals? Or perhaps more importantly, do you need to play more than one Katamari game? I'm not convinced.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday March 1 2008In the article below we gave the impression that the website hijackthis.de provides a download of the anti-malware tool HijackThis when it simply offers an analysis of the program's output. A free download of HijackThis is available from Trend Micro.Malware is rarely good news, but occasionally there is an upside. It introduced me to the online communities that exist to help the infected - and perhaps it helped to save some hedgehogs, an outcome I'm certain the malware authors could never have foreseen.It started with the telltale signs on my son's PC: operating system reduced to a crawl, antivirus software grinding away uneasily and generating mysterious reports. There is a form of panic unique to the home PC user. You realise you have no tech support hotline, that you don't know what is going on and that you are on your own. It's you against the malware.Expert helpI started with Google. A few links later and I was in the world of anti-malware forums. These bulletin boards, such as the splendidly named Major Geeks (majorgeeks.com) and Bleeping Computer (bleepingcomputer.com) consist, as far as I can see, of people with expertise in dealing with viruses and trojans. I came to think of them as Malware Jedi.I found a huge range of forums, but the posts were often very similar. Computers running slowly; popups appearing; browsers redirected; how do I get rid of Vundo; what do I do? I started with the forums at PC Perspective (pcper.com); they seemed pitched at about my level and I liked the way that they had some simple guides to dealing with malware.I began by just following the basic information that had been posted. This told me which various (free) programs to download. It explained about using Safe Mode, turning off System Restore, turning on the file naming so that the full file details could be seen, emptying the various caches. All no doubt obvious to more expert users, but a godsend for me.A key tool is HiJackThis (hijackthis.de), which scans the system for malware and then produces a log that can be uploaded and analysed to identify programs that may be unsafe - in which instance the program offers a "Fix This" option, which will remove the nasties. (It is worth noting that the forum posts are full of cautions about double-checking to avoid accidentally deleting programs that may be vital to the functioning of the system.)In my case, HiJackThis helped me find and remove one virus. For one heady moment I thought I had solved everything, but running the various adware and spyware scanners and re-running the virus guard brought me back to reality. Much more malware had been installed. By now it was getting on for midnight and I was at the end of my tether, so I posted my HJT log on the forum and asked for help. Within 10 minutes I had the first of many replies - from Ned.Over the next day or so, with Ned's help I identified various bits of malware - but particularly Trojans, and in this case one called Virtumonde, aka Vundo. We removed many of them but Vundo, or the version that had got on to my son's PC, proved particularly difficult. So Ned passed me on to even more expert hands: Derek, who has his own specialist malware forum, TheSpykiller (thespykiller.co.uk). With Derek's help I downloaded yet more diagnostic software and produced more logs for him to look at.Derek ended up writing a short piece of code for me to run which knocked out the main culprit. But this still left the long job of running yet more scans to make sure that the system was now clean and updating all the out-of-date programs which might have left the system vulnerable to the malware in the first place. (Don't sneer; when did you last check your version of Java?).Learning experienceSo after a week of hard labour and intermittent despair, I think the PC is clean. I've learnt a lot about malware and the various programmes that I should have had installed from the start (tinyurl.com/2p3d7lis a good starting point).The experience has restored my faith in the powers of the internet to help solve some of the problems that the internet itself has generated. And I'm enormously grateful for the fact that complete strangers were prepared to give their expertise to help me.I know how many evenings I spent sitting in front of my son's computer, waiting for downloads, waiting for scans to complete, waiting to upload logs - but I have no idea how much time Derek and his colleagues spent at the other end of the process, analysing the information and advising me. Cumulatively it must have been several hours of time and expertise given freely to help strangers.And the hedgehogs? Everyone's help was free, but Derek's site has links to his charity - Epping Forest Hedgehog Rescue (thehedgehog.co.uk) - so not only is my son able to return to his YouTube-assisted homework, but there may be a few more hedgehogs that are able to benefit, too.
The second and final part of my interview with the developers behind theXNAtitles that hit Xbox Live Arcade last week. (Here'spart one.)Here,'Walaber', developer of JellyCar (pictured),Brian Cable, responsible for Proximity HD,James Silvaof The Dishwasher: Dead Samurai fame and Jeff Pobst and Michael Austin ofHidden Path Entertainment, creators of Culture, talk about the future of XNA development...Are there any elements of the Xbox 360 functionality you're surprised you //can// access?Walaber: To be honest I'm actually just amazed that Microsoft is letting hobby developers get full access to the Xbox 360's CPU and graphics card, input devices, and recently even Xbox Live networking... It's pretty cool to make your own video game that you can play in your living room.Brian: When they announced online multiplayer support for XNA Game Studio 2.0, that surprised me. I didn't think they would ever allow that, as it would require interacting with their servers to some extent. I still haven't had the time to figure out how to put it into my game yet, though.James: I was a bit surprised that when they implemented networking, they included matchmaking on LIVE - it's going to be really neat to see how people play with this. I think more importantly, I'm surprised that Microsoft took the initiative with XNA in the first place - console development has been the crazy dream that I've had since I was 11 or so.Jeff: We're an experienced Xbox 360 developer and we have been impressed by how much access one does have with XNA to utilize the power of the platform while making a product that works on both PC and Xbox 360 with a single code base. Several features continue to get implemented as new releases of XNA have come out and support for Xbox LIVE and Xbox LIVE Arcade are just recently being implemented. This is going to allow us to consider using XNA not just for our tools, but also for full games that we bring to Xbox LIVE Arcade.What kind of new ideas and experiences do you think will come out of the XNA?Walaber: I hope to see a lot of unique and crazy games that you'd never find available commercially!Brian: I think you can look to Flash games as an indication of what types of experiences you can expect from XNA. Flash really lowered the barrier of entry for people who wanted to make games, and as a result that market has been flooded with all sorts of personal non-commercial projects - labours of love, experiments that may have flaws but introduce the world to new game mechanics. There's also a lot of junk, as well as a decent amount of commercial products with higher production values. Where XNA will differ is you're likely to see a lot more 3D games and there will probably be a greater percentage of games with multiplayer support.James: It'll be really fun to see what the creative community can produce. I think "JellyCar" is a perfect example of a crazy idea that's a blast to play with. I can't wait to see what kind of multiplayer games will end up as community games on Xbox LIVE. Relatively speaking, networking is a new feature in the XNA framework; as the XNA community's creative minds get more comfortable and experienced with networking in XNA I think we'll start to see some pretty crazy multiplayer concepts.Michael: Opening up creation to hobbyists will mean that experimental gameplay can be tried and vetted without costing a publisher hundreds of thousands of dollars. Flash has done something similar for PC - several new spins on old game play ideas like escape games and tower defence games offer a large variety of fun in easy, small bites.Have you begun thinking about another XNA game? What sort of thing would you like to try next?Brian: If I could get away with it, I'd do all of my future projects in XNA. Those future projects are a long way off, though, but one thing I definitely would like to try if I could find a good 3D artist or two to collaborate with me is a 3D sidescrolling platformer (think New Super Mario Bros.)James: I've been thinking a sequel could be fun, but I've got some other ideas that I'd sort of like to play around with - zombie-related ideas, of course. In the meantime, I've got absolute focus on getting "The Dishwasher" wrapped up and shipped.Jeff: I think we're eager to fully use XNA for our own projects as its feature set becomes fully compatible with Xbox LIVE Arcade. Today we build almost all of our tools in XNA for our professional projects and this release now allows games to be posted through the XNA Creators Club launcher to a larger audience. It won't be long before professionals are able to use XNA through the normal Arcade channel as well. As we develop future games for Microsoft platforms, we'll keep a close eye on the feature set that XNA has and I wouldn't be surprised if we use XNA fully for certain games we develop.How do you think the XNA program compares with similar concepts for PS3 and Wii?Jeff: We at Hidden Path have become familiar with each of the console platforms and there are some very exciting features in each of the hardware systems whether it be unique UI or technical capabilities. It's a great time to be a game developer and we have opportunities to make great games for all three consoles and the personal computer. For the moment, I think it is safe to say that XNA as a software language and development toolset is unique to the Xbox 360 and the PC and there isn't really a similar toolset available for the PS3 or Wii from Sony or Nintendo to our knowledge.If you've been inspired by all this talk of community development, there'sa great featureon Gamasutra explaining how to submit games for the community download service.
America's National Academy of Engineering has set the planet's best brains 14 grand challenges for the 21st century. Along with "reverse-engineer the brain" and "provide energy from fusion" is one that will strike an immediate note in Britain: "advance health informatics".Healthcare, the academy explains (atengineeringchallenges.org) has largely escaped the information revolution. Medical information systems are "plagued" by mixtures of old and new technologies. "Computerised records are often incompatible, using different programs for different kinds of data, even within a given hospital." It calls for a concerted effort to develop ways of capturing information and making the right information available securely to the right person at the right time.An excellent challenge. But hang on a second. Isn't it now six years since a group of mainly US-based IT companies persuaded the British government that they had a catalogue full of computing tools to transform the National Health Service? And that all that was needed to make it happen was money and an openness to change? Certainly, if I'd had a quid for every time I heard the words "the technology is not the problem" back in 2002, I'd be almost as wealthy now as some of the consultants who advised the government that computerising the NHS in England (Scotland and Wales did it differently) was essentially a procurement challenge.If the IT industry was lying about its capability, then clearly we've been victim to one of the most blatant acts of mis-selling in history. Actually, I think the mis-selling was innocent, albeit born of a culture with little direct experience of professional ethics, or exposure to old age, poverty or chronic disease. Computerising the health service does look straightforward when it's all laid out on a PowerPoint presentation.Paradoxically, the National Academy of Engineering's decision to place healthcare informatics in the pantheon of grand challenges may be good news for the NHS. For a start, it makes the failure to achieve the targets set down in 2003 and 2004 less embarrassing. No one in the world has got there, but at least we're trying. Against this background, the government can afford to be more relaxed about informed criticism.In this climate, the NHS can now benchmark its genuine achievements against international progress. Thanks to the web, healthcare IT, at least a decade behind every other sector, is beginning to go global.One significant example is the recent decision by Microsoft and Google to create rival online vaults for individuals' health information (see this week's Newly Asked Questions). They will surely become global offerings. Few people have noticed yet, but the NHS is already operating in this space. One of the most far-reaching projects under the national IT programme is the HealthSpace portal (healthspace.nhs.uk). For several years it's been offering a sort of Bridget Jones's Diary function for recording personal bad habits. It's now being revamped as a gateway to the NHS, and to our personal health records.Like other aspects of the programme, HealthSpace is controversial. But, so long as no one is forced to have their records posted and the implications for security and confidentiality are openly explored, it seems well worth pursuing. It's not pre-ordained that Google or Microsoft should set the standard for the electronic health record. Maybe in this grand challenge, the poor old nationalised dinosaur of the NHS will get there first.
The computing resources of the Sanger Institute at Hinxton, near Cambridge, are almost unfathomable. Three rooms are filled with walls of blade servers and drives, and there is a fourth that is kept fallow, and for the moment full of every sort of debris: old Sun workstations, keyboards, cases and cases of backup tapes - even a dishwasher. But the fallow room is an important part of the centre's preparations. Things are changing so fast that they can have no idea what they will be required to do in a year's time.When Tony Cox, now the institute's head of sequencing informatics, was a post-doctoral researcher he could sequence 200 bases of DNA in a day (human DNA has about 3bn bases). The machines being installed today can do 1m bases an hour. What will be installed in two years' time is anyone's guess, but the centre is as ready as it can be.Invisible revolutionGenome sequencing, which is what the centre excels at, has wrought a revolution in biology that many people think they understand. But it has happened alongside a largely invisible revolution, in which molecular biology - which even 20 years ago was done in glassware inside laboratories - is now done in silicon.A modern sequencer itself is a fairly powerful computer. The new machines being brought online at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute are robots from waist-height upwards, where the machinery grows and then treats microscopic specks of DNA in serried ranks so that a laser can illuminate it and a moving camera capture the fluorescing bases every two seconds. The lower half of each cabinet holds the computers needed to coordinate the machinery and do the preliminary processing of the camera pictures. At the heart of the machine is a plate of treated glass about the size of an ordinary microscope slide, which contains around 30m copies of 2,640 tiny fragments of DNA, all arranged in eight lines along the glass, and all with the bases at their tips being directly read off by a laser.To one side is a screen which displays the results. The sequencing cabinet pumps out 2MB of this image data every second for each two-hour run. With 27 of the new machines running full tilt, each one will produce a terabyte every three days. Cox was astonished when he did the preliminary calculations. "It was quite a simple back-of-the envelope calculation: right, we've got this many machines, and they're producing this much data, and we need to hold it for this amount of time and we sort of looked at it and thought: oh, shit, that's 320TB!"Think of it as the biggest Linux swap partition in the world, since the whole system is running on Debian Linux. The genome project uses open source software as much as possible, and one of its major databases is run on MySQL, although others rely on Oracle."History has shown," says Cox, "that when we have created - it used to be 20TB or 30TB, maybe - of sequencing data, for the longer term storage, then you may need 10 times that in terms of real estate, and computational process, to analyse and compare and all the things that you want to do with it. So having produced something in the order of 100TB to 200TB of sequential data, then the layer beyond that, the scratch space, and the sequential analysis, and so on - to be honest, we are still teasing out what that means, but it's not going to be small."Down in the rooms where the servers are farmed you must raise your voice to be heard above the fans. A wall of disk drives about 3m long and 2m high holds that 320TB of data. In the next aisle stands a similarly sized wall of blade servers with 640 cores, though no one can remember exactly how many CPUs are involved. "We moved into this building with about 300TB of storage real estate, full stop," says Phil Butcher, the head of IT. "Now we have gone up to about a petabyte and a half, and the last 320 of that was just to put this pipeline together."This new technology is the basis for a new kind of genomics, with really frightening implications. The ballyhooed first draft of the Human Genome Sequence in 2000 was a hybrid of many people's DNA; like scripture, it is authoritative, but not accurate. Now the Sanger Institute is gearing up for its part in a project to sequence accurately 1,000 individual human genomes, so that all of their differences can be mapped. The idea is to identify every single variation in human DNA that occurs in 0.5% or more of the population sampled. This will require one of the biggest software efforts in the world today.Although it is only very rare conditions that are caused by single gene defects, almost all common conditions are affected by a complex interplay of factors along the genome, and the Thousand Genome Project is the first attempt to identify the places involved in these weak interactions. This won't be tied to any of the individual donors, who will all be anonymous. But mapping all the places where human genomes differ is the first necessary step towards deciding which differences are significant, and of what.There are three sorts of differences between your DNA - or mine, or anyone's - and the sequence identified in the human genome project. There are the SNPs, where a single base change can be identified; these are often significant, and are certainly the easiest things to spot. Beyond that are the changes affecting tens of bases at a time: insertions and deletions within genes; finally there are the changes which can affect relatively long strings of DNA, whole genes or stretches between genes, which may be copied or deleted in different numbers. The last of these are going to be extremely hard to spot, since the DNA must be sequenced in fragments that may be shorter than the duplications themselves. "It's a bit like one of those spot the difference things," Cox says. "If you have 1,000 copies, it's very much easier to spot the smallest differences between them."Genome me?All of the work of identifying these changes along the 3bn bases of the genome must be done in software and - since the changes involved are so rare - each fragment of every genome must be sequenced between 11 and 30 times to be sure that the differences the software finds are real and not just errors in measurement. But there's no doubt that all this will be accomplished. The project is a milestone towards genome-based medicine, in which individual patients could be sequenced as a matter of course.Once that happens, the immense volumes of data that the Sanger Institute is gearing up to handle will become commonplace. But the project is unique in that it must not just deal with huge volumes of data, but keep all of it easily accessible so different parts can quickly be compared with each other.At this point, the old sort of science is almost entirely irrelevant. "It now has come out of the labs and into the domain of informatics," Butcher says. The Sanger Institute, he says, is no longer just competing for scientists. It is about to embark on this huge Linux project just at the time that the rest of the world has discovered how reliable and useful it can be, so that they have to compete with banks and other employers for people who can manage huge clusters with large-scale distributed file systems. Perhaps the threatened recession will have one useful side effect, by freeing up programmers to work in science rather than the City.
He's famous for wind-up radios and even shoes to generate power from walking. But inventor Trevor Baylis might not have appreciated that there's power in raindrops, too. A seemingly bizarre experiment to prove it has been made by Thomas Jager, a scientist working in CEA-Leti, a laboratory in Grenoble, France.Jager's interests lie in energy scavenging: the ability to harvest energy from unusual and not very powerful sources. Like Baylis, he's relying on the piezoelectric effect to convert energy from an impact into electrical power. But unlike Baylis, who generated several watts of energy from his footsteps, Jager's device only offers a few milliwatts from raindrops hitting a piezoelectric membrane. "The idea of scavenging from raindrops is just an illustration of our activities in energy scavenging from shocks and vibrations," Jager says.Progress in microelectronics means that power consumption is down, making it possible to power some devices directly from their environment. One such application is for remote sensors to monitor equipment in the field; doing so without a power supply is handy.Using the demonstrator rig, Jager and his colleagues produced artificial raindrops of different sizes which fell on to a piezoelectric membrane 25 microns thick, made from polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) polymer mounted on acrylic glass. It converts the raindrop's mechanical energy into electrical energy, with embedded electrodes picking up the electrical charges generated by the raindrop vibrations.Jager's experiments showed that the power produced from raindrops was measured in microwatts - though a single downpour raindrop (5mm in diameter) might generate 12 milliwatts.But none of this has put Jager off. Detailed experiments helped him understand the theoretical and practical issues around the design of an energy-scavenging system. For example, he found slow-falling raindrops proved best; higher speeds lose energy due to splash."The challenge was to demonstrate that even low-power energy sources can be used to power basic sensor nodes. These ultra-low power devices can be entirely powered by energy-scavenging systems if they are operated only several times in a day or in a week," Jager says.The next step is to develop an electronic system for storing the electrical power produced from natural intermittent rainfall. Jager is even thinking of applying his prototype technology to work in air-conditioning cooling towers, where a lot of waterdrops fall, too. But it may be a while before somebody develops an umbrella to charge your mobile phone in the rain.
With even the historically carefree Fifa games joining the trend for videogame football realism, there is clearly a place for a more lighthearted soccer game. And, initially at least, Fifa Street 3 looks like it could fit the gap. The art design is a success, with some surprisingly effective caricatures - Crouch is a lanky genius, Rooney a stocky enforcer - and the controls are pick-up-and-play easy. Within seconds of kickoff you'll be doing flicks and keepie-ups before unleashing thunderbolts into the net. Overload on the trickery and you get a team boost that makes scoring a near certainty. The five-a-side action is high scoring and fast flowing, but don't expect any depth - all the emphasis on carefree attack means defending is neglected. Tackling is ineffective and you'll regularly wish for a Paul Ince-style figure to hack down a showboating opponent. Multiplayer is fun - but like the rest of Fifa Street 3, it is only worth experiencing in small doses.
Due to unexplained licensing problems, Europeans have been denied the joys of previous Katamari games - so Atari deserves kudos for rectifying the situation. For the uninitiated, a katamari is a sticky ball which you push, using only the controller's two sticks, to pick up all manner of wacky objects. As your katamari grows, you develop the ability to pick up ever-larger objects. That's pretty much it - except that you could not imagine how such simplistic gameplay could be so addictive. Bar the odd camera glitch, Beautiful Katamari is a satisfying initial foray on to the Xbox 360; and we can safely say that it is by far the most bonkers game of this year. It's surprisingly tricky and manic - you must achieve a certain katamari size within a time-limit, or else roll up, for example, only hot things until your ball of rubbish reaches a certain heat - and the psychedelic visuals and impossibly cheesy J-Pop music create an unforgettable atmosphere. Show it to someone who thinks that games are violent thug-fodder and watch them squirm.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
If you have traveled on a London bus in the past month, you might have noticed something new. Passengers on routes such as the 148, between Camberwell and Shepherd's Bush, may have noticed that each time the bus approaches a stop, a recorded voice tells them which one it is, similar to the announcements made on the tube. It seems a subtle, if slightly annoying, addition to the bus. Especially if, like most on board, you already know which stop is next.But then again, any changes to the London buses matter. They're one of the greenest, cheapest, most convenient forms of transport, knitting the metropolis together even more comprehensively than the vast tube system, stretching to the furthest reaches of the capital, right around the clock. The trouble is they rarely run to schedule, tending to bunch in convoy as if they were scared to travel alone.For a decade, controllers working in the command centre have been able to estimate where each bus is. Using analogue "band 3" radios that are part of the spectrum being phased out by the government, controllers could give passengers a good guess about how far the next bus was away. But it was just a guess.Wheel changeTransport for London (TfL), the tax-funded body responsible for public transport in the capital, is spending &pound;117m upgrading its bus fleet with a new communications system. Each bus will get a Windows-based computer, GPS unit, turn-rate sensor and speedometer to help controllers know exactly where it is. Add some complex journey algorithms and you can locate every bus to an accuracy of about 10 metres, or its distance from the nearest stop by around 10 seconds.By the summer of next year, every bus will be able to tell you which stop is next. It will not only tell you where to alight, but real-time information will be distributed to the LED signs at major bus stops. This is no mean feat in a network as vast as London's: 8,200 buses make more than 6m passenger journeys every day.The city, moreover, is planted with a forest of 19,000 bus stops, each with its own name.  The so-called iBus will announce them all, as well as the big transport hubs and tourist attractions. For example, the 36, which runs from New Cross Gate in south-east London via Paddington to Queens Park in north-west London, already signals stops such as The Old Lane, Hard Rock Cafe.The red London bus is as close to an emblem for the city as any other and one of the things that visitors most associate with the city - even if, paradoxically, it is one they are most wary of taking. Tourists and even seasoned Londoners have reservations about buses when there is no way of knowing which stop is next - unlike the tube, where the journey is easy to follow on the map.But not everyone is happy with the upgrade. Jags Minas, a bus enthusiast and blogger (route79.org/journal/), thinks passengers will become annoyed with the constant announcements. "After a while, most regular London bus passengers know exactly where their bus is at, even with their eyes closed," he says. (For visually impaired passengers, though, the announcements will be ideal.)These will be augmented with more accurate information being displayed at major stops - but you will still have to reach the bus stop to get the information. What most passengers really want is real-time information before they reach the stop - on, say, their mobile phones. Such a system already exists in the Finnish capital, Helsinki, "where standing at a bus stop is something that most want to keep to a minimum", says Kerkko Vanhanen of Helsinki City Transportation.Helsinki is roughly one-tenth the size of London, but has a public transport system that is rated the best in Europe by the European Commission (tinyurl.com/2849oo). Its latest developments give us an idea where the iBus should be heading.Every bus and tram in Helsinki and the surrounding cities of Vaanta and Espoo are being fitted with Linux servers and GPS units. Every bus and tram in the conurbation will not only become a wireless hotspot serving broadband internet throughout the vehicle - for free - but every bus and tram is visible on a Google map (the beta version is attinyurl.com/2gftso) that uses the same real-time passenger information as the controllers in their command centre.The Google map, moreover, is open, meaning that if someone wants to come and improve it or write some extra application, they are free to do so. Not only that, but every bus and tram stop in Helsinki is being fitted with small "near field information" tags that allow anyone with a Nokia cameraphone to take a snap of the tag and launch a Java application bespoke to that stop. This means that you don't have to have to take off your mittens or tap in tricky Finnish place names such as herttoniemenranta when it's -22C and you're faced with sleet's bitter sting.iBus, iPod?Sadly, we're not likely to see such an advanced system in the UK this year or next. Like so many other publicly funded data projects, proprietary software has been commissioned by a public body and the data paid for by us remains in their hands.Simon Reed, the iBus project director, is sanguine about the new system. "The priority is to get all the buses equipped, then we can start thinking about what we want to do with the real-time passenger information." TfL is about to put out a tender for a new generation of screens at bus stops, so perhaps some of the Finnish experience can be translated to London. It also has a working party looking at developing mobile applications to work off the back of iBus, as well as an upgrade of TfL's online journey planner to include real-time passenger information.This surely should be the point. What most bus passengers want is a system that shares real-time information with them. Not just at the bus stop, but on our phones, iPods, laptops and websites. They don't want to go to the bus stop to find they have to wait 15 minutes - they want to find out how far away the bus is before they step outside. Now the controllers know where the bus is, soon the passengers will want to know too. How long will they have to wait?
Because, say the plaintiffs' lawyers, it shouldn't have let PCs that could only run Vista Home Basic, the runt of the litter of Window Vista versions, describe themselves as "Vista Capable". By doing so, claim the lawyers, Microsoft "unjustly enriched itself".Now Marsha Pechman, a federal judge, has determined that all the individuals who had this complaint can band together to create a single complaint against Microsoft because, as she put it, "common issues predominate". She elucidated: "These common issues ... are whether Vista Home Basic, in truth, can fairly be called 'Vista' and whether Microsoft's 'Windows Vista Capable' marketing campaign inflated demand market-wide for 'Windows Vista Capable' PCs."Clearly the outcome will be judged on those two questions. So let's see if we can work them out, shall we?First, is Vista Home Basic truly Vista? The comparison chart, handily provided by Microsoft attinyurl.com/3843r3, shows Home Basic against its siblings - Home Premium, Business and Ultimate. It ticks just 3 of 17 boxes. (Home Premium, 13; Business, 11; Ultimate, all 17.) There's none of the collaboration features all its siblings share, nor mobility centre, nor Aero desktop, nor secondary display drivers, nor scheduled backups. Honestly, it's starting to sound more like Windows ME, actually.Next, did calling PCs capable only of running this three-legged Vista "Vista Capable" inflate demand market-wide for such PCs? If it did, then it did a fairly rubbish job of it: while 250m PCs were sold last year, best estimates suggest only 100m Vista licences were (there's no breakdown by category, though).The worst thing? Internal Microsoft emails acquired by the plaintiffs suggest unease within the company about the campaign - including Windows chief Jim Allchin writing "you guys have to do a better job with our customers". Umm, think you may be too late on that one, Jim.
I have a new most favourite piece of kit: the Neuros Technology OSD, a box that takes the Scart or component video output from your DVD or Sky/Sky+/Freeview box or video recorder and can record their output on to a USB or network drive, and play back all sorts of video or audio content from USB or network drives to a TV. And you can schedule it to record from those sources too while it outputs to a TV.Wait, you might say - did I say it takes the output from a DVD and puts it on a USB stick or drive? Yes, I did: it creates an MPEG-4 file, about 1GB per hour at its best resolution (640x480). That's DVDs you're playing in your DVD player. (Or, feasibly, someone else's DVDs in your DVD player.) Personally, I found it good for rescuing VHS videos that would otherwise just be junked (including baby videos, so no copyright harm there) for transfer to a digital-friendly format.Since you can already record stuff from your Freeview box using a DVD recorder, this is hardly pushing the boundaries of criminality. There seems to be a rash of such devices: I tried a similar thing from Pinnacle, but it doesn't have an output, so you can't play back, nor see what you're recording on screen. Meanwhile Archos has released its TV+, which has inbuilt storage (the OSD has none) and appears to do much the same job, though I haven't tested it.The OSD runs on Linux, though that's the least interesting thing about it. The interesting things are its attractive smoky interface, which is overlaid on whatever TV signal is playing through it (so that you can decide when to start recording); that it can handle pretty much any of the alphabet soup of video formats; that it has a UPnP (universal plug and play) browser so it can find content anywhere on your home network; that its (frequent) firmware updates from neurostechnology.com can be done with a couple of button presses; and that you can fast-forward or rewind even through content being streamed off a networked hard drive. (They're excellent for storing your films and music.) It'll also stream music if you've got a shared library.There are bugs: it would lock up on "rewinding" a video file (yanking the power was the only solution), and one could wish for higher resolution; also, it won't do HD signals. Even so, 640x480 is surprisingly good, even on a 32" screen. The &pound;150 price tag might itch, but I think it has a big future.The only mystery that remains is what "OSD" stands for. Organise, store, demonstrate? Overarching strategy domination? Beats me.Pros: Simple, good UI, network awareCons: Software bugs, no HDipodworld.co.uk
The Sims Online may have survivedinfamy, but it couldn't stand in the face ofapathy. And so, when it became clear to Electronic Arts that the online game was hemorrhaging players, they pulled the proverbial plug. The remaining faithful tugged up their virtual world bootstraps and moved on, many to Second Life, and re-established their communities in another world.But through the pipeline, word has it that TSO is to be relaunched asEA-Land, with features that drag it into the current internet marketplace: new social networking facilities (already a strong-point in the original game), user-generated content, a new economy and faster bandwidth. And this isn't a fan-developed project, it comes from the bowels of Maxis/EA.Most exciting are their web integration features - a key next stage in the virtual worlds landscape. From theirwebsite:The internet has changed so much since the launch of The Sims Online in December 2002, we had to change the way we think about online games. We have opened the access to most of the in game information to the internet through web services. For example this enables you to add Google or Yahoo widgets to your computer (or iPhone!) and see if your favorite lots or friends are online.We are providing you with privacy settings so you can decide if or which of your avatar will broadcast what information to the internet. Sims User web sites are already using this feature to create some amazing community sites. We also builtavatarbook, to show how that information can be seen and connected to social web sites like Facebook.Original TSO players can re-launch their accounts and settle back into their homesteads, already merged into EA-Land. And all this for free. Is this the future?
In parts of Africa it is not uncommon to see children playing on a merry-go-round near their schools. They are not just enjoying themselves, but are also helping to pump water: the energy created pumps clean water into a 2,500 litre tank at the rate of 1,400 litres an hour. This imaginative scheme, which has a website (playpumps.org) enabling people to see where the pumps are located, is a good example of appropriate technology. Given that water-related diseases are reckoned to be responsible for up to 80% of all sickness in the world, such projects could have a disproportionate effect on health. A thousand have been installed and Playpumps hopes to quadruple this by 2010 - though one wonders how they get children to play there long enough to make it work.This is but one example of a surge of social entrepreneurship, albeit on a modest scale, that is happening on the web. It has coincided with the first signs of satiation with conventional social sites such as Facebook and MySpace, as reflected in last week's Nielsen statistics. The web is a great place for collaboration among people around the world pooling their skills for the public good. The problem is that ventures don't suddenly happen; there always has to be someone behind them to act as a catalyst. Enter the social entrepreneurs, who get things done.An interesting new site,UnLtdWorld.com, aims to be a kind of Facebook for social entrepreneurs, only more focused. It is being launched next week in public beta form but Alberto Nardelli, whose idea it was, claims it already has around 1,500 users, of which a third log in every day. It is intended to help would-be social entrepreneurs launch their ideas as well as to provide a network for existing ones to expand their horizons. It is an offspring of UnLtd which has access to an endowment of &pound;100m from the Millennium Awards Trust to help socially useful services such assliversoftime.com, which links people with spare hours to local employers looking for part-time workers on a flexible basis.Among other social initiatives worth looking at aregreenknickers.org(which produces environmentally friendly underwear),mozzocoffee.comandetsy.com, a kind of small-community eBay, helping anyone in the world to sell handmade products to anyone else. It offers online classes and a geolocator to show where in the world the product is being sold.Superfuture.comhas thousands of "brutally honest" reviews of trendy shops, designs and music in 150 "supercities". And mindful that it takes 10,000 litres of water to make a new cotton shirt,re-shirt.netrecycles old ones - adding in a bit of the history of previous owners.The undisputed pacesetter in social entreprenueurship is Grameen Bank's microcredit experiments, driven by Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus, a Bangladeshi economist. It has extended microloans to the very poor without collateral and with very few defaults. Now others are springing up. One of the big philanthropic capitalist models isacumenfund.org, which is planning a $100m (&pound;50m) fund to bring services such as water, health, housing and energy "at affordable prices to people earning less than $4 a day".The key is providing loans or equity capital, but not grants, on the grounds that providing the means for people to help themselves is better in the long run than relying on charity alone. All profits are recycled.NextBillion.nettries to identify and discuss sustainable business models that address the needs of the world's poorest citizens. They were joined last week by the charitable offshoots of George Soros, Google and eBay founder Pierre Omidyar which have set up a $17m foundation to invest in Indian start-ups.There has been a lot of progress in encouraging social entrepreneurs. But it remains one of the biggest sources of human potential on the planet that will have to be increasingly tapped if economic growth is to be maintained in a post-industrial age.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Apple has sent out invitations to, oh, all the right people inviting them to an event in Cupertino next Wednesday. The invitation showsSDK(black lettering on a white diamond shape, which theUS highway signing systemseems to suggest means "regulation"),Enterprise(blue, white arrow: "rest areas, food, fuel, hospitals, and lodging") andSoftware Update(green, white lettering: "informational signs, such as directions, distances, and places").Possibly we're reading too much into the choice of signage, of course.So we can probably deduce that it's telling us there is going to be an iPhone SDK, which we sort of knew already. Many are guessing that the Enterprise side will be some sort of native support for Microsoft's Exchange servers (presently the iPhone only does IMAP). As for "software update", well, dunno.What's interesting, though, is that (besides missing its target for the SDK by a week, which implies that either Apple's software team are still being stretched thin by doing both Mac OSX and the iPhone's OSX or that they ran into some last-minute bugs, or that software doesn't respect deadlines) I've never before seen Apple offer aroadmapto something. Companies like Microsoft do it all the time, but Apple? No,itprefers to keep things secret. Which is why we're reduced to seeing what little clues in the invitation suggest. It's like being inLost, I tell ya.Am I wrong? Has Apple done this ever before?
Last week, Microsoft took several games created usingXNA Game Studioand put them on Xbox Live Arcade, making community-developed projects available to console users for the first time. In mycolumnfor the Technology section today, I take a quick look at Microsoft's motives for promoting XNA development, and its plans for a community-based download service, due to premier later this year.For the article, I interviewed several programmers behind the XNA games uploaded to Xbox Live Arcade last week. They gave me some great insights into the development process - most of which I couldn't squeeze into the column. So I'm putting the interviews on Gamesblog.Meet'Walaber', developer of JellyCar,Brian Cable, responsible for Proximity HD,James Silvaof The Dishwasher: Dead Samurai fame and Jeff Pobst and Michael Austin ofHidden Path Entertainment, creators of Culture.And here's the first part of our XNA chat...When did you start working on your XNA game? And how many programmers were involved?Walaber: I did all of the development on JellyCar myself. I started working on the physics for the squishy objects last August, and work on JellyCar began the following month. All in all, the entire project took about 2 months, in my spare time of course.Brian: I came up with the concept, the art and game design, the music, and the programming. I did have some help in the form of feedback from friends of mine, though, and a couple of ideas used in the game came from suggestions by others, but otherwise, just me.James: I started work on "The Dishwasher: Dead Samurai" about a year ago, setting out to create a prototype for theDream Build Playcontest. I had the contest-winning prototype done in four months, and I've been working on fleshing out and polishing it since then. All said and done, I've been working on "The Dishwasher" for a year now. It's still a one-man production.Jeff: Culture evolved from the very first XNA demo shown at GDC in 2006. In fact, the new Culture demo (that you can download today) was actually completed by our team in August of 2006. Microsoft originally approached us in February of 2006 to help them show off the XNA technology at GDC - four weeks later. We quickly designed and developed the flower demo that was shown at the conference and then a couple months later, Microsoft asked us to take around 10 weeks and upgrade the original demo to the one you can now download with three trial game modes.Frank Savage on the internal Microsoft XNA team recently modified the underlying technology in the game to work with the current XNA framework rather than the version of XNA that we used in 2006, but otherwise the demo is very similar to the one we originally delivered. There are a few upgrades and adjustments we look forward to addressing as we hope to spend more time on it again and make it a more complete experience in the future.What's the XNA package like to work with?Walaber: XNA Game Studio is a little different than other SDKs that I've used, as it is based on the managed C# language, whereas most of my previous game development had been done in C++. Besides that difference, however, I've found the SDK to work great, and really allow for rapid prototyping and iteration of ideas. I've actually really come to like C# as well, it's a very hassle-free language for getting stuff up and running quickly.Brian: XNA is incredibly easy to work with. It does take some initial effort to understand what each function and class can handle, but that's true of any language and with XNA there's already several comprehensive books out there as well as a website run by Microsoft with atutorialsand source code that cover everything you would need to get several different types of games up and running using their software. And on top of that, it also has a very active forum community which is very capable of answering any questions you have.James: The XNA framework has been awesome for a couple of reasons; the biggest thing for me has been that it allows independent developers with essentially no budget ($50 will do) the ability to deploy games on a retail console - something that was absolutely impossible in every previous console generations. But besides this, XNA is an awesome framework: it sets you up with all sorts of great tools and bits of functionality that let the developer focus on making a game.Michael: XNA is very easy to work with. I'd never worked with C# before we started the demo (I've been a C++ guy). After how easy it was to use and seeing the level of support MS provides in its framework, we use it internally for most of our tools now.Did you get any support from Microsoft at all?Walaber: Not directly, but the XNA team at Microsoft runs acommunity site, and the forums and sample code on that site were very helpful. Also surprisingly the documentation for the SDK itself is actually quite detailed and useful for learning about the central concepts.Brian: For the XNA Community Games release Microsoft did provide some feedback and testing, and they've provided me with an opportunity to get the game out in front of more people, but other than that not particularly. But then again I never needed to ask them for anything either, as XNA is so straightforward for me.James: Microsoft's been really great to me - they brought me to GDC, put me on stage during the keynote, and even made an awesome short film about me. I've been hanging out with the XNA team a bit this week and it's been really neat - I love XNA and they love The Dishwasher!In terms of technical support, I really haven't needed any. There are a ton of resources online to get anyone up to speed on XNA features, but usually working with the framework is intuitive enough that I can just figure it out on my own.Jeff: For Culture, we very much were supported by Microsoft as they paid for the development of both demos and provided great communication and support for our team as we quickly developed the projects. They have been great to work with and we spent a lot of time with the early versions of XNA and were able to provide some feedback at that time. XNA has come a long way since that early start and has quite an impressive feature set now.What sort of technical restrictions are placed on XNA developers? Are there things you'd like to have done that the dev platform won't allow?Walaber: Well, the choice to go with C# brings with it some performance issues (particularly on the Xbox 360), which required me to do more optimization of my code than I would have initially expected, considering that the Xbox 360 is so powerful. Hopefully future versions of XNA will improve some of these performance issues.Brian: From what I hear, XNA is not quite as powerful as a graphics engine developed internally, but I'm just one person, not a company, and even if I spent several years perfecting a graphics engine the industry and XNA itself will likely have leaped ahead of me anyway, and I'd constantly be playing catch-up with my engine and not focusing on actually making games, which is much more fun and interesting to me anyway.Also there's no achievements, leaderboard support, or the camera support, and I don't think you have full access to Xbox LIVE multiplayer either, but I haven't looked too much into that yet. Achievements are understandable, though, or else you'd have everyone spamming five second non-games and releasing them to the service giving whoever played them max achievements instantly anyway. But of course, I would like access to all of these features, which is why I would love to someday release the game through XBLA.James: C# does slightly underperform versus native code. Personally, I'd rather be coding in C#, because I'm a rotten C++ coder. If I were in charge of things, I would market XNA with the tagline "XNA: Giving Hope to Rotten Coders."Michael: There are some features (pointers, etc) turned off for security reasons, and while managed code can be convenient to use, it does run more slowly. For instance, every time you access a variable in an array, C# has to validate the index. In C++ there are no handrails, so you can shoot yourself in the foot, but it's generally faster. The nice thing is that more and more heavy lifting is done by the GPU, and so the impact of using a managed language is less than it has been in the past.Part two - coming soon...
Because it's a big market that, surprisingly, makes less use of IT than other industries of comparable size. Google has just announced its move into the market, codenamed "Weaver", saying that "health information should be easier to access and organise, especially in ways that make it as simple as possible to find the information that is most relevant to a specific patient's needs".Talk to anyone in the business of providing healthcare and you'll hear the same story: demographics are going to send healthcare costs through the hole in the ozone layer. As the demographic bulge of the baby boom reaches retirement age, many more people are living longer with chronic diseases.There's a final trend that IT companies are noticing: although healthcare is an information-intensive industry, it has been slow to adopt IT systems. Despite the headlines about the NHS's massive IT project, many or most parts of healthcare are still paper-based. Roll all these trends together, and healthcare providers from insurance companies to governments are trying to figure out ways to make delivering healthcare more efficient.Ten years ago, doctors began complaining that patients were arriving in their surgeries primed with research information and demanding treatments they'd read about online. But now, part of making healthcare more efficient and cost-effective is getting patients involved in managing their own care. This is where companies like Microsoft and Google come in, at least in the US: both companies hope to offer individuals a way to manage their own health records rather than leave doctors, hospitals or insurers in charge of them. Google announced a lengthy list of new health advisors last August; Microsoft's service has already begun accepting signups athealthvault.com.Besides offering a way to store personal medical information so it can be accessed from anywhere, HealthVault can download data from a variety of home medical devices such as glucose monitors and blood pressure testers. In theory, the idea is first to put the patient in control - you choose which professionals get to see your data; and second to enable better remote monitoring to cut down on the number of office visits and hospital emergencies.Whether people will really be willing to trust these most intimate details to the hands of these two huge corporations is an unknown. But mobility and longer lives means that a patient's medical record may be left behind when they move away, to be expunged some years later. It's entirely possible to find, in your 50s, that you have no accessible medical history and no idea when you were vaccinated or against what. And two companies with some of the biggest search engines could never bear to see that. One day, perhaps you will be able to search for your medical records online - and be confident that only you or the relevant doctor will be able to view them. Stay tuned.
Which key is Ctrl-Alt-Del in?A wonderful music video made entirely from alert and other noises from Windows XP and 98. It's as though the composer Steve Reich were trapped inside your PC. (Thanks, ceeyewenty.)Phone home so we can zap youDescribed as the worst game in the world, ET on the Atari 2600 really did redefine "dire". Imagine: there was a time when this was the sort of thing you hoped to find under the Christmas tree.Do you think I'm 010010011?Robots can't act - as this re-enactment of the "funny guy" scene from Goodfellas by robot voices shows. Me, laughing? (If you want to see the original scene, it's linked from the video on the site.)Got a favourite technology or games video you've found? Tell us in the comments!
The Home Office has launched an investigation into how an optical disc holding confidential information was discovered hidden beneath the keyboard of a laptop bought on the online auction site eBay.The disc was found by technicians when the computer was taken into a small IT repair company for service.The laptop had been bought on eBay and taken to Leapfrog Computer repairs in Westhoughton, near Bolton, Greater Manchester, on Tuesday morning.An engineer took the notebook apart and found a disc marked "Home Office Confidential" hidden beneath the keyboard. Lee Bevan, the managing director of LeapFrog Computers, said: "This seemed like just another IT repair ... the customer said he had bought it on eBay and seemed quite innocent. It was just an ordinary laptop and it was only when we opened up the keyboard that we found the disc - it had the words Home Office and Confidential written on it."The disc appeared to be hidden deliberately underneath the keyboard. We put the disc in the drive to see what it was, but it was encrypted."As soon as I saw it belonged to the Home Office I placed it in the company safe and called the police. Luckily, it has ended up in the right hands. The police were here most of the day examining the laptop and the disc."A Home Office spokesman last night said that both the disc and the laptop were encrypted, suggesting that the computer also belonged to the department, although police have not confirmed this. He would not comment on how the laptop may have gone missing, nor on the type of information held on the disc.The spokesman said: "We understand that encrypted IT equipment has been handed to Greater Manchester police. Both the laptop and the disc were encrypted, thus safeguarding any information that might be stored on them. Investigations are now under way. It would be inappropriate to comment further while they are ongoing."A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police said: "A laptop has been recovered. Inquiries are continuing."The missing laptop and disc will be a further embarrassment to the government which has had to deal with a number of departments losing confidential information.The personal details of 25 million child benefit claimants were lost when two compact discs containing the bank details and addresses of 9.5 million parents and the names, dates of birth and national insurance numbers of all 15.5 million children vanished after a junior employee of HM Revenue and Customs put them in the post, unrecorded and unregistered.That was followed by the loss of thousands of learner drivers' details by a DVLA contractor, and at least 168,000 patients were affected by NHS trusts' loss of data.
I have built up a long list of carefully organised bookmarks in Firefox and Internet Explorer. In terms of sheer time and effort, this is now one of the most valuable bits of data on my computer. How can I back it up?Paul SoferThe simplest way to back up bookmarks is to export them to a file held in web format (html) on your hard drive, which you can then copy to external storage. In Internet Explorer, go to File, choose Import and Export, then follow directions to create a file called bookmark.htm (unless you change the name). In Firefox, go to the Bookmark Manager, click the file tab and select Export to create a file called bookmarks.html. If you double-click either file it will load into your browser and provide a set of clickable links. You could set the bookmark file as your home page to get fast access to your links.An alternative for large numbers of bookmarks is to use a separate bookmark manager to collect, sort and test links. There used to be a lot of these, and you could pick one fromFileheap.com. Most are not free, but you could trydotBookmark. Today, it's more common to use an online bookmark site so that you can access your links from any PC. The old faithfuls includeBackflipandLinkaGoGo. However, the Delicious social bookmarking service is probably now the leading example (http://del.icio.us/), andFurlis also worth a look. I find them a bit tedious for everyday use, but they're fantastic when you're stuck in some out-of-the way office or cybercafe.Backchat: Richard Hancock says: "I simply include my Favorites folder as part of my normal weekly backup of essential data to CD-RW." There's a separate link file on your hard drive for each IE bookmark. You can find them by running Windows Explorer, selecting C:, pressing F3 and searching for Favorites; you will usually want the folder that has a star icon. This does not, of course, back up Firefox bookmarks.Mark Riley and Roberto Tavoni recommendFoxmarks, a Firefox add-on. Mark says: "When I bookmark a site, the plugin stores the change on a Foxmarks server and synchronises with my other computers the next time I switch them on."
I have neither a TV set nor a TV licence. But I do have a web-connected PC that can get live television. Am I a criminal?Peter ScottTheTV licensing websitesays: "You need a TV Licence to use any television receiving equipment such as a TV set, digital box, DVD or video recorder, PC, laptop or mobile phone to watch or record television programmes as they're being shown on TV". The emphasis appears to be on "use" where the Communications Act 2003 mentions "the installation and use". Certainlythe BBC's adviceis that "you are free to watch archived programmes or downloadable clips without a licence," so you should be OK as long as you don't use your PC to watch or record live TV from any station broadcasting within the UK. If the authorities intended to take a tougher line, I'd expect them to require retailers to provide details of anyone who buys a PC, games console, multimedia phone, MP3 player, digital camera, fridge or other device with a display screen and a web browser.
Should someone with a pacemaker use a laptop with a Wi-Fi connection on their lap?Jack FreemanThat's a good question for your doctor, and I'm not one. However, someone at the Mayo Clinic in the US tested "cardiac devices" against an iPaq Pocket PC fitted with a Cisco Aironet wireless card, andYour Total Healthreports that "the PDAs were proven safe".Since Wi-Fi networks operate at very low power levels in a public waveband (it's also used for radio-controlled model cars, cordless phones and so on), I would not expect any significant risks, or else I would expect a warning from the American Heart Association. Its page onpacemakersdoesn't warn against Wi-Fi.
I would like to create PDF files from Microsoft Office documents. Should I feel guilty about using freeware, rather buying something from Adobe? If not, which freeware would you recommend?Stephen ChownsI would never feel guilty about using good freeware, especially if it's open source. In this case, I recommend Microsoft's freeSave as PDFadd-in for Office 2007, if only because Adobe threw a hissy fit to stop Microsoft from including it as standard: you now have to download it separately. If you don't have Office 2007, there are lots of free programs to create PDF files. The leading contenders appear to bePDF995(pop-up-ware),Go2PDFandPDFCreator.Backchat: Mike Dodds says: "Foxit Reader 2.2 for Windowsdoes the trick. It says 'evaluation only' when conversion is complete, but so far there is no prompt for purchase."
