Aimster, more recently known as Madster, is to fall silent in the next few days after a court ruling in the US went quite resoundingly against it. Like file-swapping pioneer Napster, Madster failed to persuade a judge that there was nothing they could do about those pesky users were breaking the law on its service. Indeed, the case couldn't have gone much worse for Madster. "[The] defendants manage to do everything but actually steal the music off the store shelf and hand it to Aimster's users," wrote Judge Marvin Aspen in his findings, reportsCNET News.com.
...is nowonline, including Ben Hammersley's guide to making your own movie on nothing more than a camcorder and a home computer, a roundup of the fun and games at the ECTS show last week, and my review of Apple's OSX 10.2.
The chair of last night's e-democracy seminar in Westminster ironically dubbed it the "world's first meeting to debate a government's e-government consultation paper".Such tongue-in-cheek bravado masks a certain frustration with the government's cagey and delayed foray into the world of e-politics, but also an acknowledgement that the external "experts" - those people from the worlds of computing, e-commerce and the online media - seem to have little clearer idea of the future of politics on the web than the politicians.Or rather, little more agreement. When the panel gave way to questions from the floor, the debate among the UK's leading opinion formers on e-democracy wobbled from esoteric futurology, dire warnings of hacked or bought elections, to disagreement on the importance of e-voting and the role of the media.The debate was kickstarted by the webhead and controversialist Bill Thompson, a self-confessed "Cambridge geek", who forced participants onto the backfoot by asking: "How would things be worse without any e-democracy proposals?", before throwing another grenade into the mix by insisting that "e-voting can never be secure".Representing the media, at least the state funded sector of it, the BBC's Sian Kevill saw interactive platforms as a way for greater democratic participation, although not necessarily voting, through the e-communities that the web creates and empowers. It is also a young people's medium (75% of BBC online users are under 45, compared with just 37% of BBC TV viewers) - an area in which politics has failed. For Ms Kevill, people were still politicised on issues, and the web was an excellent information resource, but the government was currently not constituted to receive mass participation.Demos director Tom Bentley quoted the American novelist and social futurologist Nathanial Hawthorne on the impact of electricity, with Mr Bentley himself predicting a future where a "electronic collective will" could replace parliament as a proxy democracy.Peter Livesey and Mark Rickard, as career civil servants, excused themselves from contributing directly on the debate, but insisted they were present to listen to contributions - their main concern being whether e-democracy was a force for "hiving off or joining up" the democratic process per se.Stephen Coleman, of the Hansard society and the London School of Economics, reminded participants that e-democracy was not a government project, but a government reaction to the internet itself - an important distinction, backed up with a warning that e-participation should not be seen as a salve for the democratic crisis in the real world.It does, however, blur the boundaries between the receiver and producer of politics, and creates a unique interactivity. He expressed the hope that the e-participation broke the cultural stereotype of "busybodies".Peter Kellner, the director of internet pollster YouGov and political columnist for the Evening Standard, envisaged a future 25 years hence where at 10pm on election night the entire national result was flashed up instantaneously - a mixed blessing - especially combined with the dangers of governance turning into one long electronic focus-group referendum. If that was the future, he wondered, who or how do you kick out the notional "rulers" if things go wrong?Representative democracy needed "stickiness", he insisted, a sort of "settle will", both in terms of choice and information.An American questioner from the floor raised the power of weblogs, one of which was responsible, he claimed, for the ousting of outspoken Georgia congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, despite the generally supportive state media. Another participant highlighted the stand of Marc Strassman, who is running for mayor of Los Angeles on a platform of continuous e-referendums.Former e-envoy Alex Allan also worried that e-polling came close to the dreaded focus group, and that e-participation could come close to spinning.Other contributors pointed out that the modernisation of parliament and democracy in general did not necessarily have to be restricted to the web - the mere use of call centres for local authorities to deliver services was a part of a multi-channel future. Others agreed that dubbing the politics/technology interface "e-government" was ridiculous and misleading.An interesting innovation on e-voting could be achieved by having electronic addresses by candidates, in addition to online manifestos and policy positions - giving voters more information immediately prior to voting.However, Ken Ritchie of the electoral reform society, worried that voting online could see people selling their vote, or hackers corrupting elections "for the hell of it."He also warned that involving outside private organisations to run e-voting would see companies making profits out of the democratic process.Perhaps on a related note, YouGov's Stephan Shakespeare complained that the software procurement systems for e-voting were too closed.Conversely, the Industrial Society's James Crabtree wondered if the public would trust the government to run truly "independent" discussion forums, while the BBC's Ms Kevill rejected suggestions that media organisations should run online participation on behalf of the government.An illustration, even among the professionals, of the gap between rhetoric and reality was given when a hand vote revealed that of the 60 or so people present, only four had ever contributed to the citizenspace section onwww.ukonline.gov.uk- but at least 15 participants had never heard of it.
The entry deadline will pass tomorrow (September 6) in the Guardian's search for the Great British Blog.Thankyou to the hundreds of British webloggers who have entered in the hope of winning &#163;1000, or a runners-up prize of &#163;100.The winners will be announced on Thursday 19 September. You can find details atwww.guardian.co.uk/weblog/bestbritishblog.
Repressive regimes fear little so much as mockery and derision, and so maybe the Chinese government's apparent decision this week to block the internet search engine Google had something to do with the 14th result it throws up when you search for the name of that country's president. It is an interactive, animated game called Slap The Evil Dictator Jiang Zemin, and for China's 46 million internet users, it just became a little harder to track down.With an important congress of the Chinese communist party scheduled for November, Beijing's crackdown on dissent - and especially on the banned and persecuted spiritual movement, Falun Gong - hardly came as a surprise. But targeting Google did. The company released a statement explaining that it was "currently... working with Chinese authorities to resolve the issue". It was phrased in the bland language of international diplomacy, but it failed to address the most obvious question: what was a search engine doing conducting international diplomacy in the first place? And how, exactly, did a Californian firm founded by a couple of university dropouts, using old doors for office furniture, wind up striking panic into the core of an authoritarian world power?The answer is not immediately clear to those who visit Google's headquarters in the Silicon Valley city of Mountain View. Everything about it is a near-perfect incarnation of new-economy stereotypes: the multi-coloured rubber exercise balls rolling around the floor, the table football   and the video games, the plentiful bagels and smoothies, the massage room, the roller-hockey games in the car park and the food cooked by the Grateful Dead's former chef. Famously, a scrolling display in the reception area is updated, second by second, with phrases that users are searching - "Googling" - for. The office even has the required cute-but-also-nerdy nickname, the Googleplex. For an internet company in late 2002, there is only one really strange thing about it. It's still there.The internet bubble may be an embarrassing memory today, but Google - which started out as just as speculatively as any other web firm - has rapidly achieved monolithic status on the web. Though it has never paid for advertising, word of mouth has made it, by far, the world's most popular search engine, with more than 150 million searches a day. Two billion web pages are indexed on its servers, and users can search in 66 languages. Former competitors - AltaVista, Yahoo, Lycos, Excite - have fallen by the wayside, locked in desperate attempts to reinvent themselves. It has spawned a dedicated, self-appointed watchdog site, Google-watch.org.Veteran web users nostalgic for the old, pre-commercial days of the internet love its spare, white search screen and its refusal to follow its rivals by branching out into lonely hearts adverts, or travel services, or online car dealerships. And yet, simultaneously, it makes plenty of money - it pulled in an estimated $65m last year, in advertising and in selling its searches to other websites, including AOL. "There is this core techie audience, and they love what the web used to be, and they like Google because it's clean and fast," says Danny Sullivan, proprietor of the respected news website SearchEngineWatch.com. "But I suspect that the majority don't go there because it's fun. They go there because it gives them the answers that they're looking for."Like the recipe for Coca-Cola, the precise mathematical formulas that Google uses to sort and sift through the billions of pages on the web - most of them profoundly irrelevant to anyone searching for any of the words they contain - are jealously guarded secrets, but the basic principle is not. It came to the company's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, when they were computer science students at Stanford University in the mid-90s: instead of just cataloguing web pages according to the number of times that a word or phrase appears on them, Google ranks pages depending on how many other pages on the web link to them."Google interprets a link from page A to page B as a vote, by page A, for page B," the company says. "But Google looks at more than the sheer volume of votes, or links that a page receives: it also analyses the page that casts the vote. Votes cast by pages that are themselves 'important' weigh more heavily and help to make other pages 'important'." It is a "uniquely democratic" method, Google claims, making it easiest to find pages other people have declared worth finding.Andy Bechtolsheim, a founder of the software giant Sun Microsystems, was impressed. "We met him very early one morning on the porch of a Stanford faculty member's home in Palo Alto," Brin recalls. "We gave him a quick demo. He had to run off somewhere, so he said, instead of us discussing all the details, why don't I just write you a cheque? It was made out to Google Inc, and was for $100,000."The legendary science-fiction writer H G Wells spent much of 1937 travelling around the United States and Australia promoting a scheme that was pretty eccentric even by his accommodating standards. His "World Brain", he told lecture halls filled with thousands of people, would be an utterly new kind of organisation - a "social organ", he called it - that would be nothing less than a vast repository containing every piece of knowledge in the world. The details were a bit vague, but in short, the World Brain, freely accessible to everyone, would eliminate the ignorance that sustains tyranny and thus liberates humanity."It is only &#91;in&#93; such a permanent organisation of knowledge, systematically assembled," he wrote, "continually extended and renewed and made freely and easily accessible to everyone, that there is the slightest hope of our species meeting the serried challenges of destiny that are advancing upon it." The audience response was good, but nothing practical happened. Until Google, anyway.Google knows things. Not only does it index more of the web than any of its competitors, offering makeshift translations of pages between languages - it remembers, too. The company archives millions of web pages on its own computers, giving them a life beyond their creators, which provides another potential motive for the Chinese block: even if the computer hosting a   Falun Gong website is seized and destroyed, the page persists in Google's collective memory. In 2001, Google bought the rights to thousands of old postings on the Usenet system on online message boards. They are now catalogued on its database, and your past obsessions with Dungeons and Dragons or ornithology cannot be erased. For a while in the late 1990s, the practice of running searches on potential romantic dates became known as "Googling".As it has grown, the site has harnessed its searching formulas to develop other skills that can seem almost sinister. Type in a person's name and a US city, and Google will assume that you might want a phone number, so it will search its directory of phonebooks. Go to labs.google.com /sets, and enter two or three items in a list - "orange, banana, pineapple", say - and it will come up with tens of other items: "apple, strawberry, grape..." without being told that you are looking for fruit. During the last US presidential campaign, the first result in a search on the words "dumb motherfucker" was an online store of pro-Bush merchandise, but that was a mistake.As the engine has become celebrated for taking users directly to the information they want, though, a question has emerged in the minds of internet entrepreneurs who are no longer the recipients of millions of easy dollars: could it be manipulated for much-needed profit? One of Google's advantages has always been its refusal to sell placements in its rankings to the highest bidder, but the PageRank system, some argue, has its loopholes. Because Google measures how many pages link to a site, what if you set up thousands of web pages solely for the purpose of linking to one commercial site?Some have accused Bob Massa, proprietor of a "search optimisation" service called Searchking, of doing just that. "All I want is for webmasters with small sites to get rewarded fairly," he says. "This is a chance to see that those guys get visitors and put up good content. Google wants good content. I can't see any problem."Others have criticised Google for caving in too swiftly to threats from the likes of the Church of Scientology, which demanded that it remove from its index links to an anti-Scientology website, Operation Clambake (www.xenu.net).  The Scientologists said the site was breaching copyright. (Operation Clambake suspects that the organisation is more worried by its publishing of what it says is a secret document known only to senior Scientologists, in which founder L Ron Hubbard is said to describe how an alien galactic ruler called Xenu is the root of all human woe.) Now, where links have been removed, Google appends a note informing searchers that some results are missing.Daniel Brandt, who runs Google-watch.org, argues strenuously that Google's "crawlers" - software which creeps daily through the web to monitor and catalogue new and changing websites - are prejudiced in favour of larger sites, and that Google is now so powerful that it should be regulated like a public utility company. (He has a vested interest: his own political site, atwww.pir.org, shows up poorly in Google searches.) Still others allege that Google has given low page-rankings to those it wishes to persuade to buy advertising, a charge the company denies."There is this obsession with Google now," says Danny Sullivan, at SearchEngineWatch. "But you can go to other sites - to Teoma.com, to Alltheweb.com - and you can get similar results. Google is a leading way to search, but its competitors are not dogs. They can connect people to subversive information in China just as well as Google can." Or maybe even better, depending on what you're looking for. On Alltheweb.com, Slap The Evil Dictator Jiang Zemin comes out fifth.
It's 90 minutes until your dinner party and you have a frozen chicken demanding intensive care. The last thing you want to do is surf the web. Yet cookery has found its own little online niche and the results are tastier than you might suspect.Quality cookery sites may still be few and far between, but the best ones have been around for a while and have used that experience wisely to improve the browsing experience. Raymond Blanc made the decision to enter cyberspace nearly four years ago, demonstrating the same level of commitment that helped his restaurant,Le Manoir aux Quat' Saisons, gain its coveted second Michelin star."We were one of the first," he boasts, "and from the start, we wanted the website to concentrate on the whole Manoir experience: the restaurant, the cooking school and the recipes. It's fantastic. I know that sounds arrogant, but I'm French - what do you expect?"Another early adopter wasDelia Smith, has been amply praised in the 18 months   since it opened and incorporates a useful search engine. So if, for instance, you find the fridge empty apart from a few olives, a mushroom and a tin of anchovies, typing in those ingredients will quickly rustle up both "spaghetti with anchovies, mushrooms and olives" and "four seasons pizza". In fact, Michael Winn Jones, Smith's husband and chairman of their design company, New Crane, says she uses it herself for convenience."She always said she had too many recipes and never remembered where she put them. Now she knows," he jokes. "We tried to make the site as deep as possible, so a recipe leads to a technique or a tip, which leads to the tools you might need. It seems to be working. When we started, people we're staying online perhaps five to seven minutes, now it's more like 15."This is not to say every celebrity chef has taken to the web with equal panache.Rick Stein'swebsite  unashamedly promotes his seafood restaurants rather than sharing recipes, whereasKen Homseems more concerned with flogging you a wok than imparting his skills.Meanwhile,Jamie Oliverhas recently relaunched his site, inevitably stuffed with Jamieisms (there's a game called Pukkatron VI and a merchandise section entitled "a nice bit of clobber"), but it offers only a handful of seasonal dishes.BBCi's cookery pagesboast a broader selection of recipes and benefits from the largest stable of recognised names.But is it foolish generosity for the likes of Smith and Blanc to be giving away thousands of their best ideas online?"You lose some, you gain some," says Blanc. "I keep the recipes for about a year and then release them online. It's all about profile and awareness. It used to cost us about &#163;1.20 to produce a brochure and we were sending out 5-10,000 at a time. Now it costs next to nothing. It's an excellent marketing tool."Smith is also looking to the future. Already boasting some 100,000 subscribers, she was recently revealed as   the sole cookery partner for BT's new Broadband Direct service, and is known to be looking at their micro-payment scheme Click and Buy. Whether this will compensate for the industry-wide slump in advertising remains to be seen, but paid-for content is certainly on the cards."Now that the hard work has been done, we're always looking at ways to expand the site," adds Winn Jones, "and we've learned the hard way in terms of costs and returns. We got into the web business when expectations were incredibly high. Advertising rates are now a fraction of what they were two years ago. But &#91;paid-for-content&#93; was always the next logical step for us."Celebrity aside, cooks continue to share recipes in much the same way our parents did, albeit more quickly.Recipelinkis a community of thousands of gifted amateurs, with plenty of dishes and links, modestly laid out with little in the way of photographs, although this does make them cheaper and quicker to print out.Newsgroups such as rec.food.cooking continue their support, although finding a particular recipe on a bulletin board is rarely easy, and I found myself balking at their latest suggestion, Cod and Worms. Call me fussy, but even my dinner guests deserve better than that.
One of the main objections to identity cards, whatever the technology, is that they will inevitably lead to a Big Brother society. Luckily for civil libertarians, the goverment will be in charge. How, exactly?The history of major public sector IT projects in the UK is awful. The Child Support Agency is currently in the spotlight: it has written off a couple of billion in revenue that it was never going to collect and its new computer system is months late and &#163;50m over budget.Now    there's nothing new about IT projects going off the rails in the private sector either - and many of the most disastrous government IT projects are much bigger than projects in the private sector - but there seem to be some particular problems with the government procurement process and civil service culture that conspire to waste taxpayers' money on a grand scale.Whether it's the abandonment of the lord chancellor's &#163;300m system for law courts, the Individual Learning Account (scrapped after a &#163;250m investment); the Passport Agency's 1999 attempts at computerisation that resulted in chaos; the Ministry of Defence's &#163;300m "Pay2000" system that didn't pay anyone; the four years' delay on the national insurance system that cost &#163;90m to fix; the Post Office benefit card (scrapped after &#163;500m) or any of the other couple of dozen government computerisation disasters, the apparent inability of either the government or its major suppliers to make big projects work is truly upsetting.Well, it's truly upsetting to taxpayers. To civil libertarians, though, it may be the light at the end of the tunnel. Think about what it would take to create a Big Brother-style identity card system. Cards, terminals, enrolment,    replacement, access, counterfeiting, databases and so on.It could take a decade and cost a couple of billion to build. At the end of that process, will we have a safe society, secure against crime, terrorism, dole cheats and other menaces?It seems unlikely, if the evidence from other countries, such as France, that have ID cards, is to be believed. If the system worked at all, which is far from certain, it would be so full of flaws, bugs, errors and holes that it would not make the slightest difference to law enforcement, national security or fraud prevention. I'm not cheerful about this outcome. As a citizen, I'm keen on the goverment doing things that increase my security. From this point of view, an ID card fails on almost every count, but since it will never work anyway, so what?What the government is likely to do instead is go down the Japanese route: every subject will get a number that will simply be added to your passport, driving licence and library card. It could also be added to your credit and debit cards, as the government is talking to banks about making them part of the new ID world as well.So far, the Japanese experience is less than encouraging: some of the 11-digit numbers have been sent to the wrong people and    the government has admitted that some (supposedly impenetrable) IT systems have been compromised. While this is far from an ideal "privacy settlement", it might be sufficient for now, because we will be able to rely on the government's inability to "join up" any of their systems to protect our privacy and the "subject number" will end up being of no more use for identifying people than NI numbers are at the moment.Least-worst or most-best? If we have to have cards, surely it would be better to co-opt cards that people are already using for other purposes? This would tend to mean the driving licence. Despite the government's interest, private sector issuers (eg, Barclaycard) would, I'm sure, be wary of having their card used for other purposes. Apart from anything else, where would legal liability rest if someone used a card in nefarious activities?This least-worst option may not be that bad. If every driving licence had a chip on   it, then every car would pretty quickly sprout a reader so thieves couldn't steal them (your car would only work with your driving licence: if you're banned, you can't drive). Naturally, we'd want to protect civil liberties.Hence, the driving licence would no longer have your picture, name or anything else on it. If a policeman wanted to know who you were, he'd put the card into his reader and it would disclose the relevant details.The machine at the car park wouldn't have the relevant cryptographic keys, so it won't be able to read those details. Perhaps the best way to protect civil liberties, though, would be to privatise the system. Let any company issue the card, but make them legally liable for errors. So, if British Airways gives me a card that says I'm Dave Birch and I'm actually Osama bin Birch, the Hammer of the Infidels, they would be responsible.Now, banks (because of existing "know your customer" legislation) would be in pole position to provide high-reliability authentication, but others (eg, the Post Office) could issue them as well. If one of these organisations abuses your privacy, then never mind the law, because you would have real recourse: you could go on Watchdog.
Good riddanceAccording to a new website, as much as 60% of UK household waste can be recycled. But with resources spread in different locations, knowing how to achieve such a virtu ous target is a tricky business, especially if you are new to an area.Unless you go the web that is. Lots of useful sites are now online to help you achieve a greener home.Recycle Moreis a central directory for recycling. Everything from the location of bottle banks to mobile phone deposits has been collated to create a highly useful and efficient site. To find a map of your nearest recycling units, all you have to do is tap in a postcode. There is also a directory of more than 700 UK companies who support recycling.Elsewhere,Rethink Rubbishis full of tips on how   to stop junk mail flooding through your letterbox, and how to cut paperwork in half. Some of the suggestions are very simple, such as using a mug instead of a plastic cup each time you visit the coffee machine. If you still need convincing of the importance of recycling, there is a good section explaining how little tricks like that can have huge ecological benefits.You can earn a little extra money from recycling, too. A pair of sites from the aluminium industry -Alupro.org.ukfor adults and the lighterCashforcansfor kids - tell how and where you can make money from old aluminium cans. You won't get rich, with a market rate standing at 45p for 60 cans, but many schools and charities already do well out of the scheme.Free textEbooks can cost a fortune and, unlike paperbacks, you can't lend them to your mates once you have read them. Not all authors are happy about it and a few hundred, mostly academics, have begun to donate their texts to a new website that promotes the sharing of electronic books. Although it has only been up for a couple of months, Textz offers more than 3,000 books and essays online and is seeking more. The texts can be downloaded or simply browsed on the website. Among the many scholarly texts are whole books by recently expired authors such as Douglas Adams and Kathy Acker. There's also a wealth of older masters including Emile Zola and Oscar Wilde.www.textz.comRequiemWednesday will be the first anniversary of September 11. Among the many commemorations to the victims of the attack will be a 24-hour choral tribute on the internet. The Rolling Requiem will consist of choirs from around the world performing Mozart's Requiem for 24 hours. The first choir will begin at 8.46 am in New York - the time the first plane hit the World Trade Center - and then roll across the different time zones. More than 125 choirs have signed up but, sadly, so far no choir from the UK is involved. There is still time to register one at the site.www.rollingrequiem.orgSMS poetryFans of Online's SMS poetry competition, held last year, might like to look at One Sixty, a new online magazine devoted to poems of less than 160 characters in length. You can upload your poems via text message or to the site.www.centrifugalforces.co.uk/onesixtyFlame onAvant rockers The Flaming Lips have a new website to help promote Yoshimi, their new album, and Christmas on Mars, their first foray into film. It is surprisingly content-heavy, for a record company site, with an impressive video archive and chat rooms. It also has its own media player, which allows you to listen to, but not keep, the new album, and watch some splendid animation while you do so.www.flaminglips.comWeblog ethicsRebecca Blood, the author of the excellent Webloggers Handbook (Perseus Publishing), has proposed a set of six rules to provide a basis of ethical behaviour of blogging. Blood believes that the "weblog's greatest strength - its uncensored, unmediated, uncontrolled voice - is also its greatest weakness."She argues that without a voluntary code of conduct, the medium could fall victim to serious misinformation or simply never get taken seriously enough. What's nice about her proposal is that her six points are as straightforward as a Delia Smith recipe. Only publish what you know to be true, for example; if you make a mistake, admit it publicly; and if you can link to a source, do so.Doubtless, more zealous bloggers will see this as a step towards conventional journalism, but Blood says she would welcome your comments.www.rebeccablood.net/handbook/excerpts/weblog_ethics.htmlNew &amp; noted&#183;Mr Spock's photography:www.leonardnimoyphotography.com&#183;Excellent e-zine for electronica:www.noiseloop.com&#183;Forum for serious gaming:www.gamestudies.org&#183;Children's art:www.papaink.orgSix of the bestBack to collegeNational Union of Studentswww.nus.org.ukNational Grid for Learningwww.ngfl.gov.ukAcademic search enginewww.academicinfo.netSearch 300 dictionarieswww.onelook.comStudent Loan Companywww.slc.co.ukAccommodation finderwww.studentuk.com
How many Dave Gormans did you track down via the net?I was only looking to meet 54 Dave Gormans. It wasn't enough to know they existed, it was about meeting them, shaking their hand and taking their photo. When I got to 54, I stopped looking... but they haven't stopped finding me. I've now met 104, but I suspect it's more like 104 and counting. Even though the search has stopped, every day I get emails telling me about other Dave Gormans.Is the computer important to your writing process?Not especially. I don't write scripts for the stage shows because they're all true stories. I like not being constrained by a script. That way, the telling evolves. I wrotea bookwith Danny Wallace while I was in Australia and he was in London. We were writing our bits while the other was asleep. Thanks to computers, the book was being written almost 24 hours a day.How important is DaveGorman.com to you?It's a valuable way of getting feedback. I have a good idea of the kind of people who are enjoying the shows - or not! I was determined I should be able to add content. Too many comedians' websites are essentially an unchanging advert: there's no reason to return. It's not a slick or beautifully designed site, but I do it myself and update it regularly. It's become too big in some ways, but I read everything and reply to as much as I can. It's better that I reply to some rather than have an automated stock response. There are a few scary people out there, though, who think they have an absolute right to a personal reply and get upset when one isn't forthcoming.Is broadband opening up new opportunities for comedy on the net?My ISP doesn't offer broadband and I've been too busy to look into switching! I guess it will change things, but I don't have any great desire to work specifically for the net. Broadband will have to be widespread before that kind of thing takes off. The best comedy sites are made for the net rather than an internet version of something else. Of course, it's impossible to discuss that without worshipping at the altar of The Onion!Favourite gadgets?I've only just got an MP3 player... and I use aPalmdevice. It was useful when I was away from home for three months, but it's now gathering dust. I want someone to design a masculine handbag so that men have somewhere to put their mobiles, MP3 players etc.Favourite sites?www.womenanddogsuk.co.uk, which isn't what it sounds like. Also,www.onion.com. The hugely ambitiouswww.chortle.co.ukis dedicated to covering comedy in Britain andwww.b3ta.comis a great place for finding new and oddly fixating stuff. Thewww.lebonze.co.uk/stuff/move.htmsite is beautiful; you'll want to tell your friends.Visit:www.davegorman.com
Two tonguesI run Windows 98 and all my software is in English. My wife is German and wants to use the same computer to run Office 2000 in German. Can I partition my computer so I can dual boot it, one which gives all my English software and the other German?BarryJack Schofield replies:You can install Windows 98 twice, in different directories, on the same drive. If possible, use different drive partitions, such as C: and D:. Set up your PC to start in MS-Dos and then you can choose which example of Windows you want to run. Windows Annoyances has instructions for creating a start-up menu to make this easier. See:www.annoyances.org/exec/show/article02-054However, Windows 9x was never designed for this kind of use. In contrast, Windows NT has always used the standard Unicode system to cater for multiple languages, and has a proper Unix-like system for handling different users. It would therefore be better to upgrade to Windows XP, which is based on NT/ Windows 2000 code. However, check beforehand that all your programs and peripherals arecompatible with XP. Some may need new drivers, which may not be available. Considering the cost of XP, compatibility issues and the time involved, it may be worth buying your wife her own PC with XP pre-installed.Photos onlineI want to put 200-400 photographs - which were taken by myself and a number of friends on a    recent holiday - online for two or three months so everybody can share them. Do you know any websites that offer a reliable service at reasonable prices?Andrew D HeyesJS:You can do this free with an online photo album.PictureTrailis an obvious example, andYahoo Photosalso provides the basics. For a guide to the photo album sites online, seewww.andromeda.com/people/ddyer/photo/ albums.htmlDrive lockMy young daughter is severely autistic but enjoys playing computer games. Unfortunately, she also likes to open the CD drive and flex the tray up and down. Is there a way to prevent this?David HarrisJS:I don't know of a way to lock the CD using software -- perhaps a reader can help us out. However, you could fit a security lock to prevent the drive being opened. One example is sold by Insight International (tel: 01273 475500) for &#163;25.20 including p&amp;p and VAT. Seewww.insight-security.com/pf02-1.htmfor details. Locks are sometimes used with public access PCs to stop CDs being stolen, or for data protection purposes.Record itIs there a simple way of capturing or storing streaming media such as internet radio?Philip PlowdenJS:High Criteria's Total Recorder seems to work well for audio streams. You can read about it atTechTVand download it fromwww.highcriteria.com. The registration fee is $US11.95 or $17.95 Canadian.Train itI'd love to buy my father a train sim, but he has a Mac. The only train sims I can find are for PCs.Joe FlatmanJS:The best non-Japanese game seems to be Microsoft Train Simulator, which was written in the UK by Kuju Entertainment. No Mac version has been announced, but your father may be able to run it using Connectix's Virtual PC for Mac, which Mac users buy so they can run Windows software. Alternative gifts include Abracadata's Train Engineer Deluxe and3D Railroad Concept And Designand Sid Meier's Railroad Tycoon II, which may be old but is still a great game. For more on train sims, seewww.trainsim.org.uk.Backchat&#183;Last week, David Critchley asked about receiving SMS (text) messages from people using mobile phones on his Windows 98 PC. Contrary to what I replied, there seem to be lots of ways to do this, usually by the person replying to a message you have already sent. ICQ was the most popular suggestion. Tricia Ayrton says: "If David enters the mobile phone number of the person he wishes to message, he can send an SMS message to their phone. The recipient must save the ICQ phone number on their phone in order to reply to the computer, and will then be able to send further messages to the computer." Some noted that SMS messages could take a long time to arrive.&#183;The Lycos portal was another popular choice. Debbie Moorhouse says: "Tell David to go towww.sms.lycos.co.ukand sign up. He'll need a valid UK mobile phone number for this. He'll get five free messages a day. However, if people send messages to your phone number in the ordinary way, they're received by your phone, not by Lycos. To receive messages on his PC, he'll have to send them that way first."&#183;Several people use services where you receive SMS messages by email. Helen Chandler says: "My friend with a mobile subscribes toeXcelland, by typing my email address in the message in a standardised format, can send an SMS to their network, which is then forwarded to my email address. I respond using the free texting service fromOrange, which allows me to SMS any mobile over the net from my PC." Colin Leeds has tried botheXcelland while Adrian Cobley and Joia Shillingford suggestTextMessenger.&#183;Rob Jagger, development manager at Liquid Drop, says his company "offers a service that enables people to send and receive text messages by email. It differs from apparently similar ones (eg Genie) in that customers can use their existing email account, and do not have to pre-register the mobile numbers to which they wish to send a message. See:www.liquiddrop.comfor a free, no-obligation trial".
Steve BoxerThe biggest crowd-pleaser was undoubtedly Sony's Eye-Toy, making its first public appearance. This is intriguing technology, developed at Sony's Team Soho studio. Essentially, it is a modified webcam that sits on your TV, coupled with image analysis software that recognises movement. It will go on sale next year with a selection of mini-games you control by waving your hands - or your boxing gloves, sponges or light sabre - in front of your PlayStation 2. Eye-Toy is something of a Trojan horse, since Sony plans to persuade developers to make games that take advantage of its ability to recognise gestures, hands and faces. Games such as Konami's Police 24/7, in which players must physically duck to avoid virtual bullets, would work particularly well. What's wowing arcade crowds today, you could be playing at home next year.Rhianna PratchettSplinter Cell for the PC and Xbox was one of the tastiest offerings on show at ECTS this year. Although this game is part of the Tom Clancy franchise, it's not a military simulation like, say, Rainbow Six. Instead, you play a solo anti-terrorist agent skilled in the arts of infiltration and stealth. Splinter Cell boasts some dynamic lighting effects and a relatively new technique called "soft body physics", which makes materials such as fabric or plastic move more realistically. This creates beautiful gaming environments, full of lights and shadows that are perfect for stealthy manoeuvring. With plenty of military gadgetry and an atmospheric environment, this title looks like being a Christmas hit.Mike AnderieszParis-based developer Arxel Tribe unveiled another batch of promising titles. First was The Gladiators, an innovative take on the RTS (real-time strategy) genre, adding deathmatch tactics to isometric gameplay. Also interesting were the   Lithtech- powered Mistmare and a moody-looking graphic adventure, Ring 2. All three sound suspiciously like better-known franchises. Mind you, Arxel had a clutch of tempting titles at last year's show, including the gorgeous homage to Hitchcock, The Final Cut, none of which lived up to its promise. Still, in a year that has seen hard times for some smaller French developers, it was nice to see Gallic innovation alive and smoking.Jack SchofieldFew of the people who played Pong, the first successful commercial arcade game, could have imagined being able to use real bats to smash back the virtual ball. But that's what Korea's D-Gate Co brought to the show: "a body-feeling pingpong game" where the controller is a real table tennis bat. You can continue to swipe at thin air, as usual, but the bat has a built-in compression spring and an infrared transmitter that sends signals back to sensors on the console. Two arcade cabinets side by side can share the same electronics, allowing two people to play against one another via the images on the two screens. It's physically less demanding than DDR (Dance Dance Revolution) arcade games, not as silly as virtual fishing, and could appeal to the billions who take their ping pong very seriously indeed.Greg HowsonNintendo did not appear at ECTS, but did produce an unexpected treat. Charles Martinet, the actor who has played the voice of gaming icon Mario for 12 years, appeared in a press conference modelled on the Big Brother diary room. Martinet has appeared in films with Michael Douglas and Hugh Grant, but describes doing voices for the Italian plumber as his finest achievement. His falsetto Italian catchphrases such as "Mamma mia, It'sa me-a, Mario!", and the ever-popular "Woo-hoo!" have been heard by millions, but none would recognise him. Martinet, who also does the voices for characters such as Luigi and Wario, has just finished work on the latest in the series, Super Mario Sunshine.
The games business is buzzing. Hardware prices are falling, consoles are going online, and dealers are gearing up for what they hope will be a bumper Christmas. But most of the excitement was happening off-stage and in back rooms, rather than on the stands at ECTS, the British games industry's annual trade show, which opened last week at Earl's Court.The action started the day before the show, when Sony announced a &#163;30 price cut on the PlayStation 2, taking it down to &#163;169.99 from September 1. The trade waited for Microsoft to follow, and they didn't have long to wait. Within two hours, Microsoft chopped the Xbox's price to &#163;159.99 from August 30. If consumers were going to see dealers slashing prices, they should see Microsoft taking the lead and Sony following.Once that was done, the two companies proceeded to chuck games at one another. Sony claimed "over 145 outstanding games" would reach the shops before Christmas. Microsoft said it already had more than 200 titles "with over 300 currently in development", including Ubi Soft's Splinter Cell, the hottest    thing since Halo. And, by the way, it had much better graphics than the PS2, a built-in hard drive and built-in broadband networking that the PS2 lacks.In sum, we are seeing the usual battle between "the latest hardware technology" and "the best range of software", caused by the fact that it generally takes about two years to produce a decent game. Two years ago, of course, the PS2's software was "absolutely awful," according to Rich Depping, a US importer who told Wired magazine: "Our customers are horribly disappointed."When the new PlayStation 3 comes out, the roles will be reversed. But the current generation of consoles is different, in that both Sony and Microsoft plan to take the battle online. There's nothing new about this: online games have been around for at least 20 years, and PC games such as    Everquest have a huge following.The idea is not even new to consoles: the Sega Dreamcast sprouted a modem so owners could log on to the Dreamarena, send email and play games. The real question is whether enough consumers will sign up for someone to make money from it. Microsoft designed the Xbox for broadband gaming, and has developed its own Xbox Live service, which will be launched in the US on November 15, the Xbox's first birthday.Sony, meanwhile, has made a pre-emptive strike, releasing its $39.99 Network Adaptor for the PS2 in the US last week. This includes a modem and software to connect to some popular ISPs. Users who buy online-compatible PS2 games can link up to play online. Titles include Activision's Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 and Sega's NFL 2K3 gridiron football game.Microsoft plans to charge $49.95 for its online starter kit, which includes an annual subscription to Xbox Live and a headset that lets players talk to one another. Only six games will be ready at launch, but Microsoft hopes to have 10 more by Christmas and another 50 next year.But neither company is ready to talk about UK services. Microsoft says it will launch before the end of the year, and it is expected to make an announcement to the trade at its XO2 conference in Seville later this month. A Sony spokesman would only say: "We hope to be making an announcement towards the end of October." Meanwhile, David Gosen, managing director of Nintendo of Europe, pours cold water on both rivals' plans. He says there is a "tremendous amount of hype for something that's a considerable way away in terms of being a mass-market proposition. We could get excited about it in three to five years time."Either way, there's going to be a right royal rumble at Christmas, with three consoles fighting it out at similarly low prices."The pricing down where it is perhaps brings many more people into the market," says Gosen. "I think it's good news for everybody in the videogames industry, but the people who will really benefit are the consumers."
My phone beeps to inform me I have a message. I wonder what key information the three lines of vowel-free text is about to impart. What I am not prepared for is an animated talking hamster informing me that my dinner is in the dog. I have just received my first true multimedia message.From the way the networks are promoting it, you could be forgiven for thinking there was little more to MMS than using camera phones to take and send images. However, MMS has several potential applications, most notably   adding animated video, images and sound to text messages.The problem for most texters is that creating an MMS by combining sound and vision is far more involved than banging out lines of text.This is where a British start-up company, Anthropics, hopes to step in. It has developed a technology called FaceWave that enables phone users to send digitally animated talking heads from one phone to another. Users key in a message, just as they would a standard text message, and then select one of a number of talking heads, which includes David Beckham, Kylie Minogue and, bizarrely, a hamster, to deliver their words.By next year, users will be able   to send talking heads of themselves. This involves first uploading an image to a website.After trialling with four networks and ensuring that FaceWave is compatible with key MMS phones, Anthropics says it is ready to launch the system in time for Christmas. The cost has not been fixed, but if prices are in line with those announced in Europe, messages should set users back 30-40p.Bluetooth and voice recognition are two of the most hyped technologies of recent years, though neither has been as successful as predicted.Toshiba hopes to change that by marrying the two. Its Bluetooth headset is equipped with a microphone and a voice recognition system that converts speech   to data. This is then sent wirelessly to a PC or home electronics appliance over a Bluetooth wireless network.Toshiba claims the device has multiple uses. For example, in a connected home where all the electronics appliances are controlled via one main server, a user could operate their air-conditioning, lighting or home entertainment system by speaking commands into the headset. It could also be used for dictation, with speech being converted in to word processing files in a different room.The headset can also be used for listening to music, with sounds stored on a PC or home server converted into data that is then sent to the headset. It weighs around 100g, and runs via rechargeable lithium ion battery with a life of five hours.Toshiba hopes the headset will be available before Christmas. Its price is expected to be around &#163;100.
For months, it has been the hottest topic of conversation among Mac users: have you made the switch to OS X?OS X, as in OS 10, has been plugged by Apple as the only place to be for good Macolytes.  It is a geek's dream of an operating system, with hardcore credentials ensured by the Unix core that powers it. But on top is the shiniest, candy-coloured coating in computerdom: all bouncing icons, swooshing windows and internet-enabled dynamism.For the bulk of the Mac world, which perseveres on Apple's OS 9 system, it's a case of when - not if - they shift. But Apple still needs its latest OS X incarnation - version 10.2 - to persuade them that now is the time to jump. After years of development, OSX 10.2 is the platform on which Apple will introduce a raft of new features.The last minor version of OS X might have been only 10.1.5, but 10.2 is better by a lot more than a few notches. I have been using 10.2 on my new model iMac for 10 days, installing it over the previous system (10.1.5) in a process that took a little more than an hour. The first thing you notice is the effect of the Quartz graphics. All modern Macs will use Quartz, a system that is intended to speed up the machine by farming out responsibility for creating what you see to your computer's video card. Quartz smoothes the type on display, meaning every page    resembles a PDF document, more like a printed page than ever before.The effect is not universally successful but, in most cases, it works well. Other tweaks improve the user experience, including a toning down of the candy colours, and more flexible system preferences. In the Finder, the "spring-loaded" folders that existed for years in pre OS X systems, but which were stupidly dropped from the new OS, have been reintroduced.  Moving to OS X 10.2 will, for Mac users still on OS 9 or earlier, still be a shock, but OS X's looks have been tamed sufficiently for the learning curve not to be too steep.The performance of previous versions of OS X was to be tackled in 10.2. It is clear some operations were faster - especially starting up, although this is something you do not have to do often, given OS X's stability. I went weeks without restarting10.1.5, and 10.2 shows no signs of being less reliable.  For most day-to-day operations, however, there is little obvious speed improvement, something borne out by tests by enthusiasts this week atMacintouch.com.I still feel Macs lag behind even quite modest PC set-ups in day-to-day operations such as web browsing - a problem Apple is rumoured to be working on. More obvious are the new features. First up is iChat, the AOL Instant Messaging-compatible chat client. This is a clean-looking, simple bit of software, following in the i-mould of previous packages such as iTunes and iMovie.It    has worked well in a few lengthy chats I've had, and neat details, like the way your comments are reserved a place the moment you start typing, make it slightly more slick than using AOL's software. The Mail application has been radically revamped, with improved spam filtering, although I still prefer the feel of Microsoft's Entourage.And Apple promises great things for the new Address Book, which can synch with remote devices to help manage your diary and contacts. I still prefer my trusty Filofax, but Address Book - which will synch over Bluetooth with things like mobiles - could break down my resistance. Indeed, much of the system's allure lies in its promise.Take, for instance, the Rendezvous networking feature, which threatens to    make the lives of anyone managing even modest networks simpler. It should allow Macs and remote devices to see and connect to each other without human intervention, via wired connections and wireless networks. I also look forward to a fully functioning Sherlock search engine: by dint of being mere Euros, we are denied the new Yellow Pages-style features it boasts in the US.Apple may introduce a similar service in Europe, but in the meantime we can only watch as users across the pond locate businesses, view maps and operate a variety of services from their desktop.  It's an impressive application that underlines the fact that this is truly an operating system for the broadband, always-on world. Broadband is not the only   technology OS X really likes to have. A newer Mac, and lots of memory, are also recommended, as is all OS X "native" software, so you do not have to use the OS 9 "classic" environment.So is OS X 10.2 worth the investment? For most people, yes. If you have hesitated about migrating from OS 9, you will find many of your fears have been tackled. This system is stable and feature rich and, provided you have a recent-era Mac, reasonably fast. Moreover, as every new development in the Mac world is going to happen in OS X, you will quickly find yourself feeling left behind if you don't join the party soon.  Once only a Mac geek's dream, OS X now cuts it as an operating system with something for us all.
It seems so unlikely as to be untrue. But, apparently, the Greek parliament has managed toban all computer games, including those on hand-held consoles, mobile phones and computers, in a ham-fisted attempt to stamp out illegal gambling. We will investigate...
I always find it hard to know what to think about Mercedes. They are, in their sleek, efficient way, oddly contradictory. On the one hand, the juggernaut-like S500 is the ultimate chief executive express - a car that seems to float on a magic carpet of surplus value as it whisks captains of industry from Learjet to boardroom. And there's the SL convertible - a real "look at me" Sunset Boulevard cruiser in its luxury version.Then, on the other hand, there's the fact that in every city from Damascus to Delhi the stalwart of the taxi fleet will be a dusty yet ageless Merc saloon. And the fact that, on any given weekend in Bucks or Berks, you cannot move for Mercedes estates. Couth but not flashy, these too act as a kind of taxi fleet, while their owners ferry offspring to and from the social hubs of the English home counties. (The labrador in the back comes as standard.) And, finally, you find the Mercedes much parked on gravel drives of the not quite in the country but definitely far from the madding crowd houses of the affluent retired.So what does all this add up to? Well, it's posh, but it's also a workhorse. It's German, and therefore engineered to the nth degree. It's definitely more upscale than a VW, yet it has neither the aggression and attitude of a BMW, nor the techno-modernity and metropolitan chic of an Audi. The Mercedes advertises itself as classy, but only diffidently so, with an air of well-bred insouciance.Sure, it speaks of money, yet at a subliminal level: which colour would you like yours in - silver or gold? These are the colours of currency. Or black, as in "black gold". But unlike other luxury items, the Mercedes does not seem a frivolity or an extravagance. Somehow, it presents itself as a gilt-edged bond that will last and keep its value. Rather like a Volvo, but with a subtle touch of glamour.Meanwhile, the Merc's familiar face - the paired headlights on either side of the radiator grille - is one of the most unchanging and characteristic in automotive design. It is as if it is saying: "Be reassured - Mercedes-Benz believes in traditional values, traditional virtues. Let Mercedes-Benz be your still point in a turning world."And reassuring it is: the door closes behind you with the kind of solid, emphatic thunk you'd expect to find in a bank vault. Inside, you are enclosed in something between an airlock and a time warp: a coach-built interior of wood, chrome and leather that harks back to the last days of the Austro-Hungarian empire. The knobs and dials are discreet and sensible, with no concession to any "designer" preference for style over substance.The gearshift is, of course, automatic. Mercedes-Benz does "do manual", but only in the way that Sir Simon Rattle would "do" a Beatles tune - for an encore, perhaps, to amuse his audience. The only slight dissonance here is that, if you have the window down, you eventually realise that the diesel-engine chunter is actually coming not from the van sitting next to you in traffic but from your own Mercedes. I never quite understand why anyone bothered by the price differential between petrol and diesel would fork out the &#163;28k asked for this model, plus whatever the insurance premiums would be. But there are lots of things I don't understand, and apparently it happens.In any case, with the windows up, you can pretty much forget about whatever DaimlerChrysler put under the bonnet. It could all be done with elastic bands for all you care. You just put the thing in drive and off you go, in a pleasantly somnolent, barge-matic sort of way. It actually feels like a bigger car than it is, but with very light steering, a surprisingly tight turning circle, and extremely sensitive, powerful brakes - making driving it about as demanding as taking a bath.Basically, there are two modes of progress in this Mercedes: pootling and wafting. It's so far from being a driver's car that it has come out the other side. The thing is, despite myself, I was more and more persuaded by this. Like, what is the rush? Yes, all right, it's a bit of an old dad's car... so call me an old dad, but there are worse things than arriving at your destination with your blood pressure bang on normal.And then there's all the clever stuff the car does for you. The solar panel in the roof that helps keep the interior air-conditioned even while the car is parked. Cruise control and a navigational system that has a dual display (one in the centre of the speedo), so that you're not constantly looking down at the central console instead. The usual electronics keep the car upright and on the road, and an automatic system triggers the seatbelt tensioners and side airbags if they don't. And when it rains, the brakes will gently apply to dry the discs without the driver even knowing it.Which is typical. Driving this Merc is the closest you can come to being chauffeured without actually paying someone. And when you think of how much you'll save on a chauffeur's salary, the price starts to seem a bargain. The seduction is complete.
The Registertakes a look at Professor Kevin Warwick and his latest bid for fame, which rides on the back of the abduction and murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. You can read the original Daily Mirror "exclusive"here, which gets in such a technological tangle it would be funny were it not in such appallingly bad taste.
"Since April it has been possible for the customers of any of the major United States cellular carriers to send one another short text messages, but most customers still have no idea the service exists," reports theNew York Timestoday (free registration required).It's the kind of story guaranteed to make us mobile-savvy Euro chuckle with delight. We, of course, have been swapping SMS messages by their millions for years now. And it's a neat reversal of the more normal flow of technology, which goes from west to east (just like the weather).What the story doesn't say is that, while the US appears amazingly backward in mobile comms for now, they will catch up very quickly. Indeed, thanks to Europe's 3G auction madness of recent years, the States could well overtake Europe with 3G in the next few years. Already, 3G services are running in major US cities including San Francisco and New York. Here in the UK, we're still looking for 3G to get beyond a trial on the tiny Isle of Man, and operators' visions are getting narrower with every passing month.
I first started reading The News &amp; Observer in Raleigh, North Carolina, in 1994: it was one of the first newspapers -- arguablythefirst -- to "get the Web". It made what could have remained alocal paperinto a global player, illustrating (at the time) our high hopes for the online future. But in what may be another sign of the times,The Nando Times, like the New York Times and the LA Times etc, now requires free registration. That's fine for regular readers, but if I link to astory(Baseball cracks down on fan Web sites), you get a password request instead. Obviously I'm going to link to the same AP story atCNN/SI, theBaltimore Sun, or even theKitchener Waterloo Recordin Ontario, instead. Message: it is silly to protect content unless it is unique content.
eWeek reckons Apple is keeping an x86 version of OS X going (seebelow, August 3) in itsMarklarproject (yes, a South Park reference). This provides some insurance if it has to bail out of using PowerPC processors, which are running up to two years behind Intel/AMD chips for speed. (This may not sound much but it means the top-of-the-range PowerPC would already be bin-end lines in the x86 world.) I've already written a speculative opinion piece inComputer Weekly(under Technology &gt; Servers &gt; Columnists) about how this could turn out to be a double-edged sword.
After a long shop-to-shop fight on the high street, games console manufacturers are looking to cyberspace as the new battleground. In the US, both Sony and Microsoft have recently announced initiatives to attract significant numbers of their existing console users online. Nintendo is expected to make a similar move early next year. Though none of the big three manufacturers has so far announced detailed roll-out strategies for the UK and Europe, the key role broadband access will play is clear. Both companies are talking to continental broadband suppliers. Console manufacturers are using broadband in a bid to gain dominance of a market that research outfit IDC reckons will be worth $21bn (&#163;14bn) by 2003 and broadband suppliers hope online gaming will be one of their long-awaited "killer apps".Online gaming is not a new phenomenon. "Hardcore" PC gamers have been taking part in online contests over local networks and the internet for years. For many players, online gaming is already big business. Two of the leading PC-based multiple-player online games (MPOGs), Sony's EverQuest and Electronic Arts'   Ultima Online, attract around 450,000 and 275,000 users respectively, paying between &#163;6-&#163;8 a month. Such is the allure of online gaming - to hardcore users, at least - that in Japan, games company Square recently launched Final Fantasy 11 and managed to attract 120,000 online subscribers paying &#163;7 a month in just three months. Rather than compete with one friend in your living room, you can now - on some of the PC games - compete against up to 80 people worldwide at the same time.But the online PC games market is notoriously fickle, doesn't have the returns the bigger manufactures would like and attracts mainly hardcore gamers. Even though IDC suggests that a combination of faster internet connections and improving technology will take online gaming to 40 million households by 2004 - up from the 25 million who played online in 2000 - it warns that the going will not be easy. "To succeed in this competitive space, companies must formulate a profitable revenue model, ensure that gamers remain loyal and extend the reach of online games beyond the PC," says senior IDC analyst Schelley Olhava.The first manufacturer to extend   its reach was Sony. Earlier this month in the US, it launched a &#163;30 online add-on adapter. It expects around 500,000 American PS2 fans - out of a base of 11 million users - to switch to playing online by the end of the year. Microsoft's rival strategy, Xbox Live, on the other hand, won't launch until November 15. It expects to pull in "tens of thousands" of users - out of a worldwide base of around 4 million Xboxers - by the new year. So what are their chances?"There have been online computer games before, but not online console games, and that's the difference," says Telewest's head of games, Tom Cotter. "Look at the online PC games market and it's chaos out there. It's like the wild west - it's anonymous, unregulated and you get lots of cheating. In the online console world it's going to be a much more controlled environment where it's very safe to be online and with two of the biggest companies in the world throwing their weight behind it I think it's going to be a success."Telewest claims it is the only broadband supplier to undertake online gaming trials with Sony in the UK. "The feedback from the game-playing experience was phenomenal. It's very difficult to explain to someone who hasn't played multi-player gaming what a step change it is, but the first thing you notice when you do play is that this is truly interactive entertainment," says Cotter.Other broadband providers are equally confident that online console game-playing will mushroom. BT's head of games, Geraint Bungay, who expects Sony and Microsoft to launch UK services either at the end of this year or early next, predicts that the market will grow quickly. "Initially a lot of early adopters will take it up and then there will be a gradual climb as more and more people go online. If you look at the PC market, there are 4 million people in the UK right now using their PCs to play an online game but only 400,000 are hardcore gamers."If you look at the installed base of console users - Sony's talking about having 4m PS2s installed in the UK by Christmas, while Microsoft's looking at between 500,000 and 750,000 Xboxes - even if 10% of those decide to go online, you're looking at a massive explosion."But given the correlation between early broadband adopters and committed console gamers, it's hardly surprising that UK and European broadband suppliers are keen to extol the virtues of online console gaming. There are others in the games industry who suggest that a broadband-only   strategy is risky. 'The roll-out of broadband, particularly in the UK, has been slow and Europe is pretty poor too. Both Sony and Microsoft are making a fairly courageous move in saying that it's going to be broadband only. From a technical point of view, it's exactly the right thing to do as the experience is so much better than dial-up, but I think it's going to be difficult to get people to sign up, at least initially," says Simon Protheroe, games developer Eidos's technical director.That said, both Microsoft and Sony are understood to have been working hard on their consumer propositions, for instance bundling consoles, subscriptions and broadband access into one easy-to-digest package. "The key for the online console market is to make that whole experience as simple as possible, so you just plug it into the TV, drop in the CD and that's it, you haven't got to cache it up or install drivers," says Protheroe.Yet the two companies have differing strategies. Microsoft has taken the typical route of trying to own the whole infrastructure, while Sony's plan is to work with telecom companies (telcos) on a more open approach. Microsoft's strategy appeals to games publishers. "Microsoft are saying they own everything but they are also providing full service, so all we need to do is write our code to their specs and it will work," says Protheroe. But the telcos seem more inclined towards the Sony model. "As head of games for BT, I'd say we have much more opportunity to generate additional ARPU &#91;Average Revenue Per User&#93; working with Sony's current plan," says Bungay.With the battle lines just being drawn up, it is too early to say who will win. "Nobody ever got rich underestimating Microsoft," says David Docherty, Telewest managing director of broadband content, but then console gaming is a numbers game and Sony is currently way out in front with an installed base of 33 million users worldwide, compared to Microsoft's 4 million. Whoever emerges victorious won't do so until after a long fight."It will be a war about legitimising this in popular culture," says Telewest's Cotter. "Sony faced this problem with just legitimising video games and did a fantastic job predominantly by word of mouth. This is a whole new step change in terms of gaming. We want to be ready and ensure that we are on the trajectory. It would be bonkers of us to wait for it, then try to play catch-up and I think that's what Sony and Microsoft think as well."
The Gyration Ultra Cordless Optical Mouse works inmid-airas well as on flat surfaces, and it has a range of 25 feet....
The Seattle Times takes a look at NEC's"environmentally friendly"PC -- or at least, one that's more environmentally friendly than alternatives. But it isn't cheap and it has a 900MHz Transmeta Crusoe chip, which means it is going to be very, very slow. The "eco PC" story goes with another aboutrecyclingPCs.
A belated plug for a good quick overview ofMicrosoft.Netby Jeff Lewis in hisMacOpinioncolumn. It's painfully obvious that Apple (and particularly Steve Jobs) doesn't have a clue about .Net, and my unverified hunch is that the same goes for most Mac users. Since .Net is based on standards, there's really no reason why Macs shouldn't be great .Net clients and servers, but who is going to pitch in and do the sort of workMonois doing for Linux? As far as I can tell, Apple has already wasted two years and will probably waste a couple more before it wakes up. And the result may well be that Mac users who are already second class citizens on today's Web will become third class citizens on tomorrow's.
CNet has had a look atthe war in instant messaging, from AOL to Jabber. I covered the same field in anOnlinecover story on August 8.
No games show would be complete without a clutch of awards for the best games of the year and of the show. The ECTS Awards are listed in a press release,here.
Video game development is stagnating in Western Europe and the US, but you can find creativity incentral and eastern Europe, it is said at a game developers' conference in London.
Someone flying around in a small plane may be checking out your wireless network, reports Computerworld,here.
The Merc has written upFearDotCom, the movie mentioned in yesterday's Webwatch. The movie'sTomatometerrating is dire but the insults are more entertaining than wading through the reviews.
The next generation opticaldisc formatis being decided, as EE Times reports from Japan. With DVD, the two competing formats were resolved by an agreement on a single standard, which is what usually happens. It's not exactly open competiton but one system almost always loses badly (see Betamax, 8-track etc), and that doesn't amuse consumers either.
IBM and USA Technologies have developed a system that lets students swipe a credit card or punch a code into their cell phones to pay for washing or drying their clothes, reportsReuters. They can also check for free machines on the Web.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:As the UN Earth Summit in South Africa gets under way, there is increasing concern about the role of multinational corporations at the conference. Can big business help fight poverty and global warming, or is capitalism incompatible with sustainable development? What do you think?capitalistpiglet:I think it's preposterous. How can you allow McDonald's to worm its way into a UN children's charity?LadeezMan:I could go for a big mac just nowBronco:le big macHost_Chris2:Like it or not, the multinationals must be part of the solutionPashmina:to many big mac will give u obeesity*jenni@boughtledger has entered the NewsRoom*capitalistpiglet:To McDonald's children are nothing more than consumersjenni@boughtledger:oh, behave!Host_Chris2:Coca Cola is one of Africa's largest employers. Shouldn't it be joining in the fight against aids?LadeezMan:I fancy some coke &amp; all. BRB*LadeezMan has left the NewsRoom*Bronco:make it 2, M8Pashmina:If u put a tooth in a glass of coke it will explodejenni@boughtledger:yeah baby, yeah!capitalistpiglet:I take your point, but big companies like Monsanto are only looking at Sandton as a shop window, or as an elaborate PR exerciseBronco:I wish I had a nice glass of monsanto just nowPashmina:u shoudnt drink at workBronco:i aint @ work. too hungoverjenni@boughtledger:behave!Host_Chris2:globalism, I'm afraid, is here to stay. We need to work with companies to alleviate poverty. Don't you agree, Pashmina?Pashmina:dont even try Chris2capitalistpiglet:Pashmina already pointed out the link between fast food and obesity. She sees McDonald's efforts for what they arePashmina:arnt i clevverjenni@boughtledger:yeah, baby!capitalistpiglet:anyway I'm late for a protest meeting. I was supposed to be at starbucks at 3.*capitalpiglet has left the NewRoom*Pashmina:bye pigletBronco:i fancy a lattay nowPashmina:me too. I got nothing but sunny d in the frig*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:did u get coke LadeezManLadeezMan:no. puffy dont answer his beeperjenni@boughtledger:oh, behave!!&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Spam defenceThe debate among your readers (Feedback, August 22) provides some short-term answers to the problem of spam. Setting up filters and dedicated accounts offers some measure of protection.Permission-based email is the future of electronic marketing. The pressure shouldn't be on the recipient or ISP to stop spam. The responsibility sits on the shoulders of the organisation that clicks send.Tony Cavallotony@houston-associates.com&#183;Antony Hawkins (Feedback, August 22) suggests using fake email addresses when registering on websites as a way to combat spam. Although he acknowledges the problem that your "fake" email address may be someone else's real address, he ignores the biggest problem with this approach.When an email is not delivered successfully, the last mail relay that it passed through   makes every attempt to let the sender know about the failure. Therefore every spam that hits a fake address will retrace its route back to the sender. This means that the fake email approach has the potential to double the amount of spam traffic on the internet.Getting spam in your inbox is only half of the problem. The other half is the drain on the internet's bandwidth resources caused by spam. If you try to solve the first problem by making the second problem worse, then you are being selfish.Dave Crossdave@dave.org.ukMac's backHaving worked with Macs (one project with OS 6 on an SE), Windows, and Linux, I read some of your recent Mac Ask Jack letters wondering why Mac users need to evangelise about them. I mainly use a Sony Vaio for web and software development, and the Mac for music-making   and software for art works. I love using my 600MHz Apple iBook, and got a great deal of use out of an Apple 7600/132.My experience of technical problems with Macs is that it is harder to find out what went wrong. You don't tend to find log files letting you know what happened - just a crash or a freeze or an Error Number 11 if you're lucky. Windows has the Event Viewer, and Linux tons of log files and documentation.Also - problems with Macs are often less Joe Public and more Professional Hobbyist. I have a current issue with Logic Audio Platinum 4.81 and a Midiman 2x2 Midi Interface - I'm not likely to Ask Jack, am I?Stephen Wolffstephen@loopo.co.ukBroad talkSteve Bowbrick argues that consumers will not be won over by the speed of broadband (Second  sight, August 8). I agree that internet speed   is not an end in itself. Service providers will not ignite the market by simply evangelising bits per second.Broadband's real selling point is that as an enabling technology, providing access to what we want. An analogy would be that on a hot, humid day you are unlikely to wish for a truck. But if you knew that truck carried ice cream? Broadband is the truck. We want the ice cream.By making services available through alternative access devices to the PC, such as games consoles and set top boxes, a broader audience will become aware of the benefits of broadband.The old adage is true - services and applications sell, technologies do not. Speed alone may not convince the masses to sign up for broadband. The content and services that are being enabled by that speed, such as online gaming, video chat and music, most certainly will.Dave HillsDirector of carrier services market developmentAlcatelLove hurtsCheers for the piece singing the praises of online dating last week (Love Bytes, August 22). I'm sure the scores of women who've contacted me after disastrous experiences with using online personals sites will pick up the pieces   eventually. Could the fact that the Guardian has taken its Soulmates Section online have anything to do with the inclusion of a feature singing the praises of online dating? Surely not?Jenny MaddenWomenincyberspace.comjennymadden@aol.com
The Australian national library this week announced it was adding pornography sites to its digital archive. It already stocks hard copies of publications such as "Big and Bouncy". But if libraries are to take internet archiving seriously, how should they select the material they save for posterity?Internet archiving is being taken more and more seriously. While academics and commentators bemoan the death of books because of the internet, 17 national libraries, museums and archiving organisations recently formed the Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC) to help preserve solely digital material. The coalition says UK institutions are not taking seriously the preservation of online material, and warns there will be a "black hole in Britain's collective memory" if important digital material is allowed to disappear.The British Library is part of that coalition. It is now campaigning, with the backing of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, for a change in legislation. It would be archiving online material, it says, were it not for restrictive copyright laws prohibiting it from downloading and saving online material.Mike Crump, head of collection development at the library, is keen to move this forward. "Since the middle of the 19th century this library has been archiving above 90% of the intellectual output of the nation. A significant proportion of that output is now shifting to the web. We want to save it."Without digital archiving, a vast amount of history is disappearing into the ether, he says. He uses the example of the foot and mouth crisis. "No one archived the websites involved in the foot and mouth crisis. It's fair to say that websites become more important than giving handouts over the farm yard gates to communicate what was going on. Not to have that is a big hole in our history." Another example is scientific journals, some of which are now only published online. "We have to secure the rights to have these and preserve them to ensure that they will be available down the track," says Mr Crump.Maria Stukoff, a new media consultant and part-time lecturer at Salford University, says it's also important to archive the internet to record the history of the medium, as well as the information it carries. "We can see the progression that the internet has made in the way it shows us information and the codes it uses. It's just as important to look at how the language of the international digital society has progressed as it is to record of what people are interested in." To archive the internet, the software and hardware needed to access it would have to be preserved, contributing to a complete history of the technological progression.With legislative changes in place, the British Library will then have another hurdle to face; what to archive. In Australia, the library operates a selective system, archiving all material it believes will be of interest to future generations about society and culture. Last week it decided that online pornography counted as historically important.Ms Stukoff believes this is justified. "Should we be saying that something is important because lots of people access it? On that criteria the Australian library is right to download porn because sex is the most searched for topic on the internet. Millions of people do download it. Is that not the importance?"Conversely in Sweden everything - including pornography - relating to the country is archived, throwing up more complications. How do you source such material when a Swedish national newspaper site might be hosted in India? What about perspectives on Sweden from abroad?Mr Crump is examining both options in anticipation of a change in the copyright laws. Many people within the library are keen to work with the Swedish model, he says. It would be in-keeping with its policy of holding all published material - pornography included - on the library's shelves. It's more likely, though, that funding limitations will force the library to be selective. "If we get very little money it will be high literature and academic texts. With the proper funding it would be the whole lot."But would a selective collection include pornography? "If we were being selective, we would have to make sure we were being representative across the whole subject range. The old publishing model implied editing, selecting and investment, the internet doesn't. But ultimately it does represent intellectual output, and that should be preserved," he said.
MafiaPC			 &#163;34.99 Take 2/ Illusion Softworks 	****Had the Godfather trilogy been made now I would imagine that the computer game tie-in would have looked a lot like Mafia. Not that this 3D action adventure is pretending to be the game of the film, but the world it creates is so absorbing that it feels like you're part of a cinematic experience.You start the game as a humble cab driver who gets drawn into the world of Mafioso crime when he picks up a couple of dodgy looking characters who are in the middle of a rival Mafia gang shoot-out. When your cab   gets smashed up, early on in the game, your character finds himself being embraced as part of the family and embroiled in a life of crime.The game is tightly scripted, but this doesn't detract from the tension you feel as you drive, shoot and hotfoot it through the streets of a 1930s-style environment dubbed The City of Lost Heaven. Mafia makes up for the linear gameplay with a great storyline and characterisation, not to mention some of the most impressive and detailed graphics around.Mafia has a lot of the same qualities found in Hidden &amp; Dangerous: hardly surprising since they were both created by the same developer. Both games have an unparalleled atmosphere that gives the player an intense gaming experience. One which is sometimes frustrating, sometimes rewarding, but always a roller-coaster ride. (RP)Buffy The Vampire SlayerXbox	&#163;44.99 Electronic Arts		****You can see why Electronic Arts has turned the cult TV series Buffy the Vampire Slayer into a game - the show is a confection of implausible plot-lines, undead creatures   and superhuman martial arts.The result is a third person action-adventure game, hugely influenced by the Tomb Raider series. The gameplay consists of beat-'em-up vampire-kicking action, interspersed with the odd puzzle-solving sequence. What makes it a must for    Xbox owners is its sheer authenticity: virtual Buffy really does look like Sarah Michelle Gellar, and spouts the same lame Valley Girl one-liners. The control system also shines - it manages to avoid Tomb Raider's fiddliness, yet as you progress through the game, you accumulate a huge amounts of   satisfying special moves.Mind you, the basic ability to drive stakes, mops and broom handles through the hearts of vampires is surprisingly cathartic in itself.Decent graphics, seamless construction of levels in which the plot unfolds plausibly and cameo appearances from Buffy's partners in undead-bashing add up to a game in which you really do feel in control of Buffy - a popular fantasy among TV-watchers, one suspects.Buffy The Vampire Slayer has no glaring flaws and is a must for Xbox owners in general, let alone fans of the TV series. One of the best Xbox games to arrive this year, it will be interesting to see how Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Angel Of Darkness measures up against it when it arrives (for the PlayStation 2) this Christmas. (SB)Sudden Strike 2PC 	&#163;34.99 CDV 	***Strategy games. Love 'em or hate 'em, you can't, if you own a PC, ignore them. Luckily Sudden Strike 2 is better than most, even if it offers little in the way of innovation. This second world war-based   affair eschews resource management and goes for the jugular with speedy combat and fast-paced warfare. But don't think this is easy, as tactics and planning are still vital. Sudden Strike veterans won't have any trouble reacquainting themselves with the action. But there are a host of additions, including 50 new unit types, each with additional functions. You can now also play as the Japanese, which opens up fresh tactical challenges, and the missions are more coherent.Unfortunately the flaws are   still apparent. Players can't move the camera or zoom in for troop inspections, making control frustratingly fiddly at times, especially when in command of numerous divisions. Infantry and vehicles are still liable to get stuck behind scenery, although if a rogue hedgerow does hold up your crack panzer division, a quick shell should sort it.Multiplayer is, of course, where the long-term action lies, and there are plenty of options here including an ability to design your own maps. Despite the limited   graphics and control issues Sudden Strike 2 is still the foremost choice for any budding armchair General. (GP)
A little housekeeping news for those readers (and the server stats suggest there's quite a few of you) taking advantage of our RSS version: now the headline links work!For those of you unfamiliar with the boundless possibilities of RSS (and I'm thinking untold efficiency as a piece of software elegantly scans your favourite websites hourly for new stuff), check out Ben Hammersley's excellent introduction to the whole thing, including what software to download, intoday's Online.
ECTS, the European Computer Trade Show, opened today at Earl's Court. It's the UK's leading show for the games industry, and an improvement on last year, though not as big and brash as it was in its prime. I'm at the show today, along with Greg Howson and other Online games reviewers.Eurogamer, "official online media partner of ECTS 2002", is reporting the news live.
It's Thursday so (no prizes for guessing), Online isonline....
USA Today has been trying theD-Theater digital cassette, a type of pre-recorded D-VHS, and says: "Visually, D-Theater is not just an improvement over DVD. It leaves DVD in the dust."
If you want to burn DVDs on your Mac with Apple's iDVD software, you'd better think about buying a new machine. If you have a perfectly good Mac and could connect it to an external DVD writer, forget it: Apple wants to use its monopoly control to encourage you buy a whole new system with an internal DVD drive. Other World Computing, a Macintosh dealer, has learned this from Apple's lawyers, after bundling a product called DVD Enabler with its external Mercury Pro DVD-R/RW FireWire drive,ZDNet Newsreports. Presumably Apple has no way of stopping users from doing the job with third-party DVD burning software -- or at least, not yet. However, Apple's bundling of iDVD and lots of other proprietary software with its hardware is hardly likely to encourage the growth of the independent Mac software market.
Some people will go a very long way for a decent cup of coffee. Me, I have traipsed half way round London's West End, passed countless perfectly respectable coffee shops and still haven't satisfied my craving for a grande latte with hazelnut.That's because today's breakfast menu not only includes a large cup of frothy coffee but also fast internet access for my notebook PC.I am reclining on a very comfy chair in the 32 Fleet Street branch of Starbucks, one of a pair (the other is in Broad Street) of the chain's cafes to offer high-speed wireless internet access via wireless LAN, or Wi-Fi (802.11b) as it is popularly known.Anyone can use the Starbucks service. Provided their laptop (or PDA) features a Wi-Fi card they can log on to the network and access email accounts, surf the web or download files via a fast connection. They first have to download HP's Wireless Connection Manager software fromwww.starbucks.com/hotspot. At the present time, Wi-Fi connection is free. But prices of around &#163;50 for a month's access and &#163;7 per hour will be introduced shortly. T-Mobile, which is providing the network access, hopes that the pilot scheme will lead to a roll-out of similar networks in Starbucks across the UK. In the US more than 1,200 Starbucks already offer high-speed wireless access.Wireless hot spots could soon be big news in the UK, too. BT, which offers a similar service at Heathrow Airport, is promising to install up to 4,000 wireless LAN hot spots   in bars, motorway service stations and exhibition centres by June 2003. If fast and reliable wireless LAN internet access is available in a large number of places, it could also slow demand for third-generation services.Back at Fleet Street Starbucks, I have finished catching up with my email and taken a few snaps of a very smart area in Starbucks with a large table downstairs that the staff have already christened "the boardroom." If only I had been smart enough to bring a USB cable with me, I could have emailed them right then.The easiest way of sending images (albeit rather low resolution ones) now is using a photo message phone via multimedia messaging (MMS). The service, available from Orange and T-Mobile, is hamstrung by the limited range of handsets - just two at the present time. The Sony Ericsson T68i is a superbly specified phone, but to take images you have to attach the rather fiddly CommuniCam camera. The tiny screen is not ideal for viewing images, either. As for the Nokia, it works extremely well, yet is a tad bulky and, at around &#163;250 with contract, is hardly mass-market.By the time 02 and Vodafone launch their photo messaging services later this autumn, the range of handsets available across all networks will be considerably larger and, courtesy of two new models, significantly more appealing.Aimed ostensibly at the youth market, Sharp's GX-1 camera phone, available exclusively via O2, is so compact it makes rival models look excessively bulky. It sports unique features too, namely a pair of zoom options and five exposure levels. Users can store up to 80 images and set up an online photo library. If priced competitively it could kick-start photo messaging as a major trend among the young. Sharp's photo messaging mobiles are enormously successful in Japan, and the GX-1 is the company's eighth handset.At the top-end is Sony Eric sson's P800 - one of the most sophisticated mobiles ever produced. Around the same size as a small PDA (117mm (4.6inches) tall, it features a flip-down front that reveals a large screen. Images taken by its integrated digital camera are stored either in the phone's 12MB internal memory or the 16MB Memory Stick that accompanies it. It runs the latest Symbian V7 operating system, has email facilities and an HTML/Wap web browser and features Bluetooth and Java. Owners can also view streamed or downloaded video. Its expected price is about &#163;500. No networks have committed to it yet. Sony Ericsson is also offering a budget photo phone, the T-300, which will be available with a new CommuniCam snap-on digital camera.Finally, if the high price of MMS (T-Mobile &#163;20 a month or Orange, 40p per image sent) proves too much, T-Mobile is now offering photo messaging on the cheapAlthough it doesn't use MMS, the i128 sends images taken by its accompanying plug in camera to PCs as emails. The phone is available now with contract, and no additional MMS fees, for &#163;79.99.
It's official - car prices are still falling in the UK, albeit slowly, and so it remains a good time to drive away a bargain.Figures released today from Alliance & Leicester for its Car Price Index show that new car prices in the UK continue to fall, dropping 2.4% year on year in July. But, the previous month had seen a slightly bigger drop of 2.8%.The figures, produced in association with What Car? show that the real bargains to be found are in the used car sector. Vehicles of three years old saw a larger fall of 13.5% for July, higher than in June, when they fell by 9.8%. Cars of a year old fell by 6.1%.Alliance & Leicester believes there will be further pressure on prices to fall because of the slow down in the UK economy.When to buyHistorically, February and August are the cheaper months to buy - new cars are coming in and older stock needs to be shifted - but buying in February rather than March could mean your car could be worth up to 800 less, just because of the older registration.If you don't want to wait, there is no harm in looking around at any time - and that includes at your local dealer. If they have lots of cars on offer and the sales person needs to hit their target, you could find negotiation is possible.Where to buyOnlineIf you're after a new or second hand motor, chances are some web research will not go amiss. Check out what's available in terms of pricing and availability and you'll have more bargaining power.While not everyone is comfortable with buying a car online, according to Jamjar.com, one of the largest retailers, this is taking off in the UK. And, you should definitely find you pay less because of the savings available to suppliers.You can  surf for a car on the Virgin and the AA websites and Marks & Spencer Financial Services recently launched Upgradeyourcar.com in association with online car retailer oneswoop.com. The AA has joined forces with Inchcape, the world's largest independent car dealer.Even so, The Society of Motor Manufacturers says as few as 50,000 cars are sold online out of a total of 2.3m each year.Small adsIf you choose to buy through a classified advertisement, there is no reason why you shouldn't find a bargain, but there are plenty of sharks around. Typical are the dealers who pretend they are owners.If the vendor sounds reasonable, you should still ask plenty of questions before you go and see the car. You need to find out about the next service, any accidents and the MOT. Ask if they are prepared to go for a professional car inspection - and always see the car in daylight.Never buy a car without a DVLA document and always make sure there is no outstanding finance.Dealers and brokersDealers are often handy, you can have personal contact and you may be able to trade in your existing car - and set up a finance scheme. But, convenience can mean paying a higher price. Brokers are unlikely to offer finance or a trade in, but should be cheaper. The rule with brokers, however, is to make sure you find one who is reputableAuctionsNot necessarily a good idea for the novice buyer, but worth investigating. They can be the home of real bargains, but these are also the home of the dodgiest dealers around - why not try being a spectator at one first?AbroadBuying abroad can still be cheaper and again the web can help you do your research. The Consumers Association has a fact sheet called Importing a New Car and Virgin's website also has information as well as cars for sale. Going to Europe sounds a scary prospect, but can be easier than you think. The downsides are you'll have to deal with paperwork and potential deals and warranties tend to be shorter.Longer term, it looks like the trek across the Channel in search of a cheaper car could become a thing of the past. Last month, the European commission struck a major blow against the cartel practices of the big car producers in a move that will bring British car prices closer to continental levels.The commissioners agreed on a set of rules that will mean sellers in countries selling cheaper cars - such as Denmark and Holland - can now set up shop over here. A Mazda 323 costs 6,266 before tax in Denmark compared with 10,525 in Britain, for example. But, it will take at least a couple of years before we start to see many changes, claim consumer groups.Finance mattersYou should also make sure you have the right finance deal. Dealers won't often be that competitive, although in recent years, competition has forced them to cut their rates.You can buy through standard hire purchase and more recently personal contract purchase (PCP) schemes. You could also find a straightforward loan makes sense.PCP plans are becoming increasingly popular, but you need to watch out for the big payment at the end of the contract and you are also tied to the same manufacturer.Alliance & Leicester is one lender that offers a more flexible arrangement. It allows you to choose any car from a dealer, or privately, and the car does not have to be new. At the end of the term, you can sell the car and use the money to pay off the deferred amount or change your car for another one. You can also keep the car and continue with the monthly payments until the deferred amount is repaid. You own the car from the moment you complete the deal.Useful linksJamjar.comUpgradeyourcar.comVirgin carsThe AA
Attempts by the Inland Revenue to persuade taxpayers to submit their returns online are doomed unless it can dramatically improve security and reliability of electronic self-assessment, MPs warn today.Technical teething troubles, and a security breach allowing personal tax details to be viewed by other users, have sapped public confidence, according to the Commons public accounts committee.Its report concludes that the 50% take-up target of online self-assessment by 2005 is unlikely to be met, as fewer than 80,000 users - less than 1% - are filing returns electronically so far. An initial &#163;10 bonus offered to taxpayers switching from paper to screen was abandoned.MPs want more incentives and consultation with users, and for future systems to be more rigorously tested.The report found that the Inland Revenue did not have a "full grip" of the costs and potential benefits of its &#163;200m electronic strategy and called for a "rigorous assessment of the cost-effectiveness" as part of the shake-up.Taxpayers' reluctance to file returns online has endured despite an expensive advertising campaign featuring Mrs Doyle from the TV comedy series Father Ted. The system cost &#163;10m to set up and at least &#163;3m to administer each year, plus &#163;4.4m on advertising - which makes the 115,000 returns filed online over two years significantly more expensive than the paper ones.
I don't mean to brag but it's 8.30am and I've already got up to date with 75 different websites. I've read all their headlines, perused the articles of interest, and I'm only half way through my coffee.I'm also cheating. I'm using an RSS newsreader. Now, most of you are unlikely to discuss the vagaries of different data syntax down the pub, so news of a massive growth in the use of the RSS format may have passed you by. Here's the deal: thousands of website publishers, from big-content companies to teenage bloggers, are making their systems automatically produce a summary of their site in a special format called RSS. By using special RSS-reading software on my laptop, I can grab the RSS files from all my favourite sites while the kettle is boiling, and see instantly who has updated, and with what.It's awesomely useful. You don't get the pictures, the layout or the advertising of the real version, but the meaty bits are there for the chewing. And this means you can grab the contents of 100 sites in one bite, and taste exactly what's new. Your morning is no longer spent trawling your bookmarks for interesting stuff, your phone bill is lower, and you can feel smug in the   cutting-edginess of it. Is there anything better for an Online reader such as yourself?So, software first. The original desktop newsreader was Carmen's Headline Viewer. It has been around since 1999 and has steadily improved. It is free to download and use, and taps directly into various directories of RSS "feeds" for your browsing pleasure.One desktop reader with an increasingly vocal following is Amphetadesk. Written by the improbably named, and unnaturally helpful, Morbus Iff, Amphetadesk is free and runs on Windows, MacOS and Linux. It is open source, and it uses a very clever way of exposing its innards for the so-inclined to tweak away at: programmers with just a slim knowledge of the Perl language will be delighted with it. It is wonderfully easy to use and the support is superb.The one thing that Amphetadesk is not, is pretty. Of course you can always change this, Amphetadesk being skinnable, but those of us running the best looking operating system of all, Mac OS X, will be looking for an Aqua-themed news reader to go with everything else.The most popular, and certainly the best, is Brent Simmon's NetNewsWire Lite.   Like Amphetadesk, Net NewsWire Lite is the product of one man, and is free to download. The source code is not available, but the average user probably couldn't care less. Especially when they see the way the system runs. It is very pretty indeed, with a three-panel display very similar to standard email programs. Sadly, it is Mac OS X only, so Windows users will miss out on this one.Did you notice how all those programs are free to use? If you like it, send the author an email and express your gratitude. They love that. Money is nice too.Now, having installed your reader, you need to find your feeds. Many sites, the Guardian Online weblog for example, display a link to the RSS feed. This may be either a text link, or a small orange button reading "XML" (it's another file format, that RSS is based on, but bear with me). Copy the URL that the link points to, and subscribe to it via your newsreader's relevant menu. Your newsreader will update itself once an hour, and you will forever be on top of your news.For people looking for RSS feeds on a specific subject, there are various directories to browse through.   Syndic8.com is the biggest, offering pointers to more than 15,000 of the blighters. Also, in the growing tradition of blogging pushing technology in interesting ways, people are now publishing their own subscription lists in a format (this time called OPML) that allows some newsreaders to import whole groups of feeds. If you find a blogger you like, you might like to read the same sort of stuff. Downloading his "blogroll" is the way to do this. There is a link below to my own blogroll, and Amphetadesk users, in particular, will have no problems importing it.There are many other newsreaders to experiment with, and a world of interesting RSS development going on at the moment.Have a look at the Open Directory Project listing below for some pointers, and have fun.LinksCarmen's Headline Viewer:www.headlineviewer.comAmphetadesk:www.disobey.com/amphetadeskNetNewsWire Lite:http://ranchero.com/software/netnewswireSyndic8:www.syndic8.comOnlineblog's RSS:www.onlineblog.com/rssfeed.xmlMy blog's RSS:www.benhammersley.com/index.rdfMore on RSS:http://dmoz.org
Read all about it! On your mobile. News services for mobiles are now more appealing - but will they succeed?Earlier this month, Orange began offering multimedia news clips to people with picture phones. Rivals Vodafone and O2 also plan a spot of photojournalism.You get the story plus a photo sent as a text message for 25p. As well as general news, there are sports, quirky news and celebrity gossip.T-Mobile in the UK says 20% of all connections to its Wap portal are for news. You can even buy mobiles with built-in radios if you want your news delivered in a conventional way.People who get their calls via a personal digital assistant like O2's Xda probably have an appetite for longer stories because of the larger screens they use. They can also look at mobile versions of internet-based news services.Hans Snook, founder of Orange and chairman of Carphone Warehouse, says: "Mobile news will appeal to anyone with a specific interest, where the quantity of information is not too great." Orange bought the web-based Ananova news service from the Press Association two years ago. It says customers have recently been able to register for up to 3,500 different categories of news and information.Customers can opt for regular updates costing about 12p or get updates on demand. For example, you can send a text message saying INDX to the phone number 177 and get the current price of the FTSE 100 sent back. Users can also listen to cyberchick Ananova reading the news for 20p a minute. Virgin Mobile also has audio news. Dial 4321 on its service and you can call out the category you want.The soaraway success for news service on mobiles today is football news, says Stephen Pang of mobile portal Vizzavi.   Horoscopes get most hits on its site, followed by football scores, with news third.Most operators sell football news packages. Carphone Warehouse has a package for the whole Premier League season for &#163;29.99 (or &#163;5.99 for a month). And it provides a choice of CNN, Sky News, BBC, the Guardian, and the Financial Times on its Mviva portal. Or, via SMS, you can get celebrity gossip from OK! or Formula 1 alerts."Use of mobile news leaps not just when the Premiership starts but also when there is a breaking story, such as September 11 or, more   recently, the two missing schoolgirls," says Deborah Tonroe from Orange UK.Alan Newman, a media specialist and managing director of Atos KPMG Consulting, says mobiles have a big advantage over the internet. "Customers expect to pay," he says, "whereas they see the net as free. This bodes well for mobile news, so long as it is not too general."He suspects that operators will try to debit news payments from the customers' bank account separately from their main mobile bill so it does not seem so costly.Pay-as-you-go could prove the most popular way of purchasing news on the move, as operators only charge for news that's highly relevant to the customer.Or much quicker to obtain. "Mobile users want small amounts of information and they want them fast," says Elaine Devereux of T-Mobile.She adds: "If you give out time-sensitive information, people will pay even if they can get it free elsewhere - but more slowly."
Personal computers have just smashed a price barrier: today, you really can get online for 499, including delivery and VAT. What's perhaps even more important is that consumers who want cheap PCs no longer have to comb the back streets, or the even more hazardous back pages of computer magazines. The 499 market is now being targeted by Dixons, the high street's biggest PC retailer, and Dell, the world's leading direct (build-to-order) supplier, which announced the Dimension 2300 last week.Back-to-school and off-to-college buyers are the obvious target. However, cheap PCs also appeal to people who would like to get on to the internet, but balk at paying 1,000 to 1,500 for systems that do far more than they need.Neil Stevens, Dell Computer's UK marketing manager for home and small business PCs, says: "The important thing is that this is not old technology or end-of-life product. We're not using lower-quality components, and there isn't any compromise on support or back-up or all the testing that we go through. You may not be spending very much but you still get a product that's got a good lifespan and that can be upgraded."Since most new consumer PCs have identical software - Microsoft's Windows XP Home Edition - it is just as easy to get online with a 499 model as with one that costs 2,499. Also, since they all use the same colour-coding for cables for mice, keyboards, monitors and so on, different systems are equally easy to plug together.There are lots of reasons for the price drop, but the most obvious is the use of highly integrated electronics. Traditionally, PCs have put many functions on plug-in expansion cards for maximum versatility and upgradeability.On most of today's cheap PCs, everything is on a single   circuit board. This includes sound and graphics chips, at least two USB communications ports, and built-in Ethernet networking - the best option for broadband internet connections.Geeks and gamers sneer at integrated machines, and there is no doubt that you can get better sound and faster graphics from separate cards. On the other hand, Stevens claims the graphics are more than adequate for the majority of home users who just want to surf the web and send email, for students, and for people running small businesses or working from home. And while they are not good games machines, I found that 499 PCs were more than adequate for running Command &amp; Conquer, Tiberian Sun and Championship   Manager.Competition in microprocessors has helped a lot, with AMD pitching its Athlon and Duron chips against Intel's Pentium and Celeron lines. Intel has responded by cranking up clock speeds and cutting prices: its fastest   Pentium 4 now runs at 2.8GHz and is heading for 4GHz. Expensive chips that were acclaimed for breaking the gigahertz speed barrier a couple of years ago are now end-of-life cheapies, among the slowest you can buy. Intel's latest Celerons for low-end PCs, announced in May, run at 1.4GHz and 1.7GHz, which should soon be the minimum. Dell's new Dimension 2300 uses the 1.7GHz version.Windows XP, launched last year, has also helped a little. Based on Windows NT instead of MS-DOS, it is much more reliable, and a new interface makes it easier to use. "We get much fewer support calls from XP home users, undoubtedly," says Stevens.Martin Reynolds, a US-based research analyst with Gartner, says we ought to thank "Steven", too. He's the dude inDell's American TV adverts. "Dell has really rung some bells with Steven," says Reynolds. "They watch the responses and, from the sales, they know how good he is."Steven has shown Dell that there are big sales to be made to consumers who would normally buy retail, says Reynolds. And what it has learned in the US, it will want to exploit elsewhere.But Martin Atherton, analyst with Datamonitor in the UK, warns that there could be problems. Dell has a strong brand name in the business market, "but the kind of person who goes into Dixons may not have heard of them", he says. Also, "what lets them down here is the fulfilment process - 'when do you want it delivered?' It is an outsourced process, but your average user is going to say Dell is responsible." That helps Dixons.Either way, Dell and Dixons are going to increase the pressure on traditional sources of cheap PCs, such as "white box" suppliers (who sell generic clone PCs made out of standard parts), the companies that shift stocks of end-of-life products, and the second-hand market. (How much is an 18-month-old 1,500 PC worth when you can buy something faster for 499?).And by helping to create an even more competitive market, the 499 PC should bring down prices for everyone.Bargain basementsI tested three PCs intended to get you online for about &#163;499, choosing an end-of-life product, a retail PC, and a generic "white box" clone. When I started the project, Dell said it had nothing to offer at this price point. Last week, however, it came back with the Dimension 2300 for &#163;399 plus delivery and VAT. It includes a 1.7GHz Intel Celeron processor, 128MB of memory, a 20GB hard drive, CD-Rom and floppy drives, Intel Extreme (845GL) graphics and a 15in monitor. Unfortunately, there wasn't time to obtain a sample for this review.For comparison, I ran Passmark's PC Performance Test V3.5.1002. If you already have a PC, you can download and run the same test fromwww.passmark.com/products/pt.htmAcer Aspire 8000 from Technomaticwww.technomatic.co.ukBackground:Acer of   Taiwan is one of the world's biggest PC manufacturers, though most of its machines have been sold under other labels, including Texas Instruments and IBM. Technomatic says it always tries to offer something for &#163;299.99 but the product may vary from month to month.Specification:The Acer Aspire 8000 is minitower running Windows 98SE. It has a 1.2GHz Intel Celeron processor (Pentium III equivalent) with 128MB of memory, a 20GB hard drive, CD-Rom and 3.5in floppy drive. VIA graphics and sound are on the motherboard. Peripherals include an Acer-brand USB keyboard, mouse, and mains-powered speakers. Technomatic added a 17in Samsung Syncmaster 753 S screen (&#163;99.99) to bring the total price to &#163;469.98 free delivery and VAT.Opinion:The Aspire 8000 was the cheapest but noticeably the slowest of the three PCs tested (Passmark rating, 114.4). Nonetheless, it was just as fast as the 1.3GHz Pentium 4-based Gateway (Passmark rating, 116.8) that I use all day on the internet and for running Microsoft Office 2000. The lack of a CD-R or DVD   drive and the use of Windows 98SE are significant drawbacks. Still, the Acer had the best keyboard and the best speakers of the three machines, and the Samsung 753 S looks great value for money. The screen is not as flat as rivals', but the display was sharp, clear and stable at 1024 by 768, and will go up to 1280 by 1024 pixels. I would not buy this PC, but I would buy the monitor, which is available separately.eMachines e160 from Dixonswww.dixons.co.ukBackground:eMachines is an American company that grew by offering machines at low prices. The Dixons group - including Dixons, Currys and PC World - is offering eMachines and Packard Bell Legend 4040 PCs at &#163;499.Specification:The e160 has a high-quality minitower case with a 1.3GHz Celeron and 128MB of memory running Microsoft Windows XP Home. The Intel 82810E graphics and SoundMax audio are on an LM810E motherboard. The e160 has a 16x Samsung DVD drive, 40GB hard drive and 3.5in floppy. Two extra USB ports and a game port are located behind a pull-down door on the front on the machine. Peripherals are an eMachines keyboard, mouse,   two small non-powered speakers, and a 15in E-151 colour monitor. Pre-installed software includes Microsoft Works and Money 2002.Opinion:the eMachines e160 was the best looking, best finished and best presented of the three PCs. It was slightly nippier than the Acer (Passmark rating, 139.8), better at handling graphics, and DVD playback was good. The 15in screen was a little hard to read and, at 60Hz, flickery. Although set up to show 1024 by 768 pixels, like the Acer, this is its limit. Resetting to 800 by 600 with an 85Hz refresh rate solved that problem but dramatically reduced the amount that could be displayed. If you buy an e160, get a better 17in screen.Graduate Value Plus from Campuswww.campus-systems.co.ukBackground:Campus is a small British company that started as a retailer. It is an authorised supplier to the Open University. The review machine bust the budget at &#163;502.90 (&#163;399 plus delivery and VAT), but Campus sells cheaper systems.Specification:The Graduate Value Plus is a minitower system with a 1.2GHz AMD Duron processor and 256MB of memory running Microsoft Windows XP Home. The S3 graphics and AC97 audio are on theGA-7VKML motherboard. It has an   LG DVD drive, a 40GB hard disk and 3.5in floppy. Peripherals are a Computer Gear keyboard and three-button mouse, Natural M760 speakers and a 17in AOC monitor. Bundled software includes Fax Talk and Lotus SmartSuite on CD.Opinion:This is a standard PC clone, with the only thing unique to Campus being the badge on the front. The keyboard is light but usable, but the speakers are fairly poor. However, the system has twice as much memory as the others, and it performed much better than I expected (Passmark rating, 153.6). The monitor, while not quite as good as the Samsung, delivered a comfortable 1024 by 768 pixels at 75Hz. The GVP does not come in an attractive case, but it is made from solid metal, not cheap plastic, and the machine's internal assembly was impeccable. It looks good value.
Hundreds of British webloggers have already entered the contest in the hope of winning a &#163;1000 first prize, or one of five runners-up prizes of &#163;100 each.You can find details atwww.guardian.co.uk/weblog/bestbritishblog. The closing date for entries is Friday September 6.
In and outThe Royal Mail and Parcelforce have launched a trial project that will let people register their preferences for when and where things are delivered. This approach   could encourage online shopping, because people will be able to have things delivered to a neighbour's house, a post office or a drop box instead of having to wait at home.The "smart database" programme will be accompanied by a locker bank project, enabling users to have things delivered to a locker in the city centre. The postman will not ring, but will send users a PIN by email or SMS so that they can retrieve their parcels or purchases.The database will cover about 40,000 people in the NG5 postcode area in Nottingham. To register, go to the   Royal Mail site and click the link for Decide and Deliver. The locker banks can be used by anyone who lives or works in Nottingham.www.royalmail.comWatch itThe World Monuments Watch has published its third list of the 100 most endangered sites. There are six entries from the UK, including Stowe House, Selby Abbey, and St George's parish church in Bloomsbury, in the centre of London.  The website has a photograph of each threatened monument and a brief account of its history. The sites listed in 1996 and 2000 are still online, too, so the website is becoming a great guide to some of the world's most interesting places, though often a sad one.www.wmf.org/a/watchlist.htmPage turnerThe British Library has added the Sherborne Missal to its award-winning Turning The Pages project. The idea is to take pages from untouchable treasures, such as the Lindisfarne Gospels and Leonardo's notebook, and put them online in Shockwave Flash.www.bl.uk/collections/treasures/digitisation.htmlHead turnerFew things are as boring as sitting in a conference room, but there is a solution: Eric Staller's conference bike. Staller's latest model is basically a tricycle that seats seven people in a circle. Conference dynamics being what they are, only one person gets to steer. The trike will cost &euro;9,500 until the end of the year.www.conferencebike.com/Conference/Newmodel/NewModel.htmGhost spottingAre you clairvoyant? If so, the International Society for Paranormal Research has two job openings. Of course, you have to be able to demonstrate your special abilities, and the ISPR has put a picture-based psi-test online. However, if your familiarity with haunted houses doesn't go far beyond the Ancient Ram Inn, I think you will need to swot up on New Orleans. Oh, and Hollywood.www.ispr.net/surveys/psitest.htmlwww.afallon.com/hotels/ancientram.htmwww.forteantimes.com/exclusive/hauntedhollywood.shtmlScarySomething even scarier could be heading your way, or at least, to your local Blockbuster's bargain bins. The three letter extension that terrifies investors is being exploited in a film released in the US tomorrow: FearDot Com. ("Want to see a really killer website? It's the last site you'll ever see...") The movie has its own site, of course. The real Fear.com has nothing to do with it.http://us.imdb.com/Title?0295254http://fear.comPie eyedIf you still feel the need for a deeper understanding of Don McLean's 1971 song, American Pie, then you cannot have visited Understanding American Pie, James Fann's fan site, which plods through it verse by verse. Unfortunately there is a gaping hole in the coverage that misses most of the song's entertainment value: it has been a great prop for parodists. The net really needs someone to collect the set, from the classic America Online via Mexican Pie to Napster Pie. Amiright has the words to 10 parodies, though Brendan's American Pie Archive is a more interesting place to start.http://americanpie.smithcraft.orgwww.amiright.com/parody/70swww.amiright.com/parody/70swww.mbhs.edu/~bconnell/cty/american-pie.htmlNew &amp; noted&#183;The photographer of Notting Hill:www.nottinghillcarnival.org.uk&#183;The Internet Scout's weblog:http://scout.cs.wisc.edu/weblog&#183;Worries about Google's use of cookies:www.google-watch.org&#183;As seen on TV: Julia Child has given her kitchen to the Smithsonian:http://americanhistory.si.edu/kitchen&#183;Sports sidebars:www.soccersprite.comSix of the bestSustainable developmentJohannesburgwww.johannesburgsummit.orgUK anglewww.sustainable-development.gov.ukUN homewww.un.org/esa/sustdevThe Institutewww.iisd.orgEncyclopediawww.doc.mmu.ac.uk/aric/esdLinkswww.ulb.ac.be/ceese/meta/sustvl.html
What computer do you use for your music?I use a Mac G4, Pro-Tools and Logic Audio as my base. I mostly use Pro-Tools for the hardware but I'll occasionally do some editing in it - though I'm better versed in Logic. I think it's the most comprehensive platform. It's easy and graphic and there's a lot of stuff you can do within it. I've always been Mac. PCs for me always seem much more office-based.OS X?Not with my set-up as it's not particularly stable with Logic but I think that's going to change with the unification of Apple and Emagic. I'm on Logic 5 now and I'm still using OS9 so I'll let them iron out the problems before I upgradeWould you ever consider using MP3s for your Dj-ing?It's something I'd definitely look at because I'm very technology driven. Because I've been using thePioneer CDJ1000and now they've got thisDMP555, which is an MP3-based format on a card, it's similar to software such asFinal Scratch. The only thing that worries me about using a computer live is getting to the middle of a set and having something crashing. You need to have back up, whereas if you have everything down on anSD cardyou slide it in and it's there. It's definitely a good concept to involve computers more but I still think it needs to be reviewed and improved a lot in terms of reliability.More communication between platforms?I'd love it if PC and Mac were able to communicate far more effectively. I have a PC Emulator in my Mac ( www. lismoresoft.com ) but it's still a pain when you get sent files that you can't open with your Mac because you don't have the programs needed. I find that really retarded.Favourite gadgets?Probably myEMU SP1200and theCDJ1000are my favourites. I have aPalmand I love my newEriksson T68i, although I'm really curious to see what the new Nokia is like. I'd like a phone that's also a PDA, which can store a huge amount of information that you can back up via the net to a different database.The file-sharing debate?It's both a blessing and a curse. I've got tons of my stuff that's been bootlegged and that pisses me off. I do, however, sometimes get programs and plug-ins for my Mac so it cuts both ways. I'm a realist so it exists and you have to work within what exists.Do you have a web presence?HavingRogersanchez.comis extremely important to me and we've got Releaseyourself.com too. My brother Gabriel is a great web designer so he's upgrading both sites.Favourite sites?www.djsounds.com;www.about.com;www.defected.co.ukVisit:www.rogersanchez.comandwww.releaseyourself.com
Final scoreI have downloaded a "parasite" from Marketscore that is spying on my internet usage and locks me out of the web at random times. I can't get rid of it, despite following the instructions on theDoxdesk websiteand downloading Spybot to kill it.Martin ButlerJack Schofield replies:Marketscore's FAQtells you exactly what it is doing, so I would expect its removal technique to work, too. Go towww.marketscore.com/e/members/login.asp, type in the email address and password you used to join, and it should remove the service. Unfortunately you will not be able to do this if you cannot remember the email address and password you used. This is why you should keep records.If following the Doxdesk instructions does not work, there is an alternative. Marketscore changed its name from Netsetter, and there are (somewhat tedious) instructions for stopping that from working atwww.marioncomputer.com/internet/Help/netsetter.htmFinally,Marketscoreis one of Spybot's targets. If that fails to remove it, ask for help in Spybot's support forum.Games outI have tried deleting the games in Windows XP but they do not stay permanently deleted.Lewis OsbourneJS:Windows XP does not like people deleting its files and will always try to put them back. However, it will   happily remove features, if asked. Go to Start|Settings| Control Panel, run the applet to Add/Remove Programs, and pick the section for Windows components. Items ticked should be (or will be) installed, and anything not ticked will be removed. Double-click the Accessories section and untick Games.No textingHow I can receive SMS (text) messages from people using mobile phones on my Windows 98 PC.David CritchleyJS:I don't think you can, unless you add something to talk to a GSM (mobile phone) gateway. That could be a mobile phone or GSM wireless card: either would have a SIM card and a phone number. &lt;ST rescueI have a number of important files created by the old Atari ST Writer word processor on floppies formatted by it. Is there any way of translating them into Word 2000?Bill LongJS:If you still have an Atari ST, you can transfer files this way. (1) Format a 3.5in floppy disk to 720K on your PC. (2) Load the file you want to convert into ST Writer on the ST. (3) Save the file in a standard format    such as RTF (Rich Text Format) or ASCII text to the PC floppy, using a simple 8+3 DOS-compatible file name. (4) Copy the file from the floppy to your PC's hard drive. (5) Load it into Microsoft Word. RTF, if available, will preserve all or most of the formatting, which will be lost if you use plain text. The ST's Marcel Word Processor can apparently read ST Writer files and save RTF files. Searching Google for MARCEL_A.ZIP will find it.If you do not have an Atari ST, you should be able to do it with Gemulator 2000, which you can download free fromwww.emulators.com/download.htm. Gemulator emulates an ST (and the very similar Apple Macintosh Plus) on a PC, and also reads Atari ST floppies. (TOS 1.04 and later versions are DOS compatible, and if I remember correctly, earlier versions of TOS were only one byte different from DOS floppies.) You could also try a number of other Atari ST emulators available for both PCs and Macs.Delete itIs there a way of deleting unwanted read only/write-protected files?Anthony McKennaJS:If a file is write-protected, then usually you can change the permissions (or file attributes) so that it isn't. To do   this, right-click on the file, select Properties, and untick the box that says Read Only.However, you cannot delete files that Windows thinks are in use. The first idea is to empty the Temporary Internet Files folder, restart your PC and see if you can delete it now. The second idea is to restart your PC in DOS mode and delete it there. You may find this easier with a DOS utility such as XTree, TreeView or Vsevolod Volkov's freeVolkov Commander.Ad-awareYou advised that Ad-aware could be found athttp://tomcoyote.com/Isindex.html. When I tried to find the site, I got a 404 Error - File Not Found.Ken JonesJS:The address was correct but lsindex.html starts with a letter l for LavaSoft not a capital I. If an address does not seem to work, try following a link from the online version. Links to the most recent Ask Jack columns are at www.guardian.co.uk/internetnews.Backchat&#183;Last week, Mike Baker wrote from Queensland, Australia, to ask about converting bitmap images into JPegs for    quicker transmission by email. Jim Elks from Brockville, Canada, says he usesGadwin PrintScreen, which lets you choose to save the captured image in the format you want. Barry Caruth recommendsHyperonics' HyperSnap-DXwhich is powerful but costs $35. Mac user Brian Whalley suggests a freeware program, Captura, fromwww.hernansoft.com. He says: "This works for Linux and Windows as well as Mac, though I have only tried the Mac version so far."&#183;David Williams, responding to Stop Hotmail (August 15), says: "It is quite hard to find out how, but you can delete a Hotmail account. Click on Help on the right of the tabs and type 'close account' in the Find box. When a list appears, select Close your Hotmail account, then click Go to the Close Account page. Finally, click the Close My Account button."This has the advantage that you can foil spammers for a month or two, then re-open your account!"
