SoftwareOpen sesameThe latest version of the open source Knoppix software (http://knopper.net/knoppix/index-en.html), lets you run GNU/Linux on your Windows PC without installing a single file. Knoppix 4.0 comes with 5,300 distinct open source applications: all you do is put in the DVD and then re-start the PC. From the user-friendly opening screen, you can explore various categories of software, including education, games, graphics, office tools and utilities. Programs are run directly from the DVD, with no further installation required, and all of the leading free software packages - Firefox, Thunderbird, OpenOffice.org 2.0 and Photoshop replacement The GIMP - are included, as well as popular alternatives, such as web browsers Mozilla and Epiphany, email clients KMail and Evolution, and an entire second office suite, KOffice. Knoppix 4.0 also includes more than 100 games and a far wider range of utilities and educational software than previous editions. It can be downloaded free using BitTorrent (http://www.knoppix.net), or purchased for a nominal sum (http://knopper.net/knoppix-vendors/index-en.php).Music playersSplash of colourApple took time this week to rejig its line-up of iPod music players, bringing a touch of colour to the heart of the range. All classic white iPods will now come with the kind of colour screens seen on their bigger brothers. The changes do not filter through to the iPod mini, though, but there was a shift even further down the chain, with the 1GB iPod shuffle being aggressively marked down to &pound;89.www.apple.com/ukDigital camerasSilver liningDue on sale this week is the latest in Pentax's series of OptioS compact digital cameras. The &pound;249.99 Optio S5z, pictured below, is similar in style to its predecessors in that it sports a rectangular design with a metallic finish, yet has a 2.5in LCD monitor - larger than most of its rivals. The five megapixel model has 3x optical and 4x digital zooms, a macro option, 15 exposure modes and a range of digital effects. It can shoot video in the MPeg 4 standard at VGA quality. Images and footage are stored either on its 9.3MB of internal memory or on a Secure Digital card.www.pentax.co.ukHardwareMobile MikeyHitachi is promising a one inch eight/10GB capacity hard disk designed to be used in mobile phones by the end of the year. The disk, which has a codename of Mikey, is also expected to feature in personal audio and video players. The company is also working on a 20GB one inch disk for phones that will be available by 2008. Hitachi promises much larger disk sizes in the future due to an innovation called perpendicular magnetic recording technology. It claims this will increase the storage capacity of hard disks by between 20 and 40% per year.www.hitachi.co.ukVoice of reasonThis week, Vonage delivered an adapter that enables users to make inexpensive Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls through their existing landline phones rather than the standard way of using a PC and a headset. The device, available via Staples stores or from the Vonage website, plugs into a standard phone and the Ethernet connection of a broadband router. A wireless version of the system will be available later in the year. Vonage offers unlimited UK and Ireland calls for a subscription of &pound;9.95 month. Users pay additional costs for calls to mobiles and international numbers. The adapter is free with Vonage's start-up package.www.vonage.co.ukMobile phonesGet the messageThe latest in the HP series of iPaq PDA-style phones goes on sale this week. The iPaq hw6500 Mobile Messenger, pictured below, is set to retail for &pound;366 excluding VAT without a SIM card. It sports a three inch 64k colour screen and a full Qwerty keyboard. It runs using Windows Mobile 2003 special edition phone software and features 64MB of Ram, of which 55MB is available as storage for the user. Other features include an on-board Tom Tom GPS satellite navigation system, Bluetooth and voice control facilities. The device is also available to both corporate customers and consumers with a push email solution.www.hp.co.uk&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris, Glyn Moody and Bobbie JohnsonStat of the weekSources of spamWith email security continuing to make headlines, it seems little headway is being made in reducing the amount of unsolicited email being sent. A report from Commtouch shows which countries are responsible for the most spam, with the UK coming eighth.
Enjoy the rideGod of WarPlayStation 2, &pound;39.99Sony, *****There has been a buzz surrounding God of War ever since it was released in the US earlier this year. Now, finally, European gamers can experience one of the most enjoyable videogames in a long time. Set in Ancient Greece, you control the anti-hero Kratos in his quest to, essentially, kill everything he comes up against.There is a plot of sorts, and the classical history setting adds some Clash of the Titans-style atmosphere, but this is all about combat. You will need nimble fingers, and the reflexes of an over-caffeinated 15 year old to pull off the best moves, but, crucially, you can still get by with relatively unskilled stabs at the joypad.God of War is not restricted to gaming veterans - anyone can enjoy the ride. And what a ride. The game looks stunning, especially when you consider it is running on the PlayStation 2 and not the graphically superior Xbox. Ancient Athens, mythic monsters - the detail is impressive with a solidity to the game that puts most titles to shame.The action is intense, so much so that the few puzzle elements offer a welcome respite. But you always feel in control of the fighting, even when facing numerous assailants. The ability to "chain" moves together is reminiscent of the Devil May Cry series, but God of War carries it off with greater panache. It may ultimately lack variety, but by combining visceral excitement with wonderful graphics and audio, God of War offers invigorating entertainment.Greg HowsonRoyal blessingFire Emblem: The Sacred StonesGameBoy Advance, &pound;29.99Nintendo/Intelligent Systems ****Revisiting the Fire Emblem series for this sequel-cum-spin-off, it is amazing how much has been packed into what is one of the best role-playing games for the GameBoy Advance.Once again, you control a group of typical role-playing types: fighters, thieves, rangers and mages, as they ramble through a new storyline centring on Eirika and Ephraim, the royal twins battling to save their homeland.Graphically not a lot has changed, but the visuals were fine to begin with. There are new monsters, and it is nice to see players getting more control on the way their characters level up and change professions.Fans of the first game may be glad to know the tent you had to drag on to the battlefield to hold surplus items has gone. Consequently, it is easier to get hold of gear when you need it.The game also makes use of a neat "support" feature, which requires you to observe which characters interact best together and then try to move them in tandem while in battle. However, the storyline is still dialogue-heavy, and the eyes can tire as they strain to focus on the screen. But Sacred Stones has impressive amounts of gameplay for the money.Rhianna PratchettThe glorious gameArcade Legends: Sensible Soccer PlusStandalone console, &pound;29.99Radica, ***Modern videogames are often accused of being over-complex, and if you adhere to that view, Radica's mini-console is an interesting proposition. Put batteries into it, plug it into your TV and you are ready to play.While Arcade Legends: Sensible Soccer Plus contains just three games, there is no shortage of quality. The European Champions edition of Sensible Soccer, Cannon Fodder and Mega-Lo-Mania all rank among the finest games developed during the 16-bit era. Sensible Soccer, the focus, may be simple, but it is also one of the most addictive games ever. A top-down football game, it concentrates on gameplay ahead of rigour.Thus, you often find yourself pulling off moves that bear little resemblance to anything that happens in real football, yet are satisfying. The European Championship edition did away with the "star player" system, which makes it harder to score from near the half-way line, but the game's responsiveness puts many modern football games to shame.And because Sensible Software did not acquire official licences, there are hilarious deliberate mis-spellings of famous players of yesteryear (Tony Adams becomes Tony Edams).Top 5 gamesNintendo DS1.Another Code: Two Memories2.Super Mario 64 DS3.Star Wars III: Revenge of the Sith4.Need For Speed: Underground 25.WarioWare Touched!&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) LtdCannon Fodder, essentially the first squad-based shoot-'em-up, puts you in charge of soldiers engaged in a series of battles. Again, it is simple to get to grips with, but tricky to master. Mega-Lo-Mania is the weakest of the three. An early attempt at real-time strategy, it resembles Risk and is rather fiddly.But if a new generation of gamers is introduced to the glories of Sensible Soccer, that can only be a good thing.Steve BoxerSix of the bestAnyone for tennis?Official Wimbledon sitewww.wimbledon.orgWimbledon Drawwww.wimbledondraw.comWimbledon on Wikipediaen.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wimbledon_ChampionshipsGuardian coveragesport.guardian.co.uk/wimbledon2005/Candystand tennis opentinyurl.com/9t3bxLawn Tennis Associationwww.lta.org.uk
Last week, the Cross household moved, a few miles across north London. What we lacked in geographical ambition we tried to make up with technology. This was to be an e-move: every possible step would be carried out on the web.The results of this intensive test of online public services were mixed. With a few exceptions, government agencies still offer little online help. Many screen buttons labelled "Moving home?" clicked through to nothing more than instructions to fill out a paper form.It all started so well. When we fell in love with the new flat, our first step was to check the place was for real. For a fee of &pound;4, we were able to download a copy of the register of title and a plan from Land Register Online atwww.landregistry.gov.uk. Another new government website, Transport Direct (www.transportdirect.info) helped us check the transport links to work and school.We also needed planning permission. General rules were available at the Planning Portal (www.planningdirect.info), which also listed our new local authority, the London borough of Haringey, among those accepting applications online. Haringey's own website advertised an online planning service, but this seemed to be still under development. In the end, we submitted our planning application on paper.Likewise, the process of buying the flat involved no cutting edge technology but a great deal of phone-bashing and signing of paper documents. Roll on e-conveyancing.Paper contracts exchanged, we set about telling the world our new address. According to Transport Direct, we were moving 4.1 miles. As far as officialdom was concerned, it might as well have been 400.We needed a one-stop change of address service. As e-government cognoscenti, we turned first to central government's new one-stop web shop, Directgov (www.direct.gov.uk), expecting to find a heading marked "moving" or "change of address". There wasn't one. However, under "home and community" there was a link called "home buying and selling" (so much for e-government users in rented accommodation). This led to "moving home" and the advice "there is so much to organise in just packing for the move that often important things are understandably overlooked". It provided a checklist and an external link to the commercial change of address service "I am moving". Another external link took us to the post office mail redirection service, where it was possible to download a form.I wasn't ready to give up with government, so I used Directgov's "find your local council" button to get to the website of my old borough, Islington. Government targets require all councils to provide a one-stop change-of-address service. No such service was available on Islington's feature-packed site. Haringey's slightly ropier-looking site also had no obvious place where new arrivals could report their presence.Like perhaps 99% of citizens, I decided that if the council wanted our tax, it could track us down in its own time. A few central government tasks seemed more urgent. Another external link took me to the driving licence change-of-address service. In the true spirit of electronic government it told me "you must now complete a D1 application form (previously D750) available from most post office branches" and post it to Swansea.Inland Revenue's website, one of the best consumer-facing services run by central government, has a button: "change of circumstances". Again, this led to the disappointing: "If you move, let your tax office know as soon as possible."By contrast, the TV Licensing agencywww.tvlicensing.co.ukclaimed to change our address online. All we needed was the existing licence number. Presumably, officialdom has worked out there is not much scope for fraud in electronically appropriating a TV licence.The NHS doesn't even pretend to offer a change-of-address service. But a postcode search at the NHS Gatewaywww.nhs.ukrevealed the five nearest pharmacists, dentists, opticians and GPs.In the hope of dealing with the rest of the world in one go, we then turned towww.iammoving.com, a free change-of-address website paid for mainly by the Royal Mail and utility companies. Registering was no problem: all it needed was an old and new address, a moving date and a password. But then the slog began: the site provides page after page of organisations with boxes checked "start" and "stop". Only a minority led to electronic notifications, the rest just to a pro-forma letter that needs to be printed out, signed and posted. By then, the printer had been packed.Luckily, National Savings Premium Bonds accepts electronic notifications from the service: all I needed was my account number. Reassuringly, a security check email arrived a few seconds later.The overall verdict? With six months to go before government services are supposed to be available online, electronic officialdom is still not coping with the everyday business of moving house. The reasons are those that bedevil so much of e-government - lack of coordination between agencies and the difficulty of establishing citizens' identities online. Perhaps the identity card will help. After last week's experience, we are not planning to move again until well after the date it may come into use.
Government plans to put the medical records of 50 million patients in England on a national electronic database pose even more of a threat to civil liberties than the ID card scheme, doctors' leaders warned yesterday.The patient care record - part of a &#163;6.2bn programme to develop IT for the NHS - would allow GPs, hospitals and paramedics to access medical information that could save lives.But the British Medical Association (BMA) conference in Manchester was told it might also permit the leaking of intimate details about patients and their families divulged over many years in confidential consultations with GPs and consultants.Eleanor Scott, a GP from Barnet in north London, said: "The information contained in this record will exceed anything on the national ID card."A doctor's notes could include enough information to build up a full picture of a patient's social, sexual, religious and occupational history. "No other database would contain that amount of information under one umbrella. Giving a government department access to that would be horrendous."With over 50m records being copied on to the spine &#91;the central NHS data hub for England&#93;, and over 1m users &#91;among NHS staff&#93;, the risks of errors, unauthorised access, identity theft and malicious tampering are legion," Dr Scott added.Hamish Meldrum, chairman of the BMA's general practice committee, said doctors were not Luddites and could see the advantages of sharing information electronically. "But there is a lack of clarity about what is proposed - and a lack of public awareness. I am trying to prevent us sleepwalking into an error."The government's Connecting for Health programme is expected to cost &#163;30bn to maintain and run over the next 10 years. By linking up every part of the NHS in England it will permit electronic booking of hospital appointments, transfer of X-rays and test results and transmission of prescriptions to help patients renew supplies of med ication when they are away from home.The national patient record is likely to be its most controversial feature, but unlike the proposed national ID card, it does not require legislation.Ministers have suggested that individuals will be able to withhold information or restrict access to it, perhaps allowing their medical history to become available to NHS staff only in life-threatening emergencies. But they have not yet decided whether patients should be allowed to opt in to the new system or merely get an opportunity to opt out. A public education campaign is expected shortly.Vivienne Nathanson, the BMA's head of science and ethics, said doctors were already starting to load the names, ages and addresses of their patients on to the national data hub, but would not provide medical information until the confidentiality issue is resolved."Medical records are not neat, tidy files. They are living documents. They change at every consultation and with the results of every test. We have to be clear what information goes on the system." Patients should be able to decide for themselves about how much information should become widely accessible to NHS staff, Dr Nathanson added.A BMA poll of patients found three-quarters would not mind their health information being held on a central computer system, but 81% were worried it might be accessed by people other than the healthcare professionals providing their care. The YouGov survey of nearly 2,000 adults found 77% said they should have to give explicit consent before any health information went on a national system and 93% wanted the general public to be fully consulted before the scheme went ahead.Simon Eccles, a consultant working for the government's IT programme, said: "No information that patients do not wish to have shared will be shared. The electronic record would not include data about mental health, sexually transmitted diseases or other information that might be regarded as stigmatising."
Is it 1985 all over again? Not only has Live Aid been resurrected - though sadly not Nik Kershaw - but games from computers of that era are still being made, and on tape too. Retro publisherCronosoftwill be releasing new games for the ZX Spectrum and C64 on cassette and disc. "Emulators are great, but you just can't beat the feel of a real machine", said head honcho Simon Ullyatt. I've got a fewissueswith retro gaming but have to admire the obsession of the guys behind this, even if it is only likely to appeal to extreme collectors with a large supply ofAzimuth screwdrivers.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday July 6 2005We mistakenly referred to a telecommunications company, Bell South of Canada, in the news report below. Bell South serves Tennessee and surrounding states. Bell Canada serves Canada, and is the largest telecommunications operator in that country.BT yesterday took a major step towards its long-held goal of launching a television network delivered over its phone lines, announcing a deal with Microsoft to provide the underlying technology.The telecoms group confirmed that it planned to launch a trial of the service early next year. It will deliver a range of existing TV channels complemented by new video-on-demand services through a set-top box. A full consumer launch will follow in the summer.The so-called IPTV service is a central plank of BT's plans to diversify its business away from traditional voice calls towards broadband-based data services.Increased broadband speeds mean that the launch of video-based services is now a viable option, with smaller operators such as HomeChoice having already launched similar offerings in the London region.Yesterday's deal with Microsoft's TV division will see the company using the software group's IPTV Edition software as the backbone of the new service.BT's television offering will use a set-top box which will receive conventional Freeview channels but also offer extra features delivered over broadband. As well as video on demand there will be access to niche video content ranging from regional news broadcasts to non-league football matches.Gavin Patterson, group managing director of BT Retail, was keen to stress that the BT offering would complement existing pay-TV services such as Sky Digital rather than competing with them. "This isn't a direct attack on pay-TV. Both through satellite and digital terrestrial there are far more efficient ways of delivering mass audiences. It wouldn't be smart to go head to head."But we see there is an opportunity to complement broadcast TV with on-demand content, catch-up TV and some of the interactive experiences you get through broadband," he said, pointing to the possibilities for playing and downloading games, video calls, online chat and gambling.Expanding into television is also seen as central to Microsoft's plans. After more than a decade of failed experiments with the medium, it is now making headway by supplying its software to the likes of Bell South in Canada, Telecom Italia, Verizon in the US, Swisscom and Alcatel.The move into television will allow BT to compete with cable providers NTL and Telewest by providing the so-called "triple play" of telephone, internet and television services on a single bill.BT said yesterday that the Microsoft TV platform would allow it to provide an advanced television service to its customers, including high definition channels, personal video recorder functions such as live pause and picture-in-picture capabilities.According to Microsoft, its software also allows telecoms companies to deliver a more converged consumer experience, integrating the television with other broadband services to home computers, telephones, games consoles and mobile phones which run the same software.France Telecom, which has already launched a similar service in some areas of its domestic market, is also planning a video-on-demand service through its Wanadoo internet division in the UK this year.
"That's the fallout from the Supreme Court ruling on file-sharing technologies, says Creative Commons chair and law prof Larry Lessig"Business Week has just published an interview with the creator of the Creative Commons:Q: So the problem with the decision is just that the Supreme Court rendered an opinion at all, rather than letting legislators decide?A: Right. By making it a process that goes through the courts, you've just increased the legal uncertainty around innovation substantially and created great opportunities to defeat legitimate competition. You've shifted an enormous amount of power to those who oppose new types of competitive technologies. Even if in the end, you as the innovator are right, you still spent your money on lawyers instead of on marketing or a new technology.There's much morehere....
Thousands of British academics in every subject from art history to zoology will soon be required to make their research freely available online, the UK research councils have announced.The move flies in the face of government reluctance to offend the publishing industry and is a victory for proponents of open access to research findings. By making free access a condition of grants, the research councils, which control billions of pounds worth of funding, hope to give British research more impact worldwide as it is taken up and cited by other researchers.University libraries will benefit from an easing of the financial pressure to acquire more, and ever more expensive, journals as scholars can consult research for free.The UK is now said to lead the world in open access policy, but today the Publishers' Association raised the alarm, accusing the research councils of going "too far, too fast" without properly costing their proposals.International publishers, who lobbied hard against attempts by MPs to push open access pilots, are watching the research councils' moves closely. A report by the House of Commons science and technology committee urging open access was rejected by the government following representations by publishers who feared the loss of lucrative academic journals business.Research Councils UK (RCUK), the umbrella body for the eight research councils, are proposing that researchers must archive their papers arising from the work they fund in openly available repositories, either at their own universities or belonging to subject bodies. Deposit should take place at the "earliest opportunity, wherever possible at or around the time of publication".  The rule would come into effect in October, but researchers who were awarded grants before that date would be encouraged to do so too.If researchers publish in "author-pays" journals, the research councils will pay for that. The research councils award between 4,500 and 5,000 grants a year.Ian Diamond, chairman of RCUK, said their ideas were still emerging and a final decision had not yet been made, but the position statement sends a powerful signal to the sector.Today, some academics said they feared the research councils had left a loophole by saying that the condition would be dropped if there was no repository available. To date there are 55 open access repositories in the UK (including 34 universities and departments) . The majority of institutions have yet to set one up.But Stevan Harnad, of Southampton University, a leading advocate of open access, said he was confident the loophole would be plugged. "Not only does the UK have the second largest absolute number of open access archives &#91;after the US&#93;, as well as one of the world's largest relative number, but once it has the RCUK policy too, it will also have the world's 'fullest' open access archives," he said.Prof Diamond said: "The research councils are responsible for supporting and promoting the activities of a research base that is vibrant, productive and sustainable.  We're, therefore, committed to ensuring the widest possible dissemination of ideas and knowledge, effective quality assurance of research and its results, cost effective use of public funds and the long-term preservation of research outputs. Our emerging position on the access issue should come as no surprise to those who understand our remit."Graham Taylor, director of academic publishing at the Publishers' Association, said repositories could never be a channel for formal publishing because they did not have the peer review or editorial input of journals. All journals were experimenting with new forms of publication and it would be a mistake for the research councils to try to impose one particular solution. "Things are being forced too far, too fast without a full understanding of what is involved here," he said.Mr Taylor added that the costs of repositories were being seriously underestimated and they could prove unsustainable in practice.Research Councils UK  (www.rcuk.ac.uk),
"Google Earth combines satellite imagery, maps and the power of Google Search to put the world's geographic information at your fingertips," says theblurb.There are also Google Earth Plus ($20) and Pro ($400) versions.Comment:Great stuff, but it does say "powered by Keyhole" and it's basically a Google-branded version. Alsohttp://www.keyhole.com/now redirects tohttp://earth.google.com/
Each week we publish aletters page, but here on the blog I've been taking some time to run through. Think of it as "Points of View", and me as Terry Wogan. Or whoever's presenting it these days.We're pushed for space in our newspaper supplement, but we do try to read every email that comes our way. Send in your email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.This week's big issue was the response to our pieces on the European row over software patenting. But that wasn't all you had to say...The patent problemThe response to articles byRichard StallmanandGlyn Moodywas tremendous: clearly the row over software patents in the EU is one we're all interested in. This week we'll be running a spread of reader responses, but I thought one of the most sensible answers came from reader Jon Williams."The anomalies that are being raised today fall into two main camps: patents that stifle innovation and those that are arguably non-patentable. This may mean that the system needs review rather than a global Yes or No to software patents," he wrote. "If the patent system was more flexible in this respect then maybe there would be less issue taken with their acceptability."Look out for our coverage tomorrow: we've got two great letters from readers who come from both sides of the argument, and some extra reader feedback too.Blind furyA reader suggestion last week that text messaging doesn't exclude blind people - after all, they can get their friends to read out the messages - came in for almost universal trashing. David Wharton typified the response: "Jay Forsyth is clearly carrying so much empathy for Bob Geldof that there's none to spare for sight-impaired people. I'm not blind, but it's pretty obvious to me that the raised dots on the number five aren't going to be much help to a person who can't see the display."The RNIB were also in touch, to say that they believe there are ways to text messaging for blind people - but that we were a long way off yet."We are sure it was the intention of the Live8 organisers to offer a fair and democratic means of applying for tickets," wrote Julie Howell, digital policy development manager at the RNIB. "Unfortunately, texting isn't available to quite enough [blind] people yet to make text-only application truly fair and democratic."Pop goes the internetA couple of readers wrote in to point out the irony that Jack Schofield was railing against pop-up advertising, while the Guardian Unlimited site contains those very beasts.George wrote: "as I read the words, 'Evil design is where they stop you from doing what you are trying to do, like putting an advert over the top of the page", my view of the text was blocked as you put a pop-up advert over the page. Now that you know this practice is evil what are you going to do about it? Stop doing it? Punish the guilty parties? I hope so."We hope so too, George. I do not welcome our pop-up overlords, and the more people tell us they hate them, the more we can bring about a peaceful revolution.Any other businessOur piece onplasma screen technologywas taken to task by one correspondent, who took umbrance over our . "Most importantly, LCDs consume significantly less energy than plasmas and cathode ray TVs," wrote Keith Baker. "Of the three technologies, LCDs have by far and away the lowest environmental impact."Elsewhere, the file sharing debate continued, and Frank Jordans told us what the kids were thinking. "I decided to ask some teenagers whether they would stop swapping files now that the music industry is aggressively pursuing individual peer-to-peer users," he tells us. "The answers I got can be summed up in one boy's response: "Nah, we're gonna keep swapping. It's just, now we're gonna use DVDs, innit."And finally, a special mention for Ryan Brooker, aged 12, who got in touch to ask us a few questions."On your issue, in your games bit you reviewed GTA: San Andreas and you said that it's better on Xbox. But me and my friends think Bill Gates is a money hog who only invented Xbox to get more money.""My other thing is that my friend imported a PSP from Japan and can he play English games on a Japanese PSP? PS Is what my friend doing, is it legal?"Well, I might not be able to settle your mind about Bill Gates' motives - life's all about the Benjamins - but I can state that. And while importing PSPs from Japan has now ceased, Sony have said thatthey won't take any action against import buyers.And that 's it for another week.But remember: if you've got any questions, queries or points to make about anything you've seen in Online or here on the blog, please email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk- or leave a comment below.
I've been followingAjaxingfor a year or so (since Gmail appeared) and am amused to discover that Microsoft invented it forOutlook Web Accessin 1998.Microsoft is also taking it further with itsAtlas project:The Atlas Client Script Framework is an extensible, object-oriented 100% JavaScript client framework that allows you to easily build AJAX-style browser applications with rich UI and connectivity to web services. With Atlas, you can write web applications that use a lot of DHTML, Javascript, and XMLHTTP, without having to be an expert in any of these technologies.
Edd Dumbill has done a quick run-throughhere, concluding:What could have been a useful and reusable addition to the world of RSS is really rendered only fit for the single use of adding content into Apple's own iTunes store. Apple prove they know how to be cool, but they've got no idea about making friends on the web.From the point of view of XML and the web, iTunes RSS extensions are somewhat disappointing. From a professional point of view, I'd say this looks rather embarrassing: Apple clearly don't have enough people who really understand XML.He links to similar comments fromDave Winer, who observes: "It would have beenreally smartto review this stuff with the community before releasing their software."
Advanced Micro Devices has filed a lawsuit against rival chipmaker Intel, accusing it of abusing its dominance of the market by bullying companies into using its products.According to the suit, Intel used high-pressure tactics on at least 38 companies including Dell, Sony, Toshiba, Gateway and Hitachi to force them into signing exclusive deals.The colourfully worded 48-page suit alleged that Intel has "resorted to old-fashioned threats, intimidation and knee-capping" to build its near monopoly in the market for x86 microprocessors, the chips that run operating systems including Microsoft Windows on personal computers. The suit said one computer maker had compared Intel to a cocaine dealer that gets companies hooked on its financial incentives.The suit is the latest salvo in a long-running history of antagonism between the two   companies. Intel has a market share of about 80% while AMD has nearly 16%.The complaint details the allegedly aggressive tactics employed by Intel.In one instance, it cites former Compaq Computer chief executive Michael Capellas saying Intel "had a gun to his head" and had withheld products to force him to drop AMD.In another, the suit quotes Gateway executives saying that Intel has "beaten them into guacamole" in retaliation for using some AMD chips. The Gateway chief Ted Waitt allegedly told AMD that Intel had offered him large sums of cash not to deal with AMD. "If by dropping you, I become profitable that is what I do," he allegedly said.Former Intel chief executive Craig Barrett is also alleged to have threatened Taiwanese firm Acer with "severe consequences" if it supported the introduction of the AMD Athlon 64 line of chips.Intel declined to comment as did the personal computer makers referred to in the suit.Charles Diamond, a lawyer representing AMD, said: "We are trying to bust open Intel's choke hold over the computer companies and get the right to compete freely and fairly for every processor they buy."He said AMD is seeking "hundreds of millions of dollars if not billions of dollars" in damages.In March, the Japanese competition authority ruled that Intel had abused its monopoly and warned the company against pressuring clients to buy its chips. Intel denied the underlying charges but said it would remove clauses in contracts that restrict Japanese firms from using other chips. The European commission is also investigating possible antitrust violations by Intel.Hector Ruiz, chief executive of Silicon Valley-based AMD, said: "People from Osaka to Frankfurt to Chicago pay the price in cash every day for Intel's monopoly abuses."
Yahoo has unveiled beta 2 of MyWeb, itsSocial Search Engine, which says: "Create your own personal searchable web: Tag and save content that matters to you". There's a big piece about it atSearch Engine Watch.
While I was too poor to attend this year's Digital Game Researcher Association (DiGRA)ConferenceI desperately wanted to go. The annual event doesn't receive as much fanfare as E3 or GDC, but as an academic working vaguely in the field of computer games research, it is one of the few meccas of knowledge in the area.Thankfully, these games research lot are a techno-savvy bunch so there has been significant coverage of what happened. Particularly good is Ren Reynolds' round-up onGamasutra. In it, he discusses two important emerging areas: emotional and physical reactions to video game playing and games as tools for learning.The first, typified by the "Psychophysiology of Video Gaming: Phasic Emotional Responses to Game Events" presentation, highlighted some intriguing new findings which, as Reynolds rightly says, may turn the violence in video games debate on its head.The data also seemed to indicate that in a first person shooter, the strongest emotional reaction is not related to killing but to one's own death - a result that might have a bearing on the whole video game violence debate.The second issue under scrutiny, reflected in topics under the broader serious games umbrella, was what games can teach about learning and literacy (as James Paul Gee so eloquently discusses in the book of the same name).The most interesting thing about this trend is that we have moved beyond the simple notion that learning is restricted to simulation games like Sim City providing objective lessons in city planning. Today's scholars have expanded the understanding of what games can teach, how they act as learning tools, and are gaining insights into how we learn.For more coverasge of this event, check out these excellent round-ups fromThe Ludologist,TerraNova,Ludonauts, andsindikkaeshin.
Sanctuary, the world's biggest indie record company, is struggling. But it's not blaming file sharing. It's not blaming technology. In a shock decision, it's blaming... the management!Asthe Guardianreports this morning:The world's largest independent record label, Sanctuary Group, has admitted its debt is uncomfortably high and blamed its troubled Urban music division, run by Beyoncé Knowles' father, for a 40% slump in earnings.As Sanctuary warned 10 days ago, earnings fell from £10.6m to £6.6m in the first half as album releases were delayed. Pre-tax profit plunged 81% to £1.3m, the company reported yesterday.Sanctuary, which counts Destiny's Child, Lou Reed and Morrissey among its artists, said Sanctuary Urban, run by Matthew Knowles, was responsible for most of the album delays.Who'd have thunk it?
Just a quick reminder of ourcompetition: tell us the most embarrassing piece of techno-branding you've ever clapped your eyes on.
The general public fears patient confidentiality could be jeopardised once their health records are put in a centrally held computer, despite seeing the logic of the move, according to a survey published today by the British Medical Association (BMA).More than three-quarters (77%) of those surveyed on plans to introduce electronic healthcare records said healthcare professionals should seek patients' explicit consent before putting their records online.The opinion poll was launched to coincide with a motion being discussed today on the second day of the BMA's annual conference on the threat to patient confidentiality once computerised  care records are rolled out.The majority (93%) said the general public should be fully consulted before the proposals are finalised.But the system is already underway, although a number of "technical challenges" have prompted the rollout to be rescheduled, with the majority of healthcare record now expected to be online during the course of next year, according to the Department of Health.The public has given its qualified backing to the scheme. Three in four of the survey's 2,000 respondents said they were happy to have their health information held on a central computer system, and a similar number (69%) said they would have no problem with this information being shared and seen by relevant individuals involved in their care.But the majority admitted they were worried about how safe the information would be as a result of the information being computerised, with 81% concerned that people other than the healthcare professionals providing their care could access their personal information.Three in five (61%) said patients should also be allowed the unprecedented right to add information to their healthcare records.Barbara Wood, co-chair of BMA's patient liaison group said the survey revealed genuine concern that non-clinicians may be able to access their personal data.She said: "Patients do want to be able to put information into their own record themselves and have the opportunity to correct what is wrong."They have some concerns about the existence of a patient's 'envelope' as a private space in which they can store sensitive information but are much more worried about the doctor also being able to record information which is not accessible to them."Patient groups must be consulted in a meaningful way about the project as it develops if it is to stand any chance of being accepted by the public."&#183;60% of doctors who qualified 10 years ago are disillusioned about their career today compared to how they felt when they first qualified, according to the results of another survey by the British Medical Association presented to its annual conference today.
You know what, I don't think we've had enough technology lawsuits recently.Ooh, my prayers are answered - this is from Reuters:Advanced Micro Devices said on Tuesday it filed an antitrust suit alleging that Intel has an unlawful monopoly in the microprocessor market, which it said it used to coerce customers.AMD said in its suit filed in the U.S. District Court in Delaware that Intel has pressured customers, including Dell and Sony away from dealing with AMD.In its statement, AMD said it identified 38 companies that have been victims of coercion by Intel. It said the companies include large-scale computer makers, small system builders, wholesale distributors and retailers."Everywhere in the world, customers deserve freedom of choice and the benefits of innovation -- and these are being stolen away in the microprocessor market," Hector Ruiz, AMD chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement.Well, that Ruiz chap certainly doesn't hold back.The question is why now?
The use of open source software on public sector IT networks was today endorsed by a report from the parliamentary office of science technology.It said the use of open source alongside existing proprietary systems was increasingly accepted and had the potential to "stimulate creativity and innovation".The differences between the two systems are down to who has rights over software and the operating system. In the closed model, where Microsoft is the biggest player, customers buy a product but are forbidden from improving it by making alterations to the source code.In open source systems, both programmes and their source code are freely available - sometimes at no cost - on the condition that developers share their improvements and bug fixes with other users.Companies that make money from open source - including Sun and IBM - do so by managing large open source systems.The report, which serves as a reference point for ministers and senior civil servants, follows a Treasury report in October that said open source was a "viable desktop alternative for the majority of users".The Treasury's Office of Government Commerce (OGC), set up to get better value from government procurements, said there were no longer major compatibility problems with Microsoft products. Also, by delaying hardware replacement, open source software could have green benefits if it meant less machines were bought and discarded.It said the use of open source could generate "significant savings".The parliamentary report said Beaumont hospital in Dublin had projected savings of &euro;8m (£5.3m) from the use of open source by eliminating software licensing costs for an x-ray system and giving it the ability to re-use hardware.The British government is Microsoft's biggest customer outside the US and has less apparent interest in open source than its European counterparts and many commercial enterprises.Open source use among British businesses is estimated at 20% but its use in the public sector stands at 1%.The parliamentary report said open source advocates argued that the rapid fixing of bugs and errors by developers meant the systems were more stable and more secure, but detractors believed their complex development structure made for weak project management.It highlighted examples of successful government use of open source, including the Ministry of Defence's Defence Academy, where open source was chosen for its functionality, and Powys council, which had "dramatically reduced" the number of its servers.
What is file sharing?File sharing programmes effectively create a huge network of people who are able to see certain files on each other's computers and trade them with each other. Different networks work in different ways, but the basic ingredient is that one user can let another download a file - music, video, software and such - straight from their computer.What's the background?The explosion in file sharing began with Napster, a service invented by teenage bedroom programmer Shawn Fanning in 1999. Napster allowed people to swap songs stored on their computers, and was greeted with surprise and dismay by the music industry: here were people able to log on to Napster's server and find music to exchange for free.The Recording Industry Association of America, the trade body for the major US record labels, eventually got Napster closed down in 2002. Its major weakness was that it provided users with a central database of tracks: this was seen as clearly assisting people in the breaking of the law.Subsequent file sharing applications - including Grokster - were built differently in order to avoid the Napster trap. Instead of the database being held, each user is able to contact every other user of the network in order to find what files they are sharing.So when is it illegal to share files?It is illegal to share files when you do not own the copyright on the material being distributed, or if you do not have permission to share from the copyright holder. When you buy a CD, you are given the rights to listen to it at home and play it on your hi-fi or computer. As soon as you let other people copy that music, you could be breaching the copyright.Many people use file sharing programmes to swap music tracks, but this activity is almost exclusively illegal in the eyes of a court. Unless an artist has explicitly approved this process, it remains illegal to share their music. The same goes for video, television shows and movies. Some software creators - particularly those in the open source movement - also allow their copyrighted material to be shared.But I'm not hurting anyoneThe music industry argues that you are - it says you are preventing artists from earning royalties on sales. The industry equates it with shoplifting: by downloading a track for free over a file sharing network, you are not buying it legitimately. There have been many different studies of the effect of file sharing on record sales, with varied results.Some argue that they already own the music, and actually buy more music as a result of being able to hear lots of things for free. There is some statistical evidence in favour of this - and the British music industry is selling more albums now than it ever has - but the legal position has become weaker in the face of legal music download services such as Apple's iTunes and a legal, relaunched Napster.How can I file share legally?The only way in which you can share a file legally is if you own the copyright, have been given permission to spread the file, or if the file has no copyright at all. Some artists, particularly smaller ones, allow their music to be freely shared in order to build up a fan base.Other people create music or videos as a hobby and want their work to be seen by the maximum number of people. Because they don't have record deals or distribution channels, file sharing is one option open to them.But nearly all audio and video will be subject to copyright restrictions, and if you share a file - even with just one other person - you are breaking the law. Lots of file sharers have been prosecuted around the world, usually settling out of court for thousands of pounds.Why did the supreme court rule against Grokster?The US supreme court was looking at whether Grokster should be liable for the actions of its users. Because the judges found Grokster had actively promoted illegal use of its networks - basing its business plan on it, in essence - it was deemed to have encouraged people to break the law. This does not mean that Grokster will definitely be sued for infringements by users, but it is highly likely.Why aren't all file sharing programmes illegal, then?It remains to be seen whether other file sharing networks will be forced into the same legal position as Grokster. Not all of them promoted infringements of copyright, but now that precedent has been set, many could find themselves in the same position as Grokster.Kazaa, a popular network based in Australia, is currently being sued by that country's record industry on a very similar basis. Most networks are likely to have to change their position or face legal action somewhere down the line. Some networks - those that did not promote themselves as a way to break the law - could escape any form of prosecution.The situation is a little hazy for the networks themselves, but it is crystal clear for consumers.What if I make music and I want people to share it?If you own the copyright on files but don't mind other people sharing, then there are ways to let people know it's OK. Probably the biggest campaigners for revised copyright laws areCreative Commons, who offer several tiers of copyright, depending on how you want your files to be used.So where can I buy music from?There are now many places from which you can buy music legally. By far the biggest is Apple'siTunes Music Store, which has millions of tracks for sale. You can also download songs from the likes of Sony Connect and MyCokeMusic.After the Napster name was sold, it was relaunched as a legitimate download service whose users pay a monthly subscription and can download as many tracks as they like (although they lose the music if they stop the subscription).This model -something like a lending library approach to music - has even allowed some limited forms of filesharing. One example is that ofPlayLouder MSP, which charges users a subscription for the ability to trade with each other legally.&#183;Bobbie Johnson is deputy editor of Guardian Online
For over three years the European commission, the European parliament, software companies, lobbyists, patent lawyers and supporters of open software have been involved in an explosive row over drawing up a software patent law. Next week, the "patentability of computer-implemented inventions" directive goes to the full European parliament.What's the background?Intellectual property is the cornerstone of modern industry. Patents, a government-granted temporary (normally 20-year) monopoly, are a way that inventors can protect their innovations. Thus, historically, patents are viewed as an encouragement for research and development.However, the patent process has, in some ways, been overtaken by the internationalisation of business. Patents refused in one country may be granted in another; patents granted there may not be enforced everywhere.On the other hand, since a 1998 landmark decision by America's Patent and Trademark Office, there has been a boom in patent applications not just for products but also processes: so-called "business method" patenting. The most famous of these is Amazon's patenting of its one-click payment process.The rise in the number of patent applications has swamped many authorities and led to an alleged decline in the quality of the patents granted (the infamous US patent for a "sealed crustless sandwich", for example). Critics argue that overabundant and shoddy rulings, rather than protecting innovation, stifle it.What's been going on in Europe?The proposed European Union directive on the "patentability of computer-implemented inventions" (2002/0047/COD) was originally envisaged as a way of harmonising patent law in member states and set out the role of the European Patent Office.But, in true EU style, grand ideas have become heavily bogged down by jargon, arguments over definitions and disputes over what should be "patentable". Three years on, the patent directive has degenerated into an explosive row between rival factions. In the broadest of terms, the European commission is sympathetic to the concerns of big businesses, such as Microsoft, Nokia and members of theBusiness Software Alliance, which want a hard hitting bill to protect their innovations.In the other corner is the European parliament. It leans towards smaller businesses that complain about the bureaucratic and legal burden of navigating patent law. Fans of open source products say the proposals will put huge limitations on research.The former French prime minister and socialist MEP, Michel Rocard, wants only very limited areas to be covered. He favours cover for programmable hardware, like mobile phones or ABS brakes, but not data processing or software based instructions that are "invisible".During the past two years, the plans have been hacked about and batted backwards and forwards between the EU council of ministers and the parliament.Where are we now?Under the codecision procedure, both the European parliament and the council must agree the text before it can become law.In March, the council agreed to a "compromise version" of the proposal to permit patenting of computer-implemented inventions (providing the inventions have a "technical character"), overturning most of the parliament's amendments.On June 21, the European parliament's legal affairs committee agreed 16 to 10 to the latest draft of the bill which is in line with the March version adopted by the council. Mr Rocard suffered a string of defeats over his demands.The bill is now due to be debated by the full parliament on July 5 or 6. If they reject it by outright majority, it will fall. More likely, they could amend it again, sending it back to the council for a second reading. If neither of those things happen, it will enter into law as an EU directive and individual countries will have to implement it.Will everybody be happy?It's more likely nobody will be happy. After the June 21 decision, the Green party, which supported Mr Rocard's text, said the changes left a back door open to software patenting by clever lawyers, making it harder for smaller companies to enter markets. "Microsoft will be having a big party tonight. Now there is no clear exclusion of data processing," Green representative Evelin Lichtenberger said.Meanwhile, the Business Software Alliance, said the parliament's amended text still sent mixed signals on innovation and growth in Europe and could drag Europe's patent regime back to the 19th century.In the Financial Times later that week, John Gapper wrote: "The committee made the right decision. Although there are risks, Europe is better off with the directive than without. The alternative would have been to confine patents to the realm of mechanics."Wikipediaentryon the patent directive.
Tired of playing against whiny American teenagers on Xbox Live? How about some aging indie-rockers instead? Fans of the rather marvellous Super Furry Animals (veterans ofActua Soccer 2) will be ableto playConker Live and Reloaded with the band on July 1st. Earlier that week Funeral For a Friend will be doing the same with Forza Motorsport. Other bands who have "connected with their fans" in this way have been Kasabian, The Strokes and er, Maroon 5. All good fun I guess, although I'm still a bit skeptical. After all, if you grabbed a random Welsh bloke off the street, sat him down in front of an Xbox and told him to say that he was the bass player for Super Furry Animals, would anyone know it wasn'thim? Anyway, more importantly, what band should Microsoft invite next? Maybe Oasis could playFight Club, or as "Man Blue" on Pro Evolution Soccer 4. Any other suggestions?
Wow, this is incredible. Brad atVarietyhas posted aboutthisarticle which speaks of a revolution in sports consumption. TheKansas City T-Bones, a minor league baseball team (it's like cricket, for you British readers), will hand over the controls to two fans at their game against theSchaumburg Flyerson 16 July. The fans will play the first two innings of the game on MVP Baseball 2005 on the XBox, and then the team will play out the remaining 7 innings - with the results from the computer game segment still standing - in the traditional, real-world physical way.The T-Bones are creating two Xbox teams with the statistics and even facial characteristics of T-Bones and Flyers players, Williams said. The gamers will be allowed to choose their lineups, and the play-by-play will be called by stadium announcers.Woah.Can you imagine theBritish Lawn Tennis Associationagreeing to letWimbledonattendees play through the first few sets of the final on Virtual Tennis before letting the competitors take to the grass?Fantastic. Go team go!
For what may the first time, Iwas right: there were no great surprises in any of Apple's annoucements today.They have announced colour screens for all white iPods - but not for the iPod mini - meaning the "iPod Photo" brand is being amalgamated into the rest of the line. Prices are dropping too: 20GB iPods will now cost £209, and 60GB iPods come in at £299.They've also dropped the price of 1GB Shuffle by a tenner to £89, and announced iTunes 4.9, which will let users submit their own podcasts.I've just got off the phone with Stan Ng, the director of iPod product marketing worldwide, who told me with some bravado that "We're making podcasting mainstream today".With Grokster fresh in everyone's minds, I also asked him how iTunes might cope with someone putting copyrighted material up in a podcast. "We care significantly about copyright infringement on podcasts, and material that's inappropriate," he said. Apparently Apple will employ a team of workers to vet podcasts for such material, though he said that "because podcasting has been such a grassroots phenomenon, we didn't want to enforce a strict editorial policy". We'll have to wait and see what "offensive" counts as - especially since the podcasting store will be the same across the world (and freedoms of speech vary from nation to nation).When I asked him whether the drop in Shuffle prices was because Apple was finding it hard to keep up consistent sales of the unit, he skirted the issue and said that "Shuffle has been a great success".All in all, its pretty much what we expected.
The excellentGamePoliticsblog recently postedthis transcriptfrom CNN's prime time Nancy Grace news show. It's a 'debate' (and I'm stretching the dictionary definition of the word to breaking point here) regarding the violence depicted in forthcoming GTA rip-off 25-To-Life, specifically the assertion that players are rewarded for shooting cops. Of course, we've all suffered instances of the mainstream media cackhandedly fumbling videogame scare stories, but this is a really quite astonishing example."The military, Nancy, uses these murder simulators, killing simulators... to break down the inhibition of new recruits to kill. And therefore, of course it'll have that same effect on teenage civilians," says attorney Jack Thompson in a quite awe-inspiring leap of deductive reasoning.Skewed logic, poorly researched arguments, participants lacking in basic knowledge about the medium - if this were a prime time news debate about, say, suicide bombings in Iraq, the network would surely hang its head in shame.And is this game even important enough to merit such treatment? Fascinating andweirdly familiarstuff.
Back now from mud-soaked Glastonbury and as I washed the caked dirt out of my hair, I was directed tothisexcellent and in-depth interview at gaminatrix.com with theUS Frag Dolls, a team of female gamers who whoop the boys across a spectrum of online deathmatches. They've had to put up with a heck of a lot of cynicism since they joined forces, and this article gives a good idea of what kinds of obstacles they've come across. The UK women who want to become part of theBritish Frag Dolls teamshould take heed; while it's the boys who openly challenge you to competition, it's the women who give the most flack.In fact, it seems incongruous to many girl gamers that an attractive woman can also be a good player. Instead, there's an assumption that they've been handpicked by a PR company to promote products and are simply eye-candy for the intended male audience. Pah! The interview argues otherwise.There will always be detractors to anything so we remember not to take it personally and just keep doing what we're doing. We've also discovered that most people who are opposed to us haven't done their homework. Anyone is welcome to talk to us about games or come play us at any time. The truth about us as gamers is obvious once you've done either of those things.says one.Says another:One day I'll feel like we're doing the right thing and being good representatives of women in gaming, but then the next day I'll see an article bashing us because we look too "sexy." It's hard not to take those articles to heart, but we're just trying our best to be ourselves.Itisawfully difficult to be a female gamer in a boy's world (here's a great example of what we have to put up with from1up), particularly if the community you're part of gets bitchy because they think you're just a piece of fluff. The answer seems to be to adopt a hard-core image, but this isn't necessarily welcome or possible.How to solve this? Does it have to be as dramatic as revolutionising the concept of "gamer" to include those who are less hard-core?Read morehere.
Do you accept Renault Card? It's the system with which Renault proposes to reinvent the car key, which is easier than reinventing the wheel, but still pretty bold, in its own way. With Renault Card you get a thick piece of flat plastic to carry around with your other pieces of flat plastic, and, as long as the card is somewhere about your person, the car will unlock and start up at the push of a button. You don't even need to flash the card. Merely its bagged or trousered presence is enough to get the transaction sorted - something that has never been true of any Mastercard in my experience.So, say farewell (hurrah!) to pocket-fumbling misery, but, at the same time, wave goodbye (boo!) to key-jangling. You could stick a Renault Card on a fob and kind of clack about with it, but it wouldn't be the same.This matters because the freedom to fiddle with the ignition key is among the essential democratic pleasures of car ownership and is also one of the world's leading displacement activities for men, not least in the party or other social context.A question one would like to ask Renault, as it forges unthinkingly forwards into the technologically enhanced future, is: if car keys go, what on earth are men going to do with their hands? Actually, let's not even go there.But if we're going to let ourselves in and out of cars with credit cards, then surely the main disappointment about Renault Card is that it doesn't go quite far enough. It may share a top-side surface area with the standard credit card, but it's thicker than 10 Visas glued together; and because it also houses a yawningly old-fashioned key in case of emergencies, it's got a ridge at one end. We're still some way from swipe'n'drive, then. Also: no Air Miles.Still, at least one of the early downsides of Renault Card is beginning to level out. Originally you came across very few places that accepted it: some Renault Meganes, the occasional Megane Scenic, the odd Espace, and that was about it. It was a bit like American Express in this respect. But now the 2005 version of the Laguna, the French company's seemingly eternal mid-sized hatchback, also takes Renault, meaning that, with Renault Card in your wallet, you can enjoy keyless access to one of the world's most popular cars, wherever you see the Renault sign - provided, of course, that the Renault sign you see is the one attached to your particular Laguna.There's no excuse for missing that sign. The new redesign - though in no respect a major re-hammering of the original shape - leaves it proudly vertical on a new, one-piece grille and bumper arrangement. Vertical and, indeed, large. But then the history of Renault car manufacture in the past quarter of a century is, above all, the history of an expanding badge, both front and back. The familiar diamond has now reached the proportions of a baby's head on the front, and, on the back, resembles a small lavatory paper dispenser. One trembles to think where this may be leading, but it's possible that, in about 15 years, you will have to climb through the badge to get to the car.In most other respects, the new Laguna is a modest, understated number with a rare air of calm about it, even in the super-spruce new GT version that the Guardian tested, which, while remaining a giant, dependable hatchback, is determined to be the rally driver's friend and has two-tone leather seats and a rapid turbo-charged 2.0-litre engine. Why would one want to accelerate howlingly quickly in a Renault Laguna unless one was stealing it? The Laguna was the first car to get the maximum five stars in the Euro Ncap tests - the Michelin awards of the car safety world - and it has sold itself heavily on that parent-tweaking reputation for relative indestructibility. Even decked out with hyperactive sports suspension, the Laguna is, surely, a car for the unpretentious carriage of one's family and its luggage, rather than for going round corners on two wheels.In any case, as swollen with primed air bags at it is, one has to take mild issue with Renault's claim that the new Laguna is "devoted to ... complete safety", given that the only completely safe car is a car you never go anywhere in, or even climb into.Renault, with greater justice, describes the Laguna as "ever popular", and versions of the car do, indeed, seem to have been with us roughly since records began. Indeed, if it emerged that Napoleon had left a Laguna on an extended-stay ticket in a pay-and-display ahead of the battle of Waterloo, it wouldn't be altogether surprising. One can't see this new update terminating the line, or damaging the Laguna's status as a quiet staple of French life and of life in Britain, too, where a carefully orchestrated resistance to things French does not automatically extend to family cars, even keyless ones.The lowdownRenault Laguna 2.0GT Turbo Price: &#163;21,350 (range from &#163;15,775)Top speed: 146mphAcceleration: 0-62mph in 7.2 secsConsumption: 33.2mpg (combined)At the wheel: Dermot MurnaghanOn the stereo: AirEn route for: Tiverton Parkway
Slashdothas astoryon NERO, a videogame AI project undertaken by the Digital Media Collaboratory and the neuroevolution group at the University of Texas Department of Computer Sciences. In the game, the player trains a squad of rookie AI soldiers to perform battle duties, and unlike the scripted AI used in most titles, these troops learn in real-time, retaining autonomous behaviours, but following tactical guidelines laid down by the player. As theNERO siteexplains:NERO introduces a new genre of video game that is only possible with machine learning technology: The player takes the role of trainer and teaches a team of novice soldiers the skills for battle. When sufficient skills have been acquired, players can take their teams to battle mode where their skills are tested against teams trained by other players.Although this is a fascinating use of advanced AI, I think 'new game genre' may be over selling it somewhat - NERO, instead, sounds like a cross between Pokémon Colosseum and Full Spectrum Warrior. Which, come to think of it, would rule.And anything that improves the current state of game AI would certainly be welcome - especially when it comes to squad-based games. I've been playing Call of Duty: Finest Hour recently and there's a mission (one of many actually) where you have to charge into a building and clear it of enemy soldiers. Well, I stormed in first with about four AI soldiers behind me, and after taking out a German lurking at the top of some stairs, came up against a lone chap firing from a small room. I waited outside for him to reload, but my AI squad bundled in immediately and started to strike him about the face with the butts of their rifles. I thought, 'fine, they can handle this, perhaps they might actually shoot him eventually', so I ran out, cleared another room and then went up another flight of stairs. When I returned several minutes later I found that my platoon of crack AI infrantrymen were still chasing the German soldier around the room trying to hit him with their rifles, only now there were only two of them because he'd shot the rest.Clearly that isn't right.So what have been your most amusing experiences with failed AI?
Hang ten: Yahoo's Jerry Yang. Photograph: courtesy of YahooThis year, internet portal Yahoo celebrates its 10th anniversary - and its history reads like a timeline of the web. Jerry Yang, who co-founded the company with fellow Stanford chum David Filo, took some time to speak to Online'sHamish Mackintoshabout the past, the present and the future.Read more...
Apple is scheduled to make some kind of "big announcement" today. The company is - as usual - staying tight-lipped in advance of the reveal, and all I've heard is that it's both hardware and software-related. I haven't done the full round of the web to see what the speculation is, but the following rumours are fairly widespread.- some new announcements in the iPod range - iPhone (with Motorola) - new iBookWe already know that iTunes 4.9 is pretty much complete, so I wouldn't be surprised if it's an update of some kind to the iPod range (colour screens all round?) and the new release of iTunes, which will include support for podcasts so expect Apple to play heavy on that.This time last year they unveiled iPod Photo: could we see video iPods this time around? It looks unlikely, but there is also an event scheduled for July 7, so we could be looking at a two-hander here.Anyway, I'm going to be talking to a Cupertino bigwig at 2pm GMT, and I'll try and blog it as soon as I can.
The Euro PSP debacle rumbles on, with Sonywinning an injunctionto stop an online retailer selling imported PSP consoles. While this makes sense from Sony's corporate point of view, you have to wonder about the PR damage caused by this heavy-handed approach. Stopping a few hardcore gamers from owning and eulogising about the new toy is a short-sighted move. And stories of "men in dark glasses" do Sony's image no favours. And let's face it. If the PSP is causing this amount of trouble just wait for PS3. If the European delay is anywhere near as long as for the PSP - and history says it is likely to be - then importing will be rife. Sony lawyers are likely to be busy over the next 12 months.
The entertainment industry yesterday scored a landmark victory in its effort to crack down on the illegal file-sharing of music and films.In a ruling that could spell the end for the "peer-to-peer" networks that have flourished online, the United States supreme court said software makers can be held liable for enabling computer users to copy protected work without permission.Tens of millions of people around the world use peer-to-peer networks such as Grokster and Morpheus to copy music and films for free from other computer users' hard drives. Compact disc sales have fallen by around 25% since 1999 when the first generation of file-sharing networks emerged.Warner Music chief executive Edgar Bronfman hailed the ruling as an "important decision".With no other legal avenues open, the entertainment industry has in recent years pursued individual users, filing hundreds of lawsuits and hoping that the fear of litigation might stem copyright abuse. Those suits though, against children as young as 12, have generated a tide of negative publicity for the business.Armed with the supreme court ruling, the industry can now go after the makers of the technology, which are mostly based in the US."The bottom line is that consumers are going to have to get used to paying for their music. Period," said Wayne Rosso, the former Grokster president.He said he expected a "hailstorm" of lawsuits to be filed against software firms.The decision will help to shape the still developing framework of online copyright laws."The fact is that the Grokster service was being used substantially to infringe copy rights with the full knowledge of Grokster," said Michael Graif, at the law firm Chadbourne &amp; Parke. "The decision is going to have a huge impact on how copyright owners ultimately protect their property."The ruling stemmed from a 2001 lawsuit filed against the software makers Grokster and StreamCast Networks by 28 companies including MGM, Walt Disney, EMI, Time Warner and News Corporation.The supreme court overturned an appeal court decision in favour of the software makers. The appeal court had cited a 1984 supreme court ruling that Sony could not be held liable if users of its Betamax video recorder copied television shows illegally because the VCR could also be used for legitimate purposes.Lawyers for the entertainment industry argued that the likes of Grokster were used almost exclusively for illegal purposes and that the comparison did not hold. The court agreed."We hold that one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright ... is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties," justice David Souter wrote in the decision. "There is no evidence that either company made an effort to filter copyrighted material from users' downloads or otherwise impede the sharing of copyrighted files."The music industry had managed to close the first of the rogue file-sharing networks, Napster, in 2001. The current generation of file-sharing networks differ by allowing users to search each others' computers directly instead of uploading files on to a central server.The British music industry association, the BPI, welcomed the ruling but said it would continue to bring legal action against individuals caught file-sharing as well the companies involved. The BPI has so far taken action against 90 people, most of whom have settled out of court.John Kennedy, chairman of the recording industry group, the IFPI, said it was "the most important judgment involving the music industry in 20 years. It quite simply destroys the argument that peer-to-peer services bear no responsibility for illegal activities that take place on their networks".Apple has provided some hope to the music industry with the iPod, its hand-held music device and the iTunes service that has become the first high-profile successful pay site.The service from Apple has also proven that consumers are willing to pay to download music when there is a legitimate service available.The entertainment industry has come under intense criticism for attempting to stifle digital distribution instead of devising ways to make it pay.Referring to yesterday's ruling, Wall Street analyst Tom Wolzien said: "It doesn't change the underlying fact that the media companies have to respond to consumer demand for new methods of delivery."
The music industry has hailed it as a breakthrough against illegal file sharing.Yesterday's decision by the US supreme court will make the companies who develop and sell the software more wary about the future and vulnerable to prosecution. But what does it mean for individual British file sharers?The answer is little has changed. The law remains simple: if you exchange copyrighted material with other people using the internet, you are breaking the law.Even if the software manufacturers are held responsible for the actions of their users - and in Britain that is not yet the case - individual file sharers would still be liable to prosecution.The music industry is unlikely to end the current spate of prosecutions, where dozens of individuals, many of them teenagers, are being forced to pay up as much as &pound;4,000 for sharing files illegally with other users.But there could be fewer such cases in the future as the music industry focuses on catching the big fish."I think there will probably be fewer Tracys in Wolverhampton being prosecuted," says Conan Chitham, of solicitors' firm Mishcon de Reya. "There will be a shift in the balance of cases, going away from the individuals and towards the suppliers because they can sue one person and solve 100 problems."Though the ruling does not change the law in Britain, it strengthens the possibility of similar litigation - though there are few peer-to-peer networks based in Europe.It remains unclear what Grokster and StreamCast will do in the immediate aftermath of the decision, though it is possible that companies could move out of the US to avoid the supreme court's jurisdiction.But even file-sharing networks run from outside the US like Kazaa, which is based in Australia, are struggling in the face of similar actions in their own countries.Details of the supreme court's ruling show there may be some wiggle room for the software companies.The court appears to have refrained from deeming all file-sharing software illegal,  and singled out the marketing approach of Grokster and StreamCast, which, the judges believes, was aimed at encouraging illegal behaviour. The judgment also reveals the race to take over from Napster, the pioneering peer-to-peer network which was shut down for copyright infringement.The judgment quoted an internal email from StreamCast stating its intention to replace Napster: "We have put this network in place so that when Napster pulls the plug on their free service ... or if the court orders them to shut down ... we will be positioned to capture the flood of their 32 million users," it said.This may be interpreted by other firms as the way forward because they might feel that they can still innovate and develop software as long as they make it clear to potential buyers that it must not be used for illegally downloading material. In addition, companies might simply take extra steps to reduce their accountability.Douglas Lichtman, a University of Chicago law professor, was one lawyer who remained sceptical of the ruling's impact. "Just keep your message clear," he wrote on the supreme court-watching weblogwww.scotusblog.com,"Tell everyone, and I mean everyone, that your technology is designed to facilitate only authorised exchange and you have no risk of accountability."&#183;Bobbie Johnson is deputy editor of Guardian Online
One of the internet world's most popular hobbies - exchanging music and films online - was facing Armageddon yesterday after the US supreme court unexpectedly ruled unanimously against two of the main companies facilitating it. The ruling in Grokster v MGM overturned previous judgments in lower courts raising speculation that filesharing as presently understood may soon experience a painful death. However, closer interpretation of the ruling shows that it was not a simple case of a Bush-leaning court swallowing the arguments of the music and film corporations. The court accepted that filesharing was used for exchanging documents and literature that was out of copyright, but also found that Grokster and codefendant StreamCast not only knew that their service was overwhelmingly used for illegal downloads, but were actively exploiting that fact by earning money from advertising revenues arising from downloads, and even giving advice to users who had problems running illegally downloaded material. This made it different, they argued, from the oft-quoted precedent of Sony, then the sued though now the suer, which had successfully argued that video recorders were primarily for "time-shifting" programmes for later viewing, despite being used for illegal transfers.It is not yet clear what effect yesterday's judgment will have on the daddy of all the filesharers, BitTorrent, which is reckoned to account for 30% of all data sent down the internet. This is because BitTorrent - a conduit for downloading films, music and TV programmes - adopts a low profile and does not evangelise. What is clear is that the corporations have got a green light to sue Grokster-style companies, as well as making examples of child downloaders by suing their parents, as they have done in a series of high-profile cases.What next? The Groksters of this world could move offshore to escape US law or shake down their activities to become supreme court friendly, or do as Napster did after it was sued and reinvent itself (after being sold) as a legal downloader. The music and film industries should think carefully before using this judgment as a weapon of mass destruction that could kill the huge opportunities opened by these new technologies. As the success of Apple's iTunes has proved, if there is a "fair" legal method of downloading, most people will accept it. If the corporations had spent as much time developing accommodating technologies as they have prosecuting miscreants, the outlook would be a lot brighter than it is now.
PartyGaming's shares rose 11% on the first day of dealings yesterday, defying doubters who thought it would be impossible to float a business in London whose activities are considered illegal in the US.Strong demand for shares in the world's biggest online poker company meant the four founders sold extra into the flotation.The quartet of two Indian computer engineers plus an American former porn entrepreneur and her husband will now collect a combined &pound;1bn in cash and retain stakes collectively worth &pound;3.5bn.PartyGaming peppered its float prospectus with warnings about the risk of criminal and civil proceedings in America, notably from the US Department of Justice, which regards gambling over the internet as illegal.At least two of Britain's top 10 fund management houses are understood to have refused to invest because of those risks, with one arguing privately that PartyGaming was unfit for a listing on a reputable stock exchange.However, about 200 institutions, 75% of them British, bought shares at the float price of 116p, concentrating instead on the extraordinary sums of cash being generated by internet poker operators.PartyGaming's advisers, Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, said they could have placed the shares three times over. The investment bank and its fellow underwriters will earn up to &pound;40m in commissions from the float.Although 116p was in the lower half of the previously published range, the price climbed from the start of trading and closed at 129p. At that level, PartyGaming is worth &pound;5.16bn and a near-certainty to enter the FTSE 100 index at the next review in September. Its share price would have almost to halve for it to fail to make the grade.PartyGaming's Party Poker website was launched only in 2001 but the company is now worth more than some of the oldest and most famous names in British business, notably Sainsbury's, EMI, Rolls-Royce, British Airways, ICI and ITV.Yesterday's soaring price will enable Dresdner to trigger an "over-allotment" option by which more shares are sold by the backers. Instead of buying 20.6% of the company, outsiders will get 23.7%.It means Ruth Parasol and her husband Russ DeLeon will receive &pound;218m each for the shares they sold and retain 15.7% stakes worth &pound;810m.Anurag Dikshit, who wrote PartyGaming's original software, will collect &pound;420m and keep a 30.4% stake worth &pound;1.5bn. Marketing director Vikrant Bhargava gets &pound;119m and shares worth &pound;445m.PartyGaming's chief executive, Richard Segal, said the company was delighted by the over-subscription from "a high-quality shareholder base".He reiterated the group's confidence that American  threats of arrest and prosecution will turn out to be hot air."We have high visibility in the US," he said. "We advertise on television. Party Poker is a very recognised brand. In terms of change of tone from the Department of Justice, we're not sure on what that is based."We have had several members of the management team in and out of the US on a regular basis. I have no reason not to go to the US and will go without hesitation."
A unanimous US supreme court ruled today that internet file-trading networks can be held liable when their users copy music, movies and other protected works without permission.Considering the case of MGM v Grokster et al, the judges had to decide whether a piece of software can itself be held responsible for the piracy that is committed using it.The judges set aside a US appeals court ruling that the peer-to-peer networks cannot be held liable for copyright infringement because they can be used for legitimate purposes as well."We hold that one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties," Justice David Souter wrote for the court.The case was closely watched by the entertainment and technology industries as a test of copyright law in the computer era. It was considered the most important copyright case to reach the supreme court in more than two decades.The ability to sue file-sharing firms is likely to be a far more effective deterrent against piracy for media organisations than going after individuals who download right-protected material. The latter approach, apart from being slow, has had led to high-profile cases of young girls and boys receiving court summonses from teams of lawyers.Online networks like Grokster and Morpheus allow millions of computer users to copy music and movies for free from each others' hard drives.At issue was whether the file-sharing services should be held liable even if they have no direct control over what millions of online users are doing with the software they provide for free. As much as 90% of the songs and movies copied on the file-sharing networks are downloaded illegally, according to music industry filings.The entertainment industry said it needed protection against the billions of dollars in revenue it loses to illegal swapping. Consumer groups worried that expanded liability would stifle the technology revolution of the last two decades that brought video cassette recorders, MP3 players and Apple's iPod.Companies could have to pay music and movie artists for up to billions in losses if they are found to have promoted illegal downloading.In their ruling, the judges appear to have been swayed by "the affirmative steps taken to foster infringement" taken by Grokster. Their decision sends the case back to lower court, which had ruled in favour of file-sharing services Grokster Ltd and StreamCast Networks Inc on the grounds that the companies could not be sued. The justices said there was enough evidence of unlawful intent for the case to go to trial."It may be that the biggest effect of the case is that we won't see any more 'Rip Mix Burn' advertising, or SBC's 'Faster Downloads'," Stanford University lawyer Jennifer Granick said. "Speed and flexibility will go underground, and there will be euphemistic marketing instead."The appeals court cited a landmark 1984 supreme court ruling that Sony Corp could not be held liable if users of its Betamax VCR copied television shows without permission because it also could be used for legitimate purposes such as taping a show to watch later.The entertainment industry appealed to the supreme court after the appeals court ruling in the file-sharing case, and the US justice department supported the appeal.Technology companies argued that holding the networks liable would stifle creativity and deter inventors from developing new products.The entertainment industry managed to shut down the first file-trading network, Napster. But the appeals court found that Grokster differed significantly from Napster because its software permits users to share files with one another directly rather than going through a central computer server.The supreme court judgment can be readhere (pdf).
Judgment day: America's supreme court. Photograph: Pat Benic/APIt was the decision that everybody had been waiting for: and now America's supreme court hasruled against Grokster.Despite the complexity of the case, the crucial question remained fairly simple:Are companies that create filesharing systems liable for copyright infringements made by their users?Unfortunately there don't seem to be any clear answers for filesharing in general - but in this case at least, the supreme court seems to think that Grokster and Streamcastareliable.Anyone scratching around for some comfort in this whole process might be interested to know that the nine judges - who ruled unanimously on the case - went against Grokster because it marketed itself as a way to break copyright.But right now the only thing that's clear is that America's technology industry is having some kind of minor meltdown this afternoon.Here are some of the links and observations from the immediate aftermath of the case, as I blogged them.¶There's also pre-ruling analysis from dotcom magRed Herring.¶Digital freedom campaigners the Electronic Frontier Foundation published a pre-rulingguide¶Since the ruling has gone against Grokster, it leaves them open to future copyright infringement lawsuits. As wereportedthis weekend, filesharing settlements in Britain average several thousand pounds. Imagine that, multiplied by millions.¶There's a stream of information coming through onSCOTUSblog, and I'm looking for more sources as we speak.¶That Supreme Court decision was unanimous. No flip-flopping here.¶Court: "One who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties"¶I haven't yet seen a copy of the judgment, but Reuters is reporting that the court has ruled that "internet file-trading networks should be held responsible when their users copy music, movies and other protected works without permission." That's big news in anybody's books - and if you happen to be involved in filesharing - even the legitimate kind - it's probably the worst result you could have expected.¶Michael Graif, legal counsel at international law firm Chadbourne &amp; Parke: "This decision shows that the court is willing to look to substance over form. Although the Grokster service was technically capable of being used in a substantially non-infringing way, which was the standard laid down by the Court in the Sony case in 1984, the fact is that the Grokster service was being used substantially to infringe copyrights with the full knowledge of Grokster."¶The judgment'shere(it's a PDF file). Thanks to commenterRayfor that.¶Ruling: "Grokster and StreamCast concede the infringement in most downloads... and it is uncontested that they are aware that users employ their software primarily to download copyright files... Grokster and StreamCast are not, however, merely passive recipients of information about infringing use."¶Ruling: "A kit developed by StreamCast to be delivered to advertisers, for example, contained press articles about StreamCast's potential to capture former Napster users. An internal e-mail from a company executive stated: "We have put this network in place so that when Napster pulls the plug on their free service... or if the Court orders them shut down prior to that... we will be positioned to capture the flood of their 32 million users that will be actively looking for an alternative"¶Stanford University lawyerJennifer Granick: "It may be that the biggest effect of the case is that we won't see anymore "Rip Mix Burn" advertising, or SBC's "Faster Downloads". Speed and flexibility will go underground, and there will be euphemistic marketing instead."¶SCOTUSblog'sDouglas Lichtman: "MGM won on paper today, but my first reading of the opinion makes me wonder whether the victory will have any bite outside of this specific litigation. Intent-based standards, after all, are among the easiest to avoid. Just keep your message clear -- tell everyone, and I mean everyone, that your technology is designed to facilitate only authorized exchange -- and you have no risk of accountability."¶At the same place,Charlie Petit: "We need to keep in mind that this is a decision on summary judgment, which means that the courts are not supposed to be making any credibility determinations or weighing any evidence.
Okay, I'm going to get some stick writing about this game, but what the hell.About four years ago I wrote a feature for The Official PlayStation Magazine where I formulated six unconventional videogame ideas and then anonymously pitched them to a selection of major publishers. One of the concepts was for an orienteering sim in which the player would simply wander around an intricately realised countryside location, taking photographs and spotting rare wildlife. Almost everyone hated it, completely dismissing the pitch as unworkable and tedious. Bizarrely the only company that took any interest was DMA Design, the developer of GTA, later to become Rockstar North. They loved it.Anyway, this rather lengthy prelude leads me to Wild Earth, an African safari adventure, developed by Seattle based Super X Studios, and set to be published in Europe by Digital Jesters later this year. Here players must wander the African Serengeti National Park taking photographs of wild animals while exploring the lusciously detailed environments. The game features "accurate and beautifully recreated wildlife" and simulated weather conditions, as well as specific assignments like night-time wildlife tracking. Apparently Wild Earth has also been developed as a "motion simulator thrill ride" and installed in several locations worldwide, including the Philadelphia and San Diego zoos.Here's the thing: at no point do you shoot the animals with a gun. You don't even kung fu poachers to death.Naturally, Digital Jesters is keen to point out that it's going for a "non-traditional" audience here (women, families, conservationists) and of course this may turn out to be little more than a piece of well-meaning edutainment - especially as it's on PC and not console. But considering how hostile publishers were to this kind of idea less than five years ago, the mere fact that a company like Digital Jesters is now interested in an African photography adventure suggests the industry is becoming more willing to experiment with new game styles.Elsewhere, it's possible to pick up even stronger signals. There's Nintendogs, Electroplankton and Wizard of Funk. And there's EA doing a train game and all the Sims community stuff and Spore. And there's Sony larking about with EyeToy. And Bully from Rockstar. And The Movies.Is it just me or is a corner being turned? I mean, there's plenty of dull unimaginative genre regurgitation going on, there always will be. But I can't remember a time when there were so many titles coming up that couldn't comfortably be slotted into established categories.Actually, yes I can. It was the mid-eighties. It was Sentinel, Skool Daze, Little Computer People, Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Thing On A Spring, Gribbly's Day Out, Head Over Heels, Paradroid, Frankie Goes to Hollywood, Wizball, Deus Ex Machina, Revenge of the Mutant Camels...Hang on, how did I get here from a game about photographing giraffes?
The online casino group PartyGaming today priced its shares at 116p in the biggest London flotation in five years.With a valuation of £4.64bn, the owner of PartyPoker, set up in 1997, is worth more than established companies such as British Airways, J Sainsbury and ICI.The flotation price was within the range of 111p to 127p indicated by the Gibraltar-based firm a fortnight ago, but was more cautious than many in the City had been expecting.      The float sees existing shareholders sell a 20.6% stake in the company, which reaps a profit of almost $1,000 (£547.30) a minute from revenue of $100,000 an hour. PartyGaming made a profit of £371m in 2004.Founders Anurag Dikshit, husband and wife Ruth Parasol and Russ DeLeon, and Vikrant Bhargava, are in line for windfalls, which - together with payouts to staff - could reach £1bn."The listing will reinforce the group's position as one of the world's leading online gaming companies and enhance the group's profile as we seek to expand internationally," Richard Segal, the chief executive, said in a statement.PartyGaming runs three main brands - PartyPoker, StarluckCasino and PartyBingo - and now has more than half the global online poker market.Poker has become a cash cow for internet gambling companies, which estimate the size of the world internet gambling market at between $7bn and $12bn a year and say it is growing by about 20% a year.PartyGaming plans to use the money raised from the flotation to fund acquisitions, develop new products and expand to new countries.Some analysts have warned investors to stay away from PartyGaming. Barclays Capital told its clients last week there were "too many unanswered questions" related to the company's future prospects for it to recommend the stock.Concerns are strongest over the legal grey area of online poker in the United States, where PartyGaming generates 90% of its revenues. Some analysts fear legislation may be introduced in the US to ban online gambling.PartyGaming's prospectus warned that its directors risked jail if they travelled to the US, but industry experts said the threat of legal action from the Justice Department was minimal.Other threats to the company come from intensifying competition, which could weaken margins, or the potential for online poker to be a short-term fad.Full trading is due to start on Thursday and the valuation of PartyGaming means it is almost certain to be admitted to the FTSE 100 in its autumn reshuffle.
Nintendo announced this morning that the millionth DS has just been sold in Europe, mirroring the handheld console's excellent performance in Japan and the US recently. The news will perhaps come as some surprise to industry doom-mongers who felt consumers would be put off by the DS's comparatively weak graphics performance. On the contrary, by fully exploiting the unique dual display and touch-screen set-up, titles such as Yoshi Touch &amp; Go, Wario Ware Touched and Super Mario 64 DS have delivered delightfully idiosyncratic and compelling experiences to a receptive audience.Tech Digest asksif this reveals a mainstream market that now values gameplay innovation over visuals. Or perhaps it says more about Nintendo's grip on the handheld sector which is so different to the console environment. Maybe, despite the power of the PlayStation brand, consumers still helplessly associate gaming on the go with Nintendo.Whatever, it'll be interesting to see what happens when PSP is released in Europe. Will Sony's machine with its stunning graphics, lifestyle aspirations and familiar PS2 brands just completely take over, or will European gamers, like their less conservative Japanese counterparts, remain charmed by the Nintendo DS quirkiness? Take a look at thelatest Japanese chartsand you'll find four DS titles in the all formats top ten and no PSP games. In fact you have to go back to June 5th for a single PSP entry. It is almost inconceivable that a similar picture will emerge here. Isn't it?
The radio version of HG Wells's The War of the Worlds, made in 1938, was so convincing that many Americans fled from the cities to the hills, believing that Martians had landed in the United States.Steven Spielberg's movie adaptation, which has its first UK screening tonight ahead of globally coordinated openings later in the week, is unlikely to be as convincing: many have even expressed scepticism about whether the off-screen romance between its star, Tom Cruise, and American actress Katie Holmes is anything more than a cynical PR confection. But The War of the Worlds desperately needs to convince cinema-goers that this is the real thing.Traditional Hollywood is in trouble. Figures just released show that film-going in America has substantially declined for the second year running, reducing US cinema audiences to a 20-year low. This slump has made the promotion of summer blockbusters even more frenetic: last week, US cinemas were showing the first teaser previews for Tom Hanks in The Da Vinci Code, a film that doesn't open until May 2006. Until then - and the fourth Harry Potter movie, due in November - box office hopes rest on The War of the Worlds.The marketing strategy for this film, though, has been unusual. There have been few advance screening for reviewers, with some publications (including the New York Times) refused admission and other critics required to sign an embargo agreement holding back their notices until close to the film's official opening. While Cruise has appeared on numerous talk shows, he has said little about the film, preferring to discuss Katie Holmes or, as on NBC's Today show, the over-prescription of the anti-hyperactivity drug Ritalin.Such departures from the traditional film business strategy, in which a phased release of media pieces and trailers attempt to create "advance word" or "buzz", have usually been used by studios which know they have a stinker on their hands.This may be the case with The War Of The Worlds but - as the word leaking out from the controlled previews is that the film is at least mid-ranking Spielberg - it's more likely that Hollywood's box office crisis is encouraging a new approach to the promotion of movies.Restricting advance publicity to little more than the title and a single image might be called the Harry Potter Strategy. With her most recent books, J K Rowling has reversed publishing wisdom that the best way to build anticipation for a book was through lengthy advance revelation: bombarding the media with sample chapters, bound proofs, newspaper serialisation and author interviews. Order Of The Phoenix (published in 2003) and The Half-Blood Prince (out next month) were printed secretly amid military levels of security, with the intention that no reader or critic would see a word until a minute past midnight on the day of publication.This belief that the traditional strategy of "word of mouth" should be replaced by a "zipped lip" policy has also been followed with the films of Rowling's books and now seems to be extending to other franchises, including War of the Worlds.Another reason is that the studio publicists have increasingly lost control of word of mouth. In the past, friendly critics would be permitted to print early puff pieces; in some now notorious cases, the journalists were in fact studio PRs working under pseudonyms.The internet, however, brought a new democracy and honesty to the buzz about movies. Members of the public invited to test screenings (early showings conducted by studios as a kind of focus group) would file often hostile comments to movie sites or blogs. In some cases - including Oliver Stone's Alexander and the recent thriller Sahara - the film was popularly regarded as a flop before the posters even reached the subway walls.Although Spielberg is the most commercially successful director ever, he is not invulnerable to web dissent. His four most recent movies - A.I, Minority Report, Catch Me If You Can and The Terminal - all received low cyber-marks before opening and sold fewer tickets than had been hoped. So Spielberg now needs another hit as much as Hollywood.But optimists in the film industry argue that it is now anachronistic to worry so much about producing summer blockbusters. An American survey last week showed that 83% of cinema-goers now prefer to see their movies on DVD: disc sales generated $21.2bn last year, twice the amount spent at multiplexes.The main reason for this is that, whereas watching a film on video was always inferior to seeing it on a big screen, a DVD played on a widescreen television effectively creates a domestic multiplex. Even films that struggled on general release can recoup some of their losses in the shops: Hostage, American Treasure and The Phantom of the Opera have all been high in the US DVD top twenty, confirming that, to the financial advantage of Hollywood, lower standards are applied to nights in than to nights out.The director Robert Zemeckis, whose films include Back to the Future and The Polar Express, suggested in a recent interview that films may soon be released simultaneously in cinemas and on DVD. Eventually, "going to the cinema" may become a marginal activity.It may be some consolation to Spielberg and Cruise and their colleagues that, as the annual hunt for a summer hit begins, it may already involve a false quarry.Spielberg's track recordUS gross:Jaws (1975)$260mRaiders of the Lost Ark (1981)$242mET (1982)$399mEmpire of the Sun (1987)$22mJurassic Park (1993)$357mSchindler's List (1993)$96mThe Lost World (1997)$229mSaving Private Ryan (1998)$216mAI (2001)$78mMinority Report (2002)$132mCatch Me If You Can (2002)$164mThe Terminal (2004)$77m&#183;Source: IMDB
At Confusability, Chris McEvoy has posted a rival "interview with Obi-Wan Jakobi," Web-design guru:JS: Having a cup of earl grey and a danish pastry with Jakob Nielsen, the web usability deity from Nielsen Norman Group, I asked him what was holding up progress on his plans for world domination.JN: Three things, really: I call them lazy, stupid and evil designers. The second of my five year plans was intended to make me the acclaimed ruler of the design world with "Jakob's Little Green Book" being taught to children all over the world in preparation for their role in the 'Blue Link Forward' movement.And son on....
Niiiiiice. Photograph courtesy ofMacMark5Leander Kahney's ever-excellentCult of Macpointed me in the direction of thisamusinglittlespreadof photos of Apple-branded clothing. Sunglasses, sweatshirts, jackets... the list goes on. And boy, it's cringemaking.Hopefully people won't findthreadlessso naff 20 years down the line. But who knows: fashion is, after all, a fickle thing.But I'm sure anyone who's been to a trade show, consumer show, shop launch, bought a new product or pretty much anything technological has at least one vomit-inducing piece of merchandise in their collection. So, in honour of this beautiful German magazine spread, here's this week's competition question:What's the most embarrassing piece of merchandise you've ever seen?The prize is as yet unconfirmed: let me dig around in the office for something suitably awful (shouldn't be too difficult) and then I'll update you.
Games Tester. To some people it may be a dream job - to those already employed in the role it is probably more like a recurring nightmare. Sega arerecruitingliterally "dozens" of testers for their London offices. Tester is one of those rare entry-level jobs to the game industry. More importantly, to most applicants, is the fact that you actually get paid to play videogames. All day long. While this may sound great, and I'm sure it is for some testers, the few I have met at press events have the glazed look of veterans overexposed to the action on screen. Anyone got any tales from the testing frontline?
Just in case you missed it, this weekGoogle Mapswas fully hooked up with Keyhole satellite photography.I've been trying to stare through the windows ofGuardian Towersto try and see what's going on, but no joy.Actually, here's one whereMultimaphas the edge: their aerial photography is not quite as swish, but it is taken fromdirectly aboveand has a nifty rollover map, so you can see what streets you're looking at/spying on.
As any parent of young children knows, making a clean escape from the sticky clutches of a pre-schooler - without fromage frais or poster paint drizzled across your lapels - requires cunning and diversionary tactics.Fathers slip into their jackets only in the safety of the front porch; mothers, teetering in unfamiliar party heels, shriek as their wailing infants sidestep the babysitter to chase them to the door. So, last weekend, when my wife and I were invited to a grand 40th birthday party in a fudge-and-flowers village in the heart of the Cotswolds, we decided to enlist the help of a two-berth Volkswagen T5 camper van.Having done a DOG (Dumped on Granny) with the children, we made the most of the T5's 2.5 turbo diesel to blast up the Fosse Way, before crunching across the gravel of our friends' driveway. Having parked up, we pulled the curtains, had a wash in the dinky sink and then a cup of tea heated on the van's miniature two-ring hob. Then, childfree, we slipped into our party gear, pulled open the sliding door and arrived at our host's front door without a smear of jam/yogurt/modelling clay between us. Six hours later, we staggered back down the path, pulled out the T5's double bed and settled down for the night... Forget the great outdoors - the joy of the combie van is as a mobile hotel room ideal for Glastonbury, Glyndbourne, Gatwick... In the words of Volkswagen Camper, 'Home is where you park it.'The history of the camper van goes back to the end of the Second World War, when the British found themselves running the VW factory in Wolfsberg in Germany (which, incidentally, has just produced the 100-millionth Volkswagen - and the model they chose for this landmark? A Touran). To ferry parts across the massive area, stripped-down Beetles were turned into little transporters. This gave Ben Pon, a Dutch VW importer, an idea, and in 1947 he created the Beetle bus. Two short years later it was launched at the Geneva Motor Show.The Americans were the first to really recognise the van's home-from-home possibilities and, as they say, a legend was born. That first-generation camper of the Fifties and Sixties is known as the T1. We're now up to the T5. Converted by coachbuilders Bilbo's, the Celex T5 costs &#163;29,000 to buy, but the same model can also be hired for about &#163;300 a week. It would be a lie, however, to say that any of the charm and charisma of the original split-screen VW bus has been maintained. The iconic camper of our youth has been turned into a retirement home on wheels, complete with carpet and reading lights.Surfers on their way to Cornwall wouldn't be seen dead in a T5, but say you're touring the sherry bodegas of Andalucia, or the golf courses of Ireland, or maybe escaping the kids in the Cotswolds, then this one's for you.&#183;www.bilbos.com;www.motorhomeinfo.co.uk
"PC makers and distributors are holding back from buying the new alternative version of Windows XP that Europe's competition commissioner ordered Microsoft Corp. to offer as part of the punishment in the software maker's long antitrust battle with the European Union," reportsAP."And that raises questions over the effectiveness of the media player component of the antitrust ruling."Many stores say they will not bother stocking the product."We'll continue to sell the old version because it's obviously better value for our customers," said Gina Jones, spokeswoman for PC World, Britain's leading PC retailer.Sony and Dell said they did not intend to install the new product in their computers."From our experience, customers purchasing computers expect them to come equipped with the capability of playing back digital media files," said Dell spokesman Liem Nguyen.Comment:No surprises there. The Reduced Media version of Windows XP -- aka theMario MontiSpecial Edition -- no doubt cost Microsoft millions to produce in multiple languages, and increases costs for any PC company supplying it, while delivering negative benefits to consumers. This makes the EU look clueless and stupid, of course, but the EU is used to that....
The year is 2014, and people have access to a breadth and depth of information unimaginable in an earlier age.Everyone contributes in some way. Everyone takes part to create a living, breathing mediascape. However, the press, as you knew it, has ceased to exist. Twentieth century news organisations are an afterthought, a lonely remnant of a not too distant past.The road to 2014 began in the previous century. In 1989, Tim Berners-Lee, a computer scientist at the Cern particle physics laboratory in Switzerland, invents the world wide web. In 1994, Amazon.com is founded. Its young creator dreams of a store that sells everything. Amazon's model, which will set the standard for internet sales, is built on automated personalised recommendations: a store that can make suggestions.In 1998, two Stanford programmers create Google. Their algorithm echoes the language of Amazon; it treats links as recommendations, and from that foundation powers the world's most effective search engine.In 1999, TiVo transforms television by unshackling it from the constraints of time, and commercials. Almost no one who tries it ever goes back. That same year, a dotcom start-up named Pyra Labs unveils Blogger, a personal publishing tool.Friendster launches in 2002 and hundreds of thousands of young people populate it with a detailed map of their lives. Also in 2002, Google launches its GoogleNews portal. News organisations cry foul: GoogleNews is edited entirely by computers.In 2003, Google buys Blogger. Google's plans are a mystery, but its interest in Blogger is not unreasonable, because 2003 is the Year of the Blog.The year 2004 will be remembered as the year that everything began. Reason Magazine sends subscribers an issue with a satellite photo of their houses on the cover, and editorial contents tailored to each subscriber. Sony and Philips unveil the world's first mass-produced electronic paper.Google unveils GMail, with a gigabyte of free space for every user. Microsoft unveils Newsbot, a social news filter.Amazon unveils A9, a search engine built on Google's technology, which also incorporates Amazon's trademark recommendations.And then, Google goes public. Awash in new capital, it makes a big acquisition. It buys TiVo. In response to Google's recent moves, Microsoft buys Friendster.In 2006, Google combines its services - TiVo, Blogger, GMail, GoogleNews and all its searches - into the Google Grid, a universal platform that provides a functionally limitless amount of space and bandwidth to store and share media of all kinds. Always online, accessible anywhere. Each user selects her own level of privacy. She can store her content securely on the grid, or publish it for all to see.In 2007, Microsoft responds to Google's challenge with Newsbotster, a social news network and participatory journalism platform. Newsbotster ranks and sorts news, based on what each user's friends and colleagues are reading and viewing and allows everyone to comment on what they see.The alliance that will challenge Microsoft's ambitions emerges in 2008. Google and Amazon join forces to form Googlezon. Google supplies the Google Grid and unparalleled search technology. Amazon supplies the social recommendation engine and commercial infrastructure. Together, they provide total customisation of content - and advertising. The "News Wars" of 2010 are notable for the fact that no actual news organisations take part.Googlezon finally checkmates Microsoft with features the software giant cannot match. Using a new algorithm, Googlezon's computers construct news stories dynamically, stripping sentences and facts from all content sources and recombining them. The computers write a news story for every user.In 2011, the fourth estate awakes to make its first and final stand. The New York Times Company sues Googlezon, claiming that its fact-stripping robots violate copyright law. The Supreme Court rules in favour of Googlezon.On 9 March 2014, Googlezon unleashes its ultimate product. The Evolving Personalised Information Construct (Epic) is the system in which our sprawling, chaotic mediascape is filtered, ordered and delivered. Everyone contributes now, from blog entries, to phone-cam images, to video reports, to full investigations. Many people get paid, too - a tiny cut of Googlezon's huge advertising revenue, proportional to the popularity of their contributions.Epic produces a custom contents package for each user, using his choices, consumption habits, interests, demographics and social network to shape the product.A new generation of freelance editors sell their ability to connect, filter and prioritise the contents of Epic.We all subscribe to many editors; Epic allows us to mix and match their choices. At its best, edited for the savviest readers, Epic is a summary of the world: deeper, broader and more nuanced than anything available before. At its worst, it is frivolous, decontextualised, pandering to the lowest common denominator.But in the age of Epic, this is your choice.&#183;This is a transcript of the commentary to Sloan and Thompson's short film, Epic.www.robinsloan.com
What would happen if a newspaper invited readers to an editorial conference down the pub? First to arrive would be fans of the paper, keen to get involved. Next would be curious bystanders, drawn by the heat of debate. Last would be the drunken idiots, ranting and swearing incoherently until they were escorted from the premises.At closing time the newspaper would be left with no editorial - and a lot of spilt beer to wipe up.That is pretty much what happened when the LA Times last week opened up its editorial comment on Iraq to public amendment online. It was called a wikitorial, from 'wiki' - originally Hawaiian for 'quickly', now internetese for a page that can be edited by allcomers. It is one of the many innovations that old media see happening, know is important, but don't know why.Perhaps a pub is not the best analogy of what happened last week. You have to be an adult to get into a pub, and people behave better when you can look them in the eye. On the internet anonymity breeds mischief. Sometimes malice.At first the comment piece evolved sensibly. But once the newspaper's online monitor had gone to bed all hell broke loose. Discussion of US exit strategy from Iraq gave way to 'Fuck USA' and hardcore pornography. The feature was pulled after 48 hours.The newspaper, cheered perhaps by the high ratio of encouragement to derision in bloggers' post mortems, has promised to revive the idea with better policing.'I hope the LA Times gets back on the bike and rides again,' said Jeff Jarvis at Buzzmachine, an influential media blog. 'I salute them for the effort.'The LATimes is right to show deference to the blogosphere. US media used to look at the internet as a potential cash cow - a way to milk new money from old content. Then, last year, a ragtag army of online commentators hounded Dan Rather, the CBS news anchor, out of his job for running with a false story.Now the old media see the new as a circus tiger. It is cute, it does tricks, people pay to look at it - but one day it might rip your throat out. The LA Times's approach to its wikitorial was timid and patronising at the same time, and that was the problem. The tiger will be stroked, but when it smells weakness it bites.It is often assumed that newspaper journalists do not understand the internet because of complacency or technological illiteracy. Both exist. But a third factor is just as important: the journalist's outmoded self-image.The fourth estate likes to think of itself as maverick. It is the gadfly that exists to prick the vanities of power. This mythology of journalism does not have room for a fifth estate that is more maverick and exists to prick the vanities of the media.With the wikitorial the Times probably thought it was inviting readers to join it on the barricades. But it was opening the gates to the Winter Palace. Predictably, the mob went on the rampage.This was just one episode in an ongoing cold war between the US media and the blogosphere. It makes for an interesting comparison with another blogging story that blew up on this side of the Atlantic last week.'Au blog, citoyens', screamed the front page of leftwing daily Lib&eacute;ration, echoing the call to arms in the 'Marseillaise'. Inside, the newspaper devoted a double-page spread to the story of Christophe Gr&eacute;bert, a blogger from the small town of Puteaux who used his site, monputeaux.com, to report on the politics of the local town hall. He is being pursued by the mayor for defamation, a development that guarantees him worldwide internet martyrdom.Along with a celebration of citizen blogs around the country, Lib&eacute;ration hinted its support for Gr&eacute;bert in an editorial comment. 'The law should certainly punish malevolent rumour, defamation and intimidation,' the newspaper said. 'But it is more important still that the law is not subverted by those who want to limit the field of free speech and fair comment. Blogs can be a powerful tool in the service of democracy.'It is hard to imagine a US newspaper weighing in so heavily in favour of a blogger. At least not without a nervous caveat about the sacred calling of the professional journalist and a swipe at intemperate amateurs.But French newspapers have come to a relatively easy accommodation with the internet parvenus. Even Le Monde, by reputation one of the stuffiest publications in the world, has a coterie of citizen-correspondents blogging under the paper's masthead.But then blogging, with its emphasis on solidarity, common endeavour and direct action, could have been custom-made for France. This is the nation, after all, that was dragged into the modern era by a revolutionary mob and for whom collective protest and taking to the streets are part of the political DNA. This is also the nation that learns rhetorical flourish at school the way other nations learn maths. It is not surprising that France is the European country with the highest number of blogs - about 3 million, compared to about 900,000 in Britain. But French newspapers are losing circulation in line with the global trend.Newspaper editors and media owners are increasingly convinced that somewhere on the internet lies the answer to their declining sales woes. But they don't know where to look.The LA Times wikitorial represents one approach - to join 'em in the hope, eventually of beating 'em at their own game. It is risky. And it isn't really journalism. But that is why it is appealing. Risky plus new equals sexy.Lib&eacute;ration's front page represents another approach - looking to the internet not for ways to do business but for stories - and not just stories for technology supplements. Instead of trying to erect their own internet barricades, newspapers would do well to stand by and report from other peoples' barricades. It isn't very sexy, but at least it is journalism.The Observer has a blog atwww.observer.co.uk/blog
