Internet giants including AOL have promised to take legal action against spam merchants who clog up email users' mailboxes with porn, get rich quick schemes and advertising once a new European directive against the practice comes into force later this week.MPs and internet users have warned the spam epidemic is threatening to bring email to a standstill, with recent surveys estimating that by February seven out of every 10 emails will be unwanted spam, compared with 8% two years ago.The new EU privacy and communications directive comes into force tomorrow and will ban marketing companies from bombarding potential customers with unwanted mail unless they already have agreed or have a "prior business relationship" with the company.Retailers have increasingly turned to email marketing over the past two years as a new way to reach potential customers.They have 12 weeks to adapt to the new regulations before facing the possibility of a £5,000 fine, rising to an unlimited fine that could run into hundreds of thousands of pounds if they are successfully prosecuted.The new rules were finally agreed earlier this year following months of wrangling between EU member states over whether customers should have to "opt in" to receive emails or "opt out" of receiving them.In the end, the EU passed a limited version of "opt in" allowing for some latitude if a customer had previously handed over their details.AOL has pledged to use the new directive to take legal action against persistent spammers where possible - but has also warned the new rules may not be strict enough to deter the persistent spammers that have become the bane of many email users' lives."The UK government will certainly need to coordinate with other countries to ensure cross border consistency. We may also need stronger penalties than are currently in place against those who transgress the new guidelines if they are to be fully effective," said a spokesman.Internet service providers have begun to put more resources into spam blocking software with the likes of BT Yahoo!, AOL and Freeserve promoting it as a key feature of their connection offerings.But several companies who supply software to block spam have said the new rules are unlikely to provide much protection against the kind of mass email campaigns sent from the US and other countries that clog up inboxes on a daily basis."This move signifies a growing lack of tolerance to the problem with the authorities, and in that respect it's encouraging," said Alyn Hockey, the director of research at technology company Clearswift."But what about all the mail emanating from abroad? It's hardly going to discourage the spamming hardcore from peddling their wares," he added.Others fear the new regulations could be rendered useless if the US Congress does not pass similar rules. America continues to follow a policy that requires computer users to opt out of receiving spam."Unless the US plays ball, I think servers around the world will start to pack up by February," said Labour MP Derek Wyatt, speaking earlier this year before leading a delegation of MPs to Washington to campaign for a change in the law.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
From the New York Times:Hunting for the next cool in advertising: Interesting piece on new trend trackers at New York ad agency Ogilvy &amp; Mather Worldwide, featuring Zoe Lazarus, who used to sing "Sunshine on a rainy day". [viatheisociety.net]
BT has been banned from claiming in its television advertising that its directory inquiries service is faster at finding numbers than its rivals.The broadcasting watchdog launched an investigation into the company's claim that  "none of our leading competitors is faster at finding numbers" after a rival firm complained about the campaign.BT based the line on research carried out on its behalf by the pollsters ICM, which it said showed its 118 500 service was quicker and more accurate than its two main rivals.It claimed the results of the ICM survey had shown it scored a 98% success rate for finding residential numbers compared with The Number with 89%, Dublin-based Conduit with 80% and Yellow Pages at 91%.But 118 UK, which complained, claimed Conduit was shown as taking far longer to supply a number than it did in reality, and that the survey did not substantiate BT's claim.The Independent Television Commission upheld the complaint, saying the survey did not provide sufficient substantiation for BT's claim - in fact, it said, the research showed a competitor to be faster at finding numbers.The deregulation of the directory inquiries market earlier this year sparked a stampede of rival services including The Number, whose comedy 1970s-style runners captured the public imagination.But many of the new services, including The Number, have come under fire for the quality of their product.Conduit has already been forced to withdraw the claim that its 118 888 service is "half the price of BT directory enquiries".&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Over atPlasticbagTom Coates is wondering how many British weblogs there are. A high number, he suggests, might prompt publishers to do more to engage with the community, encourage software companies to build more blogging software, or lead to Nick Denton-style weblog ventures, alaGawker,GizmodoandFleshbot. It's a really interesting question that Tom poses, although I think the answer is unlikely to lead to any of those outcomes. While he doesn't say how big a "large number" is, but I'd put a fiver on the number of UK webloggers being very small in internet terms: (low) four figures, with a hidden majority on journal sites like Livejournal and 20Six who have little interest in the politics or semantics of weblogging. Anyone got any hard UK figures on those services?As for Tom's suggestion that professional weblog publishing might be stimulated by the discovery of a big weblogging "community", I doubt that too. Such services, to succeed, will nearly always need to take the best features of weblogging without making explicit reference to it being a "blog" (asSimon Waldmanpredicted a couple of years back, I'm now kinda regretting christening this Onlineblog: it's going to date as badly as saying something's "rad"). Why? Pro blogs will need to reach out to an audience that's never heard of weblogging, doesn't care, and wouldn't be caught dead setting one up.That "weblog virgin" audience, BTW, is still huge. We must not forget that weblogging remains a tiny, tiny phenomenon in the UK. Talking to a group of postgraduate journalism students recently - a group who should, IMHO, beultraaware of what personal publishing means for them and their careers - I asked how many had ever heard of weblogs. Out of a group of 20, I got one hand raised. The student who knew was American. Online editor Vic Keegan got a similar response talking to an older group in the north of England recently too. We can't blame the audiences for not knowing. Maybe people just don't see this stuff as being relevant to them.
Britain has become twice as stormy in the past 50 years as climate change has forced the deep depressions that used to hit Iceland further south, it was revealed yesterday. In a second disturbing discovery, the Hadley Centre for climate prediction and research in Exeter added that pressure changes in the atmosphere had caused storms to become more intense.While low pressure areas which bring high wind and rain are getting deeper, the high pressure areas which bring calm, settled periods are getting stronger. The increased gradients between the two make for more dramatic weather - and for insurance companies, expensive claims for damaged buildings and fences.Geoff Jenkins, head of the Hadley Centre, released the figures at the climate change convention meeting in Milan, where politicians are still trying to reach agreement on the Kyoto protocol to start legally binding reductions in greenhouse gas releases to the atmosphere.The report says whatever politicians decide, some climate change and sea level rise is already built into the system and current trends will accelerate."The contrast between the slight decrease in the number of storms in Iceland and the increase over the UK is pretty conclusive evidence that the storm track, or North Atlantic oscillation as we call it, has moved south," Dr Jenkins said."As far as the pressure anomaly is concerned, this is much higher than we predicted in our models, and it basically means that the westerly winds across the British Isles have increased in strength. This is significantly larger than explicable by natural variation, and must be man-made climate change."According to the classic weather model, there was high pressure over the Azores and low pressure over Iceland, with British weather in between the two. Peter Stott, the Hadley scientist who carried out the study, said the high pressure over this country was around 1,030 millibars, and the low pressure 970.But over the past 50 years, the high pressures have increased on average by three millibars and the lows have deepened by the same amount. This has led to an increase in the winds and in wind damage.A collaboration between Britain, Canada and Australia established anomalies across the globe but nowhere were they greater than over northern Europe and particularly the UK. A telling graphic produced by the researchers of the observed storm track - the line between high and low pressure belts - shows England just to the south of the main track and northern Scotland right in its path.Because the instruments used to measure wind speeds were unreliable and liable to be moved from time to time, Dr Stott said, scientists had used an alternative method to measure storms. "Out at sea what fishermen and all sailors have learned to dread is a sudden drop in pressure. If the barometer drops 10 millibars in three hours... it means there will be a gale or worse. Examples of that happening in the UK weather record have dou bled over 50 years. That is very significant statistically."Although Dr Jenkins is confident the increased intensity of high and low pressures can be attributable to climate change and is a significant development in understanding the science, the long-term storminess trends are more uncertain.While researchers have been able to use the data for the past 50 years to establish that storms have increased, they do not have any reliable data for the 50 years before that to establish whether it was as stormy in 1900s as it is now.The Hadley report also records a continued steep rise in global temperatures during 2003, and it shows average land temperatures across the world were 1C higher than a century ago for the first eight months of this year. In England, the warmest January-to-September period was recorded in central England since records began in 1659, including the hottest day ever recorded, at 38.5C (101.3F)Dr Stott said warmer weather had continued since September and 2003 was heading towards being the warmest year recorded in Britain.Drier summers, wetter winters - and little snow&#183;Average annual temperatures may rise by between 2 and 3.5 C by the 2080s, with greater warming in the south and east than in the north and west of the UK. Hot, humid summers will become more frequent and very cold winters will become increasingly rare&#183;The 1990s was the warmest decade in central England since records began in the 1660s and this warming of climate over land has been accompanied by warming of UK coastal waters. 2003 is on track to be the warmest year on record&#183;Winters will become wetter and summers may become drier across all of the UK. The largest changes will be in the south and east, where summer rainfall may decline by up to 50% by the 2080s. The amount of snow could decline by 60%-90% by the 2080s&#183;Snowfall will decrease throughout the UK. The reductions in average snowfall over Scotland might be between 60% and 90% (depending on the region)&#183;Average sea level around the UK is now about 10cm (4ins) higher than in 1900 and levels could be between 26 and 86cm above the current level in south-east England by the 2080s. Extreme high water levels, which currently have a 2% annual probability, could become 10 to 20 times more frequent at some east coast locations&#183;The thermal growing season for plants in central England has lengthened by about one month since 1900&#183;Source: Climate Change Scenarios for the United Kingdom: The UKCIP02 Briefing Report
A global media art project is offering anyone with a mobile phone or internet access the chance to see their message to the world beamed onto a famous landmark in one of four major cities.The Helloworld Project is Switzerland's gift to the UN World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), which is taking place in Geneva this week.An interactive installation, it is the brainchild of digital media artist Johannes Gees. It will use lasers to project text messages onto the UN headquarters in New York, a mountainside in Rio de Janeiro, the Air India building in Mumbai's business district, and Geneva's Jet d'Eau, a 140m-tall water fountain.It aims to highlight two issues at the heart of the WSIS discussions: the digital divide opening up between developing and developed nations, and the right to freedom of expression.Anyone can send an SMS message to the city of their choice, via either a mobile phone or the Helloworld Project site.The texts will be viewed by Mr Gees and a team of more than 25 "message jockeys" - editors at Swiss information site Swissinfo - who will pass them on to the projectors at one of the four cities. Within seconds, they will be flashed up in projections up to 70 by 400 metres in size.The messages will also be beamed to the summit's delegates and webcast on the Helloworld Project's website.They can be written in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Hindi, Portugese or Spanish, and are free if sent via the website, or the cost of a regular SMS if sent from a phone.Any texters with mischief in mind are warned that "commercial, sexist or racist messages, or those containing personal insults, will not be projected".For anyone stuck for ideas about what to write, the Helloworld Project's FAQ says that it is expecting "mostly statements, some personal, some political ... expect funny messages, sharp comments, questions, love poems, messages with social or political content, but also comments on the WSIS".WSIS will bring together more than 65 heads of state and government to debate who should govern the internet and how the digital divide, which denies poorer countries the same access to technology and telecommunications as richer ones, can be bridged.The Helloworld Project is the second in a series of public, interactive installations by Mr Gees. His first, Hello Mr President, invited people to send messages to George Bush at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2001.Mumbai1230 to 1830 GMT, Tuesday December 9 to Friday December 12+44 7781 484040Geneva1600 to 1200 GMT, Tuesday December 9 to Friday December 12+44 7781 484010Rio de Janeiro2130 to 0330 GMT, Tuesday December 9 to Friday December 12+55 2188 915590New York1130 to 1930 GMT, Tuesday December 9 to Friday December 12+44 7781 484048
BT sealed two of its most important deals yesterday as it signed contracts with the National Health Service to design and run two patient record databases, worth &#163;1.6bn over the next decade.The company beat American IT group IBM to both contracts and is also involved in the consortium which clinched a third &#163;1.1bn contract to produce a patient record database in the north-east of England."This is undoubtedly the biggest contract day we have ever had," said Andy Green, who heads the company's global services business which runs major contracts. "They suddenly catapult us into the world league."The deals are the largest of their kind ever signed by a European health service and are expected to create jobs in the IT industry. BT's success has also raised hopes that the company will be able to challenge the dominance of rivals such as EDS and Accenture in the race for lucrative government IT projects. Similar databases are understood to be under consideration in Germany, the Netherlands, South Africa and New Zealand. The Welsh and Scottish authorities have also still to find partners to convert their patient records to digital form.The contracts awarded yesterday are the first three of seven which the government hopes will revolutionise the way that English health professionals access information critical to making clinical decisions.Under the first &#163;620m contract, BT in partnership with LogicaCMG, Sun and Oracle will create a national patient record database and messaging service. Tim Smart, chief executive of BT's IT consulting arm Syntegra, explained that the database will provide basic information for 50m English patients. "Should you be a resident of Brighton and are on holiday in Scarborough and taken ill there, local doctors can access basic medical information such as blood type and any major conditions that you have," he said.BT also won a &#163;1bn deal to design and maintain a more complex patients' record system for London. The company is also a sub-contractor for Accenture which yesterday clinched the third NHS contract, worth &#163;1.1bn, to create a patient record database for the north east of England. BT will get about &#163;150m to &#163;200m from that deal over ten years.The contracts will increase BT's revenues by &#163;50m in the current year and &#163;150m in the year to end March 2005. The company's share price, however, was stagnant yesterday as analysts continued to fret about the prospects for growth in BT's core UK residential phone market.While BT's global services business, formerly Ignite, is securing new contracts, its retail division has not seen a major uplift in revenues despite a number of new initiatives.
A judge has prevented the &#163;337m merger of two British computer software companies to prevent them dominating the planned national electronic patient record system for the NHS.The merger would have given them a near monopoly in the provision of computer software for a medical record system for every person in England, accessible anywhere a patient receives treatment.It comes as the National Audit Office launches a preliminary inquiry into the awarding of &#163;2.3bn-worth of computer contracts for the NHS - the biggest and most ambitious such contracts ever awarded in Britain. Tony Blair is expected to announce the first two contracts this week.There is growing disquiet among MPs that Whitehall is being ripped off by companies that can make millions out of their dominance of the market and lack of experience and knowledge of the civil servants that negotiate with them. Recent scandals highlighted by MPs include the "spectacular failure" of the launch of Gordon Brown's tax credit system by the Inland Revenue, the child support agency's new payment system and the failure of a new computerised courts system.The court ruling - made by Sir Christopher Bellamy, president of the competition appeal tribunal, at the high court last week - is also a blow to the Office of Fair Trading which had allowed the merger, with support from senior civil servants at the Department of Health. It is the first time the regulatory body's judgment has been overturned by the courts, and it could have repercussions for other decisions.The two companies, iSOFT and Torex, already had dominant positions in the NHS. iSOFT had sales of &#163;74m a year in the UK and EU, mainly as a supplier to hospitals. Torex supplied software to GPs, laboratories and hospitals, with &#163;65m of sales.A merger would have given the two companies a 44% share of the existing electronic patient record market, compared with the 14% share of McKesson, their nearest rival. Their share of hospital laboratory software market would have been 56%. In Scotland and Wales, the new company would have had a monopoly.Sir Christopher described the OFT's decision to approve the merger as both "surprising and unlawful".The OFT has decided not to appeal against the decision. Instead it will look again at the proposed merger. It has also had to change its advice to other companies as a result of the ruling.
Yahoo hasannouncedsome very interesting plans to take the anti-spam fight to a much deeper level of the internet.The company is, in essence, proposing to change the way the internet works, by requiring emails to prove they've come from a real email address before they are sent on their way across the net. It is planning to launch the technology, called "domain keys", next year, and will make it available for free to "developers of the web's major open-source email software and systems". That's according to Reuters, who probably don't meanquitewhat they say but, hey, we'll let 'em off for now."One of the core problems with spam is we don't know, Yahoo doesn't know, the user doesn't know... if [an email] really came from the party who says it came from," Brad Garlinghouse, vice president for communication products at Yahoo, told Reuters. "If we can get only a small percentage of the industry to buy in, we think it can have a dent," he said.Indeed. Could this be the start of therealcure for spam (as opposed to well-meaning, but ultimately doomed, attempts to legislate junk email away)? I think it looks like it: making the sending of anonymous email, or email with a faked "from" address, will make life much more difficult for spammers. So, voila: an early contender for tech story of 2004, right here.
The National Health Service, Britain's biggest employer, is considering ditching Microsoft software after a row over mounting licensing costs.Richard Granger, NHS IT director, has ordered a trial of a Linux-based system from Sun Microsystems as part of a &#163;2.3 billion computer modernisation plan. The plan could see Java Desktop software rolled out across the NHS's 1 million staff and 800,000 computers to replace Microsoft's Windows operating system and Office suite of programmes.Linux is an 'open-source' system for running computers invented by a young Finnish student in 1991 and refined by thousands of programmers working together across the internet.Microsoft's Windows and Office software have near monopolies in the personal computer market.The loss of the contract from the NHS, the largest employer in Europe, would be a blow for the Seattle-based giant and a huge boost to Sun's efforts to offer some competition to Microsoft's near total monopoly.The Chinese and Israeli governments have already signed up to use Sun's software.'Our evaluation of the Java Desktop System holds the promise of allowing a greater share of NHS funding to flow directly towards improved levels of patient service.'If this solution were to prove effective we could save the NHS and the taxpayer many millions of pounds while at the same time using rich and innovative software technology,' says Granger. Charles Andrews, Sun Microsystem's public sector head, said licence cost savings would come to tens of millions of pounds directly. 'And we won't force people to upgrade computers and technology on a 2-3 year cycle either. Customers can upgrade when they need to,' he said.The National Programme for IT in the NHS will eventually bring in services such as electronic booking of appointments and transfer of prescriptions.
What's likely to be the biggest thing in mobile phones next year? 3G? Camera phones? Well a growing number of industry pundits are wagering that come summer 2004 the feature we will all be talking about is something called Push To Talk (PTT).Already establishing itself in the USA PTT technology enables a mobile phone to moonlight as a walkie-talkie. Except that, unlike traditional walkie-talkies, which have a range of a few hundred feet, PTT-equipped phones work using internet protocol, so in theory users can contact someone no matter where in the world they are.Motorola gave UK journalists a glimpse of how PTT might work at a demo in London earlier this week.Users will need a special PTT phone. Nokia has already announced its model, the 5140, will be on sale in the spring while the biggest provider of PTT phones in the USA, Motorola, will also deliver handsets in early 2004. It is a given that all new phones produced by both manufacturers will have PTT by 2005.When users switch the handset on they can find out which of the people on their PTT list (your friends, business colleagues, whoever) have their phones switched on and are ready to talk. The list doesn't have to be limited to individuals. Users can also set it up to address a group of people. The user then switches on a button on the handset and starts to talk.If the user, and the person they are speaking to have chosen what has been termed the "barge option" their voice leaps straight out of their phone's speaker with no warning. Alternatively the phone can be set to ring or vibrate."Cultural differences come into play here," says Charlie Henderson, EMEA director of the business development group of Motorola's global telecoms solutions sector. "In North America 'barge' has been the most successful mode in the US, while in Canada the ring version of PTT has been more popular.""Originally PTT was targeted in the US by network Nextel at small businesses like plumbers and building site workers. However as time as gone by Nextel and the other US networks offering PTT have realised there is a huge potential market among the under 30s," adds Henderson.In particular the group facility has proved very popular. There are countless potential applications from groups of shoppers discussing their latest purchases, to sports fans keeping each other up to date on the latest news.The presence element of PTT, which lets users know if a phone is accessible, will also appeal to parents who will be able to instantly know if their child is available to speak to them.Another major plus of PTT is that as it uses Internet Protocol it is very cheap - in the US subscribers pay on average $20 a month for unlimited usage of PTT.Handset manufacturers are very keen on the concept, seeing it as providing another reason for users to upgrade their handsets.Nokia's first PTT phone is a tough, active handset featuring shock absorption and weatherproof facilities. "It highlights where PTT will go first," says the company's UK communications director Mark Squires. "To small businesses like plumbers and couriers and also to those who love action sports like skateboarders and skiers."While it sounds as if it will have huge potential, not everyone in Europe is convinced PTT is the killer application your mobile, has been waiting for."One of the reason it has been relatively successful in the US is that they don't really have a culture of text messaging" argues Simon Edwards, marketing director of telecoms software vendor Intervoice."So some of the uses for PTT are taken care of in Europe by texting. Also Britons are a bit less inclined to talk pleasantries than Americans so texting is more in tune with our culture."There are other obstacles to PTT's success that are less cultural and more to do with the reticence of the networks to embrace PTT. "If PTT was as successful as it was in is in the US it would certainly eat in to the networks' revenue on both voice and text calls," admits Nokia Networks business development director Tapio Heikkila.Then there is the very thorny issue of roaming. If global agreements were set up there is no technological reason why PTT couldn't step across national boundaries and expensive international calls would be a thing of the past.Networks have also got to work out pricing structures for PTT. Analysts Steve Griffin and Jurgen Wittkopp from the PA Consulting Group suggest that PTT gives network the opportunity to once again charge consumers for the amount they use the service.Although this may be hard for the networks to justify, especially as a flat monthly fee as used by US networks has proved set the template.Finally there's the issue of bandwidth. "PTT will take up bandwidth of network GPRS networks that operators have currently set aside for business users sending data and consumers sending photos and downloading games," adds Nokia's Mark Squires."There simply isn't the bandwidth available for it take off and become massive for consumers overnight. The key though will be the arrival of 3G. With that extra bandwidth there is aplenty of space for PTT to establish itself."So it is not surprising it has taken so long for the networks to embrace PTT. No UK networks have currently announced launches for a service, but it is expected at least one UK network will offer PTT in the spring.Yet for those, including some people from networks, who have written PTT's obituary before it even arrives, a telecoms analyst who wishes to remains anonymous has two words - text messaging. "No one had an inkling how large sending SMSes would become. I believe that because of its ease of use and immediacy we will see a repeat of that scenario with PTT."
We don't do a great deal of plugging of Online stuff here (c'mon, really), butthis weekend's columnfrom our man in Gadgetstan, Ashley Norris, is particularly fascinating."What's likely to be the biggest thing in mobile phones next year? 3G? Camera phones? Well a growing number of industry pundits are wagering that come summer 2004 the feature we will all be talking about is something called Push To Talk (PTT)... There are countless potential applications from groups of shoppers discussing their latest purchases, to sports fans keeping each other up to date on the latest news."Unusually, it's a mobile feature that's already becoming big in the US, which some analysts are saying is down to the fact SMS has never really been as big over there as it is over here. But I still suspect this will be huge in the next year or two: brace yourselves for pieces in the lifestyle pages soon about how irritating it is in restaurants and public transport, too...
Are we in an age of spiritual machines?Yes, in the sense that coming from a spiritual perspective, nothing can exist without the spirit that informs and animates it. It depends on what you use the machine for: computers and the internet seem to be an extension or expression of the collective consciousness and are one step closer to developing telepathy. The internet is a key to human evolution and I reckon the machines will grow smaller and smaller until they fit into our brains, and the next step is full telepathy.Do you worry about the dark side of the net?I don't worry about it in real life or on the net. There will always be   the shadow side. Where you have light, you must have shade, and while the dark side of the net is disturbing and potentially hazardous, I prefer to focus on providing more light rather than waste energy worrying about the darkness. It only requires one candle flame to extinguish the darkness in a room.How involved are you in the running of your website?My intrepid PA, Naked Nurse, does the hands-on running of the site but I oversee everything and decide on design, as well as writing almost daily in my Docbox. My site is dear to me - it's one of the first things I interact with in the morning.Can you tell a lot about someone from a ringtone?Perhaps superficially - at least in relation to the mood they were in when they downloaded the tone. I try to refrain from judging people by appearances... but one with Flight   of the Bumblebee is probably a bit suspect. I use the conventional ring-ring, as I find it the least intrusive.Broadband?Of course. I'd go nuts if I had to do the amount of work I do online with a 56k modem. I'm withKnobotechand found the transition smooth. I'm looking forward to when the whole world has it. That will diminish the status of TV and bring an unprecedented show of creative talent to the world.Favourite gadgets?I may have been propping up the IT industry single-handedly over the past few years with all the gadgets and gizmos I've bought, found to be useless and discarded. I thought I'd like the12in PowerBookbut have found it over-simple to use and fairly inflexible. A Canon    Digital IXUS 400would be great. My favourite gadget/tool is a basic Advent laptop, which I've changed to run onLinux.So you're a Linux convert?I love the whole philosophy of sharing. I've been using Linux for 18 months after becoming friends with Manuel the Catalan anarchist hacker, who educated me in the Linux philosophy. The idea appealed to my egalitarian sensibilities as opposed to the Microsoft philosophy, which doesn't sit well with me - the former being a philosophy of cooperation and the latter one of domination. But I was also fed up with getting viruses all the time, which you don't get on Linux.Visit:www.barefootdoctorworld.co.ukBarefoot doctor's bookmarkswww.2advanced.comwww.motiongraphiks.comwww.smokingpaper.comwww.gencat.netwww.mezzowave.net
London's mayor Ken Livingstone may have reduced traffic congestion with his congestion charge, but what does it mean for the rest of the country?According to research commissioned by IBM and conducted by Mori, the public is more positive about congestion charging than many believe. The report found that 61% supported the idea for large towns where there is major congestion, and 51% supported a national road pricing scheme - if introduced in tandem with lower car tax and fuel duties.The government is committed to reducing congestion through what it calls road pricing, but remains undecided about how to achieve it. Alistair Darling, the transport minister, is said to be looking at all options, including a nationwide system tracking all 22m road users.The chairman for the Commission for Integrated Transport (CfIT), Professor David Begg, kicked off a heated debate in February last year, when he delivered a report to the Department of Transport that proposed a nationwide GPS (global positioning system) satellite tracking system working in conjunction with GPRS (general packet radio service), the   digital mobile phone network. A GPS is able to track vehicles wherever they go and doesn't need to use roadside masts .The system would charge users based on the miles travelled on congested sections, using variable pricing designed to make congested periods most costly. But it only works if all vehicles are fitted with tracking devices, adding considerable costs.To make it more acceptable to the public, CfIT, an independent body set up by the government to advise on transport policy, proposed that road tax and fuel duty be dumped in favour of nationwide congestion charging - a "revenue-neutral" option.Since the report, the Department of Transport has set up a steering group to look at the feasibility of road pricing options, which will report next summer. But the debate has an urgency now that Customs and Excise (working closely with the department) has completed consultations for the nationwide lorry road user charging (LRUC) system, which it plans to implement for 500,000 lorries by 2006. It is looking closely at the GPS satellite option and the land-based system known as directional short range communications (DSRC). This uses in-car radio tags that signal   driver movements to roadside beacons or overhead gantrys.The GPS option has received a further shot in the arm with the publication of a report last month by the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR), which focused on the government's targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. It concluded that a GPS satellite system was the most likely option for a national road charging system. But contrary to CfIT, it believes a new scheme should raise &#163;16bn if it is to have a significant impact on reducing congestion.Meanwhile, London's congestion charging system is approaching the end of its first year of operation. Run by IT services firm Capita, it has attracted supporters and detractors equally. In its first six months, it reduced congestion by 30%, and   60,000 fewer cars enter the inner zone each day. But it is predicted to be &#163;60m short of its yearly targets while 85,000 fines (20% of those billed) have been sent in error. London's relatively simple scheme uses cameras to check the number plates of cars entering its congestion zone.GPS has gained a foothold with a number of trial projects: Zingo, a taxi hailing system in London; Yorkshire bus operators' &#163;9m system to provide centralised travel information; and Norwich Union's pay-as-you-drive insurance system. But proponents of GPS have been dealt a blow with the news that a nationwide system for truckers set up in Germany this summer has been postponed because it did not work, despite costing over &#163;450m. Problems included faulty on-board GPS units, inaccurate   charging or simply no charges where they were due. Internet payments for foreign truckers without GPS units also failed to work properly.John Dawson, a partner of IBM Business Consulting services, says this experience highlights the need for action. "The government must focus on defining standards for a national approach to road pricing and look towards developing a common national infrastructure that will allow different technology to interoperate."The view is backed by Richard Hordman, chief executive of telematics firm Cybit, which develops commercial GPS services. "The telematics industry needs standardisation and access to congestion data so we can develop commercial services like traffic management and in-car navigation systems. If this isn't done there is a danger that we end up with up to three separate devices in vehicles for navigation, charging, and fleet management." He believes the GPS solution will fail if there are not enough added features, such as navigation and reporting features.Which technology will the department favour, if a nationwide approach is taken? Professor Begg admits concerns remain over reliability, privacy and inequalities of those in the country paying less than urban users. "I think the government will want to heed the need for a standard approach and one that fits into European initiatives on road pricing technology.""GPS is very much alive," says Phil Jeanes, a senior consultant with PA Consulting Group. "Even Transport for London is looking at GPS as a possible option to extend the charging zone and make it more targeted. The department of transport is producing plans to safeguard data. Over time I think it will be seen less as a 'spy in the sky' system as benefits become more apparent."The department has said that any technology for charging will not be available at least until 2010. Consequently, a patchwork of solutions is perhaps most likely in the short term.
PDA style phone Sony Ericsson P900There are three good choices, each of which uses a different operating system. Fans of the Palm operating system have the Handspring Treo 600, a smallish device, simple to use, which boasts an excellent web browser and email facilities for a very reasonable &#163;120. O2's Microsoft Windows-powered XDA II has the best screen seen on a phone, plus a camera, Bluetooth and a more powerful processor than the original XDA. It is pricey, though. The best of the lot is the Sony Ericsson P900. It might have a more industrial design than its predecessor, but its awesome line-up of facilities, which are seamlessly integrated into the intuitive Symbian 7 operating system, gives it the edge. It is available from most networks.www.sonyericsson.com/ukSmartphone Orange SPV E-200Cramming email, web access, contact management facilities and music players into smallish devices has concentrated the minds of almost all the major manufacturers this year. Motorola's Microsoft Windows-powered MPx-200 has an impressive amount of facilities in a tiny clamshell, while Nokia's 6600 has even more features in a slightly larger candy bar-style phone. Yet the best of the lot is the third incarnation of the Orange Microsoft Windows smartphone, the SPV E-200. Orange has added key facilities such as Bluetooth and a camera, improved the phone's memory and operating system and made it easier to use. The result is the best smartphone so far.www.orange.co.ukCamera phone Sharp GX20This year has seen an explosion in the camera phone market, with virtually every manufacturer offering at least a couple of models in their ranges. Yet two handsets tower above the rest. There's a strong case for the Sony Ericsson T610 coming out on top as it is both beautifully designed and is remarkably simple to use. Yet the Sharp GX20, the latest incarnation of the David Beckham-approved Vodafone Live! handset, just about sneaks it. Although some will point out that its clamshell design is a little chunky compared with the slimline Sony Ericsson, in terms of the pictures it takes and, most of all, its superb screen, it has the edge over its rival.www.vodafone.co.ukPay as you go handset Panasonic G50A tricky choice, as handsets as sophisticated as the Sony Ericsson P900 are ranged against no frills models from the likes of Sendo and Siemens. Yet in terms of sheer value for money, a few stand out. If you want a camera phone, it is hard to argue with the Sagem MyX-6. Available at a very competitive price from several networks, its quality screen is ideal for framing and viewing pictures, and playing games. Our pay as you go handset of the year, though, goes to the Panasonic G50. It might be the smallest handset on sale in the UK, but the manufacturer has still found room for a quality colour screen, polyphonic ringtones and a raft of organiser-style facilities. It is available from Virgin Mobile.www.virginmobile.comBudget overall phone Siemens SL55There is now a huge range of phones selling on pay monthly contracts for next to nothing. 02's X1, which is currently free, combines a good camera and screen with a surprising number of features. Shame it is tricky to use. Nokia's newly launched candy bar-style camera phone, the 3200, is also great value for money, although it is compromised by a low-quality screen and limited storage. There's also LG's debut handset, the G7100, which marries a quirky design with a host of innovative features, including a flash for its camera. Yet the handset we reckon budget buyers should choose is the Siemens SL55, on account of a stunning and innovative design and its pocketable size. Available from O2 and Virgin Mobile.www.my-siemens.co.uk
Phone trackingThe ability to track movements of people from their mobile phones has just been launched in the UK. Last week, Mapminder and 192.com launched subscription services that reveal the (rough) whereabouts of any mobile phone, as long as it is switched on. Both services display the results on a street map you access on the web. You need to get consent to track a person (in the form of writing if you are an employer, otherwise via text message) and you can also access the information over the phone. Both services charge a &#163;5 monthly subscription, plus a fee each time you use the service.www.mapminder.co.ukwww.verilocation.comhttp://192.comiRadioAn online radio station that plays music created by software may sound like a plot device from a William Gibson novel. But now it is actually here. Taking its name from the randomise command in the computer language C++, RAND()% is the first online radio station to devote itself exclusively to generative (meaning self-generating) music. This alluring net station plays only music produced by software, although musicians and artists have a hand in setting the programme's parameters. On the hour, a speech synthesiser reads the news from BBC online, complete with snatches of the HTML code. The success of London's Resonance FM, which is struggling for funding but not for an audience, proves there is an appetite for this kind of avant garde radio.www.r4nd.orgwww.ultrasound.wswww.resonancefm.comBlog politicianIt is impressive enough that the Iranian vice-president, Mohammed Ali Abtahi, has his own weblog. But that part of it is translated into English   makes it doubly so. The daily blog is only in Farsi, but the site includes English translations of Abtahi's biography and links to recent interviews. The most revealing section - the collection of photos taken by Abtahi at his daily meetings, including some with the deposed president of Georgia, Eduard Shevardnadze - offers a more intimate portrayal of a politician's life than anything available from his western counterparts.www.webnevesht.com/enLet's play Twister!An online version of the party game Twister, played with real actors, takes place on the web every Friday evening. Tele-Twister is a research project at Berkeley University looking into the discipline of collaborative telerobotics. You get to play in teams and vote for your player's next move. As the site says: "With Tele-Twister, you can have fun and help quantify and study group dynamics."www.tele-actor.net/tele-twisterWatchman retiresHe created From Hell, the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and the Wachowski brothers' forthcoming movie V for Vendetta. Alan Moore is Britain's greatest comic book writer, but last week, on his 50th birthday, he announced his retirement from mainstream comics. His resignation interview is available on the 9th Art website, an online journal that describes itself as "a repository of ideas, analysis and contemporary thought, exploring every aspect of the arts and industry of comics". Farewell Alan Moore, you will be missed.www.alanmoorefansite.comwww.ninthart.com3D tube mapCorey Clarke, a freelance illustrator, has rendered Harry Beck's famous tube map in three dimensions. The beautiful representation of the map takes you right inside the network. It is a fantastic site, but would be even better if it were interactive.www.recenda.f9.co.ukhttp://owen.massey.net/tubemaps.htmlInterpet explorerParrots are one of the most intelligent species of bird, but they get bored easily and are prone to self-harm if left alone. Dr Irene Pepperberg has been working with an African grey parrot called Alex, whom she has taught to count and to recognise colour. Now, students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have come up with an idea to prevent him getting bored: teach him to go online. They have even built a customised mouse made of a flat piece of plastic with a hole in it for him to insert his beak.www.alexfoundation.orghttp://web.mit.edu/giving/spectrumNew &amp; notedShare your shedwww.readersheds.co.ukWorld war propagandawww.ww1-propaganda-cards.comCreative commons film competitionwww.creativecommons.org/contestSix of the best: Big conversationOfficial sitewww.bigconversation.org.ukOn messagewww.labour.org.uk/tbbigclaunch/Alternative viewwww.spiked-online.com/Sections/politicsSatirists eyewww.thebrainstrust.co.ukBloggers viewwww.anoasis.co.uk/archives/000360.htmlTalk about itpoliticstalk.guardian.co.uk
The battle by Google, the top internet search engine operator, to outwit website operators who artificially try to improve their search results ranking is distressing some online retailers.Last month Google revamped its ranking system as part of an ongoing campaign to stop companies appearing higher up than their business justifies. But while the overhaul has thwarted many website operators who had secured an unfair advantage by using clever search engine tactics, it has also hurt legitimate online retailers in the run-up to the holiday season.One San Francisco retailer reported that the change sent his company from top place among Google search results down to number 250.Wayne Rosing, vice president of engineering at Google, said the change is part of the Silicon Valley-based company's efforts to provide high-quality search results."This particular change affected more people, but our testing shows there was a significant quality improvement for our users."The changes have prompted angry exchanges in internet chatrooms and a barrage of complaints to Google. However, many are thought to be from companies which teach   techniques to improve a website's ranking. One trick is to keep repeating a key word.Andrew Goodman, principal at search advertising consulting firm Page Zero Media, said: "It's part of an attempt &#91;by Google&#93; to weed out sites that rank higher than they should."The change comes as companies such as Yahoo and Microsoft work to challenge Google's dominant position.There has also been speculation that Google will go public early next year. That has prompted chatroom suspicion that the change to Google's ranking software was part of an attempt to boost revenues ahead of a float. But Mr Rosing denied such charges.
When one thinks of state-of-the-art, wirelessly connected communities, a small isolated farming hamlet in Wales would not usually be first to spring to mind. But thanks to a dynamic school governor, an enthusiastic head teacher and a motivated community still coping with the aftermath of the foot and mouth crisis, the village of Aberhafesp, in the county of Powys, can claim to be just that.Ian Pryor, an IT consultant who networked the village's computers, said the foot and mouth disaster had proved a catalyst in changing the way farmers run their business. "The past few years have seen a significant turning point for the use of IT in rural areas and I think history will show the trigger was foot and mouth. So many things that farmers now need to do - register animal births, apply for cow and sheep passports and so on - are much easier to do online."While farmers are realising how much time computers save, they do get frustrated by their lack of knowledge and training in such a fundamental part of their business, says Pryor.But thanks to Sue Jones, a parent and governor at the village school and a tutor in business, travel and tourism at nearby Colleg Powys, that problem has been solved. With the backing of school staff and governors, Jones worked tirelessly to raise awareness and, more importantly, the money, to enable a high-tech network for the community, which is based at the school."During the dark days of foot and mouth, computers were a lifeline for farmers who had them. I could also see how critical IT was going to be for the future of our children and local businesses in such an isolated area," says Jones.Jones's first step - entering a BT parents online competition - won five computers, minus software, for the community. However, grants from the Wales Information Society and ELWa (Education Learning Wales) enabled them to buy software, seven laptops, link the computers wirelessly, as well as buy interactive whiteboards and printers for the school. The facilities were then in place to enable courses to be offered to the community. The first courses - an introduction to word processing and the internet - took place in 2001, at a cost of &#163;1 a week for a 10-week course. Further courses on Excel and using spreadsheets are planned. A huge incentive is the fact that the courses are accredited by North Wales Open College Network through Colleg Powys.Says Jones: "The key to our success   is that 90% of those attending our classes would not have gone on traditional courses - either because they felt they were too old, or were farmers who couldn't make the hours, or didn't have the confidence to take such a big step. The age range is between 16 and 80, and they have gained so much confidence that they are going further and enrolling in certificated courses."The community, which won the Wales 2001 Calor village of the year award, has also been brought closer. "Everyone has taken ownership of the scheme. It has been a real bridge between grandparents and the young kids. Grandparents are encouraging children to become more computer literate."Pryor, who has a contract with the education department for maintenance of and support for computer systems in the district's schools, says that while many rural schools have good IT facilities, two things combined to ensure that Aberhafesp's particular program was unique."Because the courses have the formal backing of a further education college, it gives them authenticity. And the level of integration between the IT centre at the school and the community is striking." The uptake on the courses was phenomenal, with more than 25% of the 400 in the vil lage catchment area already trained to some level.Lyn Owen, 32, a dairy farmer who with his brother Gareth, 35, and parents runs 90 cows on 250 acres, is one such beneficiary. "Computers are a necessity for us now, but for a few years my mother was the only one   who could use the computer. She is also the school secretary. But the courses at the school have given me the confidence to have a go. Normally I wouldn't have done anything with a computer. But now we are able to keep up the farm records."Another IT project that has proved a lifeline is that of Holbeach St Marks, in the county council of Lincolnshire. When a big food producer moved out in 2001, 800 people lost their jobs. While just over half found work within weeks in similar fields, a minority found it difficult. But through the local IT centre, which had been set up only months earlier by a band of volunteers, everyone eventually found a job. The centre worked in conjuction with the local jobs centre to offer computer training to get new skills or to look at websites for jobs.Nick Worth, a South Holland district councillor and resident of Holbeach St Marks - population around 300 - is the brains behind the centre. The council was building a new village hall when Worth suggested that it be extended slightly to allow room for an IT centre."I had become increasingly aware of how isolated we are here. In a community that is close to 75% retirement age, the social dimension of the centre cannot be overstated. Many in the community have relatives abroad and   they have been able to keep in contact. I also wanted to increase the skills and opportunities for older people as well as cater for the youngsters.Holbeach St Marks began with five PCs, donated by local companies, and three volunteers, who opened the centre during the week. The volunteers help with the basic tasks of writing emails and looking up websites but they have also been sent on further training courses.Worth said he was thrilled with the results of the centre. "It has been vital in raising people's attainment levels as well as their self-esteem and general confidence. Older people were originally frightened of computers but they can now see the benefits."But the village, which was last year's IT winner for northern England, has developed further. "We are discussing with Geest, a big employer in the area, about taking on their administration building, which is about 20 times the size of the old centre. As well as offering IT services to villagers, we plan to set up a cr&#234;che and nursery school for Geest employees. They will then be able to use the centre to further their skills, which is vital, because work in the food industry is notoriously unreliable."The contendersNorthern England: Catterick, Yorkshire; Tattenhall, CheshireEastern England and home counties: Braughing, Herts; Pulham Market, Norfolk; Cold Norton, EssexCentral England: Kingston Bagpuize with Southmoor, Oxfordshire; Shustoke, Warwicks; Helmdon, Northants; Hoby, Leics; Ipstones, StaffsSouth and south east England: Aldbourne, Wilts; Staplehurst, Kent; Wargrave, Berks; Brading, Isle of Wight; Ashington, W Sussex; Abbotts Ann, HantsSouth West and western England: Martley, Worcs; Fairford, Glos; North Curry, Somerset; Leintwardine, Herefordshire; Upottery, DevonWales: Talybont-on-Usk, Powys; Ystradowen, Vale of Glamorgan; Llangwm, Pembrokeshire; Llangain, Carmarthenshire; Brynteg, Wrexham&#183;This year's Calor village of the year will be announced on December 9.
Hewlett-Packard is planning to join the crowded business of offering online music, setting the scene for a fierce land grab in the rapidly expanding market during 2004.While the music industry itself has focused on closing down the internet as a means of distribution, a growing number of retail, software, media and consumer electronics firms are muscling into the online music business.HP is planning to offer its own website selling song downloads and a branded handheld device to play them on. The website is likely to be run in partnership with an existing service, such as Musicmatch.com, which already provides the backbone for a service offered by Dell.HP is otherwise giving scant details of its service, which it intends to launch at the annual consumer electronics show in Las Vegas in January. It will be available during the first quarter in the United States but timing in Europe is uncertain. HPShopping.com chief executive Peter Appl said the design of the music player was still being tweaked to set it apart from others in the market.The size of latent demand for a legal online music service was first exposed by Apple Computer, which launched its iTunes service and the iPod player in the US this year. The company, which has already sold 1.4m iPods, has sold more than 17m songs at 99 cents each in the seven months since its launch and recently made available a version that is compatible with Windows.But with the increasing number of big name players preparing to launch services, it seems   2004 could be a pivotal year. JupiterMedia forecasts the market will grow from an estimated $80m (&#163;46m) this year to $3.2bn in 2008.Others which have since launched services in the US or announced plans to enter the market include Sony, Microsoft and RealNetworks.Silicon Valley software firm Roxio bought the Napster brand - once the most notorious file sharing service - and is offering songs at 99 cents each, while the most formidable potential competitor in the US could be its biggest retailer, Wal-Mart, which is planning an online store.HP is the second largest maker of personal computers. Like rivals such as market leader Dell, it is trying to move into consumer electronics to offset the sluggish demand for PCs. HP is also planning to introduce a large screen, LCD flat panel television at the trade show in January.Online music piracy has had a devastating effect on the traditional music industry. Conventional music sales worldwide have shrunk from $40bn in 2000 to $26bn in 2002.The big recording companies have resisted a push into online distribution, preferring to fight the spread of the internet in the courts. The Recording Industry Association of America took the controversial step earlier this year of pursuing legal action against individuals offering music for download.People found offering music online illegally could face fines of up to $150,000 a song. The number of legitimate downloads is dwarfed by those done illegally; users are still downloading 1bn songs a week from sites such as Kazaa and Morpheus, according to estimates.
Richard Bridge looks and speaks like a gentleman farmer. His workplace on the outskirts of Pinkney, a village in the north-west corner of Wiltshire, looks like a modern farm building.Inside, however, the managing director of Wentworth Wooden Jigsaws is working flat out with his staff to complete orders for Christmas, with the firm's computer-guided lasers carving giant, high-quality prints into hundreds of pieces.Three weeks ago, Bridge installed a broadband internet connection, and it is already proving its worth. He produces a large print of Concorde in flight, just arrived from British Airways, and soon to be lasered into 750 pieces. "Without broadband, one hour and 10 minutes," he says, referring to the download time through the firm's two ISDN lines. "With broadband, 12 and a half minutes."He's already cancelled one ISDN line - which costs &#163;47.33 a month plus the cost of calls above &#163;20. Broadband is much faster, and costs him &#163;25 a month with no call charges. It's an easy decision, but one that has only recently been available.Pinkney got access to fast broadband internet connections on October 29, when BT upgraded the local telephone exchange at Sherston. When Bridge shows off a 104cm by 74cm high-quality print of a collage of family photos, sent over the internet and ready to be turned into 1,800 pieces, you realise why he needs broadband. "No question, we would have had to have considered lifting out of here," he says, if the service had remained unavailable.Next door, SureScan Imaging Services says its new broadband connection means it can bid for work when   potential clients specify they want to receive their scans through a web site, something not possible with ISDN.And Steve Killingbeck, a one-man graphic design concern in a nearby unit, has a similar story. "In the past six months, I would ask customers if they had ISDN, and they said no, it was too expensive, we've got broadband." ISDN normally requires sender and recipient to be users. If businesses continue to ditch ISDN for broadband, it leaves those without access to broadband at an ever greater disadvantage.Killingbeck installed broadband within days of the exchange upgrade - which came none too soon for Pinkney Park's owner, Matilda Matthews. "It took six months of hard work," she says. "But we were determined to get it, because we were determined not to lose our tenants."Matthews inherited Pinkney Park from her father. Although she and her husband still farm some of its 350 acres, their main income is from the business park, started in the 1980s and now employing about 130 people."Before we had the connection, some &#91;tenants&#93; were wobbling," she says. "It was a major disadvantage to working in the countryside, and something needed to be done." It has been done: as she speaks, a BT engineer is fitting a new phone line to carry broadband into the Matthews' office in a converted stable block.Last autumn, around 67% of the UK population had access to broadband through an economically realistic method. By this autumn, 80% of Britons had access, and trigger levels - customer demand levels required for an exchange upgrade, measured by registrations on a BT website - were available for a further 10%.   Yesterday, BT converted its 2,000th exchange to the technology that provides broadband through normal copper phone lines, known as Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL). It was opened by shadow home secretary David Davis in his constituency of Howden in the East Riding of Yorkshire.But on November 17, BT announced trigger levels for a further 2,300 exchanges, which would take coverage to 99.1% if pilots to extend the range of each exchange bear fruit. Thirty-two exchanges qualified for conversion immediately, and are waiting to be upgraded. BT says broadband could reach 100% of the UK, if industry and government pull together.Broadband at home may be a luxury, but it is an increasingly popular one: recent figures from National Statistics, based on data from internet service providers, say that 19% of all UK internet connections are "permanent always-on" (primarily meaning broadband) compared with   8.3% a year ago. In numerical terms, permanent connections are up 130% year-on-year.But for businesses, particularly those dealing with large documents, broadband is fast becoming a necessity. Brian Atherton, secretary to the chamber of commerce for Ross-on-Wye in Herefordshire, says: "What the chamber was being told by new businesses was, if you haven't got broadband, we won't come here."Ross was upgraded in July. But Atherton lives in Linton, covered by the Gorsley exchange, which last week became one of 23 more of the 2,300 to reach a newly set trigger level. Another 41 from the original list have also hit the trigger over the past two weeks.Steven Gibson, who is campaigning for broadband in Dunoon in Argyll and Bute, echoes Atherton. "It's something businesses throughout the UK have available to them. It's critical for areas that are disadvantaged in other ways, such as trans port links and size of populations."Urban areas, where potential customers are thick on the ground, often have a choice, such as cable companies. A few areas of the UK, such as the Highland and Islands of Scotland (including Dunoon) and Cornwall, are allowed under European rules to subsidise businesses, and in both areas, state agencies have formed broadband programmes.But for the rest of the country, BT's ADSL service is the main hope. The exchanges are upgraded by BT Wholesale, but connections are sold by numerous internet service providers, which charge between &#163;22.50 to &#163;29.99 a month for a 512kbps service (kilobits per second, about 10 times faster than a dial-up modem). The cheaper options tend to charge for connection, whereas the pricier ones do not.BT is testing wireless connections to tackle the fact that 512kbps ADSL only reaches 3.4 miles (5.5km) along a typical telephone wire,   while 1Mbps (megabits per second) only works to a range of 2.5 miles (4km). Trials with wireless supplier Alvarion are providing 512kbps wireless connections to Porthleven in Cornwall and Ballingry in Fife. More are planned in Wales and at 1Mbps (megabits per second) in Northern Ireland.And there are some special cases to sort out - some in the middle of cities. Aileen Boughen, of BT Wholesale, says many on the southern end of the Isle of Dogs in east London cannot get broadband, due to the length of wire to the Poplar exchange.In Milton Keynes and around Gatwick, there are problems related to the location of exchanges, as developments are often a long way from the nearest exchange. Boughen says Milton Keynes' troubles are exacerbated by the fact that telephone wires follow its grid pattern. "This means the cables go up and down and across, rather than in direct lines." BT has teams working in all three areas.One solution that could link more people and offer higher speeds involves installing ADSL equipment in BT's green street cabinets, which act as local hubs between the customers and the exchanges.But there are alternatives to BT's ADSL, even in the countryside, and the government has supported pilots, including a wireless project in Buckfastleigh, Devon. In November, 1st Broadband announced a wireless broadband service for the area.Gordon Adgey, who founded the Buckfastleigh Broadband Project, says this means their work is nearly done, as they have demonstrated that wireless is commercially viable. But he feels BT's blanket of trigger levels   could cause problems elsewhere. "This disincentivises community broadband projects. In a lot of people's minds, when a trigger level is set, broadband has arrived." But BT's trigger level for Buckfastleigh is 500 customers from a town of just over 3,000 people.Apart from the pilots, has the government been doing enough? The day before BT's announcement, e-commerce minister Stephen Timms told an audience in Newcastle that every community should have access to broadband by the end of 2005.Timms disagrees with direct subsidies for broadband, pointing out that these were not needed for mobile phone networks. His idea is to aggregate the state sector's increasing demand for broadband - linking every school and GP surgery by 2006, for example - to convince suppliers to bring broadband to all areas.Regional aggregation boards in each of England's regional development authority areas are now in place, and will start work early in the new year. A pathfinder board in the east Midlands found that such aggregation could increase access from 67% of homes to 94%.James Gray, shadow rural affairs minister and MP for North Wiltshire, which includes Pinkney, does not believe this is enough. "I don't think they have the slightest interest in rural areas. I pay tribute to BT, but the government should have done more a great deal earlier."He adds that the trigger level registration scheme puts the onus on local people to campaign for broadband. It has worked in Pinkney: it looks like it is up to other areas to follow suit.
Scan itI have a large collection of colour slides and have tried to scan them, but they come out black. Can I get a piece of affordable equipment to scan them in?Jerry HathornI am trying to scan transparencies and negatives for a PowerPoint display, without much success. I am using a Umax Astra 3450 scanner.Brian D LapworthJack Schofield replies:Flatbed scanners are designed for scanning printed images. They do not produce high quality results when using an adaptor for negatives or slides, though an Epson Perfection 2400 Photo or similar scanner ought to b e good enough for most PowerPoint displays. It is best to use a flatbed to scan prints and buy a separate film scanner for negatives and slides, but these are much more expensive. Over the past few years, the HP PhotoSmart S20Filmscanhas been one of the cheapest good options, though the Minolta Scan Dual III (for less than &#163;300) probably takes that spot now.What it lacks is dust removal technology. For serious photographers, the CanoScan FS4000 (for less than &#163;500) has often been the system of choice, with Nikon's CoolScan models also worth considering. Seewww.ephotozine.comandwww.steves-digicams.comfor reviews. You can get slides and negatives digitised (scanned and transferred to disc)   via most photo shops, but if you have a lot to do, it is cheaper to invest in a film scanner.Safer MacAm I safe from viruses/worms and so on just because I use a Mac?Aidan ByrneJS:When Macs had a significant market share, there were some very common Mac viruses: WDEF is an ancient example. Macs are more secure than Windows machines, and they no longer represent a tempting target for mal-ware authors, so you have much less to worry about. See the somewhat outdated FAQ atwww.sherpasoft.org.ukfor details and links. However, it is still important to install Apple's security updates and remain vigilant. Bear in mind that some exploits do not rely on software flaws but on "social engineering": persuading users to run attachments or take other actions that have unpleasant consequences. No system is completely safe.Sticky MessengerI thought I'd got rid of Messenger, which sat in my Systray. It's back.Ken JonesJS:In XP, Windows Messenger combines text, voice and video (originally from NetMeeting) into a single service, which is used for things like online help. Various components are installed as part of the operating system, so XP will attempt to put them back if you remove them. You can stop it loading at start-up by going to Tools|Options, clicking the Preferences tab, and unticking the box marked Run this program when Windows starts. However, it will still start if you run, for example, Outlook Express. Microsoft has a Knowledge Base article: How to Prevent Windows Messenger from Running on a Windows XP-Based Computer (search Google for Q302089 or go tohttp://support.microsoft.com.Andy Rathbone's Uninstalling Windows XP'sWindows Messengerprovides help for the more determined. Note: removing Windows Messenger will not stop pop-up ads from appearing: they use an entirely different messaging system.Backchat&#183;On the subject of CD-R/RW discs failing after a few years, Cat Cho recommends an article inInformation Weekand related discussions in Fred Langa'sLangaList Plusnewsletter. One lesson is that some brands of CD label destroy data. Paul Montgomery adds: "Another factor to be aware of is the bleeding through of ink, especially when CDs are written on to directly without using labels. One tip is to use minimal marking on the centre, non-data, area." I have not had these problems because my system is neither to label nor write on CD-Rs. I burn an index number on to each CD with the content, and intermittently label the loose leaf pages in which the CDs are stored.&#183;Ian Cook reported problems with McAfee and its help desk. Ed Bridge says: "I, too, suffer from an identical problem. Whether connected to the outside world or not, the McAfee Update Engine attempts to access its home site about 100 times a minute." Scott Taylor, John Edwards and others reported similar problems, and the help desk could only suggest disabling the automatic updating. However, Ian Cook has now received what we hope is a better answer from Ronald in McAfee's technical support department. Ronald writes: "Please click on Start|Programs|Accessories| System Tools|Scheduled Tasks. Delete all McAfee entries and add a fresh task for McAfee updates. This will certainly resolve your issue."
In England, we have a long and proud tradition of economically illiterate and unenforceable legislation ranging from the wage and price controls following the Black Death to the wage and price controls of the 1970s.My favourite example is the Sumptuary Law of 1383, which attempted to regulate the cost of peasants' clothing. Because real wages had been rising, peasants were able to afford nicer clothes. The government thought this was undermining the appointed social order, so they made it illegal for the lower classes to use cloth that cost more than 12 shillings per yard in their clothes.The net impact was, of course, zero. Apart from the usual waste of money on lawyers and a few expensive prosecutions of hapless serfs, life went on and clothes got better.   Looking back, we can see it was because the government did not understand the dynamics and drivers of the (then) new economy.Fast forward to this year. Derek Wyatt MP, the chairman of the All Party Internet Group, recently returned from a fact-finding trip to the US. He's a man with a plan. To end spam, the government should legislate to make all email addresses contain their owners post code. I would become dave.birch@GU27EB.chyp.com. It is a cunning plan. If someone sends you spam, you can track them down.Ah, you might say, but what about individual privacy? Wyatt has thought of that, too. The rather Orwellian-sounding Information Commissioner would give you a code instead, making me dave.birch@123456789.chyp.com.This plan is so bad it defies description, but it also betrays an absolute lack of knowledge of all aspects of the subject matter. I have email addresses with mac.com and pobox.com, for example. How they are supposed to establish my post code I have no idea. And if I am a spammer, I'll lie to them anyway. This plan isn't funny. It's rather depressing because it doesn't recognise that policing email addresses would be impossible: rather like policing spam, in fact.Law isn't the answer. The problem of spam is, and always has been, economic. Because it is free, there is a lot of it. Tinkering with email addresses to make it easier for cyberstalkers to locate victims won't make the slightest difference.What's more, it has an economic function. The latest Pew Internet &amp; American Life study (based on a   national telephone survey) suggests that around a third of the population has responded to at least one spam mail and 7% have bought something. The simplistic "spam bad" position is unrealistic.We shouldn't be talking about legislating anything, but about tipping the economic balance away from the spammers. As has been recognised time and again, if we want to reduce the amount of spam, then we have to make it more expensive.This does not necessarily imply money: the expense could be in computing power, for example. If it required more power to send an email - the power to, say, encrypt the message - then you'd get less spam. It is security, not sumptuary, we need.&#183;Jack Schofield is away
Just when we were giving up hope, along comes a working e-government service that people want to use. Booking driving tests online.For the theory test, e-booking has been available for two years on the driving standards agency's web site,www.dsa.gov.uk. (The site also offers a dummy theory test - a sobering experience for those of us with licences dating from the hand-signals era.)Remarkably, at least 28% of people taking a theory test now book online. This is almost certainly the highest percentage take-up of any "transactional" e-government service aimed at citizens. It is hard to think of any other service where the percentage choosing the web as opposed to any other channel is in double figures.This week, the driving standards agency announced that practical tests can also be e-booked. This service has been available without publicity since October. In that time, more than 12,000 people have found their own way to it, representing 7.5% of bookings.Now that the service is being publicised, the agency expects the number of users to increase rapidly. As everyone taking a practical test has done a theory test first, the online proportion should rise quickly to that of the theory test, and then grow at 1-2% a month. The business case sets out a target of 75% in five years but this could go "a lot higher", says Stuart Leeke, in charge of the agency's internet booking service. Today, 97% of bookings are made by phone.There's one obvious reason for the rapid take-up: three quarters   of people who take driving tests are aged between 17 and 24. They're people who have grown up with the internet and expect to be able to order things online. But the agency deserves credit.Online booking has been envisaged since 1998, when the company Thomson Prometric Learning was contracted to run the theory test. Since the service went live, it has been enhanced so that candidates can change bookings, cancel them and get refunds.For the practical test, all candidates need is their driving licence number and credit card number. The site shows a selection of dates and times available and reserves the chosen slot for 15 minutes to allow time to pay. The service is available from 6am to midnight.Realising thatwww.dsa.gov.ukis not part of most teenagers' vocabu lary, the team also put a bit of thought into meta tags to make the site easy for search engines to find.What difference will this make in the wider e-government world? In itself, not much: most people don't expect to take a driving test more than once or twice, and will soon forget the bureaucracy involved. But for a large number of teenagers, booking a driving test is their first personal transaction with government and perhaps the habit of dealing with it online will stick.
Bypass that portalI can't help feeling that Roland Young (A dog's breakfast, Feedback, November 27), is attaching too much importance to the quality of BT Yahoo's broadband portal. I've been a BT Openworld customer since it was BT Internet and I rarely go near its portal. When I go online I go straight to the web site I want.If I want TV listings, I go to the Radio Times site (actually, I buy the RT. Looking up what I want to watch involves rather less effort.).I don't care what the portal is like - it is really of very little consequence. Pretty much the only reason I visit it now is to dump the vast amount of spam that BTO filters from my email but leaves in my online inbox. What is vital is a fast and reliable, glitch-free email, and a bit of web space to play with: everything else is frippery The web is where I want to be, not on my ISP's home page.Ron GravesPrentonGrown-up choicesLike Roland J Young, I am a BT Openworld Broadband user and am dismayed at the latest version linked to Yahoo. It took me all of 10 minutes to decide I didn't like the Yahoo version and to restore the original settings. However, I am under the impression that BT will withdraw BT Openworld Broadband at some time in the future and we will all be forced to use BT Yahoo.I stopped using AOL for the very reason it forced me to places and content I had no interest in viewing,   and now I find BT Yahoo doing the same thing. I'm quite happy with the service BT Openworld Broadband provides me. But I'm a big boy now, so please BT, allow me to choose where I want to go on the net. If not, it means I will have to find another ISP: there are plenty out there.I am quite prepared to vote with my wallet or credit card and encourage other dissatisfied users to do the same. Let's hope BT sees sense and provides us with what we, the customers want, and not what it wants or thinks we want.Bob AndrewsEssexBT decampedRegarding Jason McLoughlin's experience getting Freeserve to stop blocking his access to BT Broadband (Feedback, November 27), I have had a similar Kafkaesque experience - but got it solved.I signed on with BT Broadband but for technical reasons, it couldn't get my connection to work. Although it released me from my 12-month contract and refunded all charges and I returned the hardware, it failed to make the physical disconnection of my broadband service. Freeserve, who could connect me to broadband, was prevented by BT camping on my line!A phonecall to Ofcom with the suggestion that BT was depriving me of my right to go to another service provider did the trick. Having said that disconnection would take four weeks, BT decided it could be done within three days.S FergusonBirkenheadOff messageI am not surprised to hear that London is rated poorly for e-government provision (News, November 27). I regularly meet Inland Revenue employees at my Euston office looking for companies that have moved or no longer exist. I have asked why they don't check the Companies House web site before wasting a trip,   and have been told they have no access to the internet!If government departments don't use the internet and swap information with each other, what hope have they of communicating effectively with the public?Mike HutchinsonSurreyGoogle overhaulWhat has Google done in its latest update of its search algorithms?I run a weblog calledMediaJunk, dealing with trends in new media culture - particularly blogging and search engines. I have been running it for more than a year, but I have never got as much traffic as I have done over the past week.The spike started when I posted an article about the recent Google Florida update (the Florida name comes from the tradition of naming hurricanes, as this is the effect updates have on search results!). In short, Google has made a major overhaul of its search results in an attempt to cut out spammers, as a result of which hundreds of thousands of sites have been penalised.It looks to many people as though Google is targeting small businesses and trying to get them to take out AdWords.I didn't believe Google's overhaul was malicious but I got so many emails that I began to have doubts. So I checked out some of the cases and I think some people may have a right to be annoyed. See particularlythis entry.       I'm amazed that no major media source has picked up on this yet.Michael HeraghtyGalway, IrelandCorrectionThe correct address for the Startups website, mentioned last week in Business Solutions, iswww.startups.co.uk
Project GothamRacing 2Xbox, &#163;39.99 Bizarre Creations/Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The Project Gotham games have been winning fans since their debut four years ago on the ill-fated Sega Dreamcast. Now safely entrenched with Microsoft, they are still noticeably different from other race games, but a taste well worth acquiring.Speed alone will get you only so far through the 15 tournaments that make up the single-player challenge. Driving fast is much less important than driving flawlessly, something that is down to Kudos - an ingenious points system that takes nearly a dozen factors into account when calculating your score.Judging the perfect racing line, competing a circuit with no bumps, setting fastest laps, driving on two wheels or slip-streaming your opponent all count towards Kudos.Xbox Live players, meanwhile, can enjoy an even richer interpretation of Kudos, with global leagues and extra points for challenging higher ranked players. Add to this two playing modes (arcade and career) and you have a slick and intense game you will be returning to for months.You now have 10 cities to choose from (including a breakneck tour of Edinburgh). And, as always, you are unable to fine tune any cars, although with more than 100 on offer, including Porsches, BMWs and Ferraris, this is not much of a problem.All in all, it is another triumph for XBox, which finds itself home to the best shoot-'em-up (Halo), best beat-'em-up (Soul Calibur2) and now best racer this Christmas.Mike AnderieszBroken Sword: The Sleeping DragonPS2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Revolution/THQ &#42;&#42;&#42;In the 80s, when 3D graphics were a pipedream, point-and-click adventures held sway. By interacting with characters and solving puzzles, you would wend your way to the end of an invariably tortuous storyline.The third Broken Sword game exhumes this genre, and brings modern technology to bear. At least it is in 3D. That is not to say the Sleeping Dragon is action-packed, although it does have sequences where you must perform an action within a certain time-frame. Those weaned on a diet of instant gratification may find it the most frustrating experience of their lives, but more mature gamers could get sucked into its storyline, which takes place in locations including the Congo, Glastonbury and Paris.As before, you play two characters: American patent lawyer George   Stobbart and curvy French journalist Nico Collard, who must save the world. The dialogue and music are good, and some of the puzzles will induce bouts of head-scratching. As the game progresses, the actions you need to perform become more arcane, and the storyline more preposterous.If you are not looking for constant action and would class yourself as patient, you should enjoy this, even if it is something of a throwback.Steve BoxerPokemon Pinball: Ruby &amp; SapphireGBA, &#163;29.99 Nintendo/Jupiter &#42;&#42;&#42;If humanity can be reduced to simple hunter and gatherer instincts, then the phenomenal success of Pokemon can be attributed to its ability to appeal to a combination of both those desires. After five years, the public's thirst for collecting cute little virtual creatures hasn't abated and this latest game draws on the recent success of Nintendo's Ruby and Sapphire Pokemon titles.The game bears a lot of similarity to the original Pokemon Pinball on the GBA Colour, and features two main tables, each with mini levels, bonuses and pokemons to catch. There are 200 of the little critters.This is very much geared towards the Pokemon rather than pinball enthusiast. Despite the sub-games, having only two tables feels sparse, especially when they don't contain traditional pinball features such as a multi-ball mode or a skill shot. The mini levels add a bit of fun and variety and it is quite impressive how many Poke-features the developers have managed to cram into the tables.Unfortunately, both tables are designed in a similar way and only have two ball speeds. Although this means it's easy to go from novice to pinball wizard quickly, which is great for younger players, it curbs longevity for those who like more of a challenge.Rhianna Pratchett
Sometimes it seems as if electricity is the only thing keeping any of us in an office any more. Wireless hotspots and GPRS connections mean you can get online with a laptop from practically anywhere, if your batteries last long enough. You can get handy PC cards that include both. Use a virtual private network (VPN) client, built into Windows XP, to get access to   your office network securely, so you can work with files and use the tools and information on the company intranet; use email and instant messaging and online meeting tools such as WebEx or Macromedia Breeze or Microsoft's Live Communications Server to stay in touch.Employees and partners who work at their convenience outside the office, can be more motivated and work more efficiently than people   chained unwillingly to a desk. Diverse teams have different resources and information to draw on. Virtual teams adopt technology quickly and often communicate more efficiently than a traditional team that sticks to meetings and phone calls. Whether it is email, a shared blog or online and video conferencing, the records of virtual meetings are much easier to refer back to, or to pass on to new team members and people elsewhere in the company.Two recent research studies, from the London School of Economics and Stanford's Graduate School of Business, remind us of some common problems with virtual teams: you have to think about more than just the technology when you are planning for remote and mobile working.The Stanford research refers to a "love triangle" of organisations, individuals and technology: there needs to be a good fit between what people can do virtually and what the company is happy with. But there is also the issue of what kind of information is being shared. A project specification or the results of a meeting or test are explicit knowledge - easy to quantify and express in a concrete way, so easy to pass on whatever the medium. There is also implicit knowledge - things you know but can't easily explain. That is hard to pass on whether you are working face to face or miles apart, and technology might make it easier. Collaborating on a shared application can teach you a lot more than just seeing the final document on paper.The hardest information to pass on is what you don't realise that you know; tacit knowledge that you pick up along the way, from your experience and from social contact with colleagues. That's hard to pass on or pick up without direct contact, which means that people working virtually can start to feel isolated without ever knowing why. Plus, says Stanford's Margaret Neale, there is a downside to passing on your knowledge as efficiently as you can in a virtual team; workers can feel they are being pumped for their information, shut out from learning from people in the office who aren't explicitly sharing their knowledge and worried that they're making it easier to replace them.Carsten S&#248;rensen, from the LSE, agrees that you need more than the right technology to get success from virtual working. "There is no mobility without stability. There is no flexible working without a strong culture of mutual trust." It is not just the workers and the technology that are going mobile; you need the corresponding flexibility inside the organisation to cope with the ways in which workers interact in and out of the office. Just concentrating on efficiency ignores the fact that we are social creatures and people need to be comfortable with their colleagues.Managers may need to find new ways of measuring performance when they can't watch employees working; they certainly need to take the time to make everyone feel equally valued and equally involved.   Organisations that fuss about time-wasting social use of email and instant messaging can be storing up trouble. It is better to put the resources into making sure your network can cope with a little extra traffic so people can bond by sending each other web links, and to set up email lists and forwarders that can be used for official and unofficialannouncements.And don't forget that just because a colleague is available online doesn't mean now is a good time to talk to them. In the office you can shut your door and everyone can see that you are on the phone; look for similar flexibility in the technology you use, such as instant messaging tools that send out a warning when you're busy.Some workers take an extreme approach to staying in synch with the folks in the office - or with overseas suppliers and customers. Dubbed the "eastern standard tribe", freelancers,   call centre workers and international executives who need to talk to people who run on New York time, switch their days around or stretch them out with naps.That takes dedication and the opposite approach - having a working day that spreads over the full 24 hours - is often seen as one of the benefits of outsourcing. The coding team in India or the customer support team in Manila can deal with problems while American and European workers sleep. But if you are relying on that, remember to set up systems to pass information and problems back and forth. This can be as simple as regular emails or more formal, such as a database producing daily reports and tracking numbers for ongoing issues. Whenever you can, build in some overlaps for communicating directly. No matter how good the virtual tools, you still need that real contact.Stanford Graduate School of Business: Virtual teams researchwww.gsb.stanford.edu/news/research/hr_virtualteams.shtmlMobile Interaction &amp; Pervasive Social Deviceshttp://mobility.is.lse.ac.uk
Mobile PhonesFlooding the marketLG is planning a major blitz on the UK phone market with as many as a dozen handsets lined up to launch next year. Later in the year, it intends to debut its first smartphone, which will use the Symbian operating system. Also pencilled in for a launch is the 8100, a 3G phone that LG claims is the smallest of its kind in the world. Due first is a revamp of its G7100 camera phone, the G7200. It keeps its predecessors' clamshell design and rotating display, but features a 262K colour screen (the first of its kind in the UK as the current standard is 65K) and video capture, download and playback.www.lge.co.ukHardwareLCD screensSamsung's seemingly never-ending battle with fellow Koreans LG to produce the world's largest plasma and LCD screens has taken yet another turn. This week, Samsung announced the arrival of a 57in TFT LCD TV - the   largest of its kind in the world. The huge screen has a contrast ratio of 1000:1 - a significant improvement over recent screens, which have ratios of 800:1 - and a resolution of 1920x1080 with 6.22m pixels. It is expected go on sale next year. The company claims that LCD TVs now make up around 10% of the entire LCD market.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukElite groupElitegroup is shrinking the size of tablet PCs by launching an innovative model that features an 8.4in TFT LCD screen. Likely to be available in the UK next year (the company is looking for distributors), and certain to be widely imitated, the Ez30 PC features an 800Mhz Transmeta Crusoe 5800 processor, 512MB of DDR Ram and a 20 Gigabyte hard disk. It will also include integrated 802.11b Wi-Fi facilities and feature a built-in digital   camera. When it goes on sale, the Ez30 is expected to run using Microsoft Windows XP Tablet PC Edition.www.ecs.uk.comBroadbandGo-faster AOLAOL has unveiled a faster version of its broadband service, taking its top speed up to 1Mb. The new service will cost &#163;34.99 a month, and is aimed at "advanced" internet users. The company will also cover the charge BT levies for upgrading from the 512Kb broadband service, if you sign up for a further 12-month contract.&lt;A HREF="http://www.aol.co.uk/1mb"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.aol.co.uk/1mb
Out of rangeA Mori poll of local council officers says that around 18% are either "not very" or "not at all confident" of meeting the 2005 target to have all services online. IT staff have the least confidence, with insufficient staff and funding the main barriers. However, around 60% of respondents are "fairly confident" and 20% "very confident" of meeting the target. The survey, leaked to E-Government Bulletin, was commissioned by Planning and Regulatory Services Online, a national project of the office of the deputy prime minister. A spokesperson says the Implementing Electronic Government statements from councils, due out later this month, will show "pretty good" progress, and it is confident the 2005 target will be met.www.headstar.com/egbImmigrant taggingPeople subject to immigration controls could be tagged, rather than detained, under plans included in last week's Queen's Speech. The Home Office says the technology would be similar to tags used for home detention curfews, and could be managed by the same external contractor, when the existing management deal with Securicor expires in February 2005. The bill will also include provision for those judged to be at a low risk of disappearing to confirm their whereabouts by voice recognition over the telephone: today they must visit a police station or immigration centre regularly.Only skin deepA US firm is looking for banks willing to ask their customers to have radio frequency identification (RFID) chips implanted under their skin, as a replacement for debit and credit cards. Applied Digital Solutions says its VeriPay chip, the size of a grain of rice, can be placed between the shoulder   and the elbow with the aid of a local anaesthetic. Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, said anyone containing such a chip would become "subordinate to the technology", facing an operation if they wanted to change banks. As for criminals, "whereas these days they steal your wallet, with this they would slice your arm open".Norway fine sneaksNorway's Data Inspectorate says it may fine web sites that place pictures of people online without permission, and if they do not remove these images on demand. According to the Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten, this will allow the inspectorate to tackle web sites featuring "sneak" photos, such as those taken by picture phone users in showers. The organisation was reacting to a legal decision against a Swedish church volunteer, who put details of fellow volunteers online. The European Court of Justice last week made an interim decision on her case, saying that posting personal information, images or video clips of others without their permission breaks laws based on European directives.Story from Aftenposten (in English):www.aftenposten.no/englishVirus battleBritish businesses are being forced to fend off an average of 500 application attacks each month, according to research released this week by Radware. The figure, gleaned from a study of 50 small UK businesses over a six-month period, includes attacks by viruses and worms, and denial of service attacks. "It does not bode well for larger companies that even small enterprises are being attacked with such venom," said Anthony Crowley, regional director for Radware.Early releaseIt is likely to be Microsoft's biggest software launch this decade - but not until 2005. Yet copies of Longhorn, the next major revision of Windows, are reported to be on sale in Malaysia, at $1.58 a pop. The version being touted was distributed to developers in October at a Microsoft event in Los Angeles.
Business travel is expensive. It is not just the air fares, it is the time taken to bring everyone to one place for a meeting. Transatlantic flights can chop days from a working week, with check-in times and travel to and from airports. Even a high-speed rail journey to London and back from Reading can fill much of a working day.Airlines and rail operators are trying to make it easy for business travellers to work on the go, with laptop power points and wireless internet connections, but it is still time better spent in the office or with clients. One increasingly popular alternative is using web and internet tools to share meetings or presentations, without leaving a desk.It all starts with sharing presentations with remote colleagues. Features built into common presentation tools such as Microsoft's PowerPoint will save a presentation image as HTML for the web, or bundle them with standalone viewers. You can use tools that plug into PowerPoint and turn your presentations into movies with soundtracks and animations. You can even convert presentations into Macromedia's Flash format - reducing file sizes and taking advantage   of Flash's cross platform nature. Some Flash converters, such as eHelp's RoboPresenter, allow you to add audio to your presentations, and can also offer links to e-learning systems.Macromedia's Breeze Live started life as a tool for building and managing training over the web, and grew into a tool for broadcasting presentations and handling live meetings, with video, audio and online chat. You can run your own Breeze server, or buy into Macromedia's managed service. By building on top of the near-ubiquitous Flash, Breeze means that presentations can be viewed on most platforms, and Flash's vector graphics mean that presentations and shared screens will scale smoothly on most desktops. A "pod" API also gives Flash developers tools for extending Breeze, adding their own features to the service.Probably the best known tools for handling meetings over the web are WebEx and PlaceWare (now Microsoft's Office Live Meeting service). These are services that allow companies to broadcast presentations as online seminars (often called webinars), or hold small meetings over the net. Desktop content and applications can be shared, and users can access recorded meetings if unable to   attend. You can annotate recordings, and add links to extra materials, as well as upload and download files from users' PCs.WebEx refers to its content distribution network as media tone, which allows any PC to download a simple client, and plug into presentations or meetings. Describing itself as a communications service provider, WebEx offers a range of services, from pay per use conferences to subscription microsites, which allow companies to use their own branding and run conferences when they want. Support staff can use online meetings to show users what needs to be done - taking control of a PC and walking them through procedures.Team collaboration is becoming   more important, especially when several people need to work on a single document. Lawyers will need to be able to share files, and work on the same document, without having to pass it around via email for approval. Citrix has extended its familiar MetaFrame platform with Conferencing Manager, to give teams the ability to collaborate in real time. Keyboard and mouse controls can be passed between users. As Conferencing Manager is built on top of the MetaFrame architecture, all the applications and data are centrally held, keeping it secure enough to use in a cyber cafe.Scheduling meetings can be a problem, and Citrix's Conferencing Manager links into Microsoft's Outlook to help you gather distributed   teams together. There's no speech or video, though, apart from a basic peer-to-peer messaging feature, so you'll have to use it in conjunction with a good old conference call!WebEx's service model works well for webinars and ad hoc conferences. Larger events need a mix of broadcasting skills and event management, moving into the world of streaming media. BT's Mediastream service extends existing business television networks, seeing online conferencing as an extension of existing communications strategies. You probably would not use online meeting tools to broadcast a ship launch. Instead, you would take advantage of a service such as BT's to record the event,encode it in real time, and then manage a streaming broadcast - as well as archive it.On a smaller scale, UK start-up Bright Talk is using web meeting and conferencing techniques in conjunction with streaming media and content-distribution technologies. Briefings and short conferences are complex events that demand attendees' time. A webcast with an encoded presentation is much less invasive, and can be watched without leaving the office. An hour presentation takes an hour, and tools for commenting mean that it's easier for the audience to take part. Bright Talk's co-founder, Charlie Blackburn, described the service as "bringing a web presence to life", by focusing on a direct connection to attendees, rather than static content. Certainly, results seem good: a recent web cast seminar received one question over a telephone conference call, for every eight received over the online service.Online meeting tools are still relatively new, but show promise. As lives get increasingly time-poor, they are tools that will help the work/life balance. Instead of rushing from meeting to meeting, we will be able to work from home, the office - even a Wi-Fi-ready coffee shop. There will always be a place for the face-to-face meeting. Web meeting tools will help us stay in touch with the office while we're on the way to that important meeting that needs the human touch.
There's been something of adebatebelow on the iPod, and the lifespan of its battery, following on from the Neistat Brothers'entertaining videoon the subject. Of course, having never commented on Apple in public before, the brothers didn't have any reason to know about the traditional ferocity with which anything "anti-Apple" is refuted by the company's loyal user community. The fact that there were some holes in their criticism didn't help (like the fact many older iPods, including my own, seem to be functioning just fine, and youcanreplace the battery). Anyway,Daring Fireballhas, as ever, a good line on it, providing some "more accurate (but, admittedly, less sensational) alternative stencil slogans". They range from "iPod's '1-Year' warranty only lasts 12 months" to "I'm so fucking dumb I've not only videotaped myself committing criminal vandalism, I've released the footage publicly". Which made me laugh.
Microsoft today confirmed that pirated versions of its next operating system, codenamed Longhorn, are being sold in Malaysia more than a year before the system is due to be officially released.However, the software giant warned that the versions of Longhorn released so far are developer codes that are not fit for consumers or business customers."Customers may be misguided into thinking that they are purchasing a complete product, which is really an early version for development released just a couple of weeks ago," Microsoft said.The company said the pirated version of Longhorn could have come from codes leaked either on the internet or at a recent conference in Los Angeles, where elements of Longhorn were shown to more than 7,000 developers.Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, has described Longhorn as the company's most important product since Windows 95, which cemented the company's dominance of the market for operating systems.Longhorn, which is not expected to be ready until 2005, is designed to improve the current operating system, Windows XP, by altering its filing system, upgrading security and graphics, and making it less prone to crashes.Despite the expected 2005 launch date, the early Longhorn versions are on sale in Malaysia for less than 10,000 ringgit (£1.30) per copy in shopping malls in the southern city of Johor Bahru.Microsoft cannot be entirely surprised that pirated versions of the system have already appeared on the market. In 2001, pirated copies of Windows XP were on sale in China before the launch of the official version.According to the Business Software Alliance, a US industry group, 68% of new software used in Malaysia last year was illegal - higher than the global average software piracy rate of 39%, but still lower than that of some Asian countries, such as China.Microsoft said that it was working closely with the Malaysian authorities to ensure its business and customers were being protected."The Malaysian government has taken a strong stand against piracy, and has actively supported educational campaigns and strengthened its enforcement policy in line with zero tolerance on piracy," Microsoft said.The Malaysian government has tried to crack down on suspected offenders by raiding their offices and enforcing strict copyright laws.The laws provide for prison terms of up to five years and fines of 100,000 ringgit for each infringement but, despite this, piracy remains rife.
Down to the Work Foundation last night for amySocietygathering. Regular readers will recall that coordinator Tom Steinbergunveiled the projectin Online in late October. It's come a long way since. Last night was to look at some of the ideas which have flooded in during the first few weeks, do a little evaulating and discuss thorny issues like - where does the project get funding? Whatshouldn'tit be doing? There were some interesting ideas scattered around on bits of paper, on which we were to leave our comments (you can read the full list of ideashere). And there were some interesting folk around to cast their eyes over the ideas, too. I met Susan Sabey, who's behind London community websiteCityneighbours.com, and who explained about a huge network of London sites calledLondon Voicesthat I'm going to explore soon. And I metTomagain and we didn't mention the weblog competition once, andPhiland regular Onlineblog commenterIain(hello!) and, of course,Dave Green, who got all excited by the finger food. Which, given his interests, is appropriate, I suppose.
"JOHOR BAHRU, Malaysia (Reuters)- Malaysia's brazen software pirates are hawking the next version of Microsoft Corp's Windows operating system years before it is supposed to be on sale. Underscoring the scale of U.S. companies' copyright problems in Asia, CDs containing software Microsoft has code named "Longhorn" are on sale for six ringgit ($1.58) in southern Malaysia. Microsoft's current version of Windows, XP, sells for upwards of $100 in the United States."
Trawling the National Statistics website for something completely different (what an exciting life I lead, I know) I come acrossthis: Indicators of neighbourliness by age, 2000/01."The number of times people speak to their neighbours, and the number of people they know within their area, give some indication of 'neighbourliness'. The proportion of people who say that they know many people in their neighbourhood increases with age. Almost three fifths of those aged 70 and over in Great Britain in 2000/01 said that they knew many people in their neighbourhood, compared with just over a third of those aged between 16 and 29."There's something slightly charming about someone, somewhere, compiling all these facts and figures on how we live...
Good, intelligent stuff today onwhy Apple's iPod has done so well, from the New York Times Magazine. It's a big read; later, there's more on Apple, design, Steve Jobs and secrecy, and watching Michael Dell dance. No, really...
When the history of our descent into Orwellian surveillance comes to be written, 2003 will stand out. And the names that will be most prominent in that context, oddly enough, will not be David Blunkett and John Ashcroft (pernicious though their initiatives have been), but Wal-Mart, Tesco and Gillette - firms linked by a strange acronym: RFID.RFID stands for radio frequency identification, and it's going to replace bar codes. Whereas nowadays every product has a bar code printed on it somewhere, within a few years every packet will have an RFID tag printed on it somewhere. This tag is in fact a tiny microchip that broadcasts its 96-digit identity code via very low-power radio. The ID code   can be 'read' by special devices located in the vicinity - in supermarket shelves and tills, microwave ovens, fork-lift trucks and so on. If the readers are connected to a network they look up the code in a database, identify the relevant product, and take appropriate action.As usual, proponents of the technology paint a glowing image of the future - a world in which you can put some RFID-tagged chilled food in your RFID-enabled microwave oven, which reads the tag, checks the identity on the internet, looks up a database for cooking instructions and automatically gives it the appropriate burst of radiation. Bingo! - a perfectly cooked meal without any human intervention.By the same token, supermarket shelves will 'know' what they're carrying, display the correct price automatically - and alert the warehouse when stocks are running low (important since $30 billion of sales are 'lost' each year because goods are out of stock.) And checkout queues will disappear from supermarkets because you will just wheel your trolley past a RFID-reading station   and pay the amount on the display. No unloading, scanning and packing. Think of the RFID tag as a bar code that scans itself.RFID has been on the horizon for a while, so why will the year 2003 seem significant? Because in June, Wal-Mart - the 800lb gorilla of the retailing business - announced that it would require all of its suppliers to put RFID tags on their products by 2005. And in the UK, Tesco - which had already been experimenting with the tags on DVDs and Gillette razor blades - has announced that it will introduce RFID into its supply chain by 2007.So what's the problem? Well, although the economic case for RFID technology is compelling, it also represents a step-change in the technology of surveillance. It offers the potential of tracking every object ever made - every shirt, book, DVD, record and banknote. According to engineering trade paper  EE Times the European Central Bank is working on a hush-hush project to embed RFID into the fibres of every euro note by 2005 as an anti-counterfeiting device. And a school in Buffalo, New York has already deployed it as a pupil-monitoring system - recording the time they arrive in the morning. Next steps involve using RFID to track library loans, disciplinary records, cafeteria purchases and visits to the nurse's office - and eventually to track punctuality for every class and verify the time they get on and off school buses.You can see where this is heading. It's not clear whether RFID is as powerful as some people fear (the tags can be blocked by aluminium foil and other substances). For the retail and security industries, RFID is wonderful, but its deployment will need to be controlled to protect consumer privacy and prevent abuse by private bodies and public authorities. For example, shops should be forced to switch off or wipe the tags after the goods have been through the checkout.We will certainly need new legislation to regulate this monster - which will arrive much more quickly than was originally predicted. I wonder if anyone in Whitehall is listening?john.naughton@observer.co.ukBriefhistory.com/footnotes
Every government gets something right, no matter how hard they try not to. You can't break that many eggs without accidentally making an omelette. At some point, under one of the Cabinets run by Margaret Thatcher, although almost completely unnoticed at the time, it became possible to buy little booklets of stamps in newsagents: and this, I would argue, was and remains a very good thing, freeing you, as it does, from three hours' surly queuing in a damp sub-post office, the benefits of which are even more apparent today when you remember that she also closed all our damp sub-post offices down. John Major's lot introduced... all right,  most governments manage to get something right, even by default, and tomorrow this one will ban the use of mobile phones in cars.And I realise that's maybe not good enough for six years in power, and I'm conscious, thanks, that they also plan to ban smoking in bars throughout the land, but this is not, quite, the time for that: in fact, readers (never mind the editor!) will be heartened to learn that I've booked a special edition of this newspaper, three months hence, to carry nothing other than a column, by me, of 67,000 words on this matter, a firm and fair and balanced objective take on the arguments, and on the whey-faced chaffinch-arsed bibbed-up little nanny-monkeys behind them.Meanwhile, though, they're banning car phones, and that's almost as good as the stamps. It's not me that minded it, goodness no. We all stopped being annoyed about four years ago by other people's mobile conversations, all quite dulled and inured to them, at least all of us whose job is not to commission 'topical' comedy for Radio 4. I stopped worrying, personally, after an incident on a train, when I went up and asked a man for his autograph, for he was speaking so loudly and importantly (went my argument) that he was obviously very famous indeed.But afterwards I felt slightly cheapened at my easy success in shutting him up, and wondered whether the kind of people who went round trains doing things like that were any better really than the kind on the phones, so stopped worrying about it, frankly.No, the ban will be good for you, you people who use car phones. You won't, you see, be able to say those things to your wife. You won't, for a little while, be quite able to stop the monologues either, but the phone won't be connected, no other living being will hear what you are saying, and you will have, for perhaps the first time in years, to listen to yourself.'Um, hi... ' you will try out, with a bit of throat-clearing, to silence but for the thrum of wet wheels and the tick of your indicator. 'Wait till I tell you about Ian from marketing. You know, the guy with the breath, and the pens... ' No. That won't do. That is, you will realise, at last, insanely dull. 'Bloody weather, darling, and this asshole in front of me... ' No. A touch of the swivel-eyed manic. 'Might have to work late tomorrow, by the way: big order from Bruges.' No! God, that's just a lie, you want to have a drink with Sandra and look at her legs!And, racked at last with true self-knowledge, you will mend your ways, at once, and become a loving and, as crucially, interesting husband, thanks to this government! Either that, or you will drive straight into the cold concrete face of a flyover support! Your choice. No government wants to tell you exactly what to do with your life...
In South Korea the local delicacy is a seemingly innocuous looking picked cabbage called Kimchi.Taken with almost every meal Koreans encourage Westerners who visit their country to sample it and then sit back and smirk as the potent combination of garlic, pepper and chillies deliver an experience that's perhaps best described as the culinary equivalent of bungee jumping.For a group of UK technology journalists visiting South Korea and consumer electronics company LG this week, the results of the country's commitment to its other major obsession - technology can sometimes be just as difficult to swallow.For it is hard to have a conversation with a Korean about any kind of device or innovation without feeling that the UK is a little inferior. And this is in spite of the fact that South Korea is still reeling from an economic downturn.I discovered quite how wide the technological breach between the two countries is while sharing a lunch with LG's head of investor relations, Anthony Moon.Wishing to avoid the full force of the Kimchi sitting ominously in front of me I began to quiz him about Korean's technological revolution. Did most Koreans have access to broadband?"Of course. For most Korean homes broadband speeds of 3Mbps is more than sufficient. Yet the option is there if want faster connections. You can have 50Mbps for 50 bucks a month. Is it the same price in the UK?" he replied."Err about the same," I replied, managing to avoid letting on that the same fifty bucks buys internet speeds fifty times slower at 512kbps. Hoping to land on safer territory I nudged the conversation on to mobile phones."A British network called 02 has just launched a music download service via mobile phones. They say it is the first in the world," I told him with more than just a hint of patriotic pride in my voice."Is it like this?" he countered, pulling out a tiny clamshell mobile and then firing up a page where a selection of recent Korean pop hits were waiting to be downloaded. About thirty seconds later one of the tracks had arrived on his mobile.I didn't have the heart to tell him that in 02's service tracks took seven or eight times as long to download and weren't actually stored on the phone but a separate music player.Thinking that the fast download speed of the phone had to be provided by a 3G network I told him about our very 3G service, Three, and how it was among the first of its kind to launch."Oh no this is not 3G," he replied. "That launches next year. This is just standard CDMA &#91;the local mobile standard which, incidentally, is completely incompatible with even the most advanced European GSM handsets&#93;. It has download speeds of around 400kbps."My heart sank as I realised that was even faster than Three's 3G network. There was nothing left for me to do but acknowledge defeat and load up my fork with Kimchi.My sense of national pride took further dents when I got back to the hotel. Looking for a connection for my laptop I was offered a wired network with mega fast speeds of around 100Mbps, or not just one but whole array of free wireless networks. This really was becoming a bit of a joke.The difference between the two countries was also apparent in the line up of phones LG is set to launch next year. For while many of the ten or so handsets heading for the UK are highly specified, they simply can't compete - in terms of design or functionality - with the handsets aimed at the local market.The one that gets closest is the company's first 3G phone, the U8100. It has all the functionality of 3G phones, including the option of making video calls, yet is a tiny clamshell model that LG proudly claims is the smallest 3G phone in the world.Three, whose range of handsets are often pilloried for being on the chunky side, would score a major coup if it could get the phone in the stores before other networks snap it up for their 3G launches later in 2004.LG's other top-end phone, the G7200, also looks like a winner. Due in spring the handset features the same clamshell design and rotating display of the company's current phone, the G7100. Yet LG has improved the screen (it boasts 262k colours - a leap on from the current standard of 56K) added video capture, download and playback and thrown in AAC music playing software.The other phones range from budget candy bar style handsets to a smartphone that uses the Symbian operating system that's also found on the Sony Ericsson P900 and Nokia 6600.Also being groomed for a UK launch is a huge 52inch LCD projection TV that features both a digital terrestrial TV decoder and a 80Gigabyte hard disk for storing recorded programmes. A small MP3 player with 512MB of storage (enough for over ten hours of music) should arrive in the spring.A new version of the company's infamous internet fridge is also on the cards. Expect a feature that e-mails you to let you know when Kimchi is at its most potent to be one of its main features...-- Ashley Norris was one of a party of journalists taken to South Korea as guests of LG.
Currently, the full price software chart in the UK boasts two football games, FIFA 2004 and Championship Manager: season 03/04, a wrestling game in the form of WWE Smackdown!: Here comes the pain and a personality-led skateboard game, Tony Hawk's Underground.It's clear to see that sports games are big business, and in fact they represent the biggest selling cross-platform genre in the western world.With that in mind, their impact as a force for driving gaming forward to gain a greater share of the mass market audience, and the links they share with their real-life counterparts, are potentially huge.Electronic Arts' FIFA series, (the latest of which has been at the top of the UK charts for over a month) is a case in point, claims Clive Downie, European Marketing Director of EA Canada. He says the series represents a triumph for big-budget marketing helping the industry as a whole."We're broadening the appeal of our industry to more people. We're standing up and saying 'lots of people will be interested in this game, we need to communicate that to them and in this day and age that means spending a lot of money.'" Indeed, the financial health of the videogames often makes an interesting contrast with that of many the football clubs depicted in them.However, over the 10 years since FIFA International Soccer debuted, EA's franchise has also been responsible for raising the profile of FIFA itself quite considerably, especially among kids.A slightly smaller-scale success story has been Sports Interactive's Championship Manager series, which despite occasionally being teased for looking like a coloured Excel spreadsheet, has created many die-hard fans around the world, including singer Robbie Williams."Every football fan believes that they can do the job of a football manager better than the people in the jobs at the moment," explains Miles Jacobson, the Managing Director of Sports Interactive. "When people play it, they do actually go into the role of being a football manager. It's very addictive - people have lost time, girlfriends and jobs to this game!"But Sports Interactive is also hoping to raise the UK profile of a very different sport: the fast-paced, highly-skilled and often brutal world of ice-hockey, in its recently-announced title Eastside Hockey Manager: Franchise Edition.The idea for the game came after Sports Interactive saw a freeware game that Finnish Championship Manager fan, Risto Remes, had put together as a homage to the sports management series, but using Ice Hockey teams and statistics.S.I. liked the idea so much that it sponsored Risto's last year of university and brought him - and his idea - over to the UK.Ice Hockey is very big in North America and Canada and Miles hopes that their new game will help them break into the American Market. "It's going to be interesting because they haven't had this type of game released over there before, as we haven't had an American release of Championship manager, although the games have created a cult following amongst importers."Miles is also quick to point out that, when compared to football, ice hockey has a more diverse audience with more women and children coming to see games. He hopes this will be reflected to a certain extent in the audience for Eastside Hockey Manager when it comes out in the first quarter of next year."We hope we can educate people in the UK about what a great sport ice hockey is and with the start of the Elite League, the quality of hockey and attendance seems to be going up, so things are looking very positive."  Rhianna PratchettCHARTS - FULL PRICE SOFTWAREOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) FIFA 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - £34.992) Need for Speed Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.993) LOTR: Return of the King (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA)  Electronic Arts - £34.994) True Crime: Streets of LA (PS2, Xbox, GC) Activision - £37.995) Tony Hawk's Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA)  Activision - £39.996) Championship Manager: Season 03/04 (PC) Eidos - £29.997) WWE Smackdown! Here comes the pain (PS2) THQ - £37.998) The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - £37.999) Finding Nemo (PS2, GBA, PC, Xbox) THQ - £34.9910) Mario Kart: Double Dash!! (GC) Nintendo - £37.99
The question of whose rights prevail when a crook sells a dishonestly obtained car was considered by the Law Lords last week.It was hoped that the Lords would clarify an area of law described by Lord Nicholls as "notoriously unsatisfactory" and Lord Justice Sedley as a "Gordian knot". However, the five judges could agree on very little and although the original owner, Shogun Finance, won by a 3-2 majority over Norman Hudson, who had bought the vehicle from the crook, the law is still unclear.It all started when a man claiming to be Durlabh Patel appeared in 1996 in the Leicester showrooms of a Mitsubishi dealer and said he wanted to buy a Shogun. He produced a driving licence, the dealer did a cursory credit check - in under five minutes - before arranging finance with Shogun Finance (SF) over the phone.The purchase price of &#163;22,500 - less a small cash payment from "Mr Patel" -was paid by SF to the dealer. Patel drove off and soon sold the vehicle to Mr Hudson, a scrapyard owner, for &#163;17,000.When the HP instalments were not paid SF conducted proper enquiries and found out the real Durlabh Patel had had his driving licence stolen and was not the man who appeared in the showroom.A somewhat disgruntled Mr Hudson was asked to give the car back. While both SF and Hudson had obvious claims against the crook, he could not be found.Hudson's best hope of keeping the vehicle was based on the Hire Purchase Act 1964, which applies when someone sells a vehicle that is owned by a finance company but subject to HP. So long as the buyer is not a dealer and does not know of the HP his rights prevail over the company's.Hudson could have spent &#163;38 on an HPI check - an industry-run database listing cars subject to HP, as well as information on write offs, mileage and stolen cars. HPI tells prospective buyers: "If finance isn't settled you stand to lose the car".It is disappointing that trading standards officers or the OFT have not done something about such a misleading claim. Deterring people from buying cars with unpaid finance is of far more benefit to the lender than the consumer.In this case, though, the Lords decided that the Hire Purchase Act did not apply. The Act is limited to the more usual situation of someone entering a genuine HP contract then failing to keep up with the payments.Where, as here, the HP had been obtained by a trick - such as presenting a false identity - the Lords decided, there was no "agreement". Bizarrely, the position may be different if the crook had created a completely non-existent identity.This is one of the rare situations where an HPI check would protect the customer. Had Hudson made such a check he should have been told of the HP.Knowing of it he could not have bought the vehicle. Had HPI not told of him of it, the organisation would attempt to restrict its liability to &#163;10,000, though if it had been negligent would probably have had to pay the full amount he lost. What HPI could not have done was tell him that "Mr Patel" was an imposter.The one thing the Lords did agree on was that the law needs sorting out by a new Act of Parliament. Many would think it unfair that when a dealer and finance company have casually handed over a valuable vehicle after such cursory checks, they can be in a better position than the person who buys from the crook in innocence and without any carelessness.&#183;Richard Colbey is a barrister
Robert Cringelyis writing about the Tablet PC, and thinks Apple may be ready to enter, as soon as January, a market that Steve Jobs has scoffed at for some time. "'Real computers have keyboards,' Steve has said a zillion times," writes Cringely. "He'll mean it right up to the moment he changes his mind... That moment appears to be coming soon."Cringely's vision is an entertaining one. But we can certainly expect speculation about this January's announcements to be even worse than normal. Applealwayslaunches something in January - Jobs has to have something to uncover at the MacExpo in the second week of the month - and this time around, it's hard to see what he could be about to do. All of Apple's existing lines have been refreshed recently - speed bumps for the G5, PowerBooks and iBooks, and a new 20-inch iMac.Cringely's getting his speculation in early. A tablet makes sense, for the reasons he outlines, although it's another product line for Apple at a time when it's pushing hard with music. My money is on something a little more modest - the video iPod we were all speculating about last December. But - like all speculation - this is based on nothing more than shrapnel-sized bits of information, many big assumptions, and my own gadget wishlist.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premiere online current affairs forum!connecting to server...Current Host:Chris_2Current Topic:the prime minister has launched what he calls "a conversation with the nation", a consultation with voters about the problems facing the government. Is this a genuine attempt to re-engage the public, or a PR gimmick? What do you think?Pashmina:rachel steven's boyfreind is unhappy with her sexy new imageBronco:who heHost: Chris_2:well how do you feel abt the issues raised by the Queen's speech on Wednesday?LadeezMan:dunno wot r theyPashmina:jeremy edwards of holby city fameHost: Chris_2:for example: do you think gay people should be allowed to marry?Bronco:ohLadeezMan:yes but only if they can prove they have changedPashmina:the couple are back together after a brief spiltHost: Chris_2:no, I mean marry other gay peoplePashmina:LadeezMan you cant change from being gay!!!!!Bronco:no matter how hard u tryLadeezMan:shutupPashmina:its something ur born with, like weak enamel!!!Host: Chris_2:the issue is the protection in law accorded to married couplesBronco:hows yr teeth btwPashmina:got 2 hav 2 corwnsBronco:wotPashmina:crowns evenLadeezMan:expansiveHost: Chris_2:we're straying a bit herecapitalistpiglet has entered the NewsRoomcapitalistpiglet:hi roomPashmina:hi pigletcapitalistpiglet:how was the dentistPashmina:i got weak enamleLadeezMan:u shoud of flossed morePashmina:I WAS BORN WITH IT. ITS GENETICHost: Chris_2:let's return to the topic peopleBronco:piglet do you think gays shoud be allowed to marryLadeezMan:other gayscapitalistpiglet:of courseLadeezMan:r u gayPashmina:dont anser himcapitalistpiglet:no, i'm notBronco:not answering or not gayLadeezMan:im not gaycapitalistpiglet:I just think gay couples deserve the option of legal marital statusHost: Chris_2:the very point I was trying to make. Are there any questions?LadeezMan:yesHost: Chris_2:other than about my sexual preferencesLadeezMan:ohPashmina:Chris2 wot do u think abt Rachel Steven's sexy new lookHost: Chris_2:I really don't care one way or anotherLadeezMan:thought soconnection to server has been terminated...
... or so saysWired, at least, in its December edition. "Ed Cornish, founder of the World Future Society and its president since 1966, leans back from his computer - a DOS machine that doesn't do email, the Net, or Windowsm" writes Hope Cristol. "Clifton Coles, assistant editor of the society's flagship magazine, The Futurist, pokes his head into his boss's office: 'A Seattle radio station called, wants to know if you have some predictions for next year." Cornish, 76, strokes his nipples in a circular motion, stares off for a second, and says, "I can't think of anything in particular.'"But if futurism is dead, where does that leave Wired?
Stalking SantaIf your children are already asking when Father Christmas is coming, you can stave off their questions - and, with any luck, their Christmas present requests - by introducing them to Norad's Santa tracker. The North American Aerospace Defence Command's day job is to protect the skies of North America from aerial attack. For several years now, it has shown its cuddly side with a separate website allowing children to keep an eye on Santa's movements in the run-up to December 25 via its military staff in the US and around the world.www.noradsanta.orgwww.norad.milBlog 'til you drop"Remember - if you blog, and you're in the UK - you're invited!" That's the message from weblogger Rich Wild, who has organised this year'sUK Webloggers' Xmas Bashat the Well, a bar in London. It's a chance for British bloggers to meet up, have a dance and argue about who is going to win the Guardian British Blog awards. The deadline for entries has passed, judging is underway and the result will be announced in Online on December 18, so watch this space.www.guardian.co.uk/weblog/awards2003www.funjunkie.co.ukArt appreciationThe Courtauld Institute has launched a new national lottery-funded web site to showcase its art collection of 40,000 pictures. The site includes a searchable archive of images of more than 500 paintings and 5,000 watercolours and drawings, including works by Monet, C&#233;zanne, Van Gogh, Turner and Van Dyck, plus 35,000 photographs of world architecture   and sculpture from the Conway Library. Visitors to the site will be able to buy many of the images as quality photographic prints, priced between &#163;1 and &#163;20. You can also find out more about the pictures by reading commentaries written by Courtauld students and staff, and features from broadcasters, writers and personalities from the art world.www.artandarchitecture.org.ukwww.courtauld.ac.ukKennedy's fateThis week marks the 40th anniversary of the assassination of John F Kennedy. The Dallas News site - which requires you to register free - has a special report on the anniversary, including a photo gallery of key images from JFK's life plus its own multimedia guide to the assassination. The Copydesk weblog has the infamous Zapruder home movie footage from that fateful day in 1963 available for download for a limited time. If you want to dig a little deeper, the comprehensive JFK assassination website has the whole Warren Commission report online, while Guardian Unlimited's interactive guide shows you the topography of Dealey Plaza, including, of course, the grassy knoll. Meanwhile, Time magazine's stunning photo-essay of never before published photographs of the Kennedys by Jacques Lowe is a must for JFK enthusiasts.www.jfk-assassination.de/WCRwww.guardian.co.uk/interactivewww.dallasnews.comwww.time.com/time/2003/jfkwww.copydesk.co.ukTake a breakIf you've been taking the phrase "shop until you drop" a bit too literally, Buy Nothing Day should come as a welcome relief. Saturday's "self proclaimed festival of frugal living" encourages consumers to shun the shops and find something else to do instead. The Buy Nothing Day web site has no fewer than 101 ideas to get you started. Buy Nothing Day is now celebrated in 55 countries and was inspired by the Vancouver-based Adbusters culture jamming group. Adbusters' own web site is packed with thought-provoking ideas about our obsession with spending.www.buynothingday.co.ukwww.adbusters.orgTime travelDoctor Who is 40 years old this week, and BBCi's pages devoted to the British sci-fi classic are bursting with enough fodder for even the most dedicated fan. Among the goodies are Tardis trivia, a monster guide, cast lists and best quotes. The silly story finder will track down the plots you missed while cowering behind your sofa as a child.www.bbc.co.uk/cult/doctorwhowww.drwho.orghttp://nitro9.earth.uni.edu/doctor/homepage.htmlNew &amp; notedIUCN red list of threatened specieswww.iucnredlist.orgMapaphone - track mobiles onlinewww.mapminder.co.uk/default.asp?page=TrackingNational Tree Weekwww.treecouncil.org.ukSix of the best:  Animal webcamsBadgershttp://masl.to/?X347210A6Cockroacheshttp://cricket.biol.sc.edu/usc-roach-cam.htmlGrizzly bearshttp://masl.to/?I577220A6Ospreyhttp://masl.to/?D1B7510A6Pandashttp://www.sandiegozoo.org/pandas/pandacam/Siberian tigershttp://dsc.discovery.com/cams/tiger.html
Ladies and gentleman, in the blue corner, the Scandinavians, led by Sweden and Denmark. In the red corner, the Asian Tigers, led by South Korea and Hong Kong. Which contender will be victorious in the fight for the future?Last week, the International Telecommunication Union produced a report on the ability of 178 countries to exploit the digital revolution. The ITU, the United Nations' communications agency, considered each nation's infrastructure, literacy rates, education levels, technical criteria, the price of telecoms services and the number of internet users to create the world's first global ranking.It will not surprise Online readers to hear that the Scandinavian countries dominate the top of the chart.   Sweden, Denmark, Iceland and Norway took four of the first five places, with Finland coming eighth. What may be a little more surprising is that the four tigers of the Asian economy are gaining on them. Korea came fourth, with Hong Kong (7th), Taiwan (9th) and Singapore (14th) also making the top 20.Korea has climbed 20 places since 1998, and Taiwan 13 places. Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan have also made gains. By contrast, the English-speaking countries have been slipping. The UK has only dropped three places since 1998, but both Canada and the US have dropped five, Australia eight, and New Zealand nine.What happened to the idea that English speakers had an advantage on an internet dominated by the English language? Well, we probably do, but perhaps it's no longer   enough to compensate for other weaknesses.As would be expected, the African countries dominate the bottom section of the table. Where Sweden has a digital access index of 0.85, Mali scores 0.09, Burkina Faso 0.08, and Niger is bottom with 0.04. Countries that score badly compared to rivals include Turkey (0.48) and Cuba (0.38).Clearly, it helps to be a developed country with a small, concentrated population: it should be easier and cheaper to supply broadband in Iceland or Singapore than in India or China. Considering its size, China is doing pretty well with a rating of 0.43: that's the same as Ukraine and better than Egypt (0.40). India's rating of 0.32 is poor, though it's noticeably better than Pakistan (0.24) and Bangladesh (0.18). It would be   interesting to see a separate figure for Bangalore.Still, in the long term, we can expect India and China to make much more use of information and communications technologies. China is rapidly becoming the world's factory, and India the world's office. Their ambitions make ubiquitous communications inevitable.I expect the US will also return to the top 10, now that GSM mobile phone services are becoming widely available there. It would be nice if the UK could also reverse the trend.The ITU is holding a World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Geneva on December 10-12, with the idea of making internet access available to everyone on the planet. It may not be everyone's priority at the moment, but it's still worth trying.Useful LinksITU Digital Access Index;www.itu.int/newsroom/press_releases/2003/30.htmlWSIS;www.itu.int/wsis/WSIS declaration of principles;http://masl.to/?Y2A3120A6
For the past 20 years, domain name service (DNS) servers have been quietly converting internet protocol (IP) addresses into routes across the internet, turning the web address you type into your browser into both the IP address of the machine running the web server you want and instructions for how to send the information you want to see. DNS is the way email messages know how to get from your computer to the mail server that passes them on to the person you've addressed them to. It's the underpinning for directory services such as Microsoft's Active Directory. And in the future, it could be the way you make a phone call or find in which room you left your favourite DVD.To get in touch with someone, you might have a phone number for them, along with a mobile number, email and IM addresses and a fax number, any of which might or might not reach them. As Voice over IP (VoIP) becomes more popular, the phone number might actually point to a computer rather than a phone handset, so you could do video conferencing rather than a simple call.Enum is a proposed standard to make all this work so you'll only have one phone number, plus a set of rules saying whether you want to accept the phone call, send it to voice mail or play a message asking the caller to reach you another way. One problem with making it work will be looking up the destinations for the e-numbers and routing the calls to the right place. Enum will take a standard international phone number and use DNS to turn that into a URL.Radio frequency ID tags have aroused huge interest in companies that have to deal with manufacturing, shipping or tracking products - and just as much controversy from people worried about privacy implications. They use the same radio technology as the security keyfobs that let you into your office   or the tags used to track 60m US cattle from the farm to market and the slaughterhouse. But by standardising the data format, EPC (the electronic product code), and 100 bits of data per tag, RFID tags make it easier to keep track of what's where and what to do with it.You can scan all the items on a pallet or in a case without unpacking, you can check if all the parcels in a van are going to the same place, and a shop can tell if all the items going out the door have been paid for.And while you don't want whoever is next to you on the train to know what's in your shopping bag, there's no reason why you shouldn't make use of the tags around the house or office. Not only can you read an RFID tag without having to swipe a barcode past a reader but every EPC is unique; a particular barcode could identify a CD player or a bag of frozen peas but they'd never have the same EPC. A personal RFID scanner could also let you reprogram tags so that other people can't read them.Instead of rummaging through piles of paper, you could use an RFID scanner to retrieve the correct manuals for equipment. If you want to compile a database of CDs, DVDs and books (handy for an insurance inventory), you can just scan them rather than typing in the details. If you can't find where you've left a book or disc, you could put the RFID scanner into search mode and carry it from room to room until you track it down.There are going to be a lot of RFID tags to keep track of; Gillette alone is talking about tagging 500m packets of razors. Initially, the tag will go on the pallet or shipping carton but as the technology gets cheaper, it's going to be on individual items. Even smaller companies will need to read and write RFID tags if they're supplying a large company demanding them for stock control. Just as suppliers have to use the XML schema a supermarket has chosen, they will need to tag the items they're supplying.Again, this could add up to hundreds of billions of RFID tags over the next five years. The object name service that lets the reader look up what the RFID tag identifies has to cope with a namespace that will include public and private extensions. A company could include information about how to ship and store a product that you won't care about when you scan it to add it to your home inventory - and that they won't want a rival company to read either.DNS is the ideal choice for large name spaces such as Enum and RFID because it already copes with a huge number of identities and lookups. Paul Mockapetris, the original designer of DNS and now chairman and chief scientist at Nominum, which produces software for managing DNS servers, points out that the amount of internet information stored in the DNS doubles every year. He's confident that DNS can scale to cope with new identifiers. "Every time you send email, there's probably 10 or more DNS lookups both for the sender and the recipient; that's a fairly large amount of traffic from the spam I receive, never mind every other user on the internet, so literally supporting billions of entries and queries is not a problem for this infrastructure."This doesn't mean you need to worry about managing your DNS entries straight away. There are many technical and political problems for advocates of Enum and you're more likely to buy an Enum service from a phone company than run your own, unless you have a very complicated internal phone system. RFID readers that will allow you to reprogram tags aren't going to be with us for some time either. But just as 10 years ago only the largest companies needed routers and now many of us have at least one at home (often disguised as a wireless access point), in 10 years' time you could be entering DNS information in the form of a new contact for your Enum settings without giving it a second thought.Useful linkswww.enum.orgwww.epcglobalinc.orgwww.nominum.com
BroadbandAstra speeds upThe Astra satellites, which deliver Sky Digital TV channels, will soon be offering broadband to the 30% of Britons unable to access high-speed internet services. The satellites' owners, SES, have teamed up with AVC Broadband to deliver internet download speeds of 512kbps. There is no upload facility, so to send files and email, users will have to switch to a dial-up connection. Installation costs &#163;250, although this includes a dish and a USB modem. Monthly subscription fees are &#163;34.99. Users also get the option of being able to view the free TV channels broadcasting from the satellite on their PC. The service goes live in January.www.avc-ltd.co.ukAudioSurround soundOnkyo is set to marry audio networking to surround sound with the launch of its &#163;1,000 TX-SR501E AV receiver. The model features the company's Ethernet-based, Net-Tune system, which enables users to stream the music from their PC in both CD (WAV) and compressed (MP3 and Window Media Audio) formats to the receiver and then on to a home entertainment system. If the device is connected to a broadband router, owners can also listen to internet radio stations. The receiver has a powerful 7x135watts per channel output and is compatible with a raft of surround sound formats inluding Dolby Digital, DTS, THX Surround EX and Dolby Pro-Logic II. It is available now.www.onkyo.co.ukHardwareTablets slatedMicrosoft is pressing on with a new version of the Windows XP Tablet Edition, despite European sales of Tablet PCs failing to reach 100,000 units between the November 2002 launch and the end of September. According to Steve Jones, senior analyst at Canalys, Tablet PC sales accounted for less than 1% of the notebook market. He believes Microsoft could help hardware vendors by lowering the price of the operating system below the cost of Windows XP Professional for two years to kick-start the market. At Comdex last week, Microsoft chief software architect Bill Gates announced that the operating system will be upgraded next year. The new version is codenamed Lonestar.www.canalys.com/pr/r2003111.htmCreativeThe Jukebox Zen Xtra, the latest in the line of MP3 Jukeboxes from Creative reaches the stores this week. It boasts    a storage capacity of 60GB - around 16,000 tracks - which is among the largest for a portable player. Creative has also improved the design of the player so it now has an attractive white finish and features a larger, easy-to-read LED screen. The player is compatible with both MP3 and WMA files, is accompanied by a USB 2.0 lead for transferring files from a PC and has a   battery life of 14 hours - twice that of Apple's iPod. It retails for around &#163;350.http://uk.europe.creative.comAccessClosed sitesUK newspaper websites are failing blind users, according to research by IT and disability charity AbilityNet. It says the Sun and News of the World sites are the worst for the visually impaired, partly because they depended on pictures acting as links, and partly because most pictures - including those with words - do not include "tooltips" or ALT tags, textual alternatives that special browsers can turn into synthesised speech. AbilityNet says the Guardian Unlimited website is the best for the visually impaired, although it still failed to meet "a base level of accessibility". Guardian Unlimited says it plans to tackle the problems by improving the coding of its pages during 2004.www.abilitynet.org.ukSecurityNot playing tagRetailers and manufacturers should agree to a voluntary moratorium on tagging individual items with radio frequency identification (RFID) chips until they have been formally assessed, according to 30 privacy groups around the world. The organisations, including Liberty and Privacy International in the UK, worry that civil liberties could be   affected by retailers using RFID to track and analyse customer behaviour through hiding tags within products and readers within shelves or floors. Both Marks &amp; Spencer and Tesco are trialing RFID chips on individual items - on men's clothing and DVDs respectively - to support efficient replenishment of stock. Both place their tags on packaging which is removed after purchase.www.privacyrights.org/ar/RFIDposition.htmMobile phonesMerging handsetsWish you could text from your land-line handset? BT claims its Relate SMS, launched last week for &#163;29.99, is the   first UK-corded handset to allow users to receive and send text messages. Its cordless Diverse 5410 (&#163;99.99 for one handset, &#163;159.99 for two) includes three passnumber-protected text message mailboxes, allows the downloading of "wallpaper" images and ring tones, and also includes voice-announced caller identification and voice-activated dialling. BT also introduced the Freestyle 2100, a twin-handset cordless phone with an integrated radio alarm clock (&#163;69.99), and a &#163;499 bundle comprising a wireless broadband modem and a Philips Streamium stereo, which can download and play MP3s and stream radio stations.www.shop.bt.comInternetSpam guidanceThe Information Commissioner last week issued guidance on the new privacy and electronic communications directive, which comes into force in the UK on December 11. It requires senders of bulk email to obtain prior permission, and web sites using cookies to allow users to reject them. William Malcolm, a data protection expert at law firm Masons, says firms may have to check whether they have the proper permissions to continue to use their email marketing lists. It also allows network operators to provide services such as advertising on the basis of user location and traffic data, as long as the subscribers have consented.www.dataprotection.gov.uk/dpr/dpdoc.nsfStat of the week:A boom in silver surfingNielsen//NetRatings reports explosive growth in one part of the US net population over the past year: the over-65 group, which has grown by 25%. Female senior surfers are logging on most, increasing time online by 14%.
'I see myself as the computer games industry's loyal opposition," says American games designer Eric Zimmerman. "I grew up playing games. I love the industry, warts and all. I just want to make it better."Hence his book Rules of Play, a monumental examination of the emerging field of games design, co-written with Katie Salen. Published by MIT Press, it was three years in the making, in part because both authors have day jobs. Zimmerman runsgameLab, an independent games company he co-founded with Peter Lee. Salen is a full-time academic and freelance game designer. "We had to sacrifice our social lives to get the book out," he laughs.Given that Rules of Play seems likely to become a set text for the games world, it was probably worth the evenings in. With its thoughtful definitions of key concepts such as "play" and "interactivity", it should appeal to industry types and academics. And though the book looks forbiddingly substantial, it's accessible enough for general readers looking for ideas that shed light on the pleasure they get from gaming.Psychologists, anthropologists and even literary theorists often write about computer games, but, says Zimmerman, "there's very little rigorous writing done on games as a design field". There is a growing body of professional books on digital game design but, as he points out, most have a narrow practical focus. "What we're trying to do is more fundamental. We want to really look at what games are, how they function and how they can be designed to create meaningful play for players."Starting with a neat definition of a game - "a system in which players engage in an artificial conflict, defined by rules, that results in a quantifiable outcome", Rules of Play offers different conceptual frameworks, or schemas, for looking at games. Grouped around three categories -rules, play and culture - these cover everything from "games as systems of conflict" and "games as narrative play" to "games as cultural environment".Rules of Play is as much about non-digital games such as Monopoly, Go and Tag as The Sims and Quake. The broad focus is intentional, says Zimmerman. Many in the games industry are "vidiots", game designer Gerg Costikyan's term for developers who only play computer/video games and have no sense of the rich history of non-computer games. "The   fundamental principles of what makes a game fun are not intrinsic to digital technology," says Zimmerman. "I've never been a techno-fetishist. I've always felt the computer was a means to an end, not an end in itself."The digital games industry's concentration on new technical features and improved graphics is one reason why it remains stuck in a geeky ghetto. Over-reliance on technology is to blame for games that take too long to learn to play meaningfully. In contrast, with retro-games such as Ms Pac Man, says Zimmerman, "there's one joystick and it's very clear what you can do with that joystick. You can just start playing".Techno-fetishism is behind what Zimmerman and Salen call the immersive fallacy, the belief, still popular in the industry, that games draw their users into a    world whose value is that it is ever more realistic, detailed and convincing. Games players, even though they are deeply involved in a game, are simultaneously aware that they are playing a game, Zimmerman suggests. And if they are immersed in anything, it's the overall interactive system of a game - not the superficially realistic graphics. "I think the immersive fallacy has a lot to do with unfounded fears about how games are sucking in children and teaching them to be violent   and all those other wrong-headed assumptions about how the medium operates." Certainly, games critics focus too much on graphics and don't think of games as interactive systems. "A lot of writing about games is done over the shoulder of players, rather than looking at games in and of themselves," says Zimmerman.In contrast, Zimmerman and Salen's ideas come from years of playing and designing games. Via gameLab, Zimmerman is testing the ideas behind their book, specifically the belief that game pleasure is built not on "graphic realism", but on simple rules capable of generating complex effects. Like several indie games outfits, gameLab uses Flash to create simple but artful productions - such as Arcadia, its recent remix of retro-gaming classics - which are released via the web and aimed at a non-gamer audience.Zimmerman says he isn't as optimistic about the indie games movement as he used to be. "There's been a lot of consolidation in online game sites, with many now gravitating to a certain kind of game - abstract puzzle games."He points to the hugely popular web game Bejewelled. "I think it's great, but it appeals to a Top 40 mass audience. At gameLab we're interested in doing games that are more experimental, without cutting our own throats as a business. And I think that's possible."With regard to the bottom line, Zimmerman says gameLab is currently doing just fine, balancing its own avant-garde experiments with more commercial work for corporate names such as Lego and HBO. If things change, early reaction to Rules of Play indicates that he and Salen could always work as game industry consultants. They've already received a glowing tribute from a designer from games giant Electronic Arts. Academics have also said they're planning to structure courses around the book. "But our idea is not that this becomes the definitive book on games but that it helps jumpstart a whole range of debates about games and contributes to a more rich understanding of games and what they can be."
It used to be the greatest high-tech show on earth. If you didn't turn up to Comdex, people might think you were either broke or dead. Now it's not even the biggest high-tech show in Las Vegas, it's fighting for its life. Even in a city built on gambling, not too many people would bet on its survival.At its peak, Comdex was a monster that spawned satellite shows round the globe: there were even a couple of Comdex/UK events. It started in Las Vegas in 1979 as a small Computer Dealers Exposition - 150 exhibitors, 4,000 attendees - but grew with the IT industry until it dominated the city. In the 1990s, it often attracted more than 200,000 visitors, squeezing out the gamblers and holiday-makers, and almost taking over half a dozen giant hotels.The madness peaked in 1997 when 211,886 turned up to see 2,480 exhibitors occupying 1.4m square feet of floor space. Last week, there were about 550 exhibitors in 150,000 square feet. The miles of aisles that used to take five days to tread could now be done in a morning.Comdex used to be the place to see the industry giants roll out their latest and greatest products. Sony and Sharp, Olympus and Canon, Hewlett-Packard, Toshiba, Samsung, Philips and other electronics giants would show not just computers and personal organisers but cameras, printers, copiers, DVD players, mobile phones and other gadgets. This year, the big company displays were shadows of their former selves or, more likely, had vanished altogether.As for the visitor numbers, the official figures won't be available until January, and it's "no comment" until then. However, last year, attendance   was down to about 100,000, and this year, organisers MediaLive International were only hoping for 50,000. Estimates from authoritative sources - cab drivers - put the numbers much lower than that. Dave Charak, for example, said the taxi authority had allowed hundreds of extra cabs, but he'd only made five trips from hotels to the convention centre. "Five rides in three days? It used to be 30 or 40 rides each day."Given the scale of the collapse, it's clear that more than one thing went wrong. Here are a few of the favourite candidates for blame:&#183;Comdex got too big. Las Vegas did not have enough convention space in one place, not enough cabs and not enough hotel rooms: it took forever to get anywhere and prices went through the roof. Chief executives, chief technology officers, venture capitalists and industry analysts who, in the early days, used to walk the halls either met in back rooms or didn't bother to turn up at all.&#183;It lacked focus. As the trade show for a $1 trillion electronics-based industry, Comdex tried to be more or less everything to more or less everyone, like a river nine miles wide but an inch deep. It ended up as a show for generalists in an age of specialists.&#183;The tech bubble burst. After peaking in 1999, the computer industry went into recession, the dotcom bubble burst, and the new open source companies - the ones Comdex's organisers hoped would expand into the empty spaces - turned out not to have any money. They certainly didn't have the $60 (&#163;35) per square foot for Comdex, which meant $100,000 (&#163;59,000) for a reasonable stand, plus the cost of keeping staff in Las Vegas. Companies that still had the money felt they   had better places to spend it, like Sony, putting on its own shows.&#183;The attack on New York. Being held in November, Comdex suffered collateral damage from the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center. Suddenly, lots of people decided they didn't want to travel, and the ones that risked it were met with armed guards and sniffer dogs at Comdex's door. Everyone believes in security, but if you have tens of thousands of people carrying one or more notebook PCs plus PDAs, digital cameras, tape recorders, mobile phones and other gadgets, it can become a strain.&#183;The organisers messed up. In the early days, Comdex was run by its charismatic founder, Sheldon Adelson. He was a larger-than-life character who went on to build a replica of Venice - including a Grand Canal, with gondolas - inside his new hotel, the Venetian. But in 1995, Adelson sold out to Softbank, a comparatively faceless Japanese corporation, for almost $900m. Softbank also bought   Ziff-Davis Publishing of PC Magazine fame, and Comdex became part of its stable of computer magazines, a cable TV channel, a market research company and other shows such as NetWorld+Interop and the Seybold Seminars. Comdex was eventually spun off as Key3Media Group Inc, but it was not a financial success: it ended up seeking protection from creditors under America's Chapter 11 bankruptcy law. Although the company reappeared as MediaLive International to run this year's show, the changes of name, ownership, management and financial situation hardly inspired confidence.&#183;CES took off. The Consumer Electronics Show used to be held in Chicago at the beginning of January - not a prospect that filled many people with pleasure. However, its fortunes changed after it moved to sunny Las Vegas, and digital gadgetry became both fashionable and affordable. Digital cameras, MP3 players and similar products were peripheral   to Comdex but the core of CES, and this encouraged exhibitors to shift their interest from one show to the other. Insofar as the audiences overlapped, that was to Comdex's disadvantage. How many people want to make two trips to Las Vegas in two months, even if they can afford it?MediaLive was, of course, aware of its problems. Before last week's show, in a personal piece on the CNet website, Eric Faurot, Comdex's general manager, explained where it all went wrong. "During the build-up to the headiest times of the internet boom, customers like IBM, Intel and Dell told us that we needed to provide a more focused event."But for too long, Comdex straddled the line between consumer and business-to-business IT. When the market collapsed, we consequently experienced dramatic drops in attendance and exhibitor participation. The overall quality of the Comdex experience suffered, and we needed to decide what we wanted   to be when we grew up," he wrote.Now the company had made its choice: "Comdex is an IT business-to-business event, not a consumer technology event." It would stop selling space to non-IT companies such as Mercedes, and visitors who didn't qualify as IT buyers would have to stump up a $50 (&#163;30) entrance fee. "We have eliminated the consumer technologies, the camera companies and the car companies, and we've gotten back to basics - to IT buyers' needs," said Faurot.It's an approach that found sympathy on the floor. On the UK's group stand, Dale Smith, a technology adviser from the British Consulate in San Francisco, said he was optimistic about Comdex's efforts to reinvent itself, and he liked the new thematic "innovation centres" covering things such as security and web services. "The industry has changed and we're all reacting to those changes. We'll definitely be back next year."Jeffrey Sherman, a consultant who was doing "chalk talks" in the Ask The Experts area, said he was surprised how many people turned up. The new Comdex "is a 1.0 release and could be better - they need to target IT departments much more than they have," he said, "but most of the presentations were pretty packed." He hoped to be back next year, "if they'll have me".But Bruce Carrera, "the computer guy" from a waste water treatment plant in California, was "slightly disappointed". He attended Comdex "to try to get some insight into where the technology is leading us," and said: "I would definitely frown on it becoming a corporate event." He bemoaned   the lack of support from big companies but thought it was great to see a lot of small companies coming forward and giving people something to talk about.Indeed, the small companies were the big winners, especially the small companies from Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan. They have tended to be overshadowed or pushed into distant halls, but this year, they were the main event.One example was South Korea's Zalman Tech, which created a stir with noiseless PCs, which use either liquid cooling or metal heatsinks instead of fans. One of its products, which might have gone almost unnoticed a few years ago, was a finalist in PC Magazine's Best of Show awards.Sangcheol Lee, Zalman's chief technology officer, said: "The visitors are reduced, but we have had just as many people on our stand. We thank Comdex. In the beginning, we met a lot of buyers here." Back next year, then? "Yes, of course. We will attend, and announce our newest products here."The question is, will there be a show next year?"Absolutely: we've already booked," Comdex's executive director, Dave Rosenberg, told me this week. "We had a terrific response from the vendors at the show, so I can pretty much guarantee it's going to be larger, with more vendors, next year."Overall, things went as well as can be expected," he continued. "We delivered our message, and we think we've laid the foundations for the years to come to be even better."The old Comdex is dead. Whether a new one can rise from the ashes remains to be seen.LinksComdexwww.comdex.comComdex blogshttp://loop.comdex.comA Comdex mea culpahttp://news.com.com/ 2010-7340-5105882.html
Sinclair or Commodore?Our family couldn't afford either until much later. I used to play on Sinclairs at friends' houses, but I didn't get one until they were laughable things you could pick up for a fiver. I burnt mine out after leaving it on for six days playingRenegadeas you couldn't save! I still have cassettes with old saves from Speccy games... I couldn't throw them away.Is blogging over?It's another "community" - though I hate the word - or myriad shifting communities. The people who read blogs a lot are generally the people who write blogs: they form nests. Blogs frighten me a little. I've nothing against them, and some are   well written, but I shiver at the notion of, in essence, putting your diary online.How are your web skills?Risible. Well (depressingly) better than 97% of the people using the net, it seems, but risible in absolute terms: I'd never claim to be an expert. It's indolence. Vaguely similar to the heat death of the universe, in a way - I'll just get lazier and lazier until one day my heart goes, "Pfff - not today", and stops. I started my site coding by hand - that was the reason I started it, so that I could teach myself HTML. Now I hardly ever look at the code. I use programs that do everything for me. Ideally, I'd like a program that did it all while I stayed in bed.Broadband?I got it recently. For ages I couldn't justify the cost, when I use the net mostly for email and browsing. In the end, though, a combination of frustration, threats of harm from my girl friend because the phone line was always tied up, and unfettered hedonism led me to get it. Like many things in life it's (I have a 512k connection) a little unsatisfying to have, but it would be utterly miserable not to have it. It's a bit like the boon of my not living in London being smeared with the reality of living in Wolverhampton!Are you set up for Wi-Fi?I'm not, though I have thought of creating a basic set-up here. However, my laziness has not surmounted the disincentives of cost, the fact that I have a different OS on each machine, and that the only reason I want it is so I can sit in the garden with my laptop and have a fag . . . I'm not allowed to smoke in the house.Gadgets?My Pocket PC is ace. It's a "cheap"Packard Bell Pocketgear 2030but it does everything    I need - diary, contacts. I download street maps, it plays music/movies, it's usable for writing emails or short articles with the letter recognition app. It syncs with my PC and the battery lasts eight hours. I covet aBlackberrybut that would be insane - my email is killing me as it is.How do they repackage the eBook to make it work?It will never work as a way of distributing fiction. Reference eBooks have potential - a whole library you can carry on a jungle expedition is clearly useful.&#183;Mil Millington's book, A Certain Chemistry, is out now.Visitwww.milmillington.comwww.mil-millington.pwp.blueyonder.co.ukMil Millington's favouriteswww.realultimatepower.netwww.bartleby.comwww.imdb.comwww.steveconley.com/comicads.htmwww.shadowradio.org
