Shiver me timbers! It's internationalTalk Like A Pirate Day! So I shall, at least briefly ...Arrrhh - that looks like a French ship carrying some cargo. Let's climb on board, shoot someone just to prove we're serious, and then hold the ship's crew and cargo to ransom. It would have workedthe other week with that French couple on their yachtif the damned French special forces hadn't appeared with their damned parachutes. Damn their eyes! Our lads got shot and arrested!Was that too close to the bone, perhaps? Were you hoping for something a bit more, I don't know, like Captain Jack Sparrow of Pirates of the Caribbean? Sorry to disappoint. People do have a tendency to romanticise this stuff, to make it sound less threatening. Perhaps that's because the reality of facing someone who hasn't eaten in a week, is waving a gun and sees you as their lunch ticket isn't one we like to think about.Similarly with piracy in the world of computing. There's a lot of romanticism about it. It's harmless! Nobody gets hurt, really. It's all Jack Sparrow dancing about on a ship's deck, killing zombies.Sadly not true. Piracy of DVDs and CDs is linked to organised crime. But unlike the pirates on the high seas, who in both their modern and antiquated forms are ruthless and implacable, you can reason with the people who thrive on online piracy. They're the potential buyers of the items. If people didn't grab stuff that the pirates have put up there, there'd be no point in piracy.That's why it was so impressive to see Cliff Harrisengage honestly with the people who pirate his gamesand try to find out what they really wanted, and what would make them lay down their figurative arms.Harris discovered that the twin barriers of price and digital rights management (DRM) are the biggest incentive to make and share illicit copies. So he lowered those barriers.It's going to be very interesting, therefore, to see what Electronic Arts does with Spore. It has been a huge hit; but it has also annoyed lots of people because it insists that you connect to the internet to validate it, and it insists that you can only install it three times.As a result, it has rapidly become one of the most pirated games ever. Arr-harr me hearties! Itsat at the top of the rankings on The Pirate Bay for more than a week. Even if TorrentFreak is wrong by a little distance in its suggestion of 500,000 downloads, the amount of licensing cash that EA has missed out on is ... well, it's somewhere between zero and millions of dollars, because not everyone would have bought the game.One can understand EA's thinking, from a corporate viewpoint: "Spore cost a lot of money to write; it has cost a lot of money to make. Writing a game for a PC or Mac isn't like writing for a console, where pirating a disc is rather more challenging. So let's stop people copying it and sharing it among their friends." (That sighing noise you hear is music industry executives wishing they'd done this from the start with CDs.)But while critics love Spore (seeSteve Boxer's review: it's one of those rare 5/5 ravers), buyers hate it. Or rather, hate the DRM. More than 2,000reviews on Amazongave it one star because of the DRM. Of course, if you download it from BitTorrent, it won't have the DRM.As Gregasks on the Gamesblog, "Why should legitimate customers receive a worse user experience than someone who has downloaded it from a torrent?"It's the core question, and one that the games companies are wrestling with as seriously as the music and film industries have been doing for years now.Some people will think there are easy answers. EA should have written truncated versions of the game, and seeded those onto the filesharing networks: versions that would let you rise only so far up the evolutionary chain of the game, and then stop; versions that would limit you to only one "creature"; versions that would simply not have the full functionality in key ways. (Hell, Adobe has been doing this – and selling it – as a way of curtailing Photoshop piracy through its Photoshop Elements product, which is a "cheap enough, good enough" version of Photoshop for most people.)That can sound like a solution, but I suspect it's a bit glib. Creating all those extra versions is hard work and it could all be upset by just one person being determined and smart enough to break through the full-blown game's DRM – which is guaranteed to happen, because there are enough people who like the intellectual challenge of doing it, and one is bound to succeed and put it online for the bragging rights among his peers.Don't think that EA will necessarily follow Harris, either. Lowering prices and dropping DRM are hard to justify to a board that's publicly accountable to its shareholders. EA might just think that the game isn't worth the candle, and focus instead on games that only appear on particular consoles.It might even move to a different model altogether, where you play the game on its servers (World of Spore Warcraft?) or download it piece by piece – the equivalent, in our piracy metaphor, of sending cargo by rocket or helicopter. Or it could follow the lead of Valve, which is rumoured to be in Google's sights, and offer you in-game adverts. How would you like your evolution to a new form, or your boss stage fight, to be interrupted by these "important messages"?As one commenter on Greg's post says, "I think we should go back to the system of 'Go to page 8 in your manual, skim down to paragraph 4, line 3 and type in the word second from last'." It did at least have the merit of simplicity.
Apple used its misleading "I'm a PC" adverts to create two fundamentally dishonest stereotypes, one of which was an unfortunate PC user, played by actor John Hodgman. In phase 2 of its own campaign (phase 1 was Seinfeld; phase 3 is yet to come), Microsoft uses a Hodgman lookalike -- Microsoft software engineer Sean Siler-- who says: "Hello, I'm a PC -- and I've been made into a stereotype."There are three adverts so far in phase 2: Pride, Not Alone, and Stereotype (available inwmv amd mpg downloads). However, it would be more accurate to say there is one ad that has been released in three cuts: the same people seem to appear in all of them, though you get slightly different clips. Some of the people are famous (including Bill Gates), but more are ordinary representatives of the billion or so real Windows users, not actors like Hodgman. They're all saying "I'm a PC". Microsoft'sBill Veghte says:"In my view, saying 'I'm a PC' means I can be who I am, be at home when I want and have everything I need in my computer. It is celebrating the tapestry of humanity and all the choices it enables."Part of the aim is to encourage participation by getting people to upload their own "I'm a PC" clips. A few might take that on, if they use PCs in unusual circumstances and want to do a bit of self-promotion, but I expect this aspect to fall flat. Unless there are some prizes that I didn't notice, I can't see "real people" bothering.The first problem with phase 2 is that while it has plenty of faces, it doesn't have legs: once you've seen it, it's over. The second problem is that it doesn't actually sell anything except, maybe, by encouraging a feel-good factor. So, what's next? An ad showing dozens of smiling people saying: "I use Vista and it's great"?Still, I reckon most people will see "I'm a PC" as an improvement on the three* Seinfeld adverts (not saying much: the only way was up, wasn't it?). They'll certainly work in terms of garnering Microsoft advertising a massive amount of attention. But Microsoft is investing around 10 days of Windows' profits in this campaign, and I still can't see the financial returns. So, roll on phase 3 and possibly phases 4, 5, 6…..* The family visit was a two-part advert that you probably saw as one part.On YouTube: I'm a PCversion 2andversion 3.
Google co-founder Sergey Brin has revealed his fear that he could develop Parkinson's disease, and has said he may pump more money into research into the condition.The Russian-born internet billionaire, whose mother Eugenia was diagnosed with Parkinson's 10 years ago, said that a recent DNA test indicated that he had an increased risk of developing the disorder.Writing on his personal blog, the 35-year-old said that familial Parkinson's was rare, but that he carried the genetic mutation known to be associated with such cases."Over the past few years researchers have been honing in on the genes that are responsible for those cases. There is one particular mutation of the LRRK2 gene – known as G2019S – that, while rare even among people with the disease, accounts, in some ethnic groups, for a substantial proportion of familial Parkinson's."Brin said he discovered he was carrying the mutation after he ran a test provided by 23andMe, the genetic testing startup founded by his wife, Anne Wojcicki."The exact implications of this are not entirely clear," he wrote. "Nonetheless it is clear that I have a markedly higher chance of developing Parkinson's in my lifetime than the average person."He added that having foreknowledge gave him "the opportunity to perform and support research into this disease".Brin's links to 23andMe are not merely personal. Through Google, he is also an investor in the Californian company, which is one of a number of up-and-coming genomics firms that claim to offer detailed analysis of their customers' DNA risk profile.23andMe has been on a public relations offensive in recent weeks, running so-called "spit parties"for American socialites, offering them the chance to decode parts of their genetic makeup. It has also slashed the price of its tests by 60%, from $999 to $399.The sales tactics of such companies have provoked controversy, and earlier this summerCalifornian officials asked for tighter controls over who could provide the genetic tests.Brin,who was listed this week by Forbes magazine as America's 13th richest person, is already an active supporter of several Parkinson's-related charities – including the Michael J. Fox Foundation.This year, along with his parents, Brin set up a $1.5m endowment for the University of Maryland's school of medicine to set up the Eugenia Brin Professorship in Parkinson's disease and movement disorders.
Thenewsthat Atari are backing away from boxed product will be welcome by anyone who has had the misfortune to play any of their recent releases. I can't be the only one who is still suffering flashbacks about theAlone in the Darkcontrols?So the move to online makes sense. After all, they have nothing to lose. And who knows, with focused teams working on smaller games built round a community that still has some attachment to the brand we could see some sort of return to the heady days of the late 70s/early 80s when the Atari ruled the gaming world. Well, that's the theory anyway. As always it depends on the quality of games – brand attachment only takes you so far. Sure, older gamers – if they ignore the last few years of Atari mediocrity – will have nostalgic memories ofPitfalland the rest. But does Atari still mean anything to today's gamers?
In the final part of my epic interview with EA Sports president and ex-Xbox kingpin Peter Moore, we look over his ambitions for EA's sports sims, and his projections for the videogame business in general. Oh and how did life selling trainers in California prepare an ex-PE teacher for the console wars?What's your remit at EA Sports?It's EA Sports – the preeminent brand in videogaming, we're going to continue to grow this business, EA is going to continue to digitize its content and continue to grow and protect its lead as the world's leading publisher of interactive software, EA Sports is so integral to that. And the first thing we did was layout strategic pillars for what we needed to do, because – as I think I was quoted as saying – I'm not coming here just to sell a few more copies of Madden.We're not very far away from making some major announcements of licensees that will be taking the EA Sports brand in different places. Apparel, equipment, technology, broadcast… you know, you test the elasticity of your brand; how far can you take it where it's still relevant, where it drives revenue, where it enhances what your core business…Is the business model of annual iterations still viable in the current industry?I certainly think it's achievable. Sport is seasonal – the Premier league doesn't take a year off, the NFL doesn't take a year off, so we don't take a year off. When we say 'it's in the game' we mean 'it's in the game'! And therefore when the NFL starts… When we ship Madden on August 12, that indicates to football fans in America that football is just around the corner, that's how big a cultural phenomenon it is.The one thing that will change is whether it's going to be a physical packaged goods model, or whether it's going to be direct to consumer download. There will be a time when we don't ship it on a physical disc, it's not far away, in fact we're already doing it in Asia, and we might give you the core game for free, but then you start buying downloads, micro-transactions, we'll sponsor some stuff, and start shifting the business model away from 'I need to get your £49 and then say goodbye to you when you walk out of Game', I want to talk to you everyday, I want to give you things everyday that keep you in contact with me, I want a relationship with you as a consumer 365 days a year.So it's all about downloads and community?We've gone from connected consumers being the minority to connected consumers being the majority.We need to look three years into the future and say it's going to be a completely different business, because of broadband connections. I am not going to be at the helm of a company that ends up like the music business that refused to stop trying to sell you CDs for £15 because it was a hugely profitable model. And the music consumer says, 'you know, I don't want to pay £15 for 12 tracks of which I want two, I don't want shiny discs anymore'. And so what did the industry do? It started suing its consumers for illegal downloads and, you know, Steve Jobs comes to the rescue to figure out a way to charge you 99 cents or whatever you're paying in the UK.79pIs that what it is? You're being ripped off. We're not going to do that, we're going to evolve, we're going to go faster for the consumer, whatever the consumer wants. So in the future hard drives are going to be bigger, broadband is going to be faster and we're going to look back and laugh at the fact that we used to drive to the store to buy a piece of plastic with data on it. That business model isn't going to exist – I don't know whether it's going to be five years from now or ten years, but it's not going to be around anymore.Do you think that's the biggest challenge facing the industry?Yes, and I think it's also the biggest opportunity for us, and I think we're doing it well, much better than the music business did – we're not fighting it, there's an issue with retail – retail are going to have to figure out where they play in the value chain for the consumer. But we have the ability to have direct relationships with our consumers because we can provide them with value everyday – particularly with sports.Is there anything you learned at Patrick and Reebok that you're able to apply at EA Sports?Patrick is interesting because it's really where I learned about business. I started off literally as a PE teacher who was given a bag of shoe samples, a Toyota Camry, a road atlas and a list of accounts. No-one taught me how to sell anything - I had to go and sell very expensive football boots. Then I became sales manager, then president of the company. You just learn on the road, you know. You just drive for 200 miles, you drive to Santa Barbara, you sell 15 pairs of shoes, then you go to Ventura and you sell nothing. There's nothing like being a commissioned sales person to figure out how to do something and do something well.Patrick got me into the real passion of what sports could be. But it also taught me a lesson about manufacturing and sourcing, because the company went bankrupt in the end because they refused to leave France in any meaningful way – in typical French fashion, I'm afraid – when everyone else was getting into really aggressive Chinese, Taiwanese and Korean sourcing. The company still believed, in a rather naive fashion that because they're made in France, customers will pay £$120 … no they won't! And regardless of whether it was endorsed by Kevin Keegan or Michael Platini, I learned some hard lessons about price value.Reebok was even more fascinating and intriguing. A brand is a brand no matter what you do, if you're not making radical changes … We spent hundreds of millions of dollars in the 90s trying to out Nike Nike, and just everything they were doing, we were doing, and what we didn't do was change our brand radically, we trust tried to be cool and hip, and go get their players, their leagues, their clubs, and spend a fortune – go get the Olympics go after the World Cup… but the consumer till says, Reebok, female lifestyle, aerobics, maybe running, definitely tennis, fitness – that's who you are. You're not football, you're not baseball – that's for Nike and Adidas. I had a little bit of success in soccer … but a brand's a brand.So you learn those lessons about branding and about consumer perception, and it's no different than the challenge of evolving Xbox to Xbox 360 – how do you evolve the brand to meet the demands of the new consumer? No different than what we're facing with EA Sports – we have a very powerful core consumer, that drives tens of millions of units of software every year. But the new consumer coming in, the Wii consumer, is saying, you know, I'm not sure I need cutting edge graphics or full 5.1 sound and seeing a full simulation of a soccer game or an American football game, I don't have three hours to sit there and play though. I want to laugh, I want to have fun, I want to play with somebody, I want it to be intuitive, I don't need a big plasma. And I want a graphical interface that fits what the game will be because I'm going to be swinging my arms around.That's the challenge – we've got to get after that consumer, take our current franchises and build them on the Wii from the ground up and that's what All Play is, and we'll be very interested to see how consumers react to what is brilliant software. And that's the interesting thing – can EA Sports evolve into that space as well as it's evolved into the hardcore?
It's Friday, it's 5 o'clock, it's Crackerjack! No, wait, it's Chatterbox. As you were.
The relentless march ofimage macroscontinues as the Cheezburger empire expands with a new site,ROFLrazzi. Not content with being the recognised home ofilliterate cats, comedic canines andmildly amusing graphs, now the Cheezburger collective are bringing us an incredible new take on the LOL genre - "celebrity pictures, Lol celebs and funny actor and actress photos". Where will the caption madness end?
The rest of the world might be on theverge of economic meltdown, but that's not enough to swipe the grin off the faces of Silicon Valley's rich and powerful. Google boss Eric Schmidt says that it's well protected from the madness on Wall Street. "The company has a very large amount of cash in very, very boring and secure investments," he said at theZeitgeist press event yesterday. "As a company, we're fine." Even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's enfant terrible, seems to be riding out the financial storm - he's just appeared on theForbes 400. The rich list values him at $1.5bn - even if it's largely theoretical cash.
Games piracy has been back in the news recently. Big PC title Spore has had acontroversial launch, with users complaining about draconian copy protection (only 3 installations, CD in drive etc). And you can't argue really. Why should legitimate customers receive a worse user experience than someone who has downloaded it from a torrent?This is especially annoying for paying punters as the game hadalready been crackedbefore release. But then what was EA supposed to do? Give in? Accept that the game will be pirated and budget accordingly?  Games developer Cliff Harristhinks he has the answer. He recently asked users why they pirate games.The top reasons seemed to be the high price of games, the copy-protection used on them, and the quality of the games themselves. Many of the pirates said they found the majority of games not worth the money, others were resentful of the way copy-protection treated honest customers as criminals. Time and time again people claimed they were happy to buy good games, at sensible prices.Hmm. People may claim they want good game at sensible prices but is that true? And what is a "sensible" price anyway? How "sensible" does it have to be break the habit of downloading something for nothing?Of course games piracy is nothing new. Any gamer in their 30s will remember the days of doing tape to tape copies of the latest C64/Spectrum games and swapping them in the playground. But maybe Harris was right about price being a factor. £9.99 – the going rate for full price games in the 80s - was a lot of money in 1985 and was clearly a major reason why piracy was rife. Greed was a factor too of course. But Harris, optimistically, argues that cheaper prices and higher quality will dissuade piratesI already dropped some prices, and will keep future games cheaper, I abandoned copy-protection on all my games the next day, and resolved to work harder than ever before to make the best games that I can. I went from being demoralised and depressed by pirates to being motivated and encouraged by them.Interesting stuff but can you see EA and the remaining big publishers who support PC being "encouraged and motivated" by pirates? Unlikely. It will probably just mean fewer and fewer big PC releases. Or at least fewer offline boxed single player releases.  So how do you solve the piracy issue? Lower prices? Better games?Free cloth maps?Or is games piracy here to stay?
Following Asus, Acer, Dell, HP, Lenovo and others,Toshibahas unveiled its entry into the netbook/minibook subnotebook PC market. The Satellite NB100's specification is pretty much standard now: 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor, 8.9 inch screen showing 1024 x 600 pixels, 512MB or 1GB of memory, up to 120GB of hard drive space, 0.3 megapixel webcam and either Windows XP Home or Ubuntu (Linux).According toPocket-lint, the NB100 will be on sale next month with prices starting at £260 or, in the US, $469.Pocket-lint says: "Toshiba is hoping that the device's 'high build quality' and 'premium features' set it apart from the majority of the netbook pack."I've owned several excellent Toshibas so I could certainly be tempted by a good quality keyboard and screen. But plenty of people want full-scale notebooks for around £250-£300 (Satellite notebooks with 15.4 inch screens start at £269 plus VAT), and the price may be a bit too high to compete for the bulk of the netbook market.
A university student who bought a mobile phone found it "contained pornographic images of a female employee from a Cairns Dick Smith Electronics store where she had just bought the phone," reportsThe Cairns Postin Australia."It's sickening to think I've been using this phone near my face when it was used to take all of these photos," she said.According toThe Australian Daily Telegraph:The images include a woman naked from the waist down lying on a bed performing a sex act, a man holding his penis and consecutive shots of the woman in her bra and pulling her pants down.The store had sold the student an ex-demo phone (or "XXX-demo phone", as one wag put it). It's not unknown for staff to "borrow" demo phones over the weekend, according to someCairns Post readers, who had an amusing time with the story.Sales In Brisbanecomments:I have worked for several mobile phone retail outlets. Trust me.. This happens all the time... Sales staff 'borrow' a phone for the weekend and forget to wipe the memory. I personally know of 4 instances when this exact thing has happend in a store I have worked in.Another poster, Christine, comments:I also worked for a mobile phone repair company, and we used to get replacement units back from manufacturers full of porn. These units werent checked by the techs before they were given out so I'm sure it happened more often than what we were told about - it was only old people or prudes who would complain about it!Well, what would you do if it happened to you?ViaPC Pro
Microsoft will move to the second phase of its advertising campaign tomorrow with adverts that respond more directly to Apple's sleazy "I'm a Mac" campaign.The New York Timessays:The campaign, which begins Thursday and carries the theme "Windows. Life without walls," will move away from the enigmatic teaser commercials that featured Bill Gates and Jerry Seinfeld in offbeat conversations about shopping, shoes, suburbia and the potential of computing to improve life. The teaser ads have generated considerable discussion since they started on Sept. 4, not all of it positive.According to the story:One new Microsoft commercial even begins with a company engineer who resembles John Hodgman, the comedian portraying the loser PC character in the Apple campaign. "Hello, I'm a PC," the engineer says, echoing Mr. Hodgman's recurring line, "and I've been made into a stereotype."This goes against the conventional wisdom in ad-land: "A giant advertiser responding to the disparagement of a smaller rival can be fraught with peril. Consumers may see it as a validation of the claims, or even bullying. On the other hand, ignoring the taunts can damage images and sales."However: "The strategy to use the Apple attack as the basis for a counterstrike is typical for the agency behind the campaign, Crispin Porter &amp; Bogusky," says The New York Times.Whether the Seinfeld ads worked is another matter -- they didn't make a lot of sense to me -- but so far there is no evidence that any have been "cancelled" or "dropped". Also, Ted Marzilli from YouGovPolimetrix, a research company, says the teaser ads were followed by a shift in "buzz" about Microsoft from 25% positive/13% negative to 28%/8%. "These are strong numbers, good numbers, for Microsoft," he told the NYT.Zeta Interactive's Relevant Noise made the score 63% positive/37% negative.When the campaign started,Microsoft's Bill Veghte told staffthat the Seinfeld ads were simply an "icebreaker":This first set of ads features Bill Gates and comedian Jerry Seinfeld. Think of these ads as an icebreaker to reintroduce Microsoft to viewers in a consumer context. Later this month, as the campaign moves into its next phase, we'll go much deeper in telling the Windows story and celebrating what it can do for consumers at work, at play and on-the-go.Celebrities featured in  "phase 2" include actress Eva Longoria, author Deepak Chopra and singer Pharrell Williams, but lots more Microsoft staff and ordinary users.The "phase 2" website atlifewithoutwalls.comwill enable users to "upload video clips and photographs demonstrating how they, too, are PCs."
Those Seinfeld ads? You know, the ones thatweren't funny, and thenwere? The ones where nobody could quite figure out why Microsoft was using them and what the point was and whether it was brilliant advertising to reposition the brand or the most completely stupid thing in the world?Microsoft's dropping them.Valleywaghad the scoop, which is confirmed by its update in which a PR from Waggener Edstrom (Microsoft's PR in the US) says that the move was "planned" and that there is the "potential to do other things" with Seinfeld. Possibly.The PR also tells Valleywag: "People would have been happier if everyone loved the ads, but this was not unexpected."Eh?? Is this the most insane bit of headlessness that we've ever seen in the never-too-happy marriage of advertising and technology?Recall that Microsoft said it was going to remake its image, and basicallycalled in the modern Mad Men, with a $300m budget.Let's remind ourselves of a quote from the Fast Company article referenced there:The folks at Crispin like to give the impression that the Microsoft assignment is less about the money than about the thrill. "I think we've learned," says Steinhour, "that when you take on these kinds of odd relationships with big companies that need a kick start, the motivation to overcome those suspicions is a lot of the fun." But Crispin knows better than anyone that "fun" isn't the metric for its clients. Noting that Burger King has had 16 straight quarters of growth since Crispin took on the account, Hicks says, "Your work is only as good as the performance of the brand and the business."The motivation to overcome those suspicions is a lot of the fun.Well, it seems like they failed.And what is Microsoft doing now? It seems that it'srolling out ads which resemble Apple's"I'm a Mac" one, in which a John Hodgman lookalike (Hodgman plays the chubby PC in those ads) says, "Hello, I'm a PC, and I've been made into a stereotype."This is a mistake. Even I can see this is a mistake. It's the error of "framing": that is, letting your rival set the ground on which you fight. (It's the error the Obama campaign keeps making whenever it focuses even the slightest attention on Sarah Palin, instead of the rival presidential candidate, which is who Obama is really up against.)What was clever about the Seinfeld ads was that it simply ignored the "I'm a Mac" campaign. It treated it as nonexistent; it went its own way. If Microsoft's bosses cannot see that taking on Apple on the very terms that Apple has set is a mistake then....Would anyone here like to suggest how they should do it instead?
If you're wondering where the usual content for the Technology section is today, it's on hold: today we instead have the first Guardian/Library House CleanTech 100, listing 100 of the top companies in Europe in the increasingly important field of clean technology.It's an important day, and an important list. We'll return to the normal Technology format next week, and we'll update here with more content later.
Today, we reach the nadir of Moore's Xbox career – the Red Ring of Death scandal. Rumour has it, the controversy ended his tenure at Microsoft, but in the background there were other forces at play. Here's his definitive account...Nintendo got back into the market by reaching the demographics – the children and the women – that Microsoft had been unable to reach, because Xbox culture is still very much male-orientated… Why is that?Well, it all goes back to the original premise of what Microsoft felt that at that time they needed to do be successful – to even get into the conversation. And so to launch the Xbox it needed to be very clear that this was not going to be PC games ported over – Flight Sim, Age of Empires, things like that. They needed to win the hearts and minds of the hardcore gamers, and there's no better way to do that than with blood, guts and bullets. That was the idea – it was hardcore.And remember the ad in the UK – Champagne – which again was only shown once before it was banned, which was the baby being born, being catapulted through the air and ending up as the old guy in the grave… that set the tone. The theory was, rightly or wrongly, that if you win the hardcore gamer, then you can grow from the core – you can never go the other way. You hold your core but then you bring in the masses. But we were so good at what we did the first time around that it was difficult, then, to evolve.And then Wii came along…The GameCube had pretty much failed. I was in Tokyo when Iwata-san brought the controller out and said, 'here it is!' and we were all going, 'what the hell is that?''. I was with Robbie and I remember going 'I don't know… it's different'. But we knew that they were too good a company to lose twice in a row. But even then it was all about Sony, it was not about Nintendo, because they were so down and out – it's very difficult to think now, it was four years ago. You just couldn't picture that four or five years ago. GameCube was just… dying. The Revolution as it was called, we knew it couldn't be anything powerful. It was in the days when Sony and ourselves were saying it's all about hi-def, it's all about 5.1 sound, it's all about 1080i, and they said it's about a GameCube 1.5 and you're going to wave this stick around and have a lot of fun.Is it strange to be the face of a corporation? Were you always aware of representing Microsoft or did you just say what you wanted to say?No, I never said what Iwantedto say. Within whatever I say, there's a messaging framework, I might say it in a more flamboyant way but there's a messaging framework that I'musuallyvery careful to adhere to otherwise my handlers would roll over me.But there are times when, we probably… a year and a half ago we had a very difficult time with Xbox 360, with the hardware issues, and there are things that I've said that have been immortalized, and you try to say, well that's not what I meant… Infamously, a guy called Mike Antonucci of the San Jose Mercury news interviewed me and was really pushing hard, and of course when you're dealing with something as sensitive as defective hardware, you've got to be very careful what you say, not only about messaging but it's about legal issues. If you say things out of line on behalf of a company, you're exposing the company to lawsuits, people will take what you say and use it in a court of law - and Microsoft knows that very well.But I was focused at that time on trying to get customer service up and running to take care of some hardware problems, and I said, 'You know, things break', and then I was called Marie Antoinette – let them eat cake. But the context I was using wasn't flippant, the sentence was, 'things break, but our job is to go fix it for you'. So what I said was twisted to that it looked like I didn't care.Do you think bloggers genuinely are representative of consumers? You're a blogger yourself now, for EA Sports…The reason I blog is that I think our brand needs more of a conversation with its consumers. I think over the years we haven't evolved the brand – you know 'It's in the game' barked at you buy an American voice - it makes us who we are, but who we are has to evolve. I actually enjoy blogging, I like people, despite the ones that want to kill me. The idea of having this unique tool to speak to people and listen to people is appealing to me. It's dangerous, because one word out of place, particularly if you're prolific and you do it in a more casual style – it's not a polished press release that PR folks will read then wordsmith, it's just a lad from Liverpool who really can't type, just saying, this is what I think. But I'm still the president of the label, so even though it's just a blog, it's the official blog – what I say in there is indicative of what I think as the president of EA Sports. It's a fine line that you tread.So how did EA come for you?John Riccitiello had taken a run at me before I went to Microsoft, and the night before I said yes to Robbie, John Riccitiello and the head of HR at that time had hauled me out for dinner to try to convince me to say no to Microsoft and to join EA – it was too late as I'd made a commitment to Robbie. Then Riccitiello came back and introduced the new label structure – I wouldn't have come to EA in the previous structure, it would make no sense. But my combination of sports experience with Reebok and Patrick and then obviously the ability to leverage that with my branding… and I love brands, and I love brands that are powerful, and linking the two – videogames and sports – together was an obvious attraction for me; as was getting back to the Bay area which I love.So it became a very emotional six weeks, because we've got to sell the house, I've got to tell Robbie, I've got to tell Bill Gates, I've got to tell Ballmer, Xbox is firing on all cylinders – and I just kept saying no, it's not going to work, and in the end Riccitiello to his credit really painted a compelling picture of where the company was going, what I could do – what I'd beallowedto do with EA Sports and I decided okay, I'm going to do it.It was unfortunate because as this was going on the Red Ring of Death story broke and so for better or worse the belief was that I'd been pushed out because of the hardware problems – that was not the case at all. But it was unfortunate timing. And then… I said yes in mid-June and still had E3 to get through, and in fairness to Microsoft I was already an EA employee while on stage with Rockband as head of Xbox – I wasn't an official EA employee, but I'd said yes to EA. Microsoft knew I was leaving and we made an agreement that my movement would be a material event to both companies, so we kept it all under wraps, didn't tell anybody. The only people who knew were Bill Gates, Robbie and Steve Ballmer at the Microsoft end. I did the press conference for Microsoft, I did three solid days of PR - the last interview was N'Gai Croal, he didn't know it then. The plan all along, which we'd worked with Microsoft and EA PR was to announce the following Monday – and that was kind of a bomb shell for Monday morning – I'm out of there.And I look back now – it's only ten months ago, it seems like a lifetime ago. It was a tough time, it was hard to leave, it always ends up being much more difficult than you ever thought it would be – because I knew, literally, a thousand people by name, I was the face of the platform, then all of a sudden I'm gone. And I felt bad because a) I didn't want people to think I was fired, because I wasn't and b) I didn't want my team there to think I was jumping ship because of the hardware problems, which I wasn't. It was for personal and family reasons and the fact that I really relished the opportunity to get back into the sports side of things and then be able to apply videogame experience… it was the only job, no other job would have tempted me.
Thursday's Chatterbox, with another 7 days' worth of comments. And more to come..
Good news for gamers - first wediscoverthat they arenot actually lonely, anti-social misfits, and now we find that they might also be healthier than the average bear, too. According to a report inNew Scientist(subscription), a study of 7,000 players of EverQuest 2 found that they were typically fitter and did more exercise than ordinary people. Perhaps, the researchers posit, it's not sitting in front of a screen that's the problem, but what's actuallyon the screen. "Television has well-studied connections with eating attitudes due to the presence of commercials for unhealthy foods,"the paper says. "Video game use may involve higher or lower amounts of screen time, but the messages may be different, and the research is so far inconclusive." Nasty TV!
The Google-owned video sharing website YouTube has moved to counter criticism that it helps fuel gang violence by introducing new rules to ban submissions that glamorise guns and knives.The UK-specific rule will ban videos "showing weapons with the aim of intimidation" after criticism that fierce battles were being fuelled by rival members posting videos.Last summer the Guardian revealed how videos on YouTube displayed the "barely concealed culture of violent gangs glorying in crime" in the area of Liverpool where 11-year-old Rhys Jones was shot dead.In July the culture, media and sport select committee criticised the website, on to which 10 hours of video are uploaded every minute, for not protecting users enough from the "dark side" of internet content.A Google spokesman said: "There has been particular concern over videos in the UK that involve showing weapons with the aim of intimidation, and this is one of the areas we are addressing."The move comes days after YouTube also introduced new global guidelines to outlaw content that "directly incites violence". In a blog post to users late last week it said: "We realise it's not always obvious where we draw the line on content that's acceptable to upload. We've updated the community guidelines ... included in the update are a few new things to steer clear of, like not directly inciting violence."Other existing rules relate to the posting of videos that show violence and include "hate speech". But the new rules will not change the internet giant's stance on the way content is regulated.It is committed to a policy of user-moderation, arguing it is impractical for it to vet every video before it is posted. Once a video is flagged up as potentially inappropriate YouTube's staff examine it and remove it if it breaks the guidelines.The media select committee, chaired by John Whittingdale, the Tory MP for Maldon and East Chelmsford, had called on video sharing sites to undertake a "proactive review of content" to "quarantine" material until it was deemed suitable to be posted.But Google said such an approach was impractical. "YouTube is a community site used by millions of people in very positive ways. Sadly, as with any form of communication, a tiny minority of people will try to break the rules," said a spokesman."When users see content they think is inappropriate they can flag it. If the content breaks our terms we aim to remove it quickly and if a user repeatedly breaks the rules we will disable their account."The site, bought by Google for $1.65bn (&pound;92m) in 2006 just 18 months after it launched, has faced consistent criticism on both sides of the Atlantic over some of the videos posted by its huge user base.As well as unsuitable or offensive videos, copyright holders have complained that their material is being posted without their permission. The media giant Viacom and the English Premier League are among those who have launched legal action against what they see as copyright infringement on a grand scale.Here too, YouTube argues that it takes videos down as soon as they are flagged up by copyright holders.
In this week'sTech Weekly, the man with his mind on the media,Matt Wells, stands in forAleks Krotoski, our girl with a grip on technology.And media is a theme of our main interview this week. Ewan McIntosh fromChannel 4's4iP projectcomes into the studio to tell the podcast why Channel 4 is getting involved in something that isn't going to make television, how it's going to manage it, and where the money's coming from ...Later in the programme, Mr Lastminute.comBrent Hobermantalks toJemima Kiss.  Hoberman has founded a new web business and has invested in a couple more. He gives his take on the industry at the moment, and proposes the best way to stop Google's inexorable rise and rise.And sandwiched between the two,Alekswill be speaking to David Wortley, director of theSerious Games institute.  She'll be finding out what a serious game is – aren't games supposed to be fun? And finally, hear why Guitar Hero can develop your sense of wellbeing.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Former Microsoft CTO Nathan Myrhvold has made a lot of noise in recent years with his new companyIntellectual Ventures, a hothouse of thinkers who brainstorm lots of ideas for new technologies - 20,000 patents at the last count.Seen by some as the Henry Ford of innovation - as in thisglowing featureby Malcolm Gladwell in the New Yorker - he has also been accused of acting as apatent troll.Today a report in theWall Street Journal(subscription) examines the huge sums IV is making by pressuring companies to license the patents it has filed - including deals of up to $400m from names like Cisco and Verizon. The most cunning thing is that he doesn't actually sue for infringement, but simply gets companies to roll over by flexing his enormous patent library.In an interview at his Bellevue, Wash., headquarters, Mr. Myhrvold acknowledged facing resistance from companies he targets for licenses. But his patent inventory gives him leverage to extract settlements without litigation. "I say, 'I can't afford to sue you on all of these, and you can't afford to defend on all these,'" Mr. Myhrvold said.But does the lack of lawsuits make it OK? Without attempting to implement some of these ideas - you know,actually buildsome of the technologies his brain trust dreams up - isn't there a good chance that Myhrvold is holding back the innovation he champions?
We already knew that China's Lenovo was bringing out one 0.9kg minibook, theIdeaPad S10, with a 10.2 inch screen. Now it turns out that there will also be an S9 model with an 8.9 inch screen -- andCNet Asiahas the specs.Both minibooks have the same chassis with Intel Atom processors, 1GB of memory, Windows XP Home and webcams with VeriFace face recognition. And according toTaiwan's DigiTimes, the S9's pricing starts at "NT$10,900 (US$340), currently the lowest price among netbook products in Taiwan."DigiTimes adds:Lenovo will be focusing on pushing its netbooks to insurance, direct sales, finance and car markets. The netbooks are manufactured by OEM giant Quanta Computer.This is a pleasant change from pushing netbooks at children, saying they are not suitable for business use. (Quanta also makes MacBooks, including the awful MacBook Air.)Lenovo is a combination of China's Legend, a giant PC manufacturer, and IBM's old PC division, which invented the PC (but not the personal computer, obviously). It is well placed to ship vast quantities of minibooks to large businesses, if it so desires, and it may be unopposed. Dell doesn't want to do this -- it thinks minibooks don't have the capabilities that businesses need -- and we can assume Sony isn't interested, because the profit margins on minibooks are too small to be worth the effort.
We're starting the long (around 18 months) run-in for Windows 7 and it has now reached Milestone 3.Mary-Jo Foley at ZD Netreports that "I have seen the future -- specifically Windows 7 Milestone 3 (Build 6780)" albeit only briefly. However, she confirms that Monday's much more detailed "hypothetical post" by AeroXperience staff member Bryant Zadegan seems to be "right on the money with his hypotheses about what's changed in the latest internal test builds."One theme under Steve Sinofsky -- who ran Microsoft Office when it added the ribbon interface -- is the addition of ribbon interfaces to parts of Windows 7, such as WordPad and Paint (seeUX Evangelist). This is understandable since (a) the ribbon is better and (b) Google and others have blatantly copied the old Office interface.It also includes Windows PowerShell, which has been in public development for more than two years -- see thePowerShell Team Blog.Either way, don't expect anything too dramatic. As MJF notes:From what admittedly little I had a chance to see, Windows 7 does not look or feel like a major departure from Windows Vista.This is, of course, a good thing. Windows XP was only a 0.1 upgrade on Windows 2000, which was a massive advance on Windows 98SE but rubbished by the ignorati, many if not most of whom had never even used it. Windows 7 will, like XP, arrive with the driver and software compatibility problems solved (much like Vista today, basically) and the interface tarted up a bit. And, like XP, it will therefore be able to fill any pent-up demand artificially created by people who have never actually used it, or, at best, not used it recently.
Is there something in the economic weather? Hmmm... I think perhaps there is.Thus Dell is warning of "soft" demand from end-users (I think it really means buyers)spreading from the US to Europe:The company is seeing further softening in global end-user demand in the current quarter and we felt it was important to share that with investors.Overjoyed by such pragmatism, the markets marked its shares down 11%.And elsewhere, Samsung is making a $26 per share bid for SanDisk public. There have been rumours for more than a week now that this was coming; the bid values Sandisk at $5.85bn. But theearly reactionsuggests that the US government would oppose the bid, on the basis that it would give Samsung majority control of the global supply of NAND Flash memory chips.The logic behind the bid, though, is that times are tough for Flash makers. They need to huddle together to protect margins. Or they won't be able to invest in new production. It's the semiconductor story as it's always been.That would then mean that Apple (which you might recall cornered the market for Flash a few years ago) and others would be unable to negotiate on price. So that would mean more expensive iPods (heavens!) an also more expensiveLilliputers/ultraportables.Samsung is already the largest producer of NAND Flash; currently, SanDisk works with Toshiba, and the two have co-invested in production lines.Samsung first made its approach in May when SanDisk's share price was $28.75. SanDisk shares finished yesterday at $15 on the US Nasdaq, though in aftermarket trading they went up to $22.93.We'll see what happens when the market opens at 2pm...follow it here.There's also avery good backgrounder about Sandisk's 2008 woeson the Seeking Alpha blog (by a venture capitalist):SanDisk digs itself into a new hole almost daily, as the NAND flash chip market continues to suffer from oversupply and falling prices. After Intel Corporation (INTC) warned two weeks back of a 2% loss in gross margins on its entire first quarter sales because of the NAND sector, Toshiba (TOSBF.PK), followed suit last week with a warning of its own. Toshiba, as is known, is SanDisk's partner in its fabs in Japan. These two warnings, coupled with another warning last week from handset manufacturer Sony Ericsson (SNE), a major SanDisk customer, broke JP Morgan analyst Paul Coster who downgraded SanDisk to "Neutral" from "Overweight" causing the weekly drop in the share.
Well, there's nothing much to talk about, is there? Especially for anyone who works at Black Nag Towers. So get on and chatter away..
Yesterday, we followed Moore from Dreamcast to Xbox 360. Today, there's more from the Microsoft years, including a damning indictment of UK developer, Rare. And what does the rest of Microsoftreallythink of the Xbox business?So during your reign at Xbox, how hands on were you, at a creative level?I ran the entire business – everything reported to me. So I would go from meetings with McCann Erickson who did the Standoff spot, into an Xbox Live retention meeting to a financial commitments meeting looking at the quarterly numbers – it was a complicated yet exhilarating time, we were trying to pull all of these pieces together. And the [profit and loss forecasts] of what we were doing would absolutely make your hair curl.Was there any point in this process where you felt out of your depth?Not really – a lad from Liverpool who was a soccer player?! Why would I feel out of my depth at a strategic multi-million dollar marketing meeting?! No, because we'd all been there from the get-go, as regards to understanding what we needed to do… I had no business education, I'm not an MBA… unlike a lot of other people I've worked with who are incredibly smart people, MBA students that have worked their way through the ranks – that's just not me.I know what I don't know, which is very important in life, so you tend to surround yourself with people that make up for your deficiencies.How was Xbox perceived in the rest of Microsoft?Two very distinct camps. I'd say the great majority of people loved it. It was a great rallying cry, they were proud of the fact we were doing consoles – it was the first physical thing you could really get behind at Microsoft other than a mouse or a keyboard, and it was entertainment. The great majority loved it. There was a vocal minority that disagreed with videogames as a cultural phenomenon – the content we were doing – we did M rated, we did allow GTA to be published on the platform and I had no issues with that… and then the drain on the company's stock price, because we were a multi-billion dollar investment group and it had an impact on the stock price.From an overall cultural point of view there were people who felt we shouldn't do this, but the great majority were proud of it… they love the fact that they can take something home to their kids and say, this is what we do. And in the store, the huge Microsoft store, you could buy videogames that said Microsoft – that was very important to morale at a time when the Microsoft stock hadn't moved.Was Xbox more about getting a presence in the living room than turning a profit?It was certainly very important. We couldn't afford not to be – we believed that broadband connections were going to move out of the bedroom into the living room, which they have done, or that wireless networks were simply going to take over and your broadband connection would be ubiquitous around the house. There was a huge bet they made on the original Xbox, not to put in dial-up, just to put a broadband modem in there at a time when the great majority of people were still connecting via dial-up modem – it was a ballsy bet to say, ah we don't care about you, you're a bunch of luddites we're going to move on to the people who connect the real way.And in the same way, not having a hard drive in every Xbox 360 was a hard decision, but we wanted to get price under control. The hard drive in every Xbox killed us; we we're still selling it at $199 and the hard drive was like $70. That's why we prematurely left the original Xbox, because the more we were selling – there was still great demand – it was killing us, and there was no way to bring the price down. So in the end we determined at around the 25 million unit mark that we just needed to slow this thing down and just not sell any more, and move to the 360 as quickly as we possibly could. And to this day people still believe we left the Xbox too early but it was purely for financial purposes.What do you think has been the biggest driver for Xbox – the online component or Halo?It's always been software. We always believe that software drives hardware – it's razors and blades – and for better or for worse, Halo and more recently things like Gears of War have been content that's driven… With Xbox Live Arcade we always believed it would bring in a more casual user, but basically XBLA is casual content for hardcore users. Clearly we needed to broaden our consumer base – it wasn't about your or I anymore, it was about bringing women in, it was about bringing younger consumers in, but we were still perceived as Halo Box – and in some senses we were our own worst enemy, in that we had this incredible content, but it continued to define who the consumer was - then what did we do? We backed it up with chainsaws in Gears of War!Then we went off, and I spent a lot of time in the Midlands with Rare, trying to work on stuff that would give us a little bit more balance. And so a few years ago we started working on Viva Pinata, and again we wanted to do it differently because we knew we couldn't just launch piñata at the same time as we were focusing on efficient killing. And so we did a deal with Saturday morning TV who launched a cartoon series which is still very popular to get the piñata characters up and running. So we used Viva Pinata as a broader play into the more casual market to attract younger consumers, female consumers and to take a little bit of the edge off the box.I thought ultimately it would be very successful – and you know, Microsoft, we'd had a tough time getting Rare back – Perfect Dark Zero was a launch title and didn't do as well as Perfect Dark… but we were trying all kinds of classic Rare stuff and unfortunately I think the industry had past Rare by – it's a strong statement but what they were good at, new consumers didn't care about anymore, and it was tough because they were trying very hard - Chris and Tim Stamper were still there – to try and recreate the glory years of Rare, which is the reason Microsoft paid a lot of money for them and I spent a lot of time getting on a train to Twycross to meet them. Great people. But their skillsets were from a different time and a different place and were not applicable in today's market.
European regulators are investigating an online advertising deal brokered between Google and Yahoo following news of a similar inquiry by the US department of justice.Under the terms of the deal, announced in June, Google will be able to sell advertising on its rival's website in return for a share of the profits. That prospect has angered rivals and customers, who believe this could hand too much power to the increasingly dominant Google.A spokesman for EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroes said that an inquiry into the $800m (&pound;445m) agreement between the Silicon Valley-based companies was launched over the summer.The news comes just a week after it emerged the US department of justice was conducting its own investigation, and had hired a prominent Washington litigator to oversee proceedings.Sandy Litvack, the lawyer who headed the US government's anti-trust team under Jimmy Carter and more recently sat on the board of Disney, has been brought in to advise a team examining allegations that the arrangement is anti-competitive.David Turetsky, a former US deputy assistant attorney general who specialised in anti-trust cases under the Clinton administration, said Litvack's reputation was a good indication that the government meant business.With the investigation already running for several months and apparently considered a high-status case - which has allowed investigators to issue subpoenas for evidence - Turetsky said he believed the chances of an eventual lawsuit were high.Yahoo responded to news of the Brussels investigation much as it had to the US inquiry, saying it would co-operate fully with investigators. Google, meanwhile, brushed aside the news by saying the terms of its deal would have no impact on the European advertising market.
As chief executive and then chairman of IBM in the UK for an astonishing 25-year span from the 1960s to the 1990s, Sir Edwin Nixon, who has died aged 83, was one of the most powerful influences in shaping British industry's response to the technological revolution. Besides building up IBM's own manufacturing activities to the point where the company employed more than 15,000 people in Britain, with UK turnover increasing from &pound;45m to &pound;1.6bn, he was a tireless advocate of management education, with results to be seen in a clutch of academic institutions.Perhaps his most telling achievement was to operate the subsidiary of one of the world's most prescriptive companies - employees of "Big Blue", as IBM was known, were renowned for never deviating from their white shirts with dark suits and a "sincere" tie - in a manner that encouraged UK staff and enabled IBM to be appreciated as a key part of the British industrial scene. Nixon succeeded by paying careful attention to staff views, with the company's own Speak Up programme, and by leading from the front in encouraging them to engage in the community and business associations. IBM became renowned for secondment of managers to voluntary and other organisations. Nixon himself was active in the CBI, Business in the Community and a range of other business organisations, and chaired the trustees of the Royal Opera House.His sophisticated understanding of cultural differences - UK employees were never expected to sing the company song, for example - did not impede a drive for results and relentless attention to detail which saw IBM UK regularly meet the demanding targets set by IBM's European headquarters in Paris and ultimately Armonk, New York.Nixon was renowned for his clear analysis. An approachable but controlled presence, he was always ready to speak his mind. He was born in Leicester and attended a local grammar school, Alderman Newton, before Selwyn College, Cambridge, where he read maths. In 1950 he joined Dexion, which manufactured patented storage systems, as a management accountant. In 1952 he married his first wife, Joan Hill, and in 1955 he was recruited by IBM.The company had established operations in Britain only four years earlier, with products such as punched card machines for data storage, which faced fierce competition in the UK. Nixon became managing director within 10 years, at what was then regarded as the young age of 40. By then IBM was establishing itself as the leading manufacturer of huge mainframe computers. Its 370 series launched in 1970 was a world beater, and in 1981 it launched the first personal computer.The reputation of IBM machines gave the company huge advantages, encapsulated in the popular business tag that "No one ever got fired for buying IBM." But Nixon faced particular problems in the UK as successive governments attempted to build up an indigenous industry and engineered the creation of ICL as a national champion. Nixon made his own contribution to British technology, encouraging the concept of Silicon Glen, with a cluster of computer businesses in Scotland echoing California's Silicon Valley and building a second IBM manufacturing complex at Havant in Hampshire, not far from his home in Petersfield.Within IBM, he championed British manufacturing, no easy task in the 1970s and 80s. He scorned the idea of Britain as "a museum piece barely sustained on a diet of tourism and service industries". He was disappointed when production of some large computers was switched to France but scored a spectacular success when Greenock became a centre for production of the ground-breaking PC. By 1983, its exports were worth &pound;160m. It was the vindication of a strategy articulated in 1980 when Nixon rethought the UK operation on the basis that "everything that's happened is irrelevant to what is going to happen".IBM felt discriminated against in the important government contracts, and Nixon complained to a Commons select committee that other companies had to undercut ICL by at least 25% to win business in the public sector. He took the pragmatic decision to avoid defence contracts, where the odds were stacked against him, but to compete for other government work. IBM's significant successes helped secure a 40% share of the UK market.From his HQ on the South Bank by the Thames, close to the National Theatre, Nixon encouraged his staff to be involved in the wider industry. IBM played an active part in the National Computer Centre and he chaired the CBI's committee on consumer and marketing affairs from 1971 to 1978.IBM's own culture put a high priority on management training and Nixon was one of the leading businessmen in trying to get British companies to take it seriously. For a decade he was a member of the Foundation for Management Education, he chaired the council of the Manchester Business School and he was a council member of the Oxford Centre for Management Studies (now Templeton College).By the time he stepped down from IBM in 1990 other companies were marketing their own PCs and IBM struggling to adapt from a business with a relatively few large customers to one which also sold millions of small machines through dealers. But as his successor, Sir Anthony Cleaver, puts it: "To lead an organisation for 20 years through a period of unparalleled change, to see how to handle these huge technological changes and stay at the head of the company was an outstanding achievement."Nixon's strategic skills were recognised by appointment in 1988 as chairman of Amersham International, the former medical diagnostics arm of the Atomic Energy Authority, recently the Thatcher government's first privatisation. He was credited with introducing a more commercial outlook and encouraging executive talent, notably with the appointment of Bill (now Sir William) Castell as chief executive.Nixon was knighted in 1984. Well connected in the City, he was a director of Royal Insurance and deputy chairman of NatWest from 1987 until 1996. His extensive educational activity included serving as pro-chancellor and chairman of the council of Leicester University and as president of the National Association for Gifted Children.After the death of Joan, in 1995, Nixon married Bridget Rogers in 1997. She and a son and daughter from his first marriage survive him.&#183;Edwin Ronald Nixon, businessman, born June 21 1925; died August 17 2008
On theWindows Server Division blog, Tina Crouch has announced a cheap Cray CX1 supercomputer runningWindows HPC Server 2008, the "high performance computing" version of Windows Server. She says:How can you get one?! It's as easy as shopping on Amazon.com.  Customers can go online, order the CX1 system using a configurator and pay with credit card. If that's not making supercomputing mainstream, I don't know what is.The CX1 is basically a blade server that can take up to 8 blades, each with one or two Intel Xeon processors. For extra power, you can link up to three CX1s together.Most supercomputing is done with Unix or Linux, of course, and the CX1 isn't intended to compete in the "proper" supercomputer market. Instead, it's aimed at the tiny (but potentially large) market for deskside supercomputing, where the users already know how to use Windows but don't have a clue about Linux. This is probably around 99% of business users, and the majority of academic users.This is the first Cray to use Intel chips, and according toCray's press release:"Cray's CX1 system will bring many HPC capabilities to the office that were previously confined to the datacenter, enabling more users to employ supercomputing to help them solve some of their most difficult computational problems," said Richard Dracott, Intel's General Manager of High Performance Computing, "In addition, we continue to collaborate with Cray on developing the supercomputing technologies of the future, aimed at all segments of the HPC market."An additional benefit for Microsoft is that by investing in the HPC version of Windows, it's able to develop and test features that can be fed back into the mainstream Windows Server 2008 and Windows Vista, which are based on the same code.The latest HPC version of Windows is being officially announced in New York on September 22 at the2008 High Performance on Wall Streetconference where they need high-speed results. Maybe there's still time to knock out a "How much less will my derivates and sub-prime mortgages be worth in the next 60 seconds?" application.
Google held a Developer Day today at Wembley Stadium, and Mike Jennings showed a "Google phone". According toTechRadar, it "looked very much like the HTC Dream, but had its branding covered up."As with Microsoft, and in contrast to Apple, there will be no attempt to lock down the system to prevent people running whatever applications they like."The cool stuff is running your own apps!" said Jennings. "I spent two hours writing my own apps using a background thread and surface view to access the hardware buffer."As mentioned here on August 15:HTC's Dream googlephone [is] expected before ChristmasAccording toThe Wall Street Journal, T-Mobile is expected to announce the phone on September 23. The story says:The phone's manufacturer, HTC Corp., forecasts sales that are rosier than analysts' estimates. HTC says it expects to ship 600,000 to 700,000 units of the smart phone, dubbed the Dream, this year, a person close to the situation said Monday. The target exceeds analysts' estimates of 300,000 to 500,000.
It looks as though September 16 was the day planned for the Zune 3.0 update -- whichsneaked outearlier -- and Microsoft duly provided details. In a run-down of new features such as Buy from FM, channels and Mixview, Microsoft points out that all previous Zunes can be upgraded free.Micrososft says:In addition to launching Zune Channels, which push new music to subscribers' collections each week, and personalized music recommendations, Zune Marketplace also offers editorial features such as the Zune School Music Masters Program and the Xbox Gamer Central pages, as well as Instant Collections playlists to help consumers explore specific themes and genres. Zune Marketplace now offers more than 4 million songs, 80% of which are available as digital rights management (DRM)-free MP3s; 8,500 music videos; 3,000 episodes of popular TV shows; and more than 6,000 audio and video podcasts.There's also, at last, a clock.Separately,Microsoft announcedthat it was working with hot-spot provider Wayport Inc "to deliver Zune users free, wireless access to the Zune Marketplace from more than 9,800 participating McDonald's restaurants across the US."Note that this is not Internet access: unfortunately Zune players do not have a browser and cannot handle browser-based Wi-Fi log-in screens. It's simply a connection to a Microsoft-run shop. (OK, it's a service if you pay for thesubscriptionservice.)iPhone and iPod Touch users may know that Wayport also operates the AT&amp;T-branded hotspots.
Is this year shaping up to be the most important – and lucrative – gaming Christmas ever? Last year the PS3 was still in the early adoption phase while the 360 was a hardcore gamer dream machine. This year the PS3 and 360 have the wider spread of titles, greater visibility and crucially, in the 360's case,a price cut.Microsoft European announcement sees the entry-level – and fairly pointless - Xbox 360 Arcade cut to UKP129.99. The standard console – now with a 60GB HD rather than 20GB – is down to UKP169. While the 120GB Xbox 360 Elite, which feels slightly overpriced despite the cut, is at UKP229.99.So what does this mean? Microsoft is spinning the cut as being a complement to the forthcomingXbox Live overhaulbut clearly there is more to it. Microsoft desperately needs the 360 to expand into the wider games market so successfully exploited by Nintendo.  With the standard model (60GB HD) now ten pounds cheaper than the Wii you can see the marketing potential. But will it be enough?Forget Wii for a minute – it will certainly outsell the 360 and PS3 over Christmas. But can the price cut help the 360 win the sales battle with PS3 this Christmas?  Or will Sony and Playstation's brand loyalty – will this year see the millions of PS2 users finally upgrade? - win out over the cheaper Xbox? That's assuming Sony don't cut the European PS3 price, of course.
Apple's iTunes may have a serious challenger in the UK and Europe* with the launch of7digital's new MP3 download store. It claims it is "the first digital music store in Europe to offer downloads from all four major labels, Sony BMG, Universal Music, Warner Music and EMI Records, in the MP3 format." The selection includes Universal acts such as Amy Winehouse, U2, Guns'N'Roses and The Cure.* Ireland, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Austria and Portugal.Many but not all downloads are available as 320kbps MP3s, and some in the FLAC lossless format. Also, if you have already bought tracks in protected WMA (Windows Media Audio) format, or any Sony BMG tracks, you can have the MP3 versions free. Unlike iTunes tracks, 7digital's MP3s should be playable forever on almost any device.Although the four million tracks are mostly pop, there's a reasonable selection of jazz, including 112 Miles Davis albums, 60 from Keith Jarrett, 21 by Cannonball Adderley and eight from John Surman. It's a bit weak on IDM (Aphex Twin, Boards of Canada etc).The site also offers videos and tracks from the 7digital Indiestore: there are tabs for both on the search box. Search is generally excellent, and provides progressive suggestions. Typing [mitch], for example, brings up a dozen possible selections including Joni Mitchell, Mitchell &amp; Webb, and Tenebrous Mitchell. You can also browse by artist, click a tag (Pop, Rock, Dance etc) or visit a featured section such as Mercury Music Prize, Music from TV Ads, or Best of 2008 (so far).But as withPassionato, the new classical download store Ireviewed in yesterday's Netbytes, price may still be a stumbling block for many people. If you happen to want, say, Radiohead'sIn Rainbows, do you want to pay £7.99 for the 320kbps MP3 version or £9.99 for FLAC's superior quality? Do you want to pay 99p or £1.49 for the individual tracks? You could buy the CD from Amazon.co.uk for £7.98 and rip it yourself.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
One hundred years from now, schoolchildren will study the computer game classics just as they study classic books, music, art and film.I suppose many people might find this statement absurd. While our culture recognises that films can be art – and is coming to understand thattelevisionandcomic bookscan be too – computer games continue to be viewed as a medium that simply cannot support serious artistic endeavour.As a result of this, the debate around children and gaming continues to centre on whether gaming is "good for children" – whether games improve hand-eye co-ordination for example, or promote literacy skills.But this is the wrong kind of question. If gaming were seen as an art, the important question would be not whether games are good for us, but whether they are good, full stop.Watching Hamlet debate whether to kill his uncle isn't likely to improve anyone's reasoning skills, and listening to a Sibelius concerto won't produce a measurable improvement in mathematical ability. The arts are valuable because they increase our sense of what it means to be human, not because of any specific skill or ability they confer.So what can the makers of computer games do to increase the chances of their products being seen as art? First, of course, make good games. But this has been happening for a long time.Older games like Myst, the Monkey Island series, Grim Fandango and the Silent Hill series, along with newer games like Braid, Portal, Okami, and the Grand Theft Auto series as well as dozens of other games have a depth, subtlety, richness and originality that put them squarely into the box labelled "art".Second, though, is a less obvious step. To be seen as art, games need to be easier. A lot easier. They don't have to be only easy. They can provide Elite Super Awesome levels for the enjoyment of those who love to be challenged.But at the very least games that rely on "twitch" reflex skills should also provide a super-easy "wuss" setting. A level that's easy enough for anyone – including a 75-year-old who's never held a controller before – to make their way through without frustration. That is, if they ever want to be taken seriously as art.Why? Because another word for "easy" is "accessible". Accessibility is big in art. Galleries provide audio guides – or, to put it another way, "built-in walkthroughs". Classic novels come with notes and modern English translations – that is, they do the hard bits for you.Even the Proms did their bit for accessibility when they put on aDr Who concertthis year.Most artists and arts administrators understand that there's no point in creating astonishing, transformative work if you don't help as many people as possible to see and understand it.But, if you're interested in seeing a game, rather than conquering it, there's often no way to bypass the difficult parts. If Turner Prize-winners and atonal symphonies are accused of being inaccessible to the majority of people, where does that leave most of Grand Theft Auto IV?Of course some hardcore gamers would find this idea unacceptable. If you take away the challenge of a game, if you let just anyone walk through it, pressing the "wuss" button when they want to ignore a hard element, what's the point of the whole thing?But these debates are part of the process. After all, no field can really be considered an art until some elitists complain that it's been dumbed down.
Peter Moore thought he could win the console war with Dreamcast. He was wrong. Sony's ingenious PR foiled his plans, but for Moore, this was just the beginning. Part Two of our interview, takes him from the collapse of Dreamcast to the heights of Microsoft's ambitions for Xbox - ambitions that could well have destroyed the Nintendo we know today...What was the key lesson you took out of the failure of Dreamcast?You know, failure's a tough word! It didn't quite get there. I was angry with Sony at the time, but in their shoes I probably would have done the same thing. They did a tremendous job – and it's a story they repeated in 2005 with Killzone – where they promised the consumer something they probably believed they were going to deliver, but they never did. PlayStation 2 - it was the emotion engine it was games coming to life, Real Player was going to be on there, a full network browser… and they just never delivered.But what they did was place doubt in the consumers' mind. It was pre-emptive guerrilla PR, in the same way that three E3s ago I got lambasted for what I did with Xbox for 360, because I was determined we were going to show real footage even if it was alpha or beta. And then Sony came up with that Killzone video – and they still haven't shipped the game! Have you seen the video?! The game will never be the video! But what they did again was they placed doubt. I mean it's a classic PR tactic.So going back to Dreamcast vs PS2, you felt the impetus slipping away…It was a horrible period because, all of a sudden, you could sense consumers thinking twice about Dreamcast. I was $199, it was the first online console, we had some great games – SoulCalibur, Sonic Adventure, Trickstyle, Ready 2 Rumble. When you look at them today, you chuckle, but they were on the cutting edge graphically at that time…But [Sony] were brilliant at FUD – you know, fear uncertainty and doubt. It was a massive FUD campaign. The consumer thought twice and they started to read, 'can the Dreamcast make it?' It had a tough time in Europe, it had a really disastrous time in Japan. My job was… my personality was such that I'll go up and start being a little more on the front foot… It was like, 'well, what do you do?' You just do it yourself. You start talking, you don't wait for the Japanese to give you messaging – because PR is something they don't do very well, they just don't do that concept of messaging and having passion around the message – the only thing we could do was be passionate. But it was too little too late unfortunately.So you were at Sega for another two years after that…Yeah, my job was to transition the company from being a hardware company, which it had been for two decades, and off I go to Nintendo and Sony…Was that a difficult time?It was not optimistic. We had developers, Yuji Naka, Yu Suzuki, all these people who had never worked on anything other than first-party hardware. And now we're saying you need to go multi-platform, and it was just not comfortable for them whatsoever. You don't just one day say 'well we're just going to go from our Dreamcast dev kits to our PS2 or Xbox.' Microsoft set up a deal for us and we started to work on things like Crazy Taxi and bringing them over to Xbox – we did I think an 11 title deal.And in the end you fell out with your bosses in Japan, because they were still relying on arcade conversions when the rest of the world was playing GTA. But how did this lead to your arrival at Microsoft?Robbie Bach called me to wish me a merry Christmas and asked how I was doing. I said I'm not too good, I'm fed up of trying to convince Japan that we need to either go off and hire western developers or really change what we're publishing and developing in Japan, because the western world is really starting to take over, and the Japanese developers were being marginalized. And Robbie said well if you would ever consider coming here, there's a home for you at Microsoft.So in January (2003) I flew up there and had lunch with Steve Ballmer and you don't say no to Ballmer. We had a great lunch and he convinced me that Microsoft was going to take on Sony; so I get to put on my suit of armour, get on my horse and take on Sony again – but with a little bit more money this time! And I said yes.Was Ballmer interested in what you'd achieved at Sega or in your attitude as a businessman?He wanted my attitude, he didn't care what I'd achieved at Sega, he wanted to know how I was going to win for Microsoft, how we were going to take on Sony, how would we compete with – or acquire – Nintendo. Those were the conversations in those days. It was a classic build or buy conversation. Xbox had launched but it was an aggressive black box for shooters, and how do we evolve that, how do we build the next Xbox, how do we get after Sony? Interestingly, we were just completely fixated on Sony – Nintendo didn't even come into the conversation. But Steve was very compelling, particularly when you're one-on-one with him in his office – we talked about what we'd done to compete with Sony, where I felt their weaknesses were. But the bigger picture for Steve was, we need to get into the world of consumer entertainment. There's a role for Microsoft to play, we truly believe in Xbox as being something that can… there was a little bit of a concern with Sony – we wanted to keep them out of the living room, from a software and services perspective. And then I started work at Microsoft on February 1 2003.And what did Ballmer hope you'd bring to the table?I had on-the-ground fighting experience in Japan, so when I started, I took over Japan, because we were just a disaster there. And then being British I also had the European group and then it quickly evolved into a global role, running Xbox Worldwide. But in me, you're not getting a 'poring through Excel spreadsheets'- type of guy. You get the face of the business, someone who can be there in a broader role, leadership, speak for the business, give it a little bit of personality - and then you hope that the smart people then bring it all along behind you. And, boy, there are plenty of smart people at Microsoft.So we built the 360, and those were tremendous times. We were watching the clay models being built, trying to decide what to call it. Doing the mnemonic shhhhh noise when it boots up – I can remember sitting in a room listening to 50 little one second mnemonic noises til we got it right. A whole day working on that. And then, the shape of the 360, we actually built 20 prototypes to confuse the bloggers – we took pictures of them all and then we just spread them around the web, just to confuse everybody.And then one day in Redmond I said, 'I'm sick of consoles being launched with massively expensive ad campaigns, I'm going to do this differently'. So I called up MTV, because my relationships were still good from the VMAs, and I said, 'can I do a 30 minute show'… I said to my head of PR, we're not going to launch this like any other console, we're going to do it on MTV, we're going to do a 30 minute show – I didn't use the term infomercial but that's what it ended up being.And then we built a thing calledZero Hour. We went out to Area 51 and took over a hanger and we said, we're going to talk to the community in a very different way - we're going to pick 5000 people – I think we did it online – and they're all going to drive out to the Californian desert where UFOs are usually spotted, and we're going to take over one of the world's biggest hangers - it was phenomenal. And for 24 hours before we launched we let people play with the games, thousands of fans – we did it at a grassroots level rather than the big glitzy affair with Dreamcast – we really re-defined the way a console is launched.Were you specifically responding to the growth of the blogging culture?Yes, because we wanted online – we knew we were going to build Xbox Live and we were going to build it even more aggressively than we did on Xbox. I don't think the word blog existed back in 2003, but we knew we had to talk to our community. The brand had to evolve from black and aggressive - it needed to be organic. We went to Japan and worked with a company called Hers to give us that concave shape - when you look at it, it relaxes you. We took all the sharp edges out - otherwise we were going to get the same 25 million people and lose the same two billion dollars again. You need to scale the business.And then we went and did three of the wackiest TV commercials you've ever seen. One wasStandoff, which in fact you never saw because it was banned. Well, it wasn't banned, I couldn't get it through Microsoft – one of the greatest videogame commercials ever. I thought it was brilliant. We filmed it in Buenos Aires in a railway station - we loved this idea of play and we came up with this idea of 'Jump In' as a tagline. We wanted to do ads that had nothing to do with videogames, we didn't want to advertise videogames, we wanted to advertise fun.But Standoff was a little different, it was a little risky. I showed it one morning to the head of corporate marketing at Microsoft and she said, 'over my dead body will you ever run this spot on TV'. I went ballistic – it's cops and robbers, it's cowboys and Indians, it's what we did as kids! But we never ran it… we didn't need to because it's been seen millions of times on YouTube...That's how we got the Xbox 360 out – and you're talking multi-billion dollar risks, taking on Sony… and it wasn't just videogames, it was, where does Microsoft go in the home? And what is the tip of the spear? Well, it's Xbox 360 – and Xbox Live was going to be – and it is – the biggest social network ever attached to a television – that was the concept we were always working to.
Over at the Times, they'vegot the scoopon a patent application filed by Google which outlines a novel idea for data centres: offshoring them.And by offshore, we don't just mean in another country, but floating. In the sea.Just like pirate radio in the 1960s, Google's idea (andhere's the original patent application) would be to take to the high seas - in this case using the water to cool the centre and powering it with wave energy.In many ways it's a silly concept:  Techdirtprovides ample scepticism, and it's worth pointing out that the offshore distance mooted (between 3 and 7 miles) wouldn't put them out of the reach of the tax regimes of national governments, as the Times suggests (they'd need to be at least 12 nautical miles,according to the UN).Still, it's the sort of thing to fire the imagination - even if only temporarily. And the idea of Eric Schmidt dressed in a pirate's costume is too funny/weird to pass up.
A few hours ago in San Francisco, Intel unveiled the Xeon 7400 family of server processors, code-named Dunnington, including its first six-core design. The range includes three low-voltage versions, whereas the 7300 range had one, and Intel is claiming "the lowest watts-per-core usage of any device in their category", reportsEE Times.And according to theFinancial Times, reporting from Mumbai, it's "the first microprocessor for the mass market that [Intel] has developed almost exclusively at its design centre in Bangalore in a milestone for the research and development of computer hardware in India." It says:"It's not just services and software that India is known for but this shows you also can do this kind of complex research and development and product design here in India," said Praveen Vishakantaiah, president of Intel India.AMD is trailing Intel at the 45nm level, and its six-core server processor, code-namedIstanbul, isn't expected until next year.Intel hasalready benefited from developing chips outside the US. Its lab in Israel came up with the Banias processor used in the original Centrino design for laptops. Intel then abandoned the US-designed high-clock-speed Pentium NetBurst architecture and switched to the new Core Duo design, Yonah. A six-core chip isn't exactly a novel idea but success should certainly enhance the Bangalore lab's credibility.
Once they've finished moaning about having too many games and too little time – poor loves – any games reviewer will tell you that it's the average titles that are the hardest to review. Criticising bad games is enjoyable, cathartic even, although with the generous budgets and attendant marketing guidance surrounding most modern releases it's getting harder to find real stinkers. Similarly the very best games – think 1-3% of releases - essentially write their own reviews. But it's the morass of okayness, the 6 or 7/10's (or 3/5 in Guardian money) that are the hardest to do.Take Star Wars The Force Unleashed, a game I havereviewed today. This is the classic example of a solid game that is entertaining enough but hardly groundbreaking.  Yes the story is pretty memorable but the action is overly repetitive.  The game is out this Friday – looking forward to it?
Over on our sister education blogMortarboard, Tanya Byron (yes,thatTanya Byron) has a piece lobbying for the introduction of better and data use in schools. "Online reporting is not about replacing or duplicating traditional methods of involving parents, such as parents' meetings or annual reports," she argues. "It's about giving parents up-to-date information at appropriate points through the year". Yup, instant measurement could be really useful... just don't take ittoo far, eh?
Back in January, Imade some predictions. (Some are coming true. Some ain't. We'll score in December.) But among those about companies, I suggested that we'll say goodbyeto Napster, which might get sold (a year after the For Sale sign was put up) but might just die quietly. As a brand, it's got a split personality and deserves to be put out of its misery.Now, the US retail chain Best Buy is at least doing the first bit of that -buying itfor $121m, which is a tidy $2.65 per share - double its closing price on Friday. (That's rather better than a few invesment banks we could name.)Best Buy says it's doing it to "reach new customers" and leverage - that is, squeeze some cash out of - Napster's present 700,000 subscribers.Napster had been swallowing smaller music outlets (which all flowered in the 2004/5/6 timeframe, but then discovered they couldn't beat the iPod+iTunes juggernaut); overall, it announced a loss of $16.8m for the 2008 financial year.But that's hardly telling the whole story. Napster's stock had fallen by 95% in the past six years, but this is at least a happy.. well, perhaps it's not an ending. Perhaps it's just a new middle for this company which in its first incarnation was all about peer-to-peer filesharing, and then all about DRM-protected subscription and download files, and latterly has abandoned DRM on its sold songs (but not subscription).Is the future in DRM-free everything? If so, it would be an amusingly circular way of getting back to Shawn Fanning's original idea.But Napster may not be quite out of the woods yet. Mark Mulligan, of Jupiter Research,notesthat "however bad things are for Napster in the US, multiply that many times for Europe".First Wippit, now Napster.. is this the real shakeout for music services?
Launching a classical music download store is a very brave, or perhaps foolhardy, thing to do. While kids shell out loadsamoney for ringtones, classical music buyers tend to be pernickety about recordings, and careful with their money, asPassionatomay soon discover.Passionato is a straightforward site offering classical music albums at decent quality but not at low prices. Typically, albums cost £7.99 for 320kbps MP3 versions and £8.99 for lossless Flac, though some cost £4/£5, and there are tracks at 79p/99p. Tracks are mercifully free of DRM (digital rights management) copy protection, so you can play them on anything, including iPods.You can browse Passionato's catalogue by Composers, Artists, Genres/Periods or Record Labels. The labels include EMI, Naxos, Chandos, and BBC Worldwide. Deutsche Grammophon isn't listed, but there are lots of DG albums inexplicably hidden under Universal Classics &amp; Jazz.The navigation doesn't always work. Looking for the sublime Alison Balsom, for example, I went to Artist, Instrumentalist, and clicked Trumpet, but she's not in the 76 results or its alphabetical listing. A global search for Balsom finds three albums, which is OK, but searching for Lang Lang finds hundreds because the hits include the "Sung Language" subheading, Jean Langlais, Nadia Boulanger etc. "Lang Lang" in quotes gets no results. Did no one test this thing?Really there should be an Advanced Search facility so you can specify composer, work, orchestra etc. It would be uniquely better if you could also specify things like modern or period instruments: we can dream!The site also has sections for new releases (Critic's Choice), a chart and special offers – sign on and you get 10 free tracks.Currently, Passionato doesn't have a deep enough catalogue or enough musical information. The catalogue ultimately depends on all the music majors signing up and making "out of print" recordings available. Ideally, for example, I want all four of Karajan's great Beethoven cycles, a choice of the original or remastered versions, and a guide to the differences. Passionato just has the remastered 1961-62 set and a couple of quotes.Full background information is probably not affordable unless you crowdsource it by providing a wiki or – as Amazon does – user reviews. Passionato has neither.But the biggest problem is money: if you find something you want, will you buy it?Take, for example, the Bach concertos played by Hilary Hahn. Passionato wants £7.99 for the 320kbps MP3 version. However, go to Amazon.co.uk and you can buy a new CD for less (£6.23 plus £1.24 shipping from Caiman USA) and rip it yourself. Which I did, ages ago.At Amazon.com, the MP3 version (256kbps) costs $8.99, and individual tracks cost 89c instead of 99p. For those who enjoyed the controversial Russian site AllOfMP3.com, MP3sparks.com offers the same download for $2.38 at 192kbps, with tracks at between 14c and 28c. And, of course, popular stuff like this circulates for free on file-sharing networks.Given the scale of the market challenge, one has to wish Passionato luck. It will need it.
Electronic Arts has finally ended its pursuit of rival Take-Two Interactive, ending a seven-month attempt to buy the publisher of Grand Theft Auto.California-based EA, the world's biggest games publisher, had made an initial $26 a share takeover bid in February, valuing its rival at more than $2bn. But after being spurned by the board of Take-Two on several occasions, executives announced yesterday that a deal was no longer a possibility.In a statement, Electronic Arts said that it retained "high regard" for its rival, but that talks had come to an end."After careful consideration – including a management presentation and review of other due diligence materials – EA has decided not to make a proposal to acquire Take-Two and has terminated discussions," it said.Take-Two chairman Strauss Zelnick responded with a statement repeating his claim that EA's approach significantly undervalued the New York-based company."We remain focused on creating value for our stockholders and our consumers," he said. "This has been our goal since EA launched its conditional and unsolicited bid six months ago, a bid which was repeatedly rejected by our stockholders."Although Take-Two is responsible for a number of popular games including BioShock and the Midnight Club racing series, it is best known as the publisher of the blockbuster Grand Theft Auto series.That game, produced by its subsidiary Rockstar and originally created in Scotland, is one of the industry's biggest titles and has become massively popular for its realistic environments – as well as notorious for its adult themes. When the latest instalment was released in April, it sold nearly 6m copies in its first week, grossing more than $500m.EA executives believed they could sell more copies of Take-Two's other games, as well as adding GTA to their existing stable of blockbuster titles – including The Sims, sports franchises such as Fifa Soccer and recently-released evolution simulator Spore.However, they could have waited too long to make an approach. Take-Two looked riped for acquisition 18 months ago, when former CEO Ryan Brant pleaded guilty to falsifying business records. But it has strengthened its hand since Zelnick took control of the company in a boardroom coup in March 2007.Ben Feder, the company's chief executive, made reference to that turnaround when responding to the news yesterday."Take-Two's business has continued to strengthen since the time EA first made its offers," he said. "We are confident in the unique value of our business given our strong position in what is a growing and dynamic industry."The company also confirmed that it was still in talks with "strategic partners", rumoured to include American media conglomerate Viacom.
In aspeech, Sir Tim Berners-Lee has announced a new the World Wide Web Foundation with a three-part mission:to advance One Web that is free and open,to expand the Web's capability and robustness,and to extend the Web's benefits to all people on the planet.He says:The Web Foundation will bring together business leaders, technology innovators, academia, government, NGOs, and experts in many fields to tackle challenges that, like the Web, are global in scale. The Web Foundation is in the unique position of being able to learn from the results of projects to accelerate the evolution of the Web.The Foundation will be run by Steve Bratt, who has posted awelcome note. There's also apress release, which says: "The Foundation will raise funds through a multi-faceted strategy, beginning with a $5 million seed grant over five years from the John S and James L Knight Foundation."BBC Newshas an interview with TBL, which says: "The Foundation will also look at concerns that the web has become less democratic, and its use influenced too much by large corporations and vested interests." Sir Tim expresses concern about the web's development as a major source of disinformation, saying:"On the web the thinking of cults can spread very rapidly and suddenly a cult which was 12 people who had some deep personal issues suddenly find a formula which is very believable," he said. "A sort of conspiracy theory of sorts and which you can imagine spreading to thousands of people and being deeply damaging."But I'm not sure you can do anything about that: it's the nature of the beast. Outside of politics, the only people who actually go around proselytizing for their views are the ones who are clearly wrong: if they were right, they wouldn't bother. Support for so-called "Intelligent design" is an obvious example.
The Force Unleashed is being hyped as the new Star Wars film. Not, perhaps, the biggest selling point considering the quality of the last few movies, but fans needn't worry – Unleashed focuses on the fun stuff rather than trade negotiations and political infighting.Play for five minutes and it becomes clear that you can switch your brain off. From the opening level featuring Darth Vader, to the meat of the game where you play as his apprentice, this is a shoot lightning, ask question later affair.Yes, you can hack away with your lightsaber, but the real fun is using the Force powers. Think gripping, throwing, lightning. Anyone who played ageing cult classic Psi-Ops will be familiar with the physics-based combat.And the game does makes you feel like a bad guy. From culling Wookies to electrocuting Jawas – complete with twitching corpses – there is enough here to satisfy your dark side.Fans will enjoy the story too, and even the less committed will appreciate some better-than-the-gaming norm characters and writing. But when it comes to gameplay, the verdict is less clear.Variety is the problem. Once the initial thrill of levitating Stormtroopers and blitzing Greedo's relatives wears off, the real incentive to continue – bar the story – is to gawp at an invariably pretty new planet or landscape.And with the odd dull interior aside, the impressive vistas in Force Unleashed are worth a visit.  But you may feel your heart sink as yet another wave of assailants comes running toward you.Force Unleashed is almost retro in its gameplay. No wandering off the beaten track, no lengthy conversations, no online – this is old-fashioned platforming/combat action that you could almost imagine in 2D.The game also makes you restart sections if you fail to reach a save point – loading screens are overly intrusive too – which feels almost quaint in these days of Bioshock/Too Human style no-loss death.Even the currently fashionable levelling and customisation – ie, get points for your kills which allow you to unlock new skills and armour and update your lightsaber – feel a little tacked on. This is most noticeable when starting a new level and suddenly finding yourself with an entirely new skill.Repetitive action isn't the only problem. For a game which requires rapid targeting – to manipulate items and attack enemies – the lock-in is frustratingly imprecise. Often you'll find yourself lifting a crate or sending lightening into a chair rather than the rampaging enemy.This is especially annoying when you have to take the game's misfiring camera into account. End of level boss battles are the worst culprit, with enemies often attacking off screen. These encounters are often a chore, with trial and error playing a big factor.The final scene usually involves a QTE sequence – press the buttons in the right order – which is great for adding a cinematic mood but feels unsatisfying after a lengthy fight.Despite these issues, the action – brainless as it is – is entertaining enough in short doses.  And the story alone makes this a must for Star Wars fans.  Not a classic then, but Force Unleashed is a solid action game that restores some of your faith in that galaxy far, far away.
Your Monday morning Chatterbox. But note - comments will close at 23:59 BST. So use them wisely...
Recently, I met Peter Moore, ex-head of Sega of America, ex-head of Xbox, now President of EA Sports. I was interviewing him for Esquire magazine (you can see that feature in the October issue), but there was alotof stuff I couldn't fit in. We talked for two hours about his entire career, about his highs and lows, and about some of the key controversies of the console wars.Over the next five days, I'm running the best of that frank and illuminating discussion, starting with Moore's early days in the States and his move to Sega...So let's go right back to the beginning. You graduated from a physical education college and went out to the States to teach soccer. What happened next?I needed a real job. I got a job for Patrick, the French football shoe company, and I became a sales rep in Southern California. I covered the area from the Mexican border all the way up to Bakersfield - which is a massive geographical expanse – in a Toyota Camry with a shoe bag. I moved up to San Francisco in the mid-eighties, and then I became president of Patrick in 1988. I was 11 years in total at Patrick, then I went to Reebok, to get them into worldwide sports with the focus on soccer. Reebok was in Boston: great city, awful winters – I wanted to get back to the West Coast, and that's how I got into videogames.A recruiter called me and said 'what do you know about videogames? Do you know Sega and have you ever heard of the Dreamcast?' and I replied 'Not much, yes I have and no, I haven't'. So we moved back to the Bay Area of San Francisco where Sega's based.What do you think Sega saw in your work at Reebok?I started at Reebok as Director of Global Sports – I was identified as someone who could globalize Reebok. I ended up as Senior Vice-President of Global Sports Marketing in the early years when we got Ryan Giggs, Dennis Bergkamp and Andy Cole. I signed Liverpool – which was a great moment for me as a Scouser.The Dreamcast was an interesting beast. Sega was so financially strapped, and it had already launched in Japan to a sort of tepid, luke-warm reaction. These are big stakes games. I mean, when you're launching a games console, you need hundreds of millions of dollars to get it off the ground… and so the North American launch was the last best chance – Europe was going to be launching but there wasn't enough there to salvage what was going to be a tough situation with the PS2 looming 12 months out … The US was the last best chance of getting the Dreamcast up and running.We amassed a very strong line up of titles, but unfortunately, EA - God bless 'em – decided they weren't going to publish on Dreamcast. That forced me to build my own sports brand, called 2K – we came up with the name one night, because it was the Y2K period, we needed to get the packaging done and we couldn't come up with a name. So we just said, 'let's call it 2K sports'. It was the best we could come up with.Dreamcast was a phenomenal 18 months of pain, heartache, euphoria… We thought we had it, but then Playstation came out, that infamous issue of Newsweek with the Emotion Engine on the cover… and of course, EA didn't publish which left a big hole, not only in sports but in other genres. We ended up that Christmas period not being able to get to where we needed to be – we weren't far short, we just couldn't get that critical mass…It seemed that the European office weren't as confident as the American office…We [Sega of America] knew we could win. It was just indicative of the complete lack of integration – the Dreamcast logo was blue in Europe instead of orange, the concept of a globalised brand, which we're now building here at EA Sports, just evaded the Japanese completely. And JF, who was the general manager in Europe, went his own way, had his own positioning. We had a very different positioning, we were very aggressive in the US – and it was a little challenging in Europe. There wasn't that, 'let's go and get them, we can win this battle'.You know, I loved the console wars and still do even though I'm no longer in the console business… the idea of being upfront, getting after Phil Harrison, getting after Kaz Hirai and then later getting after John Riccitiello… I think the consumer loves it, it adds publicity and it adds fire around the industry. And in those days we needed to because we didn't have the money …In the end it didn't work out. It was tough, but those were great days and I've never met anybody who regretted buying a Dreamcast. Soul Calibur anyone? We had a lot of content, a lot of fun and we had tremendous PR, and we got after it in a unique way – the 'Its thinking' campaign was a great campaign, we had these wacky 15-second spots on MTV, we launched on 9.9.99 at the MTV Music Awards, we hit the road with Linkin Park and Limp Bizkit of all people; the Family Values and Anger Management tours – we were a big brand.But then it all went pear-shaped in Christmas 2000.Okay, but let's go back to the hopeful years. You said you didn't have much money or much time, but you certainly seemed to make an impact.Oh yeah. I mean, I arrived in February and we were launching in September, so I had seven months to figure out, a) what the industry was and b) what the console and software were, and then build a marketing campaign. Which we did by April. In 60 days we came up with 'It's Thinking'. We filmed a huge ad spot in Vancouver, we went ten nights and did Apocalypse, a multimillion dollar TV spot (by ad firm Foote, Cone and Belding). It was this idea that the console was actually thinking, and it was bringing 747s down, it had this Black Rain-style look. We only ran that spot once on 9.9.99 during the video music awards and it became very viral - this is obviously a long time before YouTube.We had a tremendous 18 months. Dreamcast was on fire – we really thought that we could do it. But then we had a target from Japan that said – and I can't remember the exact figures – but we had to make N hundreds of millions of dollars by the holiday season and shift N millions of units of hardware, otherwise we just couldn't sustain the business.So on January 31 2001 we said Sega is leaving hardware – somehow I got to make that call, not the Japanese. I had to fire a lot of people, it was not a pleasant day.We were selling 50,000 units a day, then 60,000, then 100,000, but it was just not going to be enough to get the critical mass to take on the launch of PS2. It was a big stakes game. Sega had the option of pouring in more money and going bankrupt and they decided they wanted to live to fight another day. So we licked our wounds, ate some humble pie and went to Sony and Nintendo to ask for dev kits.Actually, the only company that ever called was Microsoft and that became my link with the company, because of the respect I had for Robbie Bach. Xbox had launched, I was onstage with Robbie, I was the only third-party who'd go on stage with Microsoft at E3 - at that time people were saying Microsoft couldn't get it done, but I believed they could, because I believed in online. I always thought that online was going to be the key. And the line I came up with was, 'we're taking games where gaming is going'. Everybody laughed because we had Seganet going with just 50,000 people online… but I always think Dreamcast was the precursor to the next-gen consoles, because we then brought out a broadband adaptor – remember playing Quake 3 through Broadband? Only 5% of people had broadband in those days – it sounds like it was a hundred years ago, but it was 2001!The first real multiplayer console game was NBA 2K1. I always remember when we launched Seganet. We were in some nightclub in Hollywood, and we'd just had the band Filter onstage, which brought the house down. I played against Ice Cube. I was crapping myself because we had to dial the frickin' modem to connect to San Francisco. And it worked. Those were seat of the pants moments, the fact that you had to get a dial-up telephone modem to work, and then we were doing a satellite video feed down from Visual Concepts… it was a wild night, I don't remember much after that. That was the first time anyone had seen an online console game.
If you bought a copy of the Cameron Diaz comedy What Happens In Vegas on DVD this week, I have two questions. Firstly: What were you thinking? It's rubbish! And, secondly, did you notice the little geek extra?WHIV was theBritish debut of something called "Digital Copy"- a little technology introduced by 20th Century Fox to try and get people watching - legally - on their iPods.Here's the basic idea: you buy a special edition DVD, which comes with a free disc containing WMV and MP4 versions of your film. It's a quick step from there to download the file - with DRM - to your computer, managing it in a player like WMP or iTunes, and from there to your iPod or other portable video player. Basically, it lets ordinary people rip DVDs in the same way they've been able to grab music from their CDs forever.But will it work?I spoke to a couple of industry analysts to get their view."From our perspective, digital copy DVD is a play to appease Studios' big DVD customers (Wal-mart etc), modestly prop up DVD prices, and meet the threat of DVD ripping/piracy," said Arash Amel ofScreen Digest."It is not a convincing strategy to distribute digital files profitably. A digital movie file is a future format that has value, and bundling it as a next-to-zero value-add to a legacy format like DVD benefits only the physical disc business, not digital. The logic of this purely defensive strategy is questionable from a digital media perspective, especially if Hollywood Studios expect digital to ever become a sizeable market."Mark Mulligan ofJupiter Research, had a similar opinion but thought there was very little chance that Digital Copy would damage legitimate download sales."The paid online video download market is far too nascent too be something to worry about being cannibalized at the moment," he told me. "A key factor is the hesitance of movie studios to make compelling content available within competitive release windows.  That is changing but very slowly and the studios are making the process go as slowly as they can.  I'd actually view this initiative as part of the process - it's trying to tie consumers to the physical format whilst paying lip service to the digital format."He also suggested the value of a library of movies was much lower than music for most people."Whilst it's taken as a given that consumers should be able to have digital copies of their CDs the usage case is less strong for movies.  Most people only watch movies a couple of times, and even then typically over an extended period.  So the need for format shifting is weaker.  Consumers are more likely to make an 'either / or' decision than a 'both' decision."Food for thought. Digital Copy hasalready been around in Americafor a while, but it's not clear whether it's really going to hit home. Does the idea appeal to you?
The Post Office is considering launching a mobile phone service after the success of its move into the residential broadband market, which has given the company more than 500,000 customers only a year after the launch.Having just reduced its broadband prices, the Post Office also reckons that it is benefiting from the credit crunch as cash-strapped homeowners look for the best deals in the market.Telecoms is a crucial area for the Post Office as it looks to increase revenues, and it is roughly on track to hit its target of a million broadband users by 2011, according to Martin Moran, head of telecommunications at the Post Office."In a funny sort of way the credit crunch is helping us," said Moran. "We have always wanted to be not the cheapest but certainly among the three cheapest in the market but still have excellent customer service."The Post Office's broadband and home phone service has been particularly popular among lower income households, as it allows consumers to pay cash at their local branch rather than signing a direct debit. But the worsening economic climate has attracted consumers from higher socio-economic groups.The Post Office recently dropped the price of its broadband service by &pound;1 and refreshed its home phone service, to include free evening and weekend calls to UK landlines and free weekend calls to mobile phones in the UK, US and Canada. It also offers free weekend calls to 20 international destinations.But the vast majority of the Post Office's broadband users are still new to broadband. More than 80% are using broadband for the first time, while half of those have never used the internet at all. Broadband growth has slowed after it reached about 70% of the UK, as most households with a computer are online. To help get the rest of the country online, the Post Office is considering ways to make it easier for first-time buyers to get a PC - a service could appear next year.It is also very interested in offering a mobile phone service, using the infrastructure of one of the five existing mobile phone networks. Moran said a mobile phone service was still "in the planning" stage but something could also be rolled out next year.The Post Office uses BT's network to deliver its broadband service. BT is in negotiations with Ofcom to change its pricing agreement to make a better return from its network. Moran warned that he would lodge an appeal against any move by BT to raise the price of wholesale access.
Film fans are being offered a new way to download movies to their computers and iPods, as a major Hollywood studio tries to convince them to turn away from getting pirated films from the internet.Buying films from online shops such as Apple's iTunes has yet to take off in Britain, with many choosing to download movies from pirate websites or illegally copy friends' DVDs. But 20th Century Fox hopes a new initiative called Digital Copy will make the transfer of films from DVD to computer easier - and tempt more people to stay within the law.Digital Copy - which has been available in the US for almost a year - is now being launched for British movie buyers. One Digital Copy title has already been released - the comedy What Happens in Vegas, starring Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher. Fans who buy the special edition sets of some DVDs will be given a free extra disc allowing them to download the film files straight on to their machine, iPod or other portable video player.Although purchasers will not have unrestricted use of the files - the number of times they can copy the film is strictly limited, for example - executives believe it could encourage more Britons to watch movies while they are on the go. Keith Feldman, general manager of 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, said: "From all the research we've done, the first things people tell us are obvious: it needs to be easy and fast."It is not clear whether Digital Copy will prove popular with shoppers. Some experts believe it could cannibalise the sales of digital download services, preventing growth in legal movie downloading.
Besides taking 30% of any sale price, Apple controls what appears on its iPhone Apps Store. And that's really annoying some people.Why should a podcasting app that's better than Apple's recording system be turned down? Why should something that lets you share your iPhone's network connection with your computer be turned down? Why should a fart joke be turned down?Nobody, outside Apple, knows for sure. But it's annoyed people outside Apple. Such as Fraser Speirs, who has written for us in the past, whowrites on his own blog that"I will never write another iPhone application for the App Store as currently constituted". Where "currently constituted" means "with Apple being able to reject stuff but not explain why."Apple's current practice of rejecting certain applications at the final hurdle - submission to the App Store - is disastrous for investor confidence. Developers are investing time and resources in the App Store marketplace and, if developers aren't confident, they won't invest in it. If developers - and serious developers at that - don't invest, what's the point?He adds:Some people might have given Apple a pass when they rejected the e-flatulence applications iFartz and Pull My Finger. Personally, I didn't. Half of my reasoning is that selecting for taste is the first step to censoring for business advantage. The other half of it is that, well, who can't think of a million uses for a TCP/IP-enabled whoopee cushion?That said, Apple is now selecting for anti-competitive reasons. It came to light today that an app that will deliver a capability I really, really want was rejected by Apple because it replaces a feature in Apple's own software.The app in question:Podcasterwhose author received an email saying "Apple Rep says: Since Podcaster assists in the distribution of podcasts, it duplicates the functionality of the Podcast section of iTunes. ".This is turning into a can of very big and squirmy worms. You'll find plenty of anger in the blogosphere - particularly the Mac developer blogosphere. John Gruber, who is a reliable channel for such thinking,says:Flabbergasting. This is the worst reason for an app to be rejected yet. As the author points out, by this logic, Apple could have rejected PCalc (for duplicating the built-in Calculator app), or any of the various note-taking apps. .. This stinks to high hell. Jon Rentzsch nails it inthis tweet: the NDA is a mere annoyance, but a "you can't compete against Apple" policy is so wrong it breaks the platform. It is indefensible.Also:Paul Kafasis,Dave Winer- the latter making the point that if Apple doesn't approve an app for the App Store, you can't get it into the public domainat all. All that effort, wasted.Anyone care to defend the indefensible? Or will Apple make its policy on rejecting and allowing applications public?(Update:I've phoned Apple this morning and asked for clarification of what the rules are for rejection or acceptance of applications. I'll update here if and when we get some news.)
