Oh, the naivety … On Tuesday night, I thought the first step to going off-grid, erasing my digital fingerprint, becoming undetectable to a government agency or anyone else, was to take the sim card out of my phone. Get a new sim. Insert in old phone. Bingo; big brother might have his eye on me, but he no longer knows in which direction to swivel it.Idiot! My phone has an IMEI number, whereby it can be traced anywhere in the world. I had to stop using the phone. Twitter told me that, before I had to stop using Twitter.But that's not enough; I also had to stop carrying the phone, or if I had to carry it, to do so in a metal-lined wallet. Documentally (his online persona), aka Christian Payne (his real-life name), is a professional surveillance-avoider who offers calm advice that will leave you paranoid, but with a completely foundationless faith in your capabilities: "I got an RSID wallet so that my passport details couldn't be stolen remotely …" (The design of passports has been changed, so details can be read from a distance). "It's meant to be for border crossings, but it's leaking information all over the place. So I use the wallet with a metal lining, and if I put my phone in there, it remains completely off-grid."As an aside, to illustrate how easy it is to find you via your phone, he adds: "I've got old iPhones that I use for tracking devices. I've got one in my car. This technology is on a consumer level. For a very brief period I was running a little private investigations company. I could leave a Nokia on a table and it would become a bugging device for that room."Huh. Anyway, back to me. What I need is a burner phone – in the US, you can buy them from this the website (https://www.burnerphone.us/) and they arrive, fully charged, sim at the ready, no questions asked. "How do you pay for it?" you're asking. Almost all conundrums end with this question: if you have a long time to plan going underground, my number one tip is that you save a lot of cash, or get really good at stealing.The best way to pay for things on the internet without identifying yourself is by Bitcoin (an anonymous digital crypto currency). But you could also go to Tesco and just buy a phone, for a tenner, with a pay-as-you-go sim already in it."But who are you going to call?" Documentally asks pleasantly. If I call any known associates, their phones will be tracked anyway, and a strange mobile number will immediately show up. Even in my wider circle, calling three of them would join enough dots to come back to me. It's possible that I could call a switchboard and get away with it, so that leaves me with a) work and b) British Gas. If I wanted to speak to one of my friends, I'd have to post them a letter, tell them my new number and get them to call me from a payphone. Or I'd have to buy them a burner and drop it off at their house. "You have to think in terms of not seeing or speaking to anyone you know for three years," Documentally clarified.At this point, 10pm on a Tuesday, I am still thinking in terms of a hypothetical person or agency chasing me. Not yet realising how absurdly unrealistic that was, I spoke to David Bond, who made a documentary about this quest three years ago, called Erasing David. During the film, he met Frank Aherne, "an expert at disappearing people in the States. I didn't put him in the film because it sounded way too paranoid, but he told me the CIA had a backdoor into Google and Facebook. He went further, he said they have a start-up fund, and they put money into Facebook and things like it, to get in on the ground floor. I love that story. I wish I'd put him in."Social media notwithstanding, the "leakiest bit is definitely physical. The best thing you can do is wear a hi-vis jacket and carry a bin bag with something heavy in it, and you keep your head down. No one looks at you, everyone ignores you; you're the lowest of the low."That's how to avoid the human eye; CCTV is a completely different thing. Documentally developed a prototype, an infrared LED in the brim of a baseball cap that messes with the signal. The problem is that it creates a big flash, so even if they can't see your face, it draws attention to your presence. But there are things you can do to confuse facial recognition algorithms: mainly, obscure your nose-brow bridge and disturb the ocular area. The first you can do with a directional scenester fringe. I don't have one of those. The second you can do with makeup on your cheeks – if you create a blusher look that could, by a computer, be mistaken for an eye socket, that will completely mess with the reading.I went for a cycling mask, which is fine in one way – I have to cycle anyway, even if you swap Oyster cards with a stranger (you should swap regularly with friends regardless, to mess with the data collection). That isn't the problematic bit; cycling in a mask, with a longer fringe, might work. But if there is any agency looking for you, you have to get out of the city.Documentally counsels: "There are maps online showing the lowest concentration of CCTV cameras. Camping's good. People ask very few questions at campsites. But no technology, because there's usually only one road in, and once they've found you, you're found." He paused. "Good luck," he said. "If you check my twitter feed, you can see where I am. If you get into any trouble, come there. I don't know you well enough to let you into my room, but I can find you a safe house." I am tickled pink that he thinks I'm going to start roaming about the country. But I can't do that: I've got two children; and also, tickets to see the Breeders.I scale down my ambition: I merely want to live my life and leave no digital fingerprint. If I were pursuing a course of action that I thought might one day interest the authorities – joining a protest group, establishing a guerrilla army for the protection of bees – could I do so without leaving a yellow brick road directly to my house?So, I couldn't use a phone in the regular way, but I could Gibberbot (on an Android) or Chatsecure (on an iPhone). I could use Jitsi instead of Skype. For emails, I'd get a laptop that is stripped off – if you use your own, even not using your own email address, your identity screams off it like a siren the minute you connect to the internet … in your browsing history, the amount of RAM, the configuration, the homepage. But you can use an encrypted channel in a Virtual Private Network. "With a VPN and Jitsi you'd be anonymous but your friends who you were talking to would need a Jabber account. But that wouldn't be too difficult. You'd just post them a letter, telling them to open one."My life at this point – late on Wednesday – had become so pared down, such a simple process of cycling around, giving words written in internet cafes, on memory sticks, to people, scaring them with my sweaty face – that the only emails I need a Jabber account for are my mum and one friend. I don't really want to ask my mum to open a Jabber account, since the last time I looked at her computer, she was trying to download the whole of Arabic. She's probably already on a watchlist. Then I remember I'm seeing her at Pilates; nobody would look for me there, it's so 2001. When I run into her, she says: "Have you tried DuckDuckGo? It's like an uncorruptible Google." I think: "Jesus, woman, no wonder you're probably on a watchlist."I solve the friend problem by just turning up at her house. She looks at me like I've taken a crap in a bag of sugar. People in London hate it when you do this.It is such full-time work just avoiding email and phones that I can't say I missed them. I did go to the Breeders, they scanned the barcode on the tickets, but hah! I didn't buy them (my boyfriend did. It is a relatively easy trail, from him to me, I imagine).Consuming, belonging, conforming – they are so intertwined, to reject one is to reject all three, to reject all three is just impossibly large. To do it, you'd need to have already done it. But the alternative, this supine acceptance of whatever information whoever wants it has, that's not great either. As Documentally says: "If, for example, our government takes a turn for the even worse and wants to get any bit of dirt on you, all they have to do is amplify the things that they found in your inbox. It doesn't take much to embarrass you or blackmail you."
US technology company Planetary Resources has raised more than $1m on the crowdfunding site Kickstarter to build ARKYD, which it describes as "the first publicly accessible space telescope".The telescope is part of the company's wider ambition to prospect and mine asteroids. More than 12,800 people have pledged between $10 and $10,000 (£6,500) to the campaign, which has hit its fundraising target with nine days to run.Those who pledged more than $25 will get rewards including "space selfies" – photographs taken from the orbiting telescope showing an image of their choice with the Earth as the background.As with other Kickstarter campaigns, the rewards increase for higher amounts. People pledging $200 or more will be able to point the telescope at any celestial object – "other than the Sun" – and have a high-definition image sent to them. Those pledging $5,000 or more will be invited to launch events and have their names etched on the spacecraft."The ARKYD is designed to be a fun and interactive experience that is accessible to anyone. This kind of direct access to a satellite is unprecedented. Our backers will be the first people in history to control a public space telescope," the company's Kickstarter pitch says.The firm, based in Bellevue, Washington, wants to launch a fleet of telescopes to identify suitable asteroids, while also working with museums and schools to let non-astronomers use them.The company was founded in 2009, and its financial backers include Google's chief executive, Larry Page, and executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, as well as billionaire businessman Ross Perot Jr."We're now focusing on enhancing the capabilities of the telescope and creating meaningful and epic crowd involvement," said Planetary Resources' co-chairman Peter Diamandis."We're a hardware and inspiration company, and we're thrilled to provide a new generation of space pioneers with the ability to take a hands-on approach to exploration."The company says the $1m will be used to launch the first ARKYD satellite into space, support it over its lifetime, develop the user interface required to enable the general public to access and control the satellite, and fund educational materials for use in schools.
Crowdfunding website Kickstarter has apologised to its users and banned people from raising money for "seduction guides", after criticism of a book project named Above The Game that was accused of encouraging sexual assaults on women.The project raised more than $16k – well beyond its initial goal of $2k – for a book billed as "A Guide to Getting Awesome with Women", but caused a storm with its advice on "physical escalation", which suggested men should "force her to rebuff your advances" when on a date.Despite protests to Kickstarter and calls for it to ban the project before its funding deadline on 19 June, the site did not take action. In a blog post published today titled"We were wrong", Kickstarter apologised for that."The posts offended a lot of people — us included — and many asked us to cancel the creator's project. We didn't. We were wrong," explains the blog post, which goes on to claim lack of time and a bias "heavily toward creators" led Kickstarter to its decision not to ban the project immediately."We feel a duty to our community — and our creators especially — to approach these investigations methodically as there is no margin for error in canceling a project. This thinking made us miss the forest for the trees."As soon as the project was funded, backers' money was transferred into author Ken Hoinsky's bank account, with Kickstarter saying it is unable to take action against him individually, other than removing his project page from its website after the event.Instead, the site is banning all "seduction guides" projects, and donating $25,000 to anti-sexual violence organisation RAINN."Let us be 100% clear: Content promoting or glorifying violence against women or anyone else has always been prohibited from Kickstarter. If a project page contains hateful or abusive material we don't approve it in the first place," claims Kickstarter."If we had seen this material when the project was submitted to Kickstarter (we didn't), it never would have been approved. Kickstarter is committed to a culture of respect."Hoinsky himself had already responded to the controversy on 19 June byposting on the Pastebin website. saying he was "devastated and troubled" by claims that his book promoted rape."That couldn't be further from the truth. A handful of quotes were taken out of context and posted on Tumblr which steamrolled in a game of telephone where hardly anyone bothered to read the original version," he wrote."That cherry-picked advice, without that important context, makes it sound like I am advocating non-consensual sexual advances on strangers. I would absolutely never do such a thing. In fact there is an entire section on consent that the bloggers conveniently left out to paint me in a poor light."Hoinsky added that the final book would contain a chapter devoted to sexual assault and rape "preaching men what not to do".The ball is now in his court (not to mention the $16k in his bank account) to decide how to proceed now. Kickstarter's donation to RAINN suggests one way out of the mess, but Hoinsky has yet to confirm his intentions.
As Ouya prepares for the commercial launch of its £99.99 Android games console on 25 June, chief executive Julie Uhrman says she is undaunted by competition from Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's PlayStation 4."They're exactly what I thought they would be: more features and functionality, but their business model hasn't changed: it's still onerous on the gamers who have to pay $60 for a game before they even know they enjoy it," says Uhrman."There was a lot of talk about processing power of the devices, how many polygons they can put on-screen and how good the graphics are, when all the developer cares about is how fun the games are. But it wasn't a surprise to me."Uhrman's views will come as no surprise to anyone who's been following Ouya's story from the day it emerged from stealth mode tolaunch a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign in July 2012. The pitch was Ouya as a disruptive, developer-friendly force shaking up the dinosaurs of the games industry, and has remained so ever since.The companyraised $8.6m on Kickstarter, then released its software development kit for developers; built and shipped its first consoles to early backers; signed distribution deals with Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target and (in the UK) Game; andraised $15m of venture capital fundingahead of the 25 June launch in the US, UK and Canada.Uhrman is still talking the talk. "We took a look at the gaming industry and saw that it was broken. We are completely disrupting an industry that hasn't changed in 30 years," she says."We had a lot of doubters at the beginning for the idea that a startup could attack an established business where the competitors are behemoths. But it's been wonderful to see the support as we take this product to market."Back to the TVThe big theory behind Ouya is this: smartphones and tablets have hugely expanded the games market in the last five years, while these devices plus Facebook have popularised the model of free-to-play gaming, and these platforms plus Steam on the PC have sparked a new wave of inventive indie developers.Uhrman says Ouya wants to bring all these trends "back to the television" with its console, where games will be downloaded from a digital store, with each title having a free-to-play component.More than 16,000 developers have registered to get Ouya's SDK, with 150 games so far confirmed for launch day, including titles from Sega and Square Enix among a horde of independent studios, including some exclusive games."We've got games from every genre, including multiplayer games with an emphasis on local multiplayer, where you sit with your friends and play the game," says Uhrman."We've got Smash Brothers type games, trivia games, sports games, first-person shooters, strategy and simulation games... Something for everyone. The games are looking phenomenal, and we're really focused on bringing the fun back to console gaming."It would be deeply unfair to describe Uhrman as a troll in any way, but I sense she's having a lot of fun coming out with the kind of statements guaranteed to wind up the hardcore gamers (and industry folk) who've been most dismissive of Ouya's potential.It's certainly true that Ouya is deeply divisive: evangelists trumpeting it as a dinosaur-slaying disrupter, and haters seizing on any evidence that its hardware, games and business model are just as shaky as they always expected.The initial consoles sent out to early developer backers provided some fuel for the latter, including sticking buttons and responsiveness issues. For its part, Ouya pointed out that this kind of feedback would influence the final commercial device. Next week, we'll find out if that's true.Ouya chief executive Julie UhrmanGame discoveryI'm as interested in Ouya's services – specifically its digital store – as in the hardware. 150 launch games might not be the 900,000 apps in Apple's App Store, but it still presents a discovery challenge to ensure gamers find the good stuff, while developers have a fair shot at being found.Ouya is doing something very interesting on this score. "To decide how we organise the store and present games to gamers, we're using an algorithm based on the fun factor: how much fun you have playing a game," says Uhrman."We don't look at the number of downloads or amount of revenue. We look at how gamers are engaged with the games: how often they play a game, how long they play for, how many thumbs-up a game has... All these engagement metrics that speak to how much fun people are having."There's an interesting parallel here with US streaming radio firm Slacker, which recentlystarted giving songs on its service an "EQ Score"based on how often people started listening to them AND listened all the way through, how many times they were shared and marked as liked, and how often they were skipped or made people switch station.Slacker has aweekly EQ Score chartto show which songs are scoring highest on these criteria, but it seems that a similar methodology will be used across Ouya's digital store. Again, come 25 June we'll know how well that works."We're also using third-party curators, including publications that you may follow, to see the top ten games that they love. And we also want gamers to play a role in the curation of content," says Uhrman."When games get launched on Ouya, they'll go into a category called the Sandbox, and they'll have to meet a minimum level of fun to get out of that. It really relies on gamers to play the games."Thinking televisionOne of my concerns about Ouya is that lots of developers may just port across their existing Android games to see if the platform is worth their while, with scant attention to making them work well – rather than simply work without breaking – on a larger (TV) screen with a physical controller.Is that a worry for Ouya too? "We're seeing more purpose-built games for Ouya and televisions than we ever thought we would at this time," counters Uhrman."The majority of our developers are console or PC developers developing for the TV. One fifth have never built an Android game before. So what we're seeing is these games are optimised for television, and some are exclusive to Ouya."That brings its own concerns though: if lots of Ouya developers come from the PC and console world, how are they adapting to the free-to-play requirement on this device? Uhrman says well – as she would – while stressing that it's about more than freemium games selling virtual items."We have games with a free demo then pay to unlock the whole game. We have games that utilise microtransactions. We even have a game that's a donation-based model. And we have a couple of subscription-based episodic games that are in development," she says.For now, payment is taken through gamers' credit or debit cards, or by prepaid cards sold through retailers. "We will bring on other payment options over time," says Urhman, although she doesn't say which companies Ouya is talking to in that area.At launch, social is one gap in Ouya's featureset. Developers can add local multiplayer features to their games, and online multiplayer if they have the necessary infrastructure to support it.But there's no Xbox Live or Game Center-style Ouya community, nor will it support Facebook's Open Graph – for now, at least. "We plan on adding social features this year," is as far as Uhrman will go on the company's plans. For now, it's a weak spot for Ouya.Ouya's store is designed to make "fun" games bubble up to the topConsole competitionSo, the competition, which is ranged in two distinct groups. On one side, fellow 'unconsoles' (yes, an awful term) that include PlayJam's GameStick, BlueStacks' Gamepop andMad Catz's Project M.O.J.O.which will all be affordable consoles populated by Android developers' games.Uhrman is clearly keen not to talk about these rivals directly, but reading between the lines of her deft dodge out of the question, it seems Ouya sees its advantage as coming from software and community rather than hardware specs."We've said all along that the hardware isn't the hard part. We're using commodity chips that you can take off the shelf. And of course, building hardware is difficult: they don't call it hardware for no reason," she quips."But we're just as focused on building a community of gamers and developers, where the developers are passionate about the games they build for the television, and the gamers know they will have a great experience."The other rivals, of course, are the big gaming guns: Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo's Wii-U. Cue talk about processing power over fun and business model stagnation instead of innovation. We're about to find out how fun and innovation fares as a commercial device.One last question, though, driven by curiosity about where Ouya sits between mobile devices and traditional consoles – as well as a mischievous desire to see if Uhrman will have anOsborne Effectbrainmelt and announce the Ouya 2 before the first model goes on sale.The question: people increasingly upgrade to a new smartphone every 12-18 months, with early adopters of tablets following suit. Yet the console life-cycle is much longer: 7-8 years for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Which is Ouya closest to?"Our refresh rate will be much more closely aligned to mobile devices versus console. We want to take advantage of the most powerful chips and falling commodity prices as we make new products," says Uhrman."But when we do release a new box that is more powerful, we want to ensure there are games available that can take advantage, so we'll take development timelines into account. So... it won't be every 6-8 years. Closer than that."Ouya's doubters have been numerous and vociferous ever since its first day on Kickstarter, but the company has hit most of its targets and delivered on its promises during that period.Now we get to find out whether the device can deliver on Uhrman's most ambitious promise of all: to disrupt those console behemoths at the very point where they are launching their own biggest, riskiest consoles yet.
Children's apps is a fascinating space in 2013: lots of inventive and educational apps being released by big brands and indie studios alike, but big questions around how those developers make their money.Toca Bocais one of the most successful children's app makers. The company, a subsidiary of Swedish media group Bonnier, released its first iOS app in March 2011, and has since racked up more than 40m downloads.It doesn't break those down between paid and free downloads, but chief executive Björn Jeffery says Toca Boca posted "a healthy profit" in 2012, which is rare for its sector.Those profits are fuelling expansion both in terms of platforms – it recently released its first Android app on the Google Play store – and acquisitions. Toca Boca bought Canadian firm Zinc Roe in March and rebranded the studio asSago Sago.Toca Boca's latest app came out this week, and is its most ambitious yet.Toca Builderstakes its cues from Minecraft, the crafting game that is already very popular with older children, but ditches the gaming elements in favour of pure sandbox creativity.Kids switch between six robot characters, each with their own function, to build and paint blocks into whatever shapes they like, from trees and houses through to monsters and mountains. While it shares the open-ended nature of Toca Boca's apps, it's a bit more…"Complex?" says Jeffery. "Yes, we've been doing a few slightly-riskier, more difficult-to-make apps. Toca Builders is one of them, and there's another one coming out after the summer. We wanted to give them a little more depth and complexity."That means Toca Builders skews slightly higher in its target age group – five and upwards, thinks Jeffery – but remains rewarding for a longer time as children master its controls and let loose their imaginations."Construction is a classic play pattern for toys, from Lego and building blocks through to the obvious digital version, which is Minecraft," says Jeffery."We tried to step back and look at construction play in general: what is fun about building, and how could we facilitate that? Which is where the design choice of using these characters that have specific building or painting powers came from."Not all parents like the idea of digital construction and play, though. One common concern – which is often expressed by commenters when I write about children's apps on this site – is that digital play is cannibalising physical play.So, children getting more "screen time" means they're getting less books, bikes, bricks and ball-games time, as their parents use a tablet or smartphone as a digital babysitter. Opinions can be heated on this topic, but Jeffery tries to defuse them."Our line is pretty hard on this: the notion of screen time is a flawed concept. All screens aren't created equal! There's a difference between watching television, sitting at a computer doing something, playing on an iPhone in the back of a car, or making something on an iPad," he says."People are very concerned about the idea of an iPad as a device that becomes a full-time babysitter for their kids. Well, not if you don't use it like that!"Jeffery suggests that there's an element of technophobia to beliefs that new devices and apps are going to "ruin children", while claiming that the iPad-as-babysitter idea is not the aim of most children's app-makers."As an app developer, our intention is never to replace the parent, and I've never met a developer who tries to replace physical play with digital toys. The two aren't mutually exclusive, and they can even be combined," he says."Some of these arguments are hypothetical: if kids only used apps all the time, that would be bad. Well, yes, but if kids played football all the time, and that was the only thing they did, that would be bad too. Why would you hold the iPad to that standard?"Toca Boca CEO Björn JefferyAnother concern for a growing number of parents is how children's apps make their money. The UK'sOffice of Fair Trading is investigating the use of in-app purchases (IAP)in these apps amid a burst of media stories about children blowing their parents' credit cards on virtual items.Meanwhile, some of the biggest children's brands arecontinuing to sell IAP in bundles worth up to £69.99 at a time. Yet many developers who eschew IAP in favour of pay-up-front apps are struggling to find an audience.Jeffery admits that it's a tough sector. "We've been profitable for a while, but I think that's very rare, unfortunately, at least from what I hear from industry colleagues. There is a very small head and a very, very long tail. And the angle at which the head drops to the tail is very steep," he says."You're either doing pretty good, or not doing well at all. There is some great stuff out there, but the problems are more related to discoverability. It doesn't matter if something's good if no one ever finds it. The sheer amount of things that come out is overwhelming for developers, but also for parents."This may provide an opportunity for Toca Boca, with Jeffery saying its purchase of Zinc Roe could be followed by more acquisitions in the year ahead, if the company identifies other talented studios who are battling the discovery issue."Our ambition is to make new kids' brands, in the same way that different toy brands will do different things," he says. "Mattel have Barbie, Hot Wheels and Fisher-Price, for example. They're all Mattel in some sense, but they do different things for different age ranges. That's the analogy we've used for our business."But back to the thorny issue of in-app purchases, and whether the recent spate of negative stories has damaged parental trust in the idea of all IAP, rather than just the super-premium tiers.Toca Boca has never used IAP in its apps, although Jeffery says that's more because it's doing well enough from paid downloads than a principled objection to the model."There's a good way of doing it and a bad way of doing it. Unfortunately, most people that do it for kids are doing it in the bad way," he says."I don't think you should sell consumable items: Smurfberries and the like. I don't think you should do that at all. You should have a conscience. But there is a certain case for expansion packs where you get new content of some sort, where the payment is outside the gameplay behind a parental lock."Toca Boca isn't planning to do this for now, but the company is taking that decision from a position of strength: profitability from its paid apps. For developers who are struggling, IAP (or ads, which can be just as risky) can seem like a necessary step for survival.Jeffery warns that getting it wrong could be bad news. "Trust takes a very long time to build up, but you can ruin it very quickly. If you start messing with it, you might sell a lot of IAP in the short term, but in the long term you may sell less overall," he says."IAP doesn't necessarily have to be bad, but it's the way it's being used that creates the perception among parents that it's bad."Talk about moneymaking struggles brings us onto Android, a platform that's still shunned by many children's apps developers on the grounds that their budgets won't stretch to the necessary porting, testing and support for its many devices, but also the belief that paid apps have an even harder time on Android.Toca Boca released its first Android app in December 2012 for Amazon's Kindle Fire – a port of Toca Hair Salon 2 – before giving the appa wider release on the Google Play storein May 2013."We've always considered Android, but before we always thought it didn't have a sufficiently strong paid ecosystem, which after all is our business model. If people wouldn't buy our app in sufficient quantities, it made no sense to be on there," says Jeffery."To a certain degree, those problems still exist, but it's grown to a size at which we think one of our apps can make a fifth of the revenues on Android that it does on iOS. If you can do something that will increase your business by 20%, it's worth considering."Jeffery notes that Android's fragmentation is more manageable now – Toca Boca only supports devices running Ice Cream Sandwich and upwards to ease the burden – but says another important reason for supporting Android is the demand from parents and children."We've been getting emails asking where are the apps on Android for a long time, but steadily increasing. It reached a point where we felt we were letting people down, and that's what tipped it over," he says.At the time of writing, Toca Hair Salon 2 has been bought between 10k and 50k times from the Google Play store, according to Google's public statistics, so it's early days.Finally, I ask Jeffery about Toca Boca's plans beyond the apps world. App-born brands like Angry Birds, Talking Friends and Cut the Rope are extending into toys, online videos and other products as fast as they can.Toca Boca's apps have always featured strong, quirky characters, so is it planning to follow suit? "We are thinking about it," says Jeffery."We have been very restrictive: a large part of my job is saying 'no' to stuff, and a lot of people have got in touch wanting to do things. Making digital toys is the focus, and we need to keep that very strong."And yet... "We can see that this is more than just apps. We're making something, almost creating a small piece of children's culture. So what can we do with that?" he continues."We'll still be making apps most of the time, but we are looking to other areas to see where it makes sense to do other things. The Toca Boca brand is playful and fun, and can incorporate other things. You'll probably see something this year in a completely different category."
The world's first look at Titanfall came shortly after Microsoft had announced the eye-watering price of its new console. I remember at the time, sitting in the Galen Theatre at the Xbox keynote, hearing a journalist in my vicinity muttering that Microsoft had better have something "pretty damn special" to show us all after dropping that bombshell. I don't think the first ever Titanfall demo entirely dispelled the sour mood in the room, but it went some way towards dulling our senses.I've seen Titanfall played twice now and because Respawn's demo team didn't supply any running commentary in either instance, certain features, modes and mechanics remain a mystery. However, because of its frenetic in-game action and the fact that both times I viewed it the volume on the game was turned way up beyond the pain threshold, I can report that the sensation of watching Titanfall can be favourably compared to being hit over the head repeatedly with an overstuffed pillow.Titanfall is an FPS in which the players control nimble, armoured foot soldiers called Pilots, who have the ability to climb into and control giant, gun-toting battle Mechs called Titans. Initially, the action in the game looks and feels overwhelmingly fast-paced and brutal, but on closer inspection it's a lot more nuanced and lot more layered than a shooter in which tiny folk are battling giant robots has any right to be.Tiers for fearsThe action is essentially split between three tiers; the ground, the rooftops and the space that exists between the two. The first two tiers are where the armoured Pilots do most of their damage. On the higher levels, they're fiercely agile, able to parkour deftly above their mechanised foes using timed bursts of a jetpack they have strapped to their back.At ground level, once they take refuge inside a structure, the Pilots can make themselves an absolute pest to their oversized foes; the can hide just beyond the scope of the Titans and, if co-ordinated enough in their efforts, use misdirection and sustained gunfire – or a lobbed remote explosive – to lethal effects.Of course, if a Titan catches them out in the open, the Pilots are quickly blasted to kingdom come. Titans dominate the third space in the game – the one that exists between the ground and the sky that isn't hindered by roof ledges or makeshift bunkers dotted around the ground. Their guns and shoulder-mounted rocket launchers are infinitely more powerful than those wielded by the Pilots.Titans also have a weapon called a Vortex Blocker, a magnetic field that allows them to stop a missile or a cluster of bullets in mid-air and then fling it back at its source of trajectory. While they aren't as fast as their miniature enemies, the Titan Mech can move at a frighteningly fast pace. One the evidence of the demo at E3, Titans are far more quick and manoeuvrable than one would guess a huge clunking suit of armour would be.Furthermore, don't get the impression that the Pilots are in any way underpowered in the firepower department. The foot soldiers wield huge, chunky weapons that, with a sustained burst of gunfire, are more than capable of taking down a Titan.The aim here by Respawn wasn't to turn the Mechs into unbeatable super-powered forces on the battlefield. Rather, a Titan allows players to take a more direct approach in a match, while the Pilots have to try and outfox them. The fact that Pilots are also able to cloak helps them immensely.Driving the Hardpoint homeIn the E3 demo, the Respawn developers were engaged in a match called Hardpoint, in which the Pilots on one side are tasked with providing cover for a ship called The RedEye, which is coming in to refuel. To that end they have to capture different sections of the map and shut down anti-aircraft guns that are bombarding the RedEye as it comes in to land. The opposing team … well, simply put, have to stop this happening.Most of the players on either side start as a Pilot and as they rack up kills they earn XP that Respawn says will unlock deep levels of customisation – but they're not talking about that yet. In the bottom left of their HUD, they'll notice a countdown for a Mech launch and when the counter reaches zero, they're able to call down a Titan from an orbital platform. Once they mount this mechanical beast all of their movements become a little pronounced as they leap about the battlefield, dishing out a world of hurt to their opponents.It was possible to notice that the player whose screen we were watching in the demo was racking up a fair number of impressive kills. Apart from the XP counter that was visible, the screen also announced that the two factions battling it out were represented by the letters MCOR and IMC – what they stand for is anyone's guess and Respawn didn't offer any clarification.The map looked well designed if a little generic in its presentation. The action took place in and around what looked like the remains of a bombed out base overgrown with green foliage under blue, sunny skies.In 10 minutes it was all over; having taken out the gun batteries, one team then received confirmation of an EVAC spot and with a chorus of "Get to the Chopper!" they legged it to the pick-up point and escaped. It's all pretty high-octane stuff – the sort of blockbuster action that (at least some of) the members of Respawn used to produce back in their Infinity Ward days.The demo leaves a lot of questions hanging in the air, though. Will Titanfall's campaign be online? Is this a persistent-world shooter much like Destiny? Is the online action only available in the multiplayer? Is there co-op? What do those Titans run on? Where can I get one for the commute to work? Respawn is, as one would expect, silent on a lot of these points. Beyond what could be gleaned from the demo, all that's in the public domain really is that Titanfall is out next year …• Titanfall is released on PC, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in spring 2014
Google has been threatened with criminal proceedings by the information commissioner's office (ICO) over data secretly collected by its Street View cars in the UK.The privacy watchdog said it would prosecute the US firm under the contempt of court act if it failed to delete private information it gathered from public Wi-Fi networks.The ICO has served Google with an enforcement notice ordering it to delete the data within 35 days or face criminal proceedings.Stephen Eckersley, the ICO's head of enforcement, said: "Today's enforcement notice strengthens the action already taken by our office, placing a legal requirement on Google to delete the remaining payload data identified last year within the next 35 days and immediately inform the ICO if any further disks are found. Failure to abide by the notice will be considered as contempt of court, which is a criminal offence."It is not known what private details are included in the so-called payload data held by Google about British citizens. But privacy watchdogs in the US found that it contained traces of passwords, emails and text messages sent over unsecured Wi-Fi networks.Google has faced criticism from regulators around the world for collecting private information with its Street View mapping cars between May 2007 and May 2010. The company admitted publicly in May 2010 that it had collected the data, which the Federal Communications Commission said was not a breach of US laws.On Friday the ICO said it would "be taking a keen interest in [Google's] operations and will not hesitate to take action if further serious compliance issues come to its attention".The watchdog added: "Based on a detailed investigation, including an analysis of the data Google has recorded, the ICO has concluded that the detriment caused to individuals by this breach fails to meet the level required to issue a monetary penalty."A Google spokesman said: "We work hard to get privacy right at Google. But in this case we didn't, which is why we quickly tightened up our systems to address the issue. The project leaders never wanted this data, and didn't use it or even look at it."We co-operated fully with the ICO throughout its investigation, and having received its order this morning we are proceeding with our plan to delete the data."
Ten games in and Activision's cultural juggernaut Call of Duty shows no signs of slowing. Even the mass departure of staff at Infinity Ward, the studio responsible for the Call of Duty formula, in 2010 appears to have little detrimental effect on the series, which continues to see rising sales.For 2013 the developer has turned from the noise and spectacle of Modern Warfare 3 to a softer approach, basing the game on an band of covert operatives dubbed Ghosts who crouch and sneak through a series of missions set in the near future.At the E3 conference in Los Angeles last week, Simon Parkin caught up with Infinity Ward's Mark Rubin to find out more about Riley the attack dog and how the studio aims to respond to Respawn's Titanfall, the EA-published game made by Infinity Ward's one-time founders.Simon Parkin: What's the story with Riley, the attack dog? He appears to have become the star of your game overnight.Mark Rubin:It 's been such a surreal experience. We saw the trailer go up and literally within seconds everyone was talking about the dog. We didn't really do much in the way of promotion and had no idea that was going to happen. All of the memes and the fake twitter accounts and so on have been fantastic.It had a strange effect at the studio. Initially everyone was excited but pretty quickly that turned into looking like deer in headlights. The team started to panic over whether we're doing the dog well enough, whether his story is strong enough. All of these things.Has this reception changed the way in which you're going to do things at all?Well, there was this panic mode for a bit. Then we talked to the team, told them to relax and just keep doing what they're doing; not get caught up in the emotional aspects of what they were seeing on the internet. We were able to steer people back to what they were supposed to be doing.The term 'Call of Duty fatigue' refers to the sense of ennui that can set in with yearly updates to a series. The emphasis on the dog seems like a useful way in which to counter that; something to distinguish the game from its forebears beyond a new setting or weapons. Is that fair?Yeah … But I think we're looking for that in every game we make. It's what keeps us hungry each year. We come out of a game and when we embark on the next one we know we have to do something new to keep it fresh; we have to do something to ensure it's going to be the best game we've made. It's important to keep that hunger and not rest on the Call of Duty name. I think the proof's in the pudding. Every year sales are growing.It's interesting you should say that. Call of Duty is a series built around spectacle and with every new release we sense that the spectacle has to outdo the previous game's efforts. In Modern Warfare 3 you have the Eiffel Tower collapsing, for example. Where do you go from that?We didn't do that because we felt Modern Warfare 3 had to be about spectacle.Really?No, we did that because it fit the story we wanted to tell at the time. One of the things we're doing with this game is going back to Call of Duty 4. When we designed that game we wanted to ensure the pacing was different. So you went from all out warfare with tanks and planes to slower paced stuff like the sniper or AC-130 missions. It had this great pacing so, for this game, when we started crafting how the story would turn out it made a lot of sense to go back to that idea. Everything we've shown at E3 has been pretty much stealth. It's going to be more balanced with the ups and downs. The story will feel different because of that.Is that the reason you chose to focus on the Ghost Recon-style squad?Partly. It all sort of happened at the same time. It wasn't that one led to the other. Our guys think story first and in parallel we're thinking about what cool moments we're going to use in that story. Those kind of things become cards on a board and we pin them up and move them around. At that point we become like sculptors. You have this big block of granite and you begin chipping away at it to reveal the final game.You have this concrete audience that loves Call of Duty. But more generally the FPS is the genre that attracts the most invention and iteration; it's where the vast majority of focus in modern game development occurs. How do you respond to developments in the genre that occur in rival's titles. Do you seek to incorporate their evolutions or do you keep doing what you're doing in order to keep your audience happy?What we have to do as game developers is serve our current audience. Imagine if in football they suddenly changed the rules so, instead of using your feet, you had to use your hands. If that happened nobody would want to watch football anymore.Moreover, I don't want every game to be copying what every other game is doing. I want every team to be making its own creative statement. Call of Duty has a creative statement. For single player it's that cinematic, movie-like experience that's immersive and pinned on storytelling. It has those big moments, those summer blockbuster type trailers: the Call of Duty feel. Multiplayer has that fast, frantic addictive gameplay and that's something we wouldn't want to give up. It's what we do well. I want other studios to be doing something else, something new and fresh and cool that nobody's seen before, so I can play that while continuing to enjoy Call of Duty.OK but how do you stop from becoming creatively fatigued?I don't have an answer for that because I don't feel like fatigue is something we've experienced yet. We do some things in-house at the studio where we allow people to come up with stuff on their own in order to scratch that creative itch. A lot of times that idea becomes a part of the full game…Can you give an example?The survival mode in Modern Warfare 3 came from someone on their own time playing around with the game. They were doing some work with bots and created a minigame that had an RTS feel at first and then began to morph into Survival Mode. I think Zombies [game mode] was a similar thing at Treyarch. We do get chance to diverse out and all of that work either gives people new ideas or actually makes its way into the game.What's you're guiding principle with that? How do you know when something is slightly too far to the left of Modern Warfare-ness?It's a crowd-based understanding. Everyone at the studio from the QA guys to designers to artists to coders are all hardcore players, or at very least averagely good players. As a group we keep ourselves in check. We're a democratic company. We don't have a strong top-down dictatorship. It's often up to the designers working on a level to make decisions. I can go in and give feedback, but the guy doing the work is the one who will make the ultimate call.Why do you think a disproportionate number of video games focus upon the military shooter?I don't know … We got here and it blew up and, for consoles in particular, it became a phenomenon. I wonder if other company's think this is where the success is at. I hope they're making their games because those are the games they want to make. I'd hate to learn people are just making something that they're not honestly passionate. This is an industry entirely based upon passion.• Call of Duty Ghosts is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in November
'To be remembered after we are dead," wrote Hazlitt, "is but poor recompense for being treated with contempt while we are living." Cue President "George W" Obama in the matter of telephone surveillance by his National Security Agency. The fact that for the past seven years theagency has been collecting detailsof every telephone call placed in the United States without a warrant was, he intoned, no reason for Americans to be alarmed. "Nobody is listening to your telephone calls,"he cooed. The torch was then passed to Dianne Feinstein, chair of the Senate intelligence committee, who was likewise on bromide-dispensing duty. "This isjust metadata," she burbled, "there is no content involved."At which point the thought uppermost in one's mind is:what kind of idiots do they take us for? Of course there's no content involved, for the simple reason that content is a pain in the butt from the point of view of modern surveillance. First, you have tolistento the damned recordings, and that requires people (because even today, computers are not great at understanding everyday conversation) and time. And although Senator Feinsteinlet slipthat the FBI already employs 10,000 people "doing intelligence on counter-terrorism", even that Stasi-scale mob isn't a match for the torrent of voice recordings that Verizon and co could cough up daily for the spooks.So in this business at least, content isn't king. It's the metadata – the call logs showing who called whom, from which location and for how long – that you want. Why? Because that's the stuff that is machine-readable, and therefore searchable. Imagine, for a moment, that you're an NSA operative in Fort Meade, Maryland. You have a telephone number of someone you regard as potentially "interesting". Type the number into a search box and up comes a list of every handset that has ever called, or been called by, it. After that, it's a matter of seconds before you have a network graph of second-, third- or fourth-degree connections to that original number. Map those on to electronic directories to get names and addresses, obtain a secret authorisation from the Fisa court (which has 11 federal judges so that it can sit round the clock, seven days a week), then dispatch a Prism subpoena to Facebook and co and make some coffee while waiting for the results. Repeat the process with the resulting email contact lists and – bingo! – you have a mass surveillance programme as good as anything Vladimir Putin could put together. And you've never had to sully your hands – or your conscience – with that precious "content" that civil libertarians get so worked up about.Do people fall for the "it's only metadata" guff? If they do, my hunch is that it's because their intuitions haven't kept pace with the extent that mobile technology has pervaded our lives, or with the scale of the data that outfits such as the NSA have been accumulating. Most people would be discomfited to learn how detailed a reconstruction of their lives their mobile phone operator could produce if required – right down to a pretty good guess at when they have been speeding in their cars. Four years ago a German Green party politician, Malte Spitz, sued to have Deutsche Telekom hand over six months of his phone data that he then made available toZeit Online. The paper then did what any decent NSA operative would do, namely combine his phone's geolocation data with information relating to his life as a politician – Twitter feeds, blog entries and websites – to create anextraordinary animated reconstructionof a day in his life.It's this revelatory power that enables metadata to expose far more than what a target is talking about. "Metadata,"says Matt Blaze, a crypto researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, "is our context. And that can reveal far more about us – both individually and as groups – than the words we speak. Context yields insights into who we are and the implicit, hidden relationships between us. A complete set of all the calling records for an entire country is therefore a record not just of how the phone is used, but, coupled with powerful software, of our importance to each other, our interests, values, and the various roles we play." So even if the NSA never listened to a single telephone conversation, it would still be able to build what Blaze calls "a national relationship database".In the old days, the medium was the message. Now it's the metadata.
Samsung has unveiled the a hybrid device for those bewildered by the ever increasing array of computer shapes and operating systems – a tablet which doubles as a laptop and runs Windows 8 and Android software.TheAtiv Book Q, unveiled at a Samsung event in London on Thursday, has a screen and a keyboard. A system of hinges mean that when in tablet mode, the screen folds to cover the keyboard, when in PC mode the screen is propped upright as on a laptop. And when watching films or showing a presentation, the screen flips right over into stand mode.The device is slim, at 14mm, and weights 1.29kg. Its touch screen is 13.3in and also works with a stylus. Two weeks ago, rival manufacturer Asus unveiled a similar hybrid which also runs Microsoft and Google software."Addressing a common desire among PC users to be able to access Android apps on a Windows-based PC, the Ativ Q allows you to now experience both Windows 8 and Android Jellybean 4.2.2 on the same device," Samsung said. "Not only will you get access to Android apps via Google Play, but you will also be able to transfer files or share folders and files from Windows 8 to Android."Continuing on the hybrid theme, Samsung confirmed the arrival of its Galaxy S4 Zoom, which runs on Android software, and unveiled a professional grade camera, theGalaxy NX, with interchangeable lenses which can send images over 4G and 3G mobile phone networks.Also running on Android, the camera has a 20.3 mega-pixel resolution and can be fitted with a series of lenses, from compact pancake to ultra-wide fisheye, and longer zoom. It shoots video, in both 2D and 3D. Pictures and video can be edited on the camera's screen before being uploaded for sharing.With smartphones already denting sales of basic point-and-shoot cameras, the Zoom has the potential to further depress sales of photographic equipment.Samsung is under pressure to deliver a best seller. Banks have cut their profit forecasts for the South Korean company, warning its flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S4, may not be proving as serious a contender to Apple's iPhone 5 as originally predicted.
The Instagram photography app now has 130m active users, so itsaddition last night of video featuresshould spark a boom in shared footage of children, dinners, cats and drunken tomfoolery. That's progress for you.Flippancy aside, though, will Instagram's new features be a hit or a flop with users? Has the Facebook-owned app integrated them elegantly, or crowbarred them in ham-fistedly due to the popularity of Twitter's Vine app?Does my Eton Mess sundae look best in motion with the Dogpatch, Maven or Moon filters? All questions that can finally be answered, as the new features went live in version 4.0 of Instagramon iPhoneandon Androidshortly after they were announced.Accessing video is certainly easy: you tap on Instagram's camera button, then a video-camera icon. The app has filched Vine's interface for shooting clips: hold your thumb down on a big red record button to start capturing video, and remove it to stop.You can thus create multi-scene clips, or stop-motion animation if you're feeling ambitious. Vine has thrown up some really creative videos on the latter front, even if most people seem happy to point and shoot single-take clips.The obvious difference between the two apps is in the length of videos: up to six seconds for Vine – and they loop – versus up to 15 seconds for Instagram. It's not the longest length for this category of app, though: Viddy has a 30-second limit, while Socialcam and YouTube Capture leave it up to the user.Instagram says it has applied "world-class image stabilization" to deal with shaky-handed videography, starting on iPhone. It seems to work well enough, although your situation – being jostled in a crowd at a gig or football match, for example – may dictate the smoothness of your footage. Tapping on the viewfinder readjusts the focus, meanwhile.Instagram's signature filters – visual effects applied to your photos – are a key part of the app's new video features too. 13 are included at launch as well as a "Normal" option.Their names aren't descriptive of their style – no "Sepia", "Black and White" or "Crackly VHS" effects. Names like Stinson, Vesper, Ginza and Helena mean you have to try them to see which ones you like. 13 feels a good number in that respect: enough to provide variety, but not too many to get their measure fairly quickly.Once filtered, you choose a Cover Frame – a still from the video that people will see before playing it – then get the regular Instagram posting screen to type in a caption, flick a switch to decide whether you want its location to be tagged, and choose to share to Facebook, Twitter and/or Tumblr as well as Instagram.Not YouTube, noticeably – although the square format of the videos wouldn't suit that service in any case.If you're uploading over the mobile network rather than Wi-Fi, videos obviously use more data than photos. How much more? I reset my phone's data-usage stats, filmed a 15-second clip wandering around my garden and uploaded it, and found the data cost was 9.6MB.If you're planning on sharing lots of videos, you'll want a suitable data tariff. Think of the use case of being out and about at a gig or sports event, when you may want to shoot and share several clips.As with photographs, if your upload fails, the footage remains in Instagram with a little reload icon, so you can try again later – for example when you're on a Wi-Fi network.These issues are important: as Instagram has grown, it has got a lot more mainstream, so a lot of those 130m active users certainly aren't on unlimited data tariffs, and a big chunk may be on the lower-end 100MB-a-month plans.Instagram's new video features aren't just about shooting clips, of course. You can expect to see more popping up in your stream, with little camera icons signifying that they can be played.Again, the data question could be interesting for Instagram's more mainstream users, who may not (initially) realise that watching all their friends' videos when away from a Wi-Fi network could make them blow through their monthly data faster than ever. This is the same for any video-intensive app, of course.A note on ownership – a subject Instagram is clearly keen to make itself understood on, following previous controversies over its commercial plans."Nothing's different from photos. We're still committed to making sure you have control over all of your content. Only the people who you let see your photos will be able to see your videos. And as with photos, you own your videos,"blogged CEO Kevin Systrom last night.As for getting hold of your videos, as with photos the final clips are saved to your device, while I can recommendIFTTTas a way to ensure your content gets saved to your cloud service of choice (Dropbox, in my case) so you have a backup.If you don't use Instagram and think the whole photo-sharing phenomenon is tiresome, its video features are unlikely to change your mind. If you do use Instagram, however, they're a logical addition to the app, and one that a lot of people will use.Instagram video is likely to be bigger than Vine for the immediate future, with 130m active users of Instagram getting the feature straight away, versus 13m iPhone Vine downloads plus 1m-5m on Android since its launch in early June.Better? Vine videos are certainly much easier to embed around the web, if that's important to you, but it doesn't have filters (yet). Both apps may provoke questions from Android owners about missing features.Instagram video as a Vine-killer? Meh. There's room for both apps, and the competition should ensure neither rests on its laurels as far as new features goes, which is good. Now, have you seen my cat...
With its heady mix of cars, guns and a post-apocalyptic Australian wasteland, the Mad Max film franchise would seem tailor-made for the video game treatment. But it has only ever spawned one game: a 1990 effort for the Nintendo Entertainment System. However, with the fourth film due to arrive in 2014, Warner Bros is about to redress that glaring omission with what should be the first properly mainstream Mad Max game, and it broke cover for the first time at E3.Fear not – silence those alarm-bells – Mad Max emphatically won't be another example of that most miserable of fudges, the game-of-a-film. It has its own storyline, is being developed by Swedish outfit Avalanche Studios (best known for the Just Cause games) and is a large, ambitious and sumptuous-looking open-world game played out in a gratifyingly massive sandbox. We didn't manage to get hands-on with it, but Avalanche senior producer John Fuller talked us through a comprehensive live demo (operating on the PS4; it will also come out on Xbox One, PS3 and Xbox 360).Mad Max: the back-storyThe back-story, at least for the portion of the game that we saw, dictated that Max (whom you control, naturally) had lost the Interceptor (his legendary vehicle) and teamed up with an "idiot-savant" mechanic called Chumbucket to build a replacement. Then Max's mission was to get to Gastown, but that involved getting through Dead Barren's Pass, a heavily defended bottleneck with a giant gate called The Jaw. In order to demolish The Jaw, you needed to acquire a harpoon called The Talon, currently in the possession of a gang-leader called Top Dog.Design your own carSuch a storyline, while fairly basic, certainly remained true to the Mad Max universe, without intruding too far into the action. We started off with a spot of car customisation – Fuller explained that the game is set up to allow you to design a monster vehicle that suits your play-style, so by adding and upgrading components, you could, for instance, create a virtually indestructible battering-ram or a car that could outrun anything around it.Fuller drove up to a gate we had to ram through, but explained that it was highlighted in red, because our car wasn't yet strong enough to get through it, adding that one of the game's key mechanics involved exploring and finding resources to allow upgrades which, in turn, would bring access to new areas. He added a beefier cow-catcher to the front of the car and beefed up the engine to cope with the extra weight (Mad Max has a rigorous, but "Exaggerated" physics engine), and we got on Top Dog's trail.Driving and shootingNow we could see the meat of Mad Max's gameplay: the engine allows you to enact exactly the sort of four-wheeled combat seen in the films. When you draw alongside enemy vehicles, for example, you can use a harpoon-gun to target specific areas – tyres, say, which you can pull off causing crashes. Characters will jump on your vehicle, and you can target them, classic Mad Max-style, with a shotgun blast. Through the roof of your cab. You can also shoot barrels of fuel strapped to the side of enemy vehicles. And the exaggerated physics were in evidence, with lots of car-jumps and the like.On-foot actionAfter recovering the Talon, it was time to head towards Dead Barren's Pass and The Jaw. This gave Fuller the chance to show a glimpse of Mad Max's open-world nature, bringing up the map, which was huge and showed a host of side-missions, activities and, he said, "random events". He explained that you could decide whether to stick to the roads – increasing your chances of skirmishes – or upgrade your tyres for a more cross-country approach.The on-foot action looked pretty fun, too – in a typical third-person action adventure style, albeit with some characteristic Mad Max twists. Fuller parked nearby a sniper and steered Max on foot. He can sneak up behind enemies and take them down, or use his fists or shotgun. But the most fun-looking sequence occurred when Max picked up a Thunderstick – essentially an exploding spike – and threw it at an enemy, where it lodged before exploding in graphic detail.Then, on the approach to the heavily guarded Dead Barren's Pass, it was time to use the sniper-rifle we had just acquired, in order to thin out the hordes of dodgy individuals guarding it. Some judicious red barrel-shooting was on offer, but we soon came under concentrated fire: Mad Max's AI will clearly be pretty rigorous (as it should be, in line with the general fierceness of the films).General impressionsWith the fourth film due next year (subtitled Fury Road, and starring Nicholas Hoult and Tom Hardy, with Mel Gibson rumoured to be making a cameo appearance), Mad Max looks set to roar back into the general pop-culture consciousness, and Warner Bros' promising-looking game should do it justice. It's exactly the sort of game you would want Mad Max to be made into – a GTA-style, open-world, action-adventure effort. And what we've seen looked pretty well executed, visually impressive  and meaty, although it's not likely to be the most original game you'll see. Let's hope it lives up to its promise.
Instagram launched a video-sharing tool on Thursday, in a move that will place the Facebook-owned company in direct competition with Vine, the Twitter-backed video app.Instagram CEO Kevin Systrommade the announcementat Facebook's Menlo Park headquarters in California, promising that Instagram video would incorporate "everything we know and love about Instagram, but it moves"."Over the past two and a half years, Instagram has become a community where you can capture and share the world's moments simply and beautifully," Systrom saidin a blogpost accompanying the announcement."Some moments, however, need more than a static image to come to life."An updated version of Instagram, which wasbought by Facebookfor $1bn in April last year, was made immediately available on iOS and Android.Version 4.0.0 of Instagram looks much the same as its predecessors, but the capture screen shows a video camera icon to the right of the normal image-capture button.Users can record video in instalments – just a few seconds or tenths of seconds at a time – in a format that looks similar to that of Vine, the six-second looping video tool which was launched by Twitter in January.Vine was initially only available for iPhone, before an Android version launched this month. Instagram video appears to have bested it by launching immediately on both platforms.Instagram videos do not "loop" in the same way as Vines, but the Instagram format offers users up to 15 seconds of recording time instead of the sometimes-limiting six seconds on Vine.Instagram's popularity was in part based on the special filters users could impose over their pictures, and Instagram video has similar capabilities – with 13 specially created filters available to process video."We're excited to see what the community will bring to video, whether it's your local cafe showing you just how they made your latte art this morning, or an Instagrammer on the other side of the world taking you on a tour of their city, a mother sharing her joys in parenting as her children laugh and play, or your favorite athlete taking you behind the scenes," Systrom wrote in his blogpost, linking to examples of Instagram video in action.One of the benefits Instagram video will have over Vine is that it already has a dedicated audience. Instagram has 130m active users, Systrom said at the unveiling, with 1bn likes a day. Vine, which Twitter bought for $30m, launched as a new app in January, with users having to build followers from scratch.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNASA Billion-Pixel View from Curiosity at RocknestMars in close-up:A billion-pixel view from the surface of Mars, from NASA's Mars rover Curiosity, offers armchair explorers a way to examine one part of the Red Planet in great detail.The first NASA-produced view from the surface of Mars larger than one billion pixels stitches together nearly 900 exposures taken by cameras onboard Curiosity and shows details of the landscape along the rover's route.Stunning scenes, and the perfect opportunity to go pixel-hunting for some morealien lizards.Microsoft Explored Plans to Build Amazon Rival &gt;&gt; Wall Street JournalGreg Bensinger and Shira Ovide:Microsoft Corp. recently explored rolling out an e-commerce marketplace aimed at taking on heavyweights Amazon.com Inc. and eBay Inc., according to people briefed on the company's plans.The software giant held discussions with retailers and technology companies about a marketplace, proposing to equip it with an array of merchants, as well as a unified shopping cart and broad shipping options, according to these people. To lure shoppers, Microsoft was considering subsidizing the price of goods on its e-commerce service using a portion of advertising dollars merchants spend on Microsoft's Bing Web-search engine or elsewhere, said the people.The scheme has apparently been shelved, for now, with Microsoft describing Project Brazil (as it was known) as "an incubation to enable a more direct commerce model between customers and brands and merchants" that would be available on Xbox consoles, smartphones and tablets as well as computers.Reveal Labs launches a $20k crowdfunding campaign for its Tile Bluetooth device to find lost items &gt;&gt; The Next WebKen Yeung:Reveal Labs today launched a crowdfunding campaign in search of $20,000 to fund its Tile Bluetooth device. The company hopes that money raised will help show if people are interested and to get it closer to production. Tile aims to be that device people place on things such as wallets, keys, luggage, phones, or anything else to help you find it no matter where it is.I'm all over this one, it's a fantastic idea. I'm going to back it. Now, where's my wall... Oh.Apple Gaming Strategy Analysis: Apple's plan to Crush Microsoft, Sony &gt;&gt; Boy Genius ReportJonathan S. Geller:Let's just be honest... we are at the absolute end of the road for gaming consoles. There is no reason that you are going to need a dedicated gaming machine in the next year or two -- you probably don't even need one now. What makes this more troubling for Microsoft's upcoming Xbox One and Sony's PlayStation 4 is that this big, heavy, bulky, hot and loud gaming consoles have to last for an extremely long time in order for them to be profitable for each company. We have been on a 7 to 8-year life cycle for game consoles for the last couple decades, and that model isn't going to be sustainable going into the future.You can predict the tone of many of the comments on this piece before reading them. RAGE. Which is exactly what the writer was hoping for, of course.But there's an important point in this piece about Apple setting out standards for physical game controllers for iOS devices, and thus positioning Apple TV as a console-in-waiting. "Soon, you are going to be able to play a console-quality game on your iPhone or iPad with a game controller, and you're going to be able to see it on your big screen television without any effort..."Pirate Bay cofounder gets two years in prison for IT firm hack | Ars TechnicaCyrus Farivar:As his defense attorney expected, a Swedish court has found Gottfrid "anakata" Svartholm Warg guilty of "invasion of Nordea's mainframe," aggravated fraud, and attempted aggravated fraud. He was sentenced (Swedish) to two years in prison.The Pirate Bay cofounder will also likely have to face related charges in a high-profile hacking case in neighboring Denmark, but the Swedish and Danish legal systems have not yet determined if or when he will be extradited.Warg was deported from Cambodia last year, where he'd been living since disappearing amid a trial of three Pirate Bay co-founders and one of its financial backers for copyright infringement.Netflix's decision to renew Hemlock Grove shows its algorithms are working &gt;&gt; paidContentJanko Roettgers:Netflix announced this week that it is renewing its original horror series Hemlock Grove for a second season, with 10 new episodes set to premiere in 2014. The news may come as a surprise to some: Netflix has spent a lot of effort promoting Arrested Development and House of Cards, but hasn't made a big fuss about Hemlock. Critics who watched the show hated it, calling it a dud, a flop and "the company's first truly bad series."And if you're anything like me, then you have never seen Hemlock Grove pop up in your Netflix recommendations. Heck, chances are, you may have never heard about Hemlock before reading this article. But that's OK; Netflix didn't make the show for us. It's aimed at an audience of teenage horror fans. And Netflix had the numbers to know that this audience was engaged enough on the streaming service to make a title like Hemlock Grove succeed.Hemlock Grove is the 13-episode horror show made by Hostel director Eli Roth. What's interesting here is Netflix's data-driven commissioning. It knew a lot of its users watched horror films, with Roth the most popular director. So it went out and commissioned him, then promoted his series to those people through its recommendation algorithms.Finally, something has united Americans: We're not cool with killer robots &gt;&gt; GigaOmSigne Brewster:Of the 1,000 people surveyed by University of Massachusetts-Amherst researchers, 55 percent said they oppose autonomous weapons, with most answering "strongly opposed." Almost 20 percent answered "not sure." Answers were consistent across political affiliations, ages, genders, regions, education and income levels, but not service status: 73 percent of active military personnel responded with disapproval. Language such as "stopping killer robots" and "banning fully autonomous weapons" garnered similar responses.Asking people if they want to stop killer robots is a bit of a leading question. But researcher Charli Carpenter says "people are scared by the idea of removing humans from the loop, not simply scared of the label". Although in the who's-killed-most-people league table, humans are still well ahead of robots...Narcissism in motion: Instagram's new video features are a vanity mirror, not a communications tool &gt;&gt; PandoDailyNathaniel Mott:Instagram remains one of the best-designed photo-sharing applications. But the new video tools aren't nearly as intuitive as, say, the double-tap gesture Instagram invented to allow users to "like" a photo. Recording a video is a buggy mess. The "stand-out" features -- filters, a video stabilizer, and the ability to choose which frame represents the video in your friends' Instagram feeds -- are lackluster at best. The entire thing feels like something that should have been introduced a year ago.There was lots of praise in the tech blogosphere last night for Instagram's move into video, but this offers a different take.Google Glass: facial recognition blocking technology developed &gt;&gt; Boy Genius ReportBrad Reed:If you're freaked out about the thought of Google Glass users one day being able to use facial recognition technology that's capable of spotting you wherever you go, then some researchers in Japan may have a solution for you. Engadget reports that researchers at Japan's National Institute of Informatics have designed a pair of glasses that obscure your face to prevent facial recognition algorithms from locking onto it.If this turns into a tit-for-tat war of facial recognition versus facial-recognition blocking, we'll all end up wearing robot helmets. Daft Punk are onto something...Twitter + GNIP &gt;&gt; MapboxFascinating map using 280m tweets posted from mobile devices, broken down by Android/iPhone/BlackBerry/"Other" (ouch, Windows Phone). The geographical differences are remarkable.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
The internet won – that's the message flooding Twitter. Microsoft's attempt to restrict the sales of pre-owned games and to tie consoles in to a rigorous online authentication regime has been quashed. Xbox One games will now work like Xbox 360 games – you can buy them, then take them back to your local store to trade them in for something else, or just give them to friends. They won't be tied to you, or your Xbox account; they will be yours to own and keep – well, as much as any commercial media release is yours to own and keep, which is much more complicated than many of us understand.Obviously, this was not the Xbox One plan – although it may never be clear exactly what the original proposition was. From the unveiling of the console in May, all Microsoft has been able to convey is that the disc you buy games on will now be merely a delivery medium for a digital file that you must download onto your console hard drive and which then becomes subject to DRM restrictions and monitoring. Xbox One games would be like digital goods – theoretically resaleable, but only under certain conditions; theoretically shareable, but only to limited numbers of people. That is all gone now.There are uncertainties over whether this has been a victory of public pressure, or whether it is more about Microsoft responding to the successful strategy of its rival, Sony. At the PlayStation 4 press conference that took place before this year's giant E3 event in Los Angeles, the Xbox One proposition was mocked and eviscerated – Sony made it clear that pre-owned game sales would be fully supported on its new machine. The crowd went wild; the industry took notice.Inan editorialon news site VG247, veteran games journalist Pat Garratt relates the panic that swept through the games community in the wake of Sony's display: "I was told of turmoil among the developers and publishers assembled in LA. Those that had sided with Microsoft were doing more than wobbling … They were seriously questioning whether or not they'd backed the appropriate horse and were making instant moves to better engage with Sony. Microsoft's policies had been well known for some time, but it was, in fact, the reaction to Sony's E3 showboating that was forcing what appeared to be a movement in content to PS4."Sony: showboating at E3 over the PS4. Photograph: Jordan Strauss/Invision for SCEA/AP ImagesBut the question that keeps coming back is whether this is indeed a victory against a greedy controlling mega-corp, ora step backwardsfor console gaming. No doubt looking at other digital media brands, from iTunes to Netflix, to the PC gaming service Steam, Microsoft envisaged a future where games would go entirely digital; where consumers would be free from paying $60 for a physical disc and then losing money on its depreciated resale. Buried within the corporate talk were some genuinely promising ideas: Xbox One owners would be able to share their digital games with up to 10 friends all over the world; they would be able to sign in to their games library on any Xbox One system; there was the potential for an online exchange service where players would be able to sell on digital game purchases – without having to head to a store with a bundle of game discs and hoping for an OK price. Has the internet really won?Some industry insiders clearly see this as unambiguously the correct thing to do. "It was absolutely the right decision," says John Pickford, a veteran game developer. "Physical discs are well understood by the consumer and this attempt to control their trade and exchange is a direct attack on consumer rights. There are some benefits to the DRM approach – disk-less installs, etc – but they don't come close to compensating for the restriction in reselling or lending and the forced internet check-in."But from others there is a sense that Microsoft has had to sacrifice a potentially progressive view of the console industry to win back consumer support. "We didn't give it a chance," says game designer and analyst Will Luton. "We never got to see if this thing worked, and there was a chance it would have brought a lot of benefits. Being able to sell digital games is really interesting. Look, you've never really owned a game, you've owned a licence to it, or access to it through a disc – inevitably everything is going to move to digital distribution where you're going to need some sort of DRM – certainly that's the case on mobile platforms and on Steam. The internet has been so reactionary."London-based developer Mediatonic also saw the potential in a console where online connection was expected rather than merely supported. CEO Dave Bailey agrees that it's right for Microsoft to put customer concerns first, but saw Xbox One as an interesting test case. "As a company, a lot of our interest lies in the growing field of 'games as a service' – games where the offering continues to grow over time, where the world changes to the feedback and experiences of our players," he says. "We've dedicated a lot of time to developing technology that allows us to tweak games once they've been delivered to players, without requiring huge downloads, patches or updates. However, for that to work, you need to be regularly online so you can grab the latest data and make sure you're up to date."The reason why this model has taken off so well in mobile is that, signal willing, you always have that connected experience by default.  So in many ways, it was interesting for us that Microsoft was blazing the 'always online' trail. Most console users are now connected to the Internet anyway, so it's not a blocker to us, but it could have been interesting to have a situation where it was all users."But then, should gamers ever have been put in that position – to have to trust that a whole new way of distributing mainstream console games would be to their benefit? At the centre of this was a vast disconnect between Microsoft's understanding of its audience and what gamers actually were prepared to accept. And the only way out from that is reversal – even if that means abandoning an idea thatmayhave had benefits. "It was the right thing to do from a public relations perspective," says Matt Martin, editor of news site Gamesindustry.biz. "Microsoft got completely destroyed by Sony at E3. Their system is more expensive, it was more restrictive – they needed to claw something back. But the whole entertainment business is transitioning into a digital future and this is a step backwards really. Microsoft was going to try something, but it caved, and I can understand why. When Sony attempted to launch a digital-only version of the PSP it backfired - it was before its time."Mass Effect: controversy over DRMThere is also the problem of precedence. DRM and games have not had a happy history together. Five years ago major publishers began using a DVD copy protection program called SecuROM to combat piracy, but gamers complained that the software conflicted with other applications and didn't uninstall when the game was removed. There were also huge controversies around titles such as Spore and Mass Effect which required regular and arduous authentication from purchasers. In 2012 publisher Ubisoft was forced to drop its own invasive DRM systems due to a backlash from gamers who found themselves locked out of titles like Assassin's Creed II due to DRM-related server issues."There's an element of distrust with the digital business," says Martin. "Look at EA's launch of SimCity – it was a disaster because everyone bought this game, which requires online access, and then no one could get onto the server to play it. I mean, it sounds great, being able to download a game and instantly play it against thousands of people, but the reality is, these things collapse, often they haven't been tested enough – youcan'ttest them enough before they go live. Most people aren't attached to physical goods anymore, they don't feel the need to have physical copies of movies or music – but what they do want is to be able to play their games on day one. But I know that with digital games there are often bugs, and things that need fixing, or the latest firmware update bricks your console – there's always that doubt in the back of my mind. And there will be teething problems like this for at least a couple of years."SimCity: launch was marred by online problemsMany of those who have been critical of gamer reactions to Microsoft's proposals have pointed to Steam as an example of a positive digital gaming service. Operated by the game developer Valve, this online market place allows PC owners to download everything from indie titles to mainstream hits, many at a much cheaper price than boxed copies. On that system, gamers are unable to resell their digital titles, but Valve may well be looking at a means for allowing the sort of limited sharing facilities that Microsoft proposed for Xbox One – a lot of the thinking in this emerging area of the industry seems to be going in the same direction.But among the may subtle technical and commercial differences between Steam and the Xbox One concept, there is one really big difference: roll-out. "When Steam came out, it was a slow transition process for gamers," says independent game designer Dan Marshall. "I was still buying major new releases as boxed copies, it took me a long time to change. You need to introduce that process slowly instead of shouting 'this is a new generation, this is how things will work'. If Microsoft had gradually brought it in, perhaps through regular digital sales, if they had got people used to the concept of having a digital library, it would have been a much better approach."Right now, Microsoft has withdrawn the "good" stuff: it won't allow digital sharing of games with 10 friends, it won't open a digital pre-owned market place. It's tempting to read this as a sort of corporate-scale flounce, but there are obvious considerations. "They need DRM and authentication, there need to be check and balances," says Luton. "I could give a game to 10 people and if none of them ever go on the internet, they have effectively got it indefinitely and for free. There needs to be something in place for that gifting system to work. Microsoft must be certain that if the system supports the gifting of a game to one person, then only one person does get that game – without authentication, people could just bypass the official marketplace entirely."This may, in the end, be how Microsoft moves forward. There is clearly a desire to shift away from retail, a desire to change the value chain from developer through to consumer – we all know that desire is prompted by commercial rather than altruistic motivations, but there could still be benefits. "I think the sharing features will come back at a later date, or be added to an Xbox Live subscription and they will probably be well received," says Martin. "Being able to share games digitally with your friends is a good idea. People will welcome it. But you can only dictate to people so much about how they're going to consume their media. People didn't like Microsoft saying, 'this is how you will buy, play and share your games'. Once you start taking away choice, people start getting uppity."Ryse: Son Of Rome: the Xbox One game will now be resaleableMicrosoft wants to make money out of its game business; and it saw a way of making more money in a pipeline it had better control over, and which coincidentally has aspects that may have appealed to consumers in some ways. But it totally failed to communicate them. Perhaps this is all about process rather than function. Over the course of several years, the smartphone gaming sector has grown and transformed into a vast global market, and it is entirely digital; meanwhile, there is no sense of ownership over the hugely successful multiplayer role-playing games that proliferate online. These models slowly evolved with the user-base, and with business models that were tried and sometimes rejected en route."I think what Microsoft is trying to do is a great idea – for five to 10 years time," says Marshall. "The general shift toward digital-only, the cloud stuff… it's interesting, but they never explained it properly. I was in the pub on Saturday talking to some non-gamer friends about the controversy, I explained the Xbox One restrictions to them and they were completely dumbfounded about why anyone would buy it. This typifies how gamers have felt right down to their core. At some point in the future this will be fine but we're not there yet, we just don't have the infrastructure to support it."The problem is, U-turns very rarely completely solve a problem. Microsoft will not convert its fanatical internet opponents in this way – even if it assuages the fears of its current user base. Sure, there are signs that public favour has swung around again pretty fast – as MCVpoints out, the Xbox One 'Day One' edition is now number two onAmazon UK's video game bestseller list, one place ahead of PS4 (though the Amazon US list has several PS4 packages in the top 10). However, before all this, some people were suspicious about the company's motivations and now they are suspicious about how such ostensibly intrinsic elements of the Xbox One offering have been cast aside over night.For now, Microsoft has seemingly made the right decision. But it has all been spectacularly naive, a PR clusterbomb, and those looking to build a digital entertainment businesses over the next five years would do well to perform a forensic analysis on what went wrong. It is unimaginable and yet it happened, and now we all have to figure out where games go from here.[This article has been updated since its original publication, with new details and quotes.]
A Samsung camera with a powerful optical zoom that can also make phone calls and connect to the internet over mobile networks was due to be showcased in London on Thursday night.The South Korean manufacturer was expected to unveil its latest Galaxy-branded, Android-software-running devices at an event in Earl's Court, and to launch new handsets that work on the Windows phone software, for which Samsung uses the Ativ brand.The Galaxy S4 Zoom, Samsung's answer to Nokia's high-end cameraphone technology, includes a 16 megapixel camera and a 10x optical zoom for close ups. It uses Google's Android operating system, and contains optical stabilisation to help photographers with shaky hands in low light.With smartphones already denting sales of basic point-and-shoot cameras, the Zoom has the potential to further depress sales of photographic equipment."As communication continues to become increasingly visual in nature, people wish to capture and share their moments in the highest quality possible, but often do not have the space or inclination to carry a dedicated camera for this purpose," Samsung mobile head JK Shin has previously pointed out.The third edition of Samsung's popular Galaxy Note, whose screen is halfway between a smartphone and a tablet, was also expected on show. The Note was expected to have an eight core processor – most smartphones make do with two or four cores – and a 13 megapixel rear camera.With Microsoft's developer conference beginning in San Francisco next week, Samsung is planning to highlight its Windows Phone handsets. Last year's Ativ S smartphone was billed as a Windows version of the Galaxy S3, and an upgrade is thought to be in the wings to bring the model up to date in comparison with the S4.
1.39pmETSummarySoInstagram videois a real thing that people can really download on iOS and Android devices right now.With the new function, users can record videosup to 15 seconds long.The interface looks almost exactly the same though the company has added13 new filtersspecially for video.Instagram worked with &quot;video scientists&quot; to create a stabilization feature calledCinema.First Instagram video, noir@katierogershttp://t.co/FmhT0Srj7n&mdash; Amanda Holpuch (@holpuch)June 20, 20131.30pmETThat&apos;s it. After showing off anInstagram-made videofull of little children running around, the presentation has concluded in under 30 minutes.Instagram video is available oniOS and Androiddevices, now.To clarify, the Instagram update does not come with a kid.&mdash; T.J. Ortenzi (@tjortenzi)June 20, 2013Updatedat 1.31pm ET1.28pmETCinema&quot;Everything we know and love about Instagram,but it moves,&quot; said Systrom.Systrom said Instagram teamed up with &quot;the world&apos;s leading video scientists,&quot; which a bunch of people just learned is a job.He then unveiledCinema– a video stabilization tool.1.23pmETInstagram videoscan be up to 15 seconds long.The video function is very similar to regular Instagram – users will tag and caption photos in the same way.Also, Instagram created13 brand new, custom filtersfor video.There is also a cover frame function to improve how videos look on mobile devices.1.18pmETIt's official: Instagram video is a thingSystrom confirms that today is about unveiling Instagram&apos;s newvideo-sharingcapabilities.To build this service, Systrom said they focused on simplicity, beauty and community.The interface is almost exactly the same, just with an added video button.Updatedat 1.18pm ET1.15pmETSystrom says16 million photoshave been shared on Instagram.&quot;That&apos;s a lot of pictures of coffee,&quot; he jokes and possibly encourages.More stats: 1 billion likes per day and 130 million people use the app.1.13pmET&quot;When I think aboutInstagram, I think about moments,&quot; said Systrom.He&apos;s explaining how life is short and taking pictures is the only way to preserve memories destroyed by naturally declining brain functions, but in less words.Systrom is showing slides of the moments that it&apos;s important to preserve, like one of a bulldog in a top hat and pipe.1.10pmETFacebook co-founderMark Zuckerbergopened the event by talking about the website&apos;s most popular services and how they work on mobile. He said the focus for today&apos;s event is onInstagram.According to Zuckerberg, the Instagram team has tripled in size since being acquired by Facebook and invitedInstagram CEO Kevin Systromon stage.1.06pmETFacebook&apos;s invitation to press said: &quot;A small team has been working on a big idea. Join us for coffee and learn about a new product.&quot;At#FacebookHQ, room just opened where announcement will be made.Will it be about Instagram video sharing?@KTVUpic.twitter.com/picZJwK4nr&mdash; Janine De la Vega (@janinektvu)June 20, 201312.43pmETAhead of the new product launch,Facebookunveiled other changes to its site.As of this week, userscan now respond to comments with photos. Last week, the site announced it has integratedhashtags, like Twitter.ABC&apos;s Joanna Sternexplained how the hashtag tweak could have major implications forFacebook user privacy.It&apos;s a small feature change, sure, but it has far-reaching implications, especially in making what you say on Facebook more widely visible to others. Now, including a hashtag in your post will make it more easily discoverable by others. Facebook itself has said it is looking to make more public conversations on the service.Stern also offeredprivacy tipsincluding reviewing status update privacy settings, reviewing older posts you may have used hashtags in and reviewing friends and lists.12.15pmETFacebook is unveiling a new product todayat its Menlo Park headquarters at 10am PT (1pm ET, 6pm BST). It iswidely assumedthat this new product will be an update to Instagram that enables video-sharing.Instagram video is expected to allow people to use the popular photo-sharing app to share short videos, much like Twitter&apos;s video-sharing app Vine.As these rumors have been brewing, Vine posted a thank you to its users in a blogpost andpromised updatesto the service. &quot;Over the next few weeks, we’ll be introducing some exciting new parts of Vine.&quot;TechCrunch predicted that Facebook wouldunveil its own news readerservice to make up for the end of Google Reader, but the tech blog has since said it is not likely and that the author expects a video service as well.Facebook acquired Instagram for $1bn in April 2012. The service has 100 million monthly active users and 40 million photos are uploaded to the app daily, according to Instagram.
European data protection watchdogs are closing in on Google, with Spain charging the software giant with six legal infringements punishable by up to €1.5m (£1.3m) in fines, while France has given it three months to rewrite its privacy policy.Google is likely to face actions from the UK, German, Italian and Dutch data watchdogs, in a co-ordinated campaign to push it into improving protection for consumers.Spain launched a sanction procedure on Thursday, accusing the company behind the Android phone software and the world's largest search engine of six counts of breaching data protection laws.The six-month process initiated by Spain'sAgencia Española de Protección de Datoscould result in five fines of up to €300,000 each and a further penalty for a more minor transgression of up to €40,000.Google collects a wide range of information on individuals, including names, photographs, email addresses, phone numbers, credit cards, websites visited, what smartphones, tablets and computers customers are using, logs of queries typed into its search engine, phone numbers called, time, date and duration of calls, and customer locations.Spain is concerned consumers were not told clearly how Google planned to use their personal information before it was shared. It objects to the combining of personal information from one service, such as email, with that from another, such as search queries.It is concerned Google is collecting disproportionate amounts of data, and holding on to it for longer than needed. And it says Google does not make it easy enough for an individual to correct, delete or access their private information.On the same day, France's Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL)gave Google formal noticethat it risks a fine of up to €150,000 and a second of €300,000 if it fails to rewrite its privacy policy within three months.The CNIL has similar concerns to its Spanish counterpart and has requested a series of changes. It wants Google to give customers "defined and explicit purposes" for gathering their personal data, so that individuals know how their information will be used before deciding whether to share it.France wants "definite retention periods" for data. Users should be informed before the 'cookies' which track their browsing are stored on their computer. And Google should not be allowed, without legal basis, to combine data supplied for different products and services."This case is a significant test of how strong the laws are to protect our privacy in an internet age," said Nick Pickles, director of privacy campaign Big Brother Watch. "Fines totalling a few million dollars will hardly trouble a multi-billion dollar empire and it's essential that action does force the company to respect our privacy and put users rights before the demands of its advertising customers."Jeff Gould, president of public sector computing group SafeGov, said: "We remain concerned that non-consumer users of Google's services, such as employees, civil servants, patients or schoolchildren, who aren't able to individually consent to or opt-out of data processing practices, remain at risk of intrusive online tracking."The UKInformation Commissioner's Officeis considering whether Google's privacy policy, updated last July, is compliant with the UK Data Protection Act, and will shortly be writing to Google to confirm their preliminary findings.A Google spokesman said: "Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the authorities involved throughout this process, and we'll continue to do so going forward."Watchdogs are keeping a wary eye on Google Glass. On Wednesday, 37 data protection agenciessent a joint letterto Google's chief executive, Larry Page, raising concerns about the digital spectacles."Fears of ubiquitous surveillance of individuals by other individuals, whether through such recordings or through other applications currently being developed, have been raised," the letter stated."Questions about Google's collection of such data and what it means in terms of Google's revamped privacy policy have also started to appear."The signatories, who include data protection agencies from Canada, Australia, Israel, Switzerland and New Zealand, want privacy built into the development of products and services, and have requested demonstrations and full consultation with Google before Glass goes on sale.
Skype, the web-based communications company, reportedly set up a secret programme to make it easier for US surveillance agencies to access customers' information.The programme, called Project Chess and first revealedby the New York Timeson Thursday, was said to have been established before Skype was bought by Microsoft in 2011. Microsoft's links with US security are under intense scrutiny following the Guardian'srevelation of Prism, a surveillance program run by the National Security Agency (NSA), that claimed "direct" access to its servers and those of rivals including Apple, Facebook and Google.Project Chess was set up to explore the legal and technical issues involved in making Skype's communications more readily available to law enforcement and security officials, according to the Times. Only a handful of executives were aware of the plan. The company did not immediately return a call for comment.Last year Skype denied reports that it had changed its software following the Microsoft acquisition in order to allow law enforcement easier access to communications. "Nothing could be more contrary to the Skype philosophy," Mark Gillett, vice president of Microsoft's Skype division,said in a blog post.According to the Prism documents, Skype had been co-operating with the NSA's scheme since February 2011, eight months before the software giant took it over. The document gives little detail on the technical nature of that cooperation. Microsoft declined to comment.The news comes as the tech firmsare attempting to distance themselvesfrom the Prism revelations. All the firm's listed as participating in the Prism scheme have denied that they give the NSA "direct" access to their servers, as claimed by the slide presentation, and said that they only comply with legal requests made through the courts.But since the story broke a more nuanced picture of how the tech firms work with the surveillance authorities has emerged. The US authorities have become increasingly interested in tech firms and its employees after initially struggling to keep up with the shift to digital communications. NSA officials have held high level talks with executives in the tech firms and are actively recruiting in the tech community.'That information is how they make their money'Shane Harris, author of The Watchers: The Rise of America's Surveillance State, said the NSA had a crisis in the late 1990s when it realised communication was increasingly digital and it was falling behind in its powers to track that data. "You can not overstate that without this data the NSA would be blind," he said.The NSA employs former valley executives, including Max Kelly, the former chief security officer for Facebook, and has increasingly sought to hire people in the hacker community. Former NSA director lieutenant general Kenneth Minihan has taken the opposite tack and is helping create the next generation of tech security firms. Minihan is managing director of Paladin Capital, a private equity firm that has a fund dedicated to investing in homeland security. Paladin also employs Dr Alf Andreassen, a former technical adviser for naval warfare who was also for classified national programmes at AT&amp;T and Bell Laboratories.Harris said the ties were only likely to deepen as technology moves ever more of our communications on line. He warned the move was likely to present more problems for the tech firms as their consumers worry about their privacy. "It's been fascinating for me listening to the push back from the tech companies," said Harris.Christopher Soghoian, a senior policy analyst studying technological surveillance at the American Civil Liberties Union, said the relationship between the tech giants and the NSA has a fundamental – and ironic – flaw that guarantees the Prism scandal is unlikely to be the last time tensions surface between the two.The US spying apparatus and Silicon Valley's top tech firms are basically in the same business, collecting information on people, he said. "It's a weird symbiotic relationship. It's not that Facebook and Google are trying to build a surveillance system but they effectively have," he said. "If they wanted to, Google and Facebook could use technology to tackle the issue, anonymizing and deleting their customers' information. But that information is how they make their money, so that is never going to happen."
Yahoo has closed its acquisition of blogging service Tumblr, paying $1.1bn (£711.12m) for the company and promising that it will retain its independence.The deal was announced on 20 May, and is the most ambitious move yet by chief executive Marissa Mayer to turn around perceptions of Yahoo as a stagnating internet giant that struggles when bringing innovative startups into its business."As promised, Tumblr will continue to operate as a separate business, led by David Karp as CEO,"wrote Mayer on Yahoo's own Tumblr blog. "Their product roadmap, their team, and tone will all remain the same as will their mission to empower creators and curators alike to do what they love best: create."Yahoo expects buying Tumblr, which attracts 300m visitors a month to the 105m blogs on its site, to boost its new parent company's monthly audience by 50% to more than 1bn visitors.At the time the acquisition was announced, Tumblr said its network of bloggers publish 900 posts per second, with visitors spending 24bn minutes on the site every month."We promise not to screw it up,"wrote Mayer then, to pre-empt criticism of Yahoo's previous record when acquiring popular internet services: online community GeoCities, photo-sharing service Flickr and social bookmarking site Delicious being the three most prominent examples.Under Mayer, Yahoo has been buying lots of smaller startups, including Stamped (social recommendations), Rondee (conference calling), Ghostbird Software (photography apps), Loki Studios (mobile games), MileWise (flight search), Astrid (to-do lists), Jybe (more recommendations), Alike (and more) in 2013 alone.Some of these services were shut down, to be integrated into Yahoo's own apps. Meanwhile, the company was reportedlyrebuffed in an attempt to buy a $200m stake in French online video site Dailymotiondue to concerns from the French government.Knitting these apps and teams together into a cogent whole will be one challenge for Yahoo in the coming months, as it makes mobile central to its strategy to woo users and advertisers alike.Tumblr will remain independent, though, although Yahoo is hoping that it can help Karp and his team speed up their plans to make money from advertising on Tumblr. The site launched its first sponsored post in 2012, and has been showing more to users of site on desktop and mobile devices in 2013.In May at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference, Karp claimed that "ten out of ten Hollywood studios are buying advertising space on Tumblr", with the companygenerating sums in the high six-figures for each campaign.
There's some information available about the good physical positioning of desktop PCs, and the frequency of breaks. What are the recommendations for the ergonomic use of tablets, laptops and touch screens?Reid RailtonA lot of effort went into the ergonomics of using desktop PCs and workstations when they came into widespread use in the 1970s and 80s. This didn't stop epidemics ofRSI(repetitive strain injuries)/RMD(repetitive motion disorders) andcarpal tunnel syndrome, but it went some way towards alleviating the problems. Following work bySystems Concepts– which also advised the Guardian when we computerised – and other experts, the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) provided a set ofDisplay Screen Regulations, which came into force in 1992.From this point of view, the "workstation" is not just a PC or terminal, it's the whole working environment. A full workstation evaluation should include the desk and chair, any footrests and copyholders, cables, lighting, eye tests, work breaks, and training. The Guardian, for example, installed recessed ceiling lights in our Farringdon Road offices so there was no glare on screens, and raised the floors to run cables underneath. Some of us switched to headsets instead of phones (propping a phone in the crook of your neck is a really bad idea), and also bought subsidised "computer glasses". These focus on screen distance (an arm's length) without compromising for close-up or distance work.In general, your eyes should be roughly level with the top of the screen, your arms should be roughly horizontal to the keyboard, and your feet should be flat on the floor with your hips slightly above your knees. (It may help if you have the chair seat tilted slightly forward.) You should sit up reasonably straight, with the chair supporting your back.People come in many different shapes and sizes so this usually means adjusting the height of the screen and the chair, and perhaps adding a foot rest. I use a professional computer workstation (furniture) with a slide-out keyboard tray which is below what would normally be desk height. Either way, the aim is to find a comfortable working position that does not create neck, back or arm strains, which can become extremely painful.Desktops to laptopsWhen computers were introduced, many people were forced to use them because their jobs now required a PC or workstation. When laptops arrived, they were often optional – some people could choose a laptop instead of a desktop – and they allowed people to work in different places, including their homes. Laptops therefore didn't meet the same level of resistance.Tom Stewart, the founder of System Concepts, tells me: "As more people started using laptops, the HSE commissioned System Concepts to do some research on the ergonomics, health and safety implications [PDF]. This research confirmed that musculoskeletal and other problems were aggravated by awkward, static postures, prolonged use without breaks, and carrying heavy computer bags (especially over one shoulder). All of these are typical of laptop users, so we recommended lighter laptops (carried in back packs with two straps), using separate keyboards and/or screens to mimic desktop configurations, and taking frequent breaks. The HSE used this research when they updated the Display Screen Regulations."In sum, from the ergonomic point of view, you should make your laptop work more like a desktop. This may mean using a riser to lift the screen, and plugging in a separate keyboard.The unfortunate result is that, as far as I can see, we've gone backwards. In my observation, most laptop workers use them on flat desks for extended periods – even multi-billionaires do it – and this may well result in neck problems. With hotdesking, work areas are no longer configured correctly, if at all. Outside the office, many people use laptops in extremely bad ways: this includes on tables in trains (usually too high) and on their knees (bad for the neck).People in painIt's no wonder that, according to a recent survey of 1,000 UK adults (18 and over) byDynamic MarketsforFellowes(which sells ergonomic office equipment), 79% of us say that working with mobile devices is making us ill. About 10% say that "nomadic working" has created long-term problems, and 5% have been forced to give up their jobs.It's a very easy mistake to make, because everything is fine until it isn't. I've suffered from using laptops for extended periods, and I wrote about it in my Guardian columnWhen Laptops Are a Pain in the Neck, in 2005. I've needed two courses of physiotherapy, at my own expense, which would have paid for a decent desktop PC.Needless to say, I now use a desktop with an ergonomic keyboard, except when travelling, and I do my prescribed neck exercises at least twice a day. I don't carry my laptop in a backpack, but I do usea bag with wheels.Laptops to tabletsHaving seen one backward step from desktop PCs to laptops, I suspect we're seeing another in the move from laptops to tablets and mobile phones. Indeed, some people already report suffering from"iPad neck".Dr Jack Dennerlein at the Harvard School of Public Health led asmall study, which confirmed that looking down at a tablet can cause neck problems. It says: "Your neck angle makes all the difference." Dennerlein's basic tips are to prop the tablet on a stand that provides a good viewing angle, keep changing your posture, and take a break every 15 minutes. You certainly shouldn't spend hours in a fixed position playing a mind-numbing game, nor should you let your children do the same.(You can readthe full 11-page paper, which was part-funded by Microsoft during the development of its Surface tablet.)The two people I asked about tablets treat them differently. Dr Sarah Jarvis, an experienced GP and television health broadcaster, took the line that you should try to treat a tablet more like a laptop, ie like a desktop. "Treat it as a mobile computer," she said. "I've got a stand for my iPad." In particular, you should "avoid the 'vulture posture' which is particularly bad for your back." Tom Stewart said: "as an enthusiastic iPad user, I choose not to use it for prolonged typing: I don't have a keyboard for it. I prefer to change my posture regularly, and treat it a bit like a book."This reflects two different uses. If you're doing something that could be considered "content creation", such as answering emails, then treat your tablet like a PC. If you're using it for "content consumption" then you can treat it like a book.Touch screens and screen breaksHowever, it seems to me that tablets and smartphones are potentially more dangerous than either laptops or desktops, as they will more frequently be used in positions where your posture is bad for your health. The advice for desktop PC users is to take a break every hour or so, and I think you should halve that for tablets, and halve it again for smartphones.These times could be considered over-generous but, to be frank, you're not going to follow expert advice. On its excellent page onPerfect PC Posture, the British Chiropractic Association says "Never sit at the computer for more than 40 minutes; less if possible," and Dr Jack Dennerlein's advice for tablet users is "take a break every 15 minutes". I'll be impressed if you can manage one every 30 minutes.As for touch screens, I'm not aware of any ergonomic advice, but I'm also not aware of any related malaises like "iPad neck" or "Nintendo thumb" etc. Problems may arise because equipment isn't ideal for human interactions – which is the case with most keyboards – or because of repetitive strain injuries (RSI). Constantly repeated actions are not unique to computing, and many people have suffered from housemaid's knee, tennis elbow, writer's cramp and other physical complaints. Touch screens don't usually require the frequent repetition that causes problems, but I'd steer clear of any games that do.Dr Sarah Jarvis says posture-related ailments are rising significantly and she's seeing more in her practice every year. It has reached the point where "Have you got a new tablet or laptop?" is now one of the first things she asks patients who have the symptomatic pains. Many more people must have niggling complaints. If that's you, try to change your posture so that things improve. Don't wait until they get worse. Even small adjustments can help, as this Vodafone-sponsored cartoon shows.<p>
Viacom has become the latest recruit to Twitter's Amplify program, which aims to team up broadcasters and brands for sponsored tweets including video highlights from live events and shows.The guinea pig for the latest partnership will be the MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) on 25 August, building on MTV's social media efforts in previous years around its flagship awards event."The VMAs virtually pioneered the social-TV moment, triggering a demand among marketers to tap into the fan conversations and trending topics that Viacom networks create every day," said Viacom's head of sales Jeff Lucas in a statement."Through this partnership, we're allowing marketers to insert their brands seamlessly into the torrent of fan activity and engagement around our networks on Twitter."Previous broadcasters and sports bodyworking with Twitter under the Amplify bannerinclude ESPN, Turner Sports and the NBA, with campaigns that involved tweeting sports highlights sponsored by brands including Ford, AT&amp;T and Coca-Cola.Viacom says that this year's VMAs event will spawn tweets with backstage footage, interviews and performances, although the sponsors have yet to be announced.The partnership was announced as Twitter made its pitch to TV advertisers at the Cannes Lions conference, in a presentation that (according to Twitter's own write-up, at least) made the case for the Twitter buzz around big TV shows as creating "waves of synchronous conversations about culture and events that the world has never seen before".Earlier this year, Twitter's head of broadcast partnerships in the UK, Dan Biddle, said that80% of UK Twitter users access the service from a mobile devicesome of the time, with television a popular topic for their tweets."40% of tweets in the UK during peak-time television hours are about television. Twitter is the room that we're watching television in," said Biddle. Twitter is far from the only company trying to make money from all this second-screen activity, though.Another firm pitching to advertisers at the Cannes Lions was Shazam, whose mobile app has more than 60m active users tagging music, TV shows and ads to find out what they are (in music's case) and to access additional content and offers (for TV and ads).Shazam's big announcement in Cannes was something called "Shazam Engagement Rate", the company's own metric to judge the effectiveness of TV ads driving people to tag using its app.Shazam says the metric will combine independent data from Nielsen on how many people see a particular advert with its own stats on how many people tagged it using the Shazam app, with the aim of showing which ads are doing the best job at persuading viewers to interact."By showing brands where they are seeing actual engagement – not just viewers, but people who are leaning in and asking for more information – Shazam is able to provide an entirely new service to advertisers: measurement and accountability on how effectively an ad campaign connects with the target audience," said chief executive Rich Riley.Shazam says it has been used for more than 250 TV ads so far, mainly in the US although its service is rolling out in the UK too. For now, the Shazam Engagement Rate stats will only be available in the US.Meanwhile, technology firm Gracenote is hoping to spur a new wave of second-screen apps for individual shows and channels, with therelease of an audio fingerprinting API for developersto make apps that hear where a viewer is in a show, and serve content up accordingly.The technology has already been used in the US for second-screen apps like NBC Universal'sSyfy for iPad, which synchronises with shows as they air.
This week's edition is given over to our sister podcast theGuardian Sustainable Business podcast, presented by Hugh Muir.Click here to visit the Sustainable Business site and subscribe to this podcast.To discuss the complex issues around many developing economies' emerging tech and digital cultures, Hugh is joined by an expert panel: Renee Wittemyer, head of social impact at Intel, Christopher Fabian, co-lead of innovation at UNICEF, Gavin Patterson, managing director at Yellobric, and Giulia D'Amico, vice president of business development at One Laptop Per Child.
The Google Reader RSS news-aggregator service shuts down on 1 July, and the battle to provide a home for its migrating users is heating up. The latest to make its pitch isFeedly.It started life as an RSS app for iOS and Android, which now claims 12m users, having added 8m of them since Google announced plans to shut down Google Reader in March.Feedly has bigger ambitions though, with the launch of Feedly Cloud, which it describes as "a fast and scalable infrastructure to seamlessly replace Google Reader".That means a website to sit alongside the existing apps, with people's feeds synchronised across all of them, as well as an API enabling other RSS apps to be built on top of Feedly's platform, just as they have been on Google Reader in the past."Feedly cloud is amazingly fast, and has been built to scale. It is currently processing over 25 million feeds and crunching through billions of articles published everyday," claims Feedly in ablog post announcing the launch.It also claims that more than 200 developers have contacted Feedly since it announced plans to build its API, with the first nine to incorporate it being IFTTT, Sprout Social, Nextgen Reader, gNewsReader, Press, gReader, Newsify, Pure News Widget and Meneré."This is a landmark for feedly, as we go from being purely a reader to becoming a platform. Feedly cloud is the foundation that makes us completely independent from Google Reader. It will enable us to build features even faster, and deliver the roadmap you helped us shape," Feedly tells its users.The company is far from alone, though. Several rivals are also jockeying for the feed subscriptions of Google Reader users, even if Feedly appears to be the biggest beneficiary so far.Earlier this week,Digg announced details of its Digg Reader app, which will launch next week for iOS (and possibly web) promising simple migration from Google Reader, and features pitched at the keenest "power users" of that service who are looking for a new home.When it announced plans in March to build Digg Reader,Diggsaid it was also planning to rebuild Google Reader's API for other apps to use. However, in this week's announcement, the API was left unmentioned other than plans to focus on "integration with additional third party services" in the 60 days after Digg Reader launches.Personalised magazine appFlipboardis also in the mix,publishing a blog post this weekencouraging its users to "be ready for the Google Reader shutdown" by signing in to that service from within Flipboard."Flipboard will preserve your Google Reader feeds, folders and favorited items, so you can continue to enjoy all your subscriptions," explained the company, while warning that some features: favouriting items, creating new folders and adding or removing feeds, won't be available post-shutdown.Meanwhile, RSS-reader serviceMultiPLXis alsobanging the drum for its suitability as a Google Reader alternative, having launched as a limited beta in May. It has been adding features tuned for power users, and is also launching an API platform that it says "is at par with current Google Reader APIs".The company says it will be updating MultiPLX "more than once a week" with small features and bug fixes, hinting at the rapid iteration that lies ahead for all these services in the coming months, as they battle to become the long-term home for people's news feeds.
Soundwaveis the latest music discovery app to be released for smartphones, with ambitions to help fans share details of what they're listening to, and discover new songs and artists from friends and tastemakers.Released today as a free downloadfor iPhoneandfor Android, it's the latest in a long line of apps with similar features, most of which have sunk without trace on the app stores. Even Twitter's much-hyped Twitter #music app doesn't seem to be catching on, so why is Soundwave different?The Irish startup behind it hopes celebrity endorsements will give it a running start, with Stephen Fry, Ashton Kutcher and Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak both using the app during its pre-launch beta test, and the latter providing a glowing quote for its app store listing.Yet Soundwave hopes clever technology, a slick interface and well-engaged users are what will set it above the trampling herd of unsuccessful discovery apps, as well as the fact that it's available on Android as well as iPhone from launch – still a rarity for this category.The app gets users to sign up, and it then tracks the music they play on their smartphone, but also in streaming services like Spotify and Rdio. People sign up to follow friends and tastemakers, and see their song-plays. Tracks can be played from YouTube and SoundCloud, rated with a thumbs-up or thumbs-down, saved as favourites or shared to Facebook."This came from just really wanting to know what songs people were listening to," says chief executive Brendan O'Driscoll. "For the founding team, the way we all used to find music wasn't by spending hours trawling through websites. It was by asking friends who were more in the know."Soundwave's app is certainly slick, as befits something developed while working "really closely" with engineers from both Apple and Google. O'Driscoll says both companies were seeing regular builds of the app from four months before its release, and giving their feedback.One challenge I see for Soundwave is the danger of clutter: if a couple of people are listening to music all day long, they'll dominate your activity feed within the app (yes, I'm one of those people)."We're doing a lot of aggregation," says O'Driscoll, who recognises the danger. "You can tap on any person to see their top chart, and get an idea over time of what type of music they're into. But part of the app's appeal, we think, is the fact that the content is always changing."Soundwave also provides filters so you can just see what people have been rating or favouriting, stripping out the individual plays. There's also a "Music Map" feature where you draw a circle on a map to see what people have been playing within its radius.The app also has a sense of mischief with its thumbs-down feature, meaning that unlike Facebook, you can express displeasure with a friend's update."We thought long and hard about that. I don't think Facebook would work with dislikes, as some people have suggested, because it's so intensely personal. It would cut to the bone!" says O'Driscoll."But disliking music is a big part of being a music fan. We spend more time down the pub saying 'Oh, I hate this band...' That feels perfectly natural within this kind of app. I'm always on my co-founder's page disliking all his songs!"Soundwave got its original funding from a startup accelerator program, although O'Driscoll declines to go into detail on subsequent investment, saying only "we've got some great backing from some really cool people, especially in the US and here in Ireland".Kutcher is well-known for his investments in apps startups through the A-Grade Investments fund he launched with Madonna's manager Guy Oseary, while another of Soundwave's pre-release users was entrepreneur and investor Mark Cuban, which may provide clues to some of those "cool people".Soundwave's Android app isn't just a port of the iPhone versionHow does the free app make money going forward, though? Initially, some revenues will come – so Soundwave hopes – from affiliate sales, if people buy songs on the digital music stores linked from the app.It's a model used by apps like Shazam, which says it's driving $300m of annual sales on iTunes alone from the 10m songs tagged with its app every day. However, with Apple's 4-5% commission rates, that means $12m-$15m for Shazam from all those tags.Soundwave has only just launched, but it's fair to suggest it'll take a long time to get anywhere near those numbers. How else will it make money? Data."We essentially want to create a Google Analytics for music, to enable artists and the music industry to understand much better where their fans are and how they're listening to their music," says O'Driscoll.In other words, labels and artists will at some point be able to pay for various tiers of access to Soundwave's data, in order to better understand their fans. It will be far from the only such data source: Facebook, Twitter and a number of music analytics services already give these kinds of insights.Soundwave's advantage may be its ability to aggregate plays from streaming services AND the music stored on its users' smartphones. Plus, they don't have to play their songs using Soundwave's app for it to collect the data, which is an advantage for building a valuable dataset to sell.But wait. Is this just the latest example of a startup with a whizzy, free, social app attracting users and then enriching itself by flogging their data? How easy is it for Soundwave users to stop having all their plays harvested if they don't want to?"We examined privacy settings very carefully with our beta testers during our three-month beta trial," says O'Driscoll, who adds that people can turn off syncing permanently or temporarily – the latter for "guilty pleasures" that they don't want friends to see, similar to Spotify's Private Session feature.The app's settings also enable syncing with Spotify and Rdio to be switched on or off, while logging out turns off all syncing.O'Driscoll is keen to stress the benefits of aggregating data on what people are listening to and marking as liked, suggesting that if Soundwave takes off, it could be another way to shine a spotlight on emerging and cult artists alike, rather than just the big names."We think it can help recorrect the market," he says. "Currently, someone like Justin Bieber can come along with a $10m marketing budget and rise to the top of the charts. We want to help democratise the setup again. And we've got a lot of bands coming in asking how they can use something like this to express themselves and reach out to their fans."One final point: Android. Soundwave is one of a handful of music discovery apps to launch for Google-powered smartphones at the same time as iPhone. O'Driscoll says this was the plan right from the earliest days of development."We said from the outset we wanted to launch with both, so we'd have a really viral product. You want to know what your friends are listening to regardless of whether they're on Android or iPhone," he says."We really enjoyed building the Android app too: Google have some fantastic UI and developer guidelines now, which we used to build what we think is a unique and very Android-esque app. People considering Android as an afterthought is a pet peeve of ours."Celebs like it, digital music services like it, and even Apple and Google seem to be in rare agreement that Soundwave is worth supporting. It still faces plenty of challenges though.App store promotions will get it onto the phones of a fair few people in the next week, but after that the app may stand or fall on how enthusiastically those early adopters recommend it to friends, unless Soundwave decides to chuck a few million quid on mobile advertising and paid installs.Making money from affiliate sales will be tough, so Soundwave needs to work hard on those ideas for paid analytics. And most importantly of all, it has to prove that there's a demand beyond music/tech geeks for standalone music discovery apps at all – something its predecessors have failed to do.Such is life for any new app entering this space, but I think Soundwave has a shot at sticking around. Its efforts to tackle these challenges will be worth watching in the months ahead.
Megaupload founder Kim Dotcom has attacked the internet-hosting company LeaseWeb after it wiped data from 630 servers that were used by his online storage service before it was shut down in January 2012.Dotcom raged against LeaseWeb's decision in aseries of tweetsstarting on Wednesday afternoon, suggesting in characteristically bombastic style that "this is the largest data massacre in the history of the internet".He went on to claim that LeaseWeb had wiped the former Megaupload servers on 1 February 2013, but waited several months before informing Dotcom yesterday of its actions."Millions of personal #Megaupload files, petabytes of pictures, backups, personal &amp; business property forever destroyed by #Leaseweb," tweeted Dotcom, who contrasted LeaseWeb's actions with those of Carpathia, another of Megaupload's hosting providers."While #Carpathia has chosen to store #Megaupload servers in a warehouse to protect the data from destruction #Leaseweb has done the opposite."Dotcom also claimed Megaupload's lawyers had repeatedly asked LeaseWeb not to delete the data while he continues to fight against extradition to the US after his arrest in January 2012, afterthe FBI accused him of earning $175m in illegal profits through filesharing on Megaupload.LeaseWeb tells a different story. The company's senior regulatory counsel, Alex de Joode,responded to Dotcom's accusations with a blogpostthat refutes the claim that it ignored requests from Megaupload's legal team."For clarity, these servers were not owned by MegaUpload, they were owned by LeaseWeb. For over a year these servers were being stored and preserved by LeaseWeb, at its own costs. So for over one whole year LeaseWeb kept 630 servers available, without any request to do so and without any compensation," wrote de Joode."During the year we stored the servers and the data, we received no request for access nor any request to retain the data. After a year of nobody showing any interest in the servers and data we considered our options. We did inform MegaUpload about our decision to re-provision the servers."De Joode confirmed that this reprovisioning had begun in February 2013. "We absolutely regret the setbacks Kim Dotcom has had since MegaUpload was taken offline, but we hope he as an entrepreneur will understand our side of the story and the decisions deliberately taken."But Dotcom tweeted: "Who believes this crap?" after reading LeaseWeb's blogpost. "Our legal team and @EFF have written several data preservation demands to #Leaseweb. We were never warned about the deletion."He added that he was considering taking legal action against LeaseWeb in its native Netherlands. The company could also face lawsuits from Megaupload users whose data was wiped from the servers.Time will tell whether LeaseWeb's actions have an impact on the ongoing criminal prosecution of Dotcom, but the latest twist has provided further fuel for his suspicions of a conspiracy. "The FBI seized all my data and hasn't given me a copy yet. And now my backups on #Megaupload are gone too. How convenient."Here's a Storify of Dotcom's tweets in chronological order:
Governments must codify regulations on silent data gathering so that users around the world can regain confidence in the use of the internet, Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, has said.Drummond also forcefully reiterated the company's position that it has not given the US National Security Agency (NSA) access to its servers, and that it did not know of the Prism programme before the Guardian revealed it last week.He said that the company would continue to push to be able to publish more information about secret requests for data. "But we don't write the laws," he said.In aQ&amp;A session for the Guardian, Drummond said "it's high time that governments get together and decide some rules around [secret data gathering]. Remember that this is not just about the US government, but European and other governments too. It's really important that all of us give close scrutiny to any laws that give governments increased power to sift through user data."He reiterated Google's position on Prism: "We're not in cahoots with the NSA and there is no government programme that Google participates in that allows the kind of access that the media originally reported."APowerPoint presentation from the NSAsuggested that it had "direct" access to the systems of nine companies – Microsoft, AOL, Yahoo, Apple, Skype, PalTalk, YouTube, Facebook and Google. The companies have denied allowing such access. Google has said that it did provide a secure file transfer system for data requested by the NSA under Fisa (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) orders, whose contents are secret.Drummond said that the search firm had finally managed this year to be allowed to say how many national security letters (used by US government agencies such as the FBI and CIA) it has received demanding data on users. "We don't question that there are legitimate requests for data – in a criminal attack, for example, or a suspected terrorist attack. We simply believe there should be more transparency around the breadth of these requests." But he dodged questions on whether Google had been pushing to publish data about Fisa requests before the scandal broke.Restating the position of many Silicon Valley companies, Drummond suggested that the news of the extent of the surveillance scheme had surprised Google too. "We didn't know [Prism] existed," he said.He said that Google backed the work of Viviane Reding, vice-president of the European commission, , to simplify privacy laws "in a way that both protects consumers online and stimulates economic growth", insisting both were possible.Questions posed by Guardian readers to Drummond suggested that some have lost a measure of trust in the company, and are unsure whether business data could be seized in the same way as individuals' data.Drummond's response suggested that the company is feeling the effects of the leaks and is keen to rebuild its reputation. Asked how users would be able to tell if Google were lying, he answered: "Our business depends on the trust of our users. And I'm an executive officer of a large publicly-traded company, so lying to the public wouldn't be the greatest career move." To another user, he said: "I'm really troubled if you've lost trust in us because of this idea that we're collaborating in a broad surveillance programme. We're not."Drummond has worked at Google since 2002, and was its first outside counsel. His history working with the firm goes back to 1998.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Explored Deal for Nokia &gt;&gt; Wall Street JournalSharon Terlep, Dennis Berman and Shira Ovide:Microsoft Corp. recently held advanced talks with Nokia Corp. about buying its handset business, people familiar with the matter said, as laggards in the fast-moving mobile market struggle to gain ground. The discussions faltered over price and worries about Nokia's slumping market position, among other issues, these people said. One of the people said talks took place as recently as this month but aren't likely to be revived.So that's Microsoft and Huawei who aren't buying Nokia. These things tend to come in threes, so I'm happy to confirm I'm not buying Nokia either. But on a serious note, 2013 feels increasingly like a crunch year for Nokia: its Windows Phone and Asha handsets are impressive, but analysts and investors are watching closely to see if it can sell enough of them to retain its foothold in the market.Why you don't want to use the default password for your iPhone personal hotspot &gt;&gt; 9to5MacBen Lovejoy:Researchers at the University of Erlangen in Germany found that Apple uses a dictionary of 52,500 words from an open-source Scrabble game to generate the passwords, with random numbers appended to them, but appears to be using only 1,842 words at present. Although that allows for a unique password for each iOS device, password strength is low.Using a single computer, it took a maximum of 49 minutes to crack a password, but using an array of just four powerful processors would enable 100% success in just 50 seconds. They called on Apple to switch to true randomly-generated passwords to boost security.You might get hacked, but at least you'll have a 272-point score.Top 1000 YouTube Channels Average $23,000 Monthly Ad Revenue &gt;&gt; TubefilterSam Gutelle:Whether or not that number seems like a lot to you, it's an indicator that there is at least some money to be made on YouTube. The infographic also reveals that individual creators have far exceeded the five-digit average. The billion-plus views generated by 'Gangnam Style' in 2012 led to $870,000 in ad revenue, and the 650 million+ views the song has received since surpassing a billion have no doubt increased that total significantly.Lucky Psy, although he'll have made a lot more money from the music sales and branding deals that his YouTube success sparked. The data comes from advertising agency MDG, which also claims that the top 500 brands on YouTube have on average 35k subscribers, 98k views per video, and 884k total monthly views.Stratasys Acquiring MakerBot In $403M Deal, Combined Company Will Likely Dominate 3D Printing Industry &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDarrell Etherington:Stratasys has demonstrated it's going to be aggressive about owning the 3D printing space, and the MakerBot buy is the consumer-focused piece in that puzzle. For MakerBot, it gives the startup access to Stratasys' wealth of industry experience, as well as probably better access to new tech coming down the pipeline, a greater pool of engineering talent and more resources to put behind marketing and distribution.Two 3D-printing companies come together, as industrial firm Stratasys buys the more consumer-focused MakerBot, which has sold more than 22k of its desktop 3D printers so far. That's $18.3k per customer! But of course, the value is in how the sector grows in the coming years.The Invisible Hand of Mobile Platforms &gt;&gt; MediumAndre Behrens:With so many ways for Google's choices to be overridden, victory comes through surpassing the competition. Android is so flexible, I've replaced my home screen, lock screen, keyboard and more over the years. I'm back on the regular keyboard, because Google made it better, to the point that I liked it the most. But I could change my mind tomorrow.The point isn't that the built-in keyboard is or isn't better. The point is that any given Android keyboard is better than the default iOS keyboard, because of this competition. I've used both, and there is just no comparison.An interesting take on the Android versus iOS battle. CEO Tim Cook hinted in a recent interview that Apple may consider loosening its restrictions on developers replacing core parts of iOS. Behrens provides food for thought on why that may be a good thing.How To Uninstall McAfee Antivirus &gt;&gt; YouTubeFour minutes and 26 seconds from John McAfee himself:The most shocking thing about this video isn't the swearing, the lap-grinding models or the bath-salts snorting. It's the revelation that McAfee appears to be getting his loungewear from the same supplier as the Compare the Market meerkat.New augmented reality glasses let teachers know when their students are falling behind &gt;&gt; GigaOmLauren Hockenson:Researchers at la Universidad Carlos III de Madrid have developed the Augmented Lecture Feedback System (ALFs), a HUD glasses interface that teachers can wear while giving a lecture. From the display, teachers can see little icons that appear above each student's head, indicating their comprehension of the given lesson as well as an overall chart indicating how many students are "getting it" compared to the rest of the class. The symbols the system supports also include a request for the lecturer to slow down, and a notification that a student knows the answer to a question posed in class."OK Glass, warn me if Jenkins is throwing paper planes when my back is turned..."Kickstopper: Because that Kickstarter is a mistake &gt;&gt; The Daily DotMichelle Jaworski:Kickstopper is a crowdsourcing website that will crush your dreams at the exact moment you need them to be crushed. Simply, it's a way out. "It's simple," the Kickstopper founder says. "You donate money. We stop the project. We all help these starry-eyed dreamers back into jobs with practical benefits like salaries and health care."Sharp parody of crowdfunding culture. "They made a mistake. Then you made a mistake by supporting their mistake..."Android's Limits &gt;&gt; Linux JournalDoc Searls (hat tip to @HotSoup):On April 9, 2013, Fairsearch, a coalition that includes Microsoft, Nokia and Oracle,filed a complaint with the European Commissionagainst what it called "Google's anti-competitive strategy to dominate the mobile marketplace and cement its control over consumer Internet data for on-line advertising as usage shifts to mobile", adding "Google is using its Android mobile operating system as a 'Trojan Horse' to deceive partners, monopolize the mobile marketplace, and control consumer data". That's a bit hyperbolic, but I believe they have a case.For our purposes in the Linux community, the main thing at issue is bias in the evolution of Android and the apps that run on it. As long as advertising remains Google's main business, and Android remains a Google project, it will be hard to keep a bias toward advertising's imperatives from having an influence.Visual computing's ascent gives NVIDIA room to expand its business model &gt;&gt; Nvidia blogNVIDIA is doing an ARM:It's not practical to build silicon or systems to address every part of the expanding market. Adopting a new business approach will allow us to address the universe of devices.So, our next step is to license our GPU cores and visual computing patent portfolio to device manufacturers to serve the needs of a large piece of the market.The reality is that we've done this in the past. We licensed an earlier GPU core to Sony for the Playstation 3. And we receive more than $250 million a year from Intel as a license fee for our visual computing patents.Now, the explosion of Android devices presents an unprecedented opportunity to accelerate this effort.We'll start by licensing the GPU core based on the NVIDIA Kepler architecture, the world's most advanced, most efficient GPU. Its DX11, OpenGL 4.3, and GPGPU capabilities, along with vastly superior performance and efficiency, create a new class of licensable GPU cores.Will this simply add revenues, or will it disrupt Nvidia itself?Falcon Pro pulled from the Play Store, after reset fails to resolve token limitation &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityVerges doesn't seem too optimistic about the future of his app. As he details in a Google+ post, the 100,000 tokens limit has been reached once again in less than 24 hours, meaning that he will have to look for a new way around the limitation.The developer warns that the situation could mean the end of Falcon Pro, but hopefully we'll be able to enjoy one of the best third-party Twitter clients out there once again.Joaquim Verges thinks that the reason why the token pool was exhausted so quickly after the reset was a landgrab that occurred when people learned about the reset. Also, some users have more than one account, which further uses up tokens.A re-run ofwhat happened in February.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Microsoft has sensationally abandoned its controversial plans to restrict the sharing of Xbox One games, and has also removed daily online authentication requirements for its forthcoming console.Ina statement released on the Xbox websiteon Wednesday, Don Mattrick, the president of Microsoft's interactive entertainment business, wrote that the company had listened to "candid feedback" from gamers. Before listing the changes, his explanation reads, "You told us how much you loved the flexibility you have today with games delivered on disc. The ability to lend, share, and resell these games at your discretion is of incredible importance to you. Also important to you is the freedom to play offline, for any length of time, anywhere in the world."When the new console is released this November, there will be no need to authenticate the system online every 24 hours – a requirement thought to have been introduced as a digital rights management measure. According to the statement, "After a one-time system set-up with a new Xbox One, you can play any disc based game without ever connecting online again."Furthermore, plans to restrict the sales of pre-owned titles, as well as the sharing of games among friends, have also been cancelled. There will now be no limits on gifting, re-selling, sharing or renting Xbox One game titles. In addition to these reversals, Microsoft is also removing regional locks on Xbox One games, which means titles bought in one global territory will work in all others.The announcement follows a huge backlash against Microsoft which began when the company first revealed the Xbox One console at a press conference in May. Company representatives explained to journalists that all Xbox One games would need to be fully installed onto systems before play and that each copy would then be watermarked to its owner. Attempts to then sell on or give away the boxed copy of the game would be controlled by Microsoft; although the details have always been ambiguous, it appeared that the company would work with selected retail partners for the sale of pre-owned titles, and that publishers may have had the opportunity to charge purchasers of second-hand discs for the right to play.There were also confusing propositions on sharing games with others. Microsoft informed gamers that they would be able to make their software library available to 10 friends, but that concurrent access to games would not be possible. Considered by industry insiders as an intriguing feature it has now been removed, as have other interesting possibilities. "There is some give and some take," said Brian Blau, a research director at Gartner. "The rules about used games have now been removed but the cool feature where you could go to a friends house and play your games (by signing in and downloading them from your library) has been removed, or at least partially removed."Some pundits feel that Microsoft's error has been in poorly explaining its vision for a new era of digitally-centered console gaming. The company attempted to push its proposals as a forward-looking approach to games distribution, inspired by iTunes and the PC gaming service Steam. But for a huge number of gamers, the negatives of the restrictions outweighed any positive possibilities. On Wednesday night, high profile games designer Cliff Bleszinski hit Twitter to claim that the original Xbox One infrastructure would have helped to prevent piracy and ensure publishers made money from second-hand sales. "Brace yourselves. More tacked on multiplayer and DLC are coming," he wrote; followed by "I want *developers* who worked their asses off to see money on every copy of their game that is sold instead of Gamestop."At the major E3 video game conference in June, Sony used the widescale backlash against Microsoft's plans to boost the popularity of its rival PlayStation 4 machine. At Sony's E3 press conference, company executives made it clear that PS4 would place no restrictions on pre-owned sales and wouldn't require daily online authentication – the announcements received a huge applause. Earlier this week, Amazon ran a poll on its website, asking readers to vote for PS4 or Xbox One as the best next-gen console;some US sites are reportingthat the results were so overwhelmingly skewed toward the Sony console, the online retailer removed the survey."This reversal is a positive move for Microsoft as they need to compete strongly against the PS4," said Blau. "It's a really good sign that Microsoft is listening and providing the functions and features that their core audience is asking for. This has to help improve the overall impression that some may have had about Microsoft being a bully when it comes to video game DRM."Xbox One is the follow-up to Microsoft's hugely successful Xbox 360 console, launched in 2005. The machine will feature an eight-core CPU, Blu-ray player and a more advanced version of its Kinect motion control device. PlayStation 4 is also set to launch this winter. Both now face a very different fight for the support of the huge global gaming audience.We have approached Microsoft for comment and will update accordingly.[This story has been updated and expanded since its original publication]
After 25 years challenging authority with their music, Public Enemy are still finding new frontiers in their quest to reach new fans. The latest: BitTorrent.The veteran hip-hop group is launching its new single, Get Up Stand Up, as a free track on BitTorrent. If fans who download it hand over their email address, they unlock a "bundle" including the music video, outtakes and 37 instrumental stems and acapella vocals to remix."Make your own Public Enemy mix, and if the group likes what they hear, they'll release it digitally for you. Call it creative activism," explainsBitTorrent's blog post announcing the partnership.Distributing music on BitTorrent may sound controversial given the music industry's historic battles against filesharing. In the UK, music industry body the BPI haswon several High Court ordersin recent times forcing ISPs to block their customers from accessing popular torrent sites.BitTorrent the company is trying to prove itself as a legitimate (but still free) distribution platform for digital music, though. It has worked with artists on similar bundles including DJ Shadow, Kaskade and Alex Day.The theory is that musicians – although filmmakers and authors have also experimented with BitTorrent bundles – make something available for free to the 170m active users of BitTorrent's software, in the hope that will lead to income from other areas: sales of music, tickets and merchandise for example.The blog post quotes manager and producer Gary Rinaldo on Public Enemy's suitability for a BitTorrent campaign. "For many established people in the music business, there's a fear that comes along with it. We don't have that fear," says Rinaldo."The ability to freely share an archive and have flexibility on how it can be used is an extremely powerful tool when it comes to making music and media available."Public Enemy, and Chuck D in particular, are longstanding innovators when it comes to digital media and finding ways to connect directly to fans. 12 years ago, he was telling the music industry not to be scared of digital disruption."The labels need to see that trying to fight MP3s is trying to shout at a thunderstorm, it's going to happen, you've got to come up with ways adapt to it, and make it work for everybody," he said in 2001at the NME's NetSounds conference in London. At that time, he was already exploring self-distribution of MP3s, as well as online radio.Public Enemy's direct-to-fan experimentation hasn't always gone smoothly, though. The group was one of the first high-profile artists to try crowdfunding,in 2009 on a site called SellaBand. The attempt to raise $250k was not successful.Just four years later, though, the digital music ecosystem is a very different place. Kickstarter has proven its worth as a crowdfunding tool for artists, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube provide mass-scale platforms to communicate with fans, and now BitTorrent is keen to show it can help artists make money rather than lose it too.Technology is just a tool for Public Enemy in 2013, though. What will define the group's success will be the quality of the new music.
David Drummond,Google's senior vice president of corporate development and chief legal officer, took part in a live Q&amp;A on Wednesday to answer questions about internet security, privacy and surveillance, and the NSA and Prism. Here are some key things we learned:1Drummond said it's "just not true" that Google gives the NSA unfettered access to user dataIf by what has now been "revealed" you mean the allegation that Google is allowing the NSA unfettered access to user data or that we're handing over data willy-nilly to the government, again, that's just not true. It's not rhetoric, it's just a fact.2.He firmly denied Google is in cahoots with the NSAI'm not sure I can say this more clearly: we're not in cahoots with the NSA and there is no government programme that Google participates in that allows the kind of access that the media originally reported. Note that I say "originally" because you'll see that many of those original sources corrected their articles after it became clear that the Prism slides were not accurate. Now, what does happen is that we get specific requests from the government for user data. We review each of those requests and push back when the request is overly broad or doesn't follow the correct process. There is no free-for-all, no direct access, no indirect access, no back door, no drop box.3.Drummond says Google isn't lying about anythingWe're not in the business of lying and we're absolutely telling the truth about all of this. Our business depends on the trust of our users. And I'm an executive officer of a large publicly traded company, so lying to the public wouldn't be the greatest career move.4.And that Google isn't legally bound to lie  about anythingNope. No gun to my head5.Google says it has a long track record of challenging government requestsWe've long pushed for total transparency so users can better understand the extent to which governments request their data, for any reason. Earlier this year we managed to get clearance to release numbers for National Security Letters, but we're going to keep pushing for more. We were also the first company to publish a transparency report.6.And Google hopes its efforts on transparency will rebuild any lost trustI'm really troubled if you've lost trust in us because of this idea that we're collaborating in a broad surveillance programme. We're not, and that's why we are pushing back so hard on these allegations. We hope that our actions, in pushing for more transparency and legal reform and in continuing to take steps to protect our users, will win you back.7.Google plans to live up to its promise not to be evilWe do push back where we can, and do everything we can to protect our users' data. But we don't write the laws. Maybe one positive outcome of all this will be to have a deeper debate on this and come up with laws that are more transparent to the public.8.And its "honesty and integrity in all we do" ethos is promoted at all levelsWe promote that at all levels. I've been involved with Google since about the beginning and I'm extremely proud of the technology we've built that helps millions of users every day to make the world a better place. We don't get everything 100% right 100% of the time, and when we mess up, we admit it and we work to correct our mistakes. And we're also going to speak up – loudly – when we are falsely accused of something, like we have been here.Readthe full Q&amp;A here.
5.54pmBSTThe webchat is ending nowThanks for all your questions and contributions - the live webchat has now finished.Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:52pmI have to go now. Thanks for all the questions and sorry I didn't get to them all.David5.52pmBSTQuestion:Katagami19 June 2013 4:25pmDavid,Why do many of us now get the strong impression Google has abandoned itsdon't be evilphilosophy in favour of more profit, less tax and governmental backing?Can you tell us if the company's &quot;honesty and integrity in all we do&quot; ethos is something you promote at board level?Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:49pmWe promote that at all levels. I’ve been involved with Google since about the beginning and I’m extremely proud of the technology we’ve built that helps millions of users every day to make the world a better place. We don’t get everything 100% right 100% of the time, and when we mess up, we admit it and we work to correct our mistakes. And we’re also going to speak up-- loudly-- when we are falsely accused of something, like we have been here.5.46pmBSTQuestion:wilhelmstroods19 June 2013 4:15pmDue to this troubling disclosure that Google is providing user data to the NSA, I will cease using Google Mail, and use non-tracked search tools like duckduckgo. I, like millions of other Americans have nothing to hide, but we value our basic privacy. Complying with FISA orders without a court fight is unacceptable to me, and there is no excuse for a company as powerful as Google to not look out for the basic freedoms and liberty of American citizens. This military industrial process has, as usual, taken this &quot;war on terror&quot; to ridiculous levels, and now we have a war on the citizens of the country. Despite what they say in front of Congress, I believe based upon what we are seeing, the American citizen is their primary target, not goat herding, poppy-growing Taliban in far away lands. Google has lost my trust.Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:42pmI’m sorry you feel that way. We do push back where we can, and do everything we can to protect our users’ data. But we don’t write the laws. Maybe one positive outcome of all this will be to have a deeper debate on this and come up with laws that are more transparent to the public.Updatedat 5.49pm BST5.41pmBSTQuestion:raeshh19 June 2013 3:45pmWe lost a decade - long trust in you ,Google. How can you reinstate the trust ?Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:38pmI’m really troubled if you’ve lost trust in us because of this idea that we’re collaborating in a broad surveillance program. We’re not, and that’s why we are pushing back so hard on these allegations. We hope that our actions, in pushing for more transparency and legal reform and in continuing to take steps to protect our users, will win you back.5.35pmBSTQuestion:LemTheClown19 June 2013 3:46pmWithout giving any specifics which might put you in violation of such an order, are you legally bound to lie about anything to the public? (Yes or no is fine)Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:31pmNope. No gun to my head.5.30pmBSTQuestion:gibtardo19 June 2013 4:01pmHow do you plan to renew user faith in the security of your services in light of what has now been reveled? Quite clearly anybody with access could have accessed any information available about any of us at any time. This is pretty much what Edward confirmed yesterday in the Guardian. Guessing by the response online (and online is important for google, right?), rhetoric is not going to help.Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:28pmIf by what has now been “revealed” you mean the allegation that Google is allowing the NSA unfettered access to user data or that we’re handing over data willy-nilly to the government, again, that’s just not true. It’s not rhetoric, it’s just a fact.5.28pmBSTQuestion:XNoArchive19 June 2013 3:44pmI'll make an extremely tentative last effort before I give up:Why does Google publicly claim to be concerned about privacy and then privatelyspend millions of dollars lobbyingto prevent any privacy legislation being introduced in the EU and US that would actually require them to protect privacy?How is it that Google's lobbying papers are ending up inEU privacy laws?Can you account for Google's relationship with theEuropean Privacy Association?(citations to reputable sources given for all)Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:23pmFor several years now we've been vocal supporters of Commissioner Reding's work to simplify privacy rules in Europe in a way that both protects consumers online and stimulates economic growth. It is possible to have simple rules that do both. Sure, we’re part of the conversation in Brussels, but take a look at this: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/18/opinion/global/viviane-reding-protecting-europes-privacy.html5.16pmBSTQuestion:aliferis19 June 2013 3:44pmHave you read this?http://www.google.com/policies/privacy/Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:13pmYes, I helped write it!5.14pmBSTQuestion:haydenschwarz19 June 2013 3:38pmEven if I 100% trust Google, trusting cloud services in the US is impossible because of on-the-wire collections and other forms of gathering. How do we continue with a global internet from here?I put this in a more melodramatic form to G+ at https://plus.google.com/100879367485348789027/posts/3Xh7r6ghG7ZAnswer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:11pmIt’s a great question, and it’s high time that governments get together and decide some rules around this. Remember that this is not just about the US government, but European and other governments too. It’s really important that all of us give close scrutiny to any laws that give governments increased power to sift through user data.5.12pmBSTQuestion:Movilla19 June 2013 3:30pmHow can we tell if Google is lying to us?Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:07pmWe’re not in the business of lying and we’re absolutely telling the truth about all of this. Our business depends on the trust of our users. And I’m an executive officer of a large publicly traded company, so lying to the public wouldn’t be the greatest career move.5.11pmBSTQuestion:fromwherever19 June 2013 3:29pmIf Edward Snowden hadn't leaked the information he did, would Google be fighting the NSA like it is now?Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:05pmSounds like you’re asking if we should have fought something that we didn’t know existed. We have a long track record of pushing back against the government when we think it’s overreaching.5.07pmBSTQuestion:Guardian staffCharlesArthur19 June 2013 3:26pmIt's welcome that Google is pushing to be allowed to disclose how many FISA requests it deals with.Can you tell us if you demanded to be able to do this before the NSA files were revealed?If not, why not?And if you did demand it but were rebuffed, what explanation was given (and do you see any reason why would that change)?Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:02pmWe’ve long pushed for total transparency so users can better understand the extent to which governments request their data, for any reason. Earlier this year we managed to get clearance to release numbers for National Security Letters, but we’re going to keep pushing for more. We were also the first company to publish a transparency reporthttp://www.google.com/transparencyreport/removals/government/We don’t question that there are legitimate requests for data--in a criminal matter, for example, or a suspected terrorist attack. We simply believe there should be more transparency around the breadth of these requests.5.05pmBSTQuestion:KhakiSuit19 June 2013 3:20pmIsn't this whole show not just a face-saving exercise given that you are &quot;calling for more transparency&quot; and challenging a ban on disclosing the number of bansafteryou have been found out to be in cahoots with the NSA?Answer:Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 5:01pmNo it isn’t. I’m not sure I can say this more clearly: we’re not in cahoots with the NSA and there’s is no government program that Google participates in that allows the kind of access that the media originally reported. Note that I say &quot;originally&quot; because you'll see that many of those original sources corrected their articles after it became clear that the PRISM slides were not accurate. Now, what does happen is that we get specific requests from the government for user data. We review each of those requests and push back when the request is overly broad or doesn't follow the correct process. There is no free-for-all, no direct access, no indirect access, no back door, no drop box.5.01pmBSTThe webchat has startedThe chat is now underway and David Drummond responding to questions in the thread. An additional note: Google is selecting which questions to answer.Guardian contributorDavidDrummondGoogle19 June 2013 4:59pmHello everyone. It’s good to be on the webchat - looking forward to answering your questions - I’ll answer as many as I can over the next 40 minutes or so.3.03pmBSTDavid Drummond Q&amp;AFollowing our exclusivelive Q&amp;A with the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdenon his revelations over government surveillanceDavid Drummond, Google&apos;s senior vice president of corporate development and chief legal officeris joining us to answer your questions about internet security, privacy and surveillance.Questions have been raised over collaboration with the US government by Google and other tech companies – including Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo – in giving access to user data via the Prism program.Google has called for greater transparency andis challenging a banon disclosing the number of requests it receives under the foreign intelligence securities act, asking for permission to disclose those figures.Drummond will be online to answer your questions today (Wednesday) from5pm BST/12pm ET. The webchat will end at 5.30pm BST.To participate, post your question below and Drummond will respond to them directly in the comment thread. Drummond will try to get through as many questions as possible and we&apos;ll repost his answers here in the live blog so you can follow along.Updatedat 4.55pm BST
4.3% of iPhone owners in the UK are using at least one sports betting app, according to data shared with The Guardian by mobile data startupOnavo.Bookmaker William Hill's app is the most popular, actively used by 38% of those iPhone-owning sports gamblers, followed by Paddy Power (32%) and bet365 (24%)."There's a lot of overlap: people are using a bunch of these apps rather than just sticking with one," says Onavo chief executive Guy Rosen."If you look at the users of bet365, 17% of them are also using Betfred, and 10% are also using Paddy Power. Or if you look at William Hill, 10% are also using bet365. There's a lot of interplay between these."The company has been analysing data from usage of its Onavo Count and Extend apps, which help people monitor their data usage and compress it to eke more out of their monthly plan respectively.It found that bet365 is the most engaging sports betting app in the UK, with people using it on an average of 5.6 days every month, compared to 4.1 days for William Hill and 3.3 days for Paddy Power.In December 2012, comScore estimated that there were 8.65m active iPhone users in the UK. If that figure has stayed constant, based on Onavo's 4.3% figure, it would mean around 372k Brits are using sports betting apps on their iPhones.Rosen says that companies in the US are watching the UK closely, since it's one of the most established mobile gambling markets in the world, ahead of what they hope will be legislation to make real-money gambling legal on mobile phones across the US.Onavo has been talking more about the data from its apps in recent months, launching anOnavo Insightsservice to help developers and brands understand which apps are being actively used on iOS and Android, rather than just downloaded."It's all about the active users," he says. "That's the key thing that has become the metric that matters, and the industry is waking up to the fact that downloads don't matter. They're a vanity metric where you can fake your way in. What's important is what apps are really sticking around."
Oh SpongeBob. The memory of seeing my sons' favourite square-panted cartoon character putting his name to a mobile game selling Jellyfish Jelly in-app purchases for up to £69.99 still makes me sad.Nickelodeon is far from the only big brand pushing the upper limits of IAP in its children's apps though, as that10 mobile games for kids with £69.99 in-app purchase optionsfeature pointed out.My Little Pony, Skylanders, Snoopy, Hello Kitty, Stardoll… it was a dispiriting gallery of greed. What's been bothering me since writing that article, though, is concern that it may have persuaded some parents that all children's apps are like that.They're not. There are accessible education apps, beautiful storybooks, wonderful creative apps and playful digital toys to be found on smartphones and parents. Some of them use IAP in an ethical way too: smaller sums for non-consumable items, under the control of parents.This article spotlights 50 of the best recent examples, all released in 2013, and from a range of developers – from big brands through to indie studios.Lots of the latter, too, because they're the companies that can struggle most to be discovered on the crowded app stores, even though they're making well-crafted apps and trying to do the right thing when it comes to making money.Yes, most of these apps are on iOS, with a smattering on Android. That's a reflection of the overall children's apps market, rather than lickspittle Cupertino-bribed bias. Really, it is. That said, Android is definitely higher in the priorities for kid-app developers in 2013.I've tried to include the widest possible range of developers in this roundup, so there are more Android apps to explore from companies like StoryToys, Oceanhouse Media, Intellijoy, GiggleUp, Wombi Apps and Intellijoy.Every developer mentioned in the piece has a link to its website so you can click through to see what other apps they make. Clicking on the platform names (iPhone, iPad and Android) will take you straight to the app stores.I'd love to hear your recommendations of apps I've missed (although remember, this roundup is just 2013 releases, which is why some of your favourite apps may be missing). On with the 50:EDUCATIONEndless Alphabet (Free + IAP)A joyful collection of words, and monsters to explain them. Sorted alphabetically, each word gets children to drag its letters into place, after which they'll see a characterful animation for its definition. The app includes ads, which you can remove with a single 69p in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadbyCallaway Digital ArtsComics in the Classroom (Free + IAP)This is an interesting approach to teaching history to children through digital comics, with topics including Pearl Harbour, Florence Nightingale and Jack the Ripper. Children fill in the speech bubbles to prove their understanding of the subjects. Three comics are included, with additional ones available as 69p in-app purchases.iPadbyComics in the ClassroomHakitzu: Code of the Warrior (Free)This entirely-free app wants to teach children to code using the JavaScript language. It's presented as a game where they build robot warriors and use their coding skills to control them in battles against friends, or in the single-player mode while honing their abilities.iPhone / iPadbyKuato StudiosMy First 101 Words (£1.49)This is another app for teaching toddlers their first words – you can probably guess how many – but using video rather than just text and narration. Each of the words is demonstrated through video clips starring a boy and girl, with the ability to play and replay each, or shuffle them.iPhone / iPadbyBlueprint.tvMystery Math Town (£1.49)Yes, there's an "s" missing: this is an American app. But my six year-old has taken to it strongly: a game where you explore a series of spooky houses by tapping on stairs, ladders, doors and windows, solving sums before you can go through them using numbers collected along the way. You can tweak the difficulty level and sum-types to suit the age of your child.iPhone/iPadbyArtgig AppsKids' Vocab – Mindsnacks (Free + IAP)Another impressive app to help children build their essential vocabulary: 7-12 year-olds in this case. The app splits the learning into lessons, each with up to 20 words and phrases taught through colourful mini-games. The first lesson is free, with the full 25 unlocked with a single £2.99 in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadbyMindSnacksSymmetry School: Learning Geometry (£1.99)More maths here, focused on geometry. Developed in Ireland, it gets children to drag and drop coloured counters onto a virtual board to form patterns: as much a puzzle game as it is a maths lesson. Its developer is also providing print-outable extra activities, as well as whiteboard versions and the ability for kids to email their results to a teacher.iPadbyPixelSoupKids ABC Trains (£2.56)Aimed at pre-school children, this uses trains and railways as a way to teach kids about letters and phonic sounds. They build a railway by learning each letter, before "driving the train" – tracing letter shapes – loading letter-sound boxes onto it, and matching upper and lower case letters to stop the train running away. A neat metaphor for a neat game.AndroidbyIntellijoyKids Learn Mandarin Beginner (Free + IAP)Trying to futureproof your child's career prospects by getting them to learn Chinese? It's more common a parental strategy than you'd think in the Western world. This app aims to help, with more than 200 Mandarin words taught through mini-games, videos and text. It's aimed at 2-8 year-olds. One lesson – Numbers – comes with the initial free download, then the rest can be bought in a Basic Pack for £2.99 or a Full Pack for £5.49.iPhone / iPadOn Beyond Bugs: All About Insects (£3.99)This is one of dozens of official Dr. Seuss book-apps, with an educational focus on teaching children about the world of insects "from butterflies and crickets to fireflies and honeybees". The Cat In The Hat hosts the action, with all the rhyming silliness you'd expect of a Seussian story.iPhone / iPadbyOceanhouse MediaKids Learn Spanish with busuu (Free + IAP)More kid-linguistics from online community busuu, which offers similar apps for Italian, French and other languages. This is a collection of 150 key Spanish words taught over 30 lessons with mini-games and revision quizzes. There's a clever "language garden" feature to keep track of progress, too. It's aimed at 4-7 year-olds, with packs of lessons available as £1.49 in-app purchases, or the whole thing unlockable for £6.99.iPadbybusuuWildlife Jigsaw Puzzles 123 HD (£1.49 - £1.99)Back to animals with this app, which teaches children more than 40 animals' names through jigsaw puzzles, reading their names aloud as it goes. Puzzles can be played as two, four or nine-piece jigsaws to suit different ages, with hints and voice narration to encourage children along the way.iPhone/iPad/AndroidSTORYTELLINGJustin's World: Goldilocks and the Three Bears (£2.99)CBeebies star Justin Fletcher (of Something Special and Justin's House fame) fronts this fairytale app, which turns Goldilocks and the Three Bears into a fable about tidying up and being helpful. But in an entertaining way, of course. Light education elements like counting and matching are included, with the big draw being video of Fletcher telling the story, and getting into character as its stars.iPhone / iPadbyJustin's WorldLittle Red Riding Hood by Nosy Crow (£3.99)Another fairytale, this time bewitchingly retold through a mixture of animation, interactivity and toothy wolves in flat-caps. This beautifully-crafted adventure gets children to help Little Red Riding Hood take different routes through the forest, with the items she collects influencing how the story ends. Although here's a spoiler: it never ends well for the wolf.iPhone / iPadbyNosy CrowMe Books (Free + IAP)This is a pre-2013 app in the UK, but it's just gone live in the US, making it worth its place in this list. Me Books is a store+reader app for digital picture-books, including faous characters like Peppa Pig and a host of Ladybird classics. Children can turn the pages and listen to voice narration, but the app also lets them record their own dialogue and sound. The app is free, with stories sold as individual in-app purchases for between 69p and £1.99.iPhone / iPadbyMade in MeKung Fu Robot (Free)Aimed at slightly older children, this graphic-novel tale of "the unicycle champion of the 3rd Northern District... the reigning champion of continuous nunchucking" fizzes with character from start to finish. The brainchild of illustrator Jason Bays, it's a madcap tale of a kung fu-kicking robot, with additional soundboard and ninja-whacking mini-game. It's entirely free for now with three chapters, and the promise of more to come.iPadbyKid RocketDisney Junior Appisodes (Free + IAP)Spun off from the Disney Junior TV channel, this app offers appisodes – definition: "an interactive version of a full-length TV episode" – for shows including Mickey Mouse Clubhouse and Jake and the Never Land Pirates. Each adds mini-games and other interactivity to the original animations. It's free with one appisode, and others available as £2.99 in-app purchases individually.iPhone / iPadbyDisneyMy Story World (Free + IAP)This shares some features with Me Books, in that it's a collection of digital picture-books including some familiar names (Sid the Science Kid, and Little Red Riding Hood for example). Each story includes creative activities like drawing and colouring, wiht he promise of new stories added to its collection every week. You pay £3.99 via in-app purchase for a six-month subscription, giving access to everything.iPadbyMindshapesJörgits &amp; the End of Winter (£3.99)Jörgits is a storybook app with an environmental message, telling the tale of a group of aliens whose planet is cooling down, and their expedition to "a planet nearby which is rapidly heating up – ours". Its message about global warming is delivered with charm and a light touch, though, as well as plenty of extra animation and interactivity.iPadbyTank &amp; BearBeauty and the Beast (£2.99)Developer StoryToys specialises in turning familiar fairytales into pseudo-3D pop-up book-apps, telling the stories through a mixture of text and animated, interactive scenes that pop up from the virtual pages. There's even a spot of gaming: playing ping-pong against the Beast, and running away from a hungry wolf.iPhone / iPad/AndroidbyStoryToysHunches In Bunches (£2.99 - £3.34)This is a digital version of a more-traditional Dr. Seuss book: the tale of a young boy getting distracted by all manner of surreal creatures ("a Sour Hunch, a Very Odd Hunch, the Homework Hunch, a Four-Way Hunch, the Nowhere Hunch..." as he tries to figure out how to spend his day. Aimed at 3-6 year-olds, its voice narration and word-highlighting aims to encourage early reading.iPhone / iPad/AndroidThe Phoenix Weekly Story Comic (Free + IAP)This is the digital edition of print comic The Phoenix, which comes out once a week with a mixture of stories, puzzles, competitions and other stuff for kids. If you've seen the print version, you'll know that the content is very good. The ability to save favourite pages is useful on iPad too. Subscriptions cost £1.99 a week, £5.99 a month or £32.99 for six months.iPadbyThe Phoenix ComicClassic Winnie-the-Pooh (Free + IAP)This new app stays faithful to the original A.A. Milne Winnie-the-Pooh books, including the famous illustrations by E.H. Shepard. Pooh and his friends have been animated, but the app avoids the everything-including-the-kitchen-sink approach of some appy retellings. Actor Rufus Jones provides voice narration. One story is included for free, with others costing £1.99 each as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadbyEgmont UKJackie Junko (£1.49)Claiming to be "the first app to push the boat out – quite literally", this is a story about a boat named Jackie who goes on an adventure, meeting animals and other boats as he goes. Aimed at 3-7 year-olds, its illustrations are marvellously-vintage in style, while the interactivity never comes at the expense of the story.iPadbySpringy ThingyPan: The Fearless Beribolt (£2.49)A number of interesting children's app-makers are springing up in the US in 2013, with Hullabalu one of the latest. This is its first app starring a panda named Pandora Beribolt, who sets off on an adventure to find her family. High production values, lots of activities and some fun photo silliness make it a treat.iPadbyHullabaluA Cautionary Tail (£2.99)This is based on a short film rather than a book: an Australian short that's been taking the world's film festivals by storm in recent months. The story focuses on a girl born with a tail, told through rhyming verse, movie-quality animation and voice narration from one of the film's stars, David Wenham.iPadbyRawr MediaA Troop is a Group of Monkeys (£2.49)This is great fun: an animated app teaching children the various plural nouns for animals: monkeys, bats, owls, parrots and so on. It's a musical story, too, with a theme song that will be nagging on your internal jukebox for hours after you use the app with your children.iPadbyLittle BahaliaCREATIVESquiggleFish (£1.49)This app is a digital aquarium, but the problem is it's an empty one. That's where your children come in, drawing and colouring in fish with real pencils and pens on real paper, then scanning them in to swim around in the app. The fun comes in seeing how many different fish they can create.iPadbyStripey DesignNight Zookeeper Teleporting Torch (£1.99)More drawing here, although this time it takes place entirely on the touchscreen. It's set in a zoo full of magical animals, and structured around "drawing missions" – daily challenges that suggest what kids might want to draw. For example, drawing a hareplane – "the fastest animal in the Night Zoo and it transports the animals around". Drawings are stored on Night Zookeeper's server for safekeeping, and there's an online dashboard for parents and teachers to keep tabs, and set their own missions if they like.iPadbyNight ZookeeperToy Story: Story Theater (£1.99)Disney's latest official Toy Story app turns the tables and puts kids in charge of the storytelling. They choose a setting, characters, props and actions to create a tale, while recording their own voice narration to be played back afterwards. Buzz, Woody and Jessie are all present and correct, among other characters.iPhone / iPadbyDisneyDrawnimal (£1.49)This is an absolutely fab idea, getting children to draw the outer bits of animals (legs, ears, whiskers and so on) around their iPhone or iPad, before the device provides an animated face. There's an animal for every letter of the alphabet, and many of them will make parents and kids alike laugh out loud.iPhone / iPadbyLucas ZanottoGreat British Chefs Kids (Free)This free app wants to get children cooking, with 105 recipes from 21 British chefs, split into categories like snacks, mains, cakes and biscuits, pastry, chocolate and "vegetables &amp; salad" (good luck with that one, most parents!). Step-by-step text, photographs and videos explain everything, and there's a Tesco tie-in to help parents buy the ingredients from their device.iPhone/iPadbyGreat British ChefsToontastic Jr. Shrek (£1.99)File this alongside Toy Story: Story Theater, in the way it allows children to make their own stories featuring much-loved film characters. In this case, it's Shrek, Fiona and Donkey from the Shrek films, with 12 scenes, voice recording and the chance to use a "StoryShare" feature to collaborate with family and friends on other devices.iPhone / iPadbyLaunchpad ToysCaspar Babypants Music Time (£1.49)Chris Ballew made his name in band the Presidents of the United States of America – they did Lump and Peaches, which should give your internal jukebox another jolt. Nowadays he also makes well-crafted music for children, which has now been turned into an app. Kids can play along on virtual instruments, and instead of in-app purchases, the app points parents to Apple's iTunes Store if they want more music to use.iPhone / iPadbyCatnap AppsPuppet Workshop (£1.99)Most kids I know like sock puppets (the original kind, not the review-their-own-books-on-Amazon kind), but Puppet Workshop takes the idea digital. Kids start with a virtual sock or glove, and decorate it with buttons and other items, before placing it on a background and taking a picture. What I loved most about this app, though, is that it got my children into making real sock and glove puppets: digital play sparking physical play, rather than replacing it.iPadbyJumpAppMibblio (Free + IAP)A number of children's apps are doing fun things with music in 2013, with several represented here. Mibblio is a "musically interactive storybook app" with a selection of stories, each with their own song. Kids can listen to the song while reading its lyrics, or play along by tapping on virtual instruments, from a keyboard to percussion. Individual songs cost £1.49 each as in-app purchases.iPadbyMibblioIdentikat (£1.99)File this alongside Puppet Workshop: it's another app that mirrors creativity in the real world, while trying to spark kids' imaginations to carry on once the iPad is switched off. Here, they're making virtual cats from lifelike materials and household objects – "the things you'd find in grandma's secret drawer".iPadbyOvolabFreckleface Strawberry: Monster Maker (Free)The Freckleface Strawberry books are the work of actor and author Julianne Moore, and have received lots of critical acclaim. This app isn't a straight story, although there is a storytelling element. It gets children to create their own monster from different body parts, with the ability to insert it into photographs of themselves and friends or family members. A creative introduction to the Freckleface series.iPadbyNymblyEasy Studio – Animate with Shapes (£2.49)French studio Les Trois Elles have made a series of polished, characterful children's apps over the last year or two. This is great fun: an app designed to help children start making their own animations, using geometric shapes as the basis for their moving scenes. Two difficulty modes – Easy and Expert – cater for different ages. Its potential is only limited by each child's imagination.iPadbyLes Trois EllesFaces iMake - ABC (£1.49)If your children tire of making sock puppets, cats or monsters, how about alphabetical objects? This is an app with 26 collages of household items for children to reassemble. The idea: they learn their letters and spatial skills while feeling pride at putting the various objects togetheriPadbyiMagine MachinePLAYFULToca Hair Salon 2 (Free - £1.59)In truth, you can buy any Toca Boca app and expect marvellousness: the publisher has a well-earned reputation for quality. Toca Hair Salon 2 is its newest app, and a good introduction. It gets kids cutting, colouring, brushing and styling the hair of a collection of quirky characters, with no set goals beyond having creative fun. Note, it's currently free on iOS as a promotion, but may well revert to paid in the next few days.iPhone / iPad/AndroidbyToca BocaSago Mini Forest Flyer (£1.49)Sago Sago is actually a subsidiary of Toca Boca, after it bought Canadian developer Zinc Roe earlier in the year. Its apps focus on younger children: toddlers. This is a bright and colourful app based on Robin, a bird who flies through the forest discovering more than 20 characters, locations and items. That means animated scenes, but kids are left to make up their own storyline.iPhone / iPadbySago SagoBloomsbury Pirate Activity (£2.99)Book publisher Bloomsbury was behind this digital stickering app, which apes the kind of sticker/activity books you can buy in the real world, but with no chance of the stickers ending up plastered all over the house. Pirates are the theme (although a separate princesses app is also available) with mazes, puzzles and colouring also included.iPadbyBloomsbury PublishingThe Letter Monster (£1.99)This is a good introduction to the playful apps of Swedish developer Wombi, starring a friendly sea-monster who wants to eat letters. So it's educational as well as fun, as kids drag and drop letters into his gaping maw. A friendly gaping maw...iPhone / iPad/AndroidbyWombiPeppa Pig's Holiday (£2.99)P2 Games has the official Peppa Pig licence, and has released a series of fun mini-game collections based on her adventures (including a couple of pre-2013 releases on Android). Peppa Pig's Holiday is the latest, and sees the Pig family off on their travels, with games set at the airport, on the beach and in the swimming pool.iPhone / iPadbyP2 GamesPetting Zoo by Christoph Niemann (£0.69)One of my favourite apps of the year so far – and in more digital-to-physical fun, it's one of the reasons my sons were so keen to go to a real-world zoo earlier in the year. It's the work of author and illustrator Niemann: a collection of 21 animals whose animations respond to your swipes up, down and across the screen. Craft and humour in spades.iPhone / iPadbyChristoph NiemannMore Trucks by Duck Duck Moose (£1.49)If you have a child with a yen for big-wheeled trucks, they'll love this app from well-established developer Duck Duck Moose. It sees them driving four trucks, including a fire engine and crane. In the latter case, they get to build (and then, more importantly, knock down) some structures.iPhone / iPadbyDuck Duck MooseYummiloo Rainbow Power (£1.49)This colourful game revolves around characters called Yum Yums, whose annual carnival has been derailed by a lack of food. That means children get to help the Yum Yums harvest it, with the game aiming to entertainingly introduce ideas about healthy eating as they sort ripe from spoiled foodstuffs.iPhone / iPadbyNight &amp; Day StudiosI Spy With Lola (£0.69 - £1.49)Part of a bigger series of Lola Panda games, this sees the heroine travelling the world on an "I Spy adventure", collecting items based on different letters, and unlocking new locations to explore as she goes.iPhone/iPad/AndroidbyBeiZDr Panda's Handyman (£1.49)Finally... more pandas! In fact, there are lots of Dr. Panda games to investigate, but this is one of the latest ones. It's based on DIY, with 13 activities in a virtual home: making a bed, tearing up old floors and painting everything.iPhone / iPad/AndroidbyTribePlayPhew! That's the 50 done and dusted, but what apps have your children been enjoying this year? Make your recommendations by posting a comment.
Apple is bolstering the streaming video lineup for its Apple TV set-top box with the launch of new channels from HBO, ESN, Sky News, Crunchyroll and Qello.The HBO Go and WatchESPN channels will only be available in the US for now, while Sky News will be available in the US, UK and Ireland. Anime-focused Crunchroll and music channel Qello will be available more widely, including the UK.Alongside the new channels, Apple has announced some stats on sales of TV shows and films through its iTunes Store. The company says iTunes users have downloaded more than 1bn TV episodes and 380m films from its digital store.They're currently buying more than 800,000 episodes and 350,000 movies a day. That compares to around 21.6m songs a day and around 66.7m apps, based on recent milestones announced by Apple for those content types.The new Apple TV channels build on Apple's relationships with HBO and ESPN on the iOS App Store. "HBO GO and WatchESPN are some of the most popular iOS apps and are sure to be huge hits on Apple TV," said senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue in a statement.They join Netflix, Hulu Plus, Vimeo, YouTube and Flickr as dedicated Apple TV channels, as well as US sporting bodies MLB, the NBA and the NHL.In the cases of Crunchyroll and Qello, new users will be able to sign up for the services from their Apple TV. HBO Go will require an existing subscription through US television providers, continuing the network's strategy of not offering on-demand access to its shows to "cord-cutters" who don't have a cable TV contract.The launches further bolster Apple TV, which is widely seen as a step towards an even more ambitious move into the television market by Apple.Its first set-top box went on sale in March 2007, but was regularly described by then-CEO Steve Jobs and his successor Tim Cook as a "hobby" for the company. However, in December 2012, Cooksaid in an interview with NBCthat TV was now "an area of intense interest" for Apple.Pressed on the company's plans during his appearance at the D11 conference in May, Cook revealed thatApple had sold 13m Apple TVs so far– about half of them in the preceding 12 months – while protesting that the device's popularity "has become much larger than we thought it would. We aren't marketing it."Maybe not, but with partners like HBO, ESPN and BSkyB, Apple TV is far from a hobby device for Apple in 2013.
Seven years in the making, but developer Bungie is only just beginning to reveal some the shape and detail of its forthcoming blockbuster Destiny. Away from Microsoft and working out of Activision's deep pockets, there's a great deal riding on the game. Not only is the financial cost gigantic, but also this is the studio's first release since its work on the seminal Halo series and, as such, the first chance to prove it's still more than a one-IP wonder.Without a playable build of the game at last week's E3, attendees had to rely on the video reveal at Sony's conference for information on the game, which is perhaps most accurately described as a first-person shooter MMO.The Guardian was also given the opportunity to speak with Bungie's chief operating officer Pete Parsons about the studio's ambition for Destiny to become a piece of 'big entertainment' that will sit alongside cultural titans such as Star Wars, Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter.Simon Parkin: How long did it take the studio to 'find' Destiny? When did you know that you'd discovered your next game?Pete Parsons:We've been working on the game since late 2007, but there were elements we were discussing in 2002 that we dredged up. This is a game we've always wanted to make and now we have the talent, the time, the resources and the technology to do so. It's been a long time coming.What was that original strand of inspiration in 2002?We like shooters and we like action games. We knew we wanted to do that again. But if you think about what we've been doing, even from the first LAN parties and Halo 2, a significant portion of our code was Xbox Live. Social has always been a big part of our identity.For the next generation of shooters we wanted to pull that to the centre. Everything that's fun in games is more fun to do with or in front of your friends. While we knew we had to give people an experience with a tight narrative, we also wanted to put it in a world that was persistent and felt like it was alive. The question was how were we going to do that.How have you resolved that tension?Well, it was a lot of hard work. The tools and technology and design approach, How do I have something where, by myself or with a couple of friends in a fire team, I can have a tight narrative experience and then come out at what is effectively a crossroads, this public area with all these people moving from one area to the next where we can all together have joint experiences.What are the elements that pull people together? All of that took years to work through. These are big problems to solve. How do you make it so when people move into the public space that it's seamless? We didn't want you to have to click through UI or anything like that.Does it work?That's the great thing. What you see here … I mean, it's certainly been tweaked for the show but we play the game every single day. I haven't felt this way since the Halo and Halo 2 days.How do you mean?Just the energy around the office. The excitement and feeling that we're onto something …Have you got a more specific deadline to work to than 2014?No. One of the things we've always said is that we'll ship the game when it's ready. Right now, we are happy to call a release year, but not the day.How are you able to afford that expensive freedom?Well … we afford that by having a great partner who believes in our vision. We believe we are making big entertainment. The experience you have in Destiny will be put on the same shelf as Star Wars, Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter. So, we're in it for the long run. We want to unpack that universe over the course of a decade. Activision understands big entertainment and they are supporting us to take the time to do it right.One of the problems I perceive for you is the lack of a strong lead. In Halo you have Master Chief and Cortana. I don't see comparable characters in Destiny.What happens when it's not the Master Chief, but it's you that's the hero? That's a huge challenge for us. Our solution has been to surround the player character with really strong supporting characters.I understand what you're saying, but who do you put on the poster. Who's your Luke Skywalker, Frodo Baggins or Harry Potter, to use your own references?Well, from the moment we revealed Destiny, the fan community started creating art. I have never seen so much fan art coming this early on from something. Why is that? It's not that they just think Bungie is awesome. It's that something touched them about the universe; they felt that this is something they want to be a part of. That's how we look at it. It's pretty simplistic but we look at game's appeal as: is this a place I want to be? What do I get to do? How do I get to do it? Right now we're in the place of asking: is this a place I want to be? If you can do that, making some assumptions that we'll be able to tell some great stories, then you'll be a long way there. Without bragging, I think we've hit on that.The shooter market is such a focus for the games industry that there is near constant small-scale evolution. How do you bring diversity to what you'll be doing as a player, other than simply shooting bullets all of the time?That's a great question. We do love the shooter mechanic. Two big things: one we have the addition of space magic. Then there's the question of how we make sure that everything you do in the game works by yourself, but is designed at the end of the day for co-operative play. We want you to feel like you're in a fireteam but you're still at the centre of everything. So that we take our 30 seconds of fun and ask what is the destiny of that 30 seconds.But how does that add variety to what I do in terms of what happens when I press a button?Well, we have different classes and each of those classes has different armour and weapons to master over time. And … I get to hold the power of the sun in my hands and then fire it at my enemies. We have some of the best sandbox designers in the world. We're still polishing it now but it's fun to play right now. We play it all the time. I don't really have a good answer for you other than to polish over and over and over again. We have many, many weapons, upgrades and tons of armour and tons of all that stuff. But still we force you to make active choices. We're not just giving you everything.There was some of that in Halo. You guys did the two-gun limitation first …Exactly. We're making sure you're making active choices between load-outs. Here's another thing that was important to us: to bring players together even if they don't think that they want to. So we have a private loot stream. This is important so that everything that drops from combat is meant for you. Each player has their own stream of loot and it's unique to them. That works really well when you have two players coming together, one of whom is a veteran and the other is only 20 hours in; it's not boring for either of you as you're each receiving loot that's appropriate to your level. There's a crime that I think we helped commit … I mean, if you take a classic Halo level such as Truth and Reconciliation, there's no reason to go back when you've been there. As a player I want to go back, but there needs to be value and a reward for me to do so. We think that will be a huge deal.A storyline is finite while a persistent MMO-style game is infinite. How do you reconcile those two things?Story in games is quite a bit different in linear media. A story in a movie will never change. While we can only have so many chapters inside of the game, we can still give you things to do day on day, week on week, year on year.The story becomes just one of the many activities that are valuable. We hope the stories that people will tell won't necessarily be about the fiction, but will be about the things they've done together. That's not a bullshit answer. We are going to give you new things to do every single day, every single week even if it's not storyline in the traditional sense.I can see some similarities between Destiny and Borderlands in terms of the classes and the way in which loot works. When that game came out were you worried?No. This is a very old idea.Oh, I understand that. I'm not suggesting you guys have copied of anything like that …We know Randy well. It was interesting to play. The thing we've always felt is that we could have done a lot more with Halo and we didn't. There was only so much we could do with the team over time. We mainly spent a long time looking at World of Warcraft. It's a server side implementation from a developer we really admire and we thought it would be awesome if we could do those kind of things, but we had the visceral sandbox experience we're really good at.Borderlands, yes. But the mechanic of people coming together and having their investment and power and items mean something because they are persistent through the world and they grow in the world. That's been the challenge.• Destiny is due out in 2014, on PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One
Facebook now has more than 1m companies and brands advertising on its service, with 61% of its users in the UK having 'Liked' at least one local business' page on the social network.The 1m milestone was announced by Facebook's director of global marketing solutions for small- and medium-sized businesses, Dan Levy,on the company's blog.Advertising is increasingly lucrative for Facebook. In the first quarter of 2013, Facebook's advertising revenues grew 43% year-on-year to $1.25bn (£800.8m), with mobile ads accounting for 30% of those revenues. With 1m active advertisers, that growth looks set to continue."Businesses big and small are growing on Facebook and this is a very exciting milestone for us," said Facebook's vice-president of global marketing solutions Carolyn Everson, in a statement."Marketers can build personal relationships with their customers on the platform, at a scale which has never before been available."The relationships aspect is something that Facebook is keen to push. Alongside the 1m announcement, the social network released other figures showing how engaged its users are in the UK and Europe with the pages of local businesses.In the UK, businesses have notched up 295m "connections" with Facebook users – the aggregate number of Likes on their pages. Facebook says that these pages attract a total of 55m views and 3m comments a week.Across the EU as a whole, local business pages have accumulated more than 1.2bn likes, while generating 270m page views and 8m comments a week.One thing Facebook advertisers will have to wait a bit longer for, however, is the ability to run video ads on the social network.AdAge reports thatFacebook's planned launch of video units has been pushed back until mid-October, giving it more time to work on "new features" that will make their debut alongside the ads.Advertising is what's driving increasingly fierce competition between Facebook and Google in 2013, as the former emerges as an increasingly serious rival for ad spending.In April, industry analyst eMarketer predicted thatGoogle will earn £2.65bn in net UK ad revenues for 2013, compared to Facebook's £279m. Yet those figures include both search and display advertising revenues, with Google dominant (and uncontested by Facebook) in the former category.For display advertising only, eMarketer suggests the two companies are far closer, predicting £371m of UK display ad revenues for Google in 2013, and £279m for Facebook.The scrap for local business' advertising budgets is particularly competitive in 2013, and fuelled by the boom in mobile apps and internet usage.US-based serviceYelp is pushing hard into the UK and Europe, for example, and has45k active local business accounts(ie advertisers) with 1.1m businesses having claimed their profiles on its service for free.
"Has it got Spider-Man in it?"I'm in the car with my sons on the way to visit Traveller's Tales, the developer behind the hugely successful Lego games. The company is holding a press day at its Knutsford office and I had this daft idea about bringing Albie (aged five) and Zac (aged seven) along.They've played pretty much every title in the series, from Lego Star Wars through to Lego Batman 2; it's how I introduced them to gaming. These are great parent/child titles because they're based entirely around two-player co-op, and while one of you can just run around enjoying the destructible scenery, the other is able to really get engrossed in the puzzles.It used to be me in the latter position, but increasingly it's them. Through completing trickier titles like Lego Indiana Jones and Lego Lord of the Rings they have mastered the structure and methodology behind these games. They know how the puzzles work, where they appear and the sorts of characters needed in certain situations. I figured if anyone can assess a new Lego title it's them.Also, they know super heroes. I've been reading comics to them since they were babies; and by the time my oldest son was two, he could point to pretty much any mainstream character and tell you whether they were Marvel or DC. Indeed, thanks to a huge pile of comic book encyclopedias, their interests also extend beyond the big Triple A heroes. When Albie was three he asked for a Luke Cage action figure for Christmas – that was an expensive night on eBay …So we're on the M6 and I've asked them to come up with some questions for the development team. "Has it got Spider-Man in it?" is the best Zac has managed so far."Of course it'll have Spider-Man in it," I say. "try to think of something else, something that they'll have to really think about."There's a long silence."Has it got Ironman in it?"I put the radio on.At Traveller's Tales, the staff have prepared a demo room with a huge projector screen. It turns out Albie won't be able to watch because he's five and the game already has a Pegi 7 rating. Instead, someone takes him into the reception area and gives him a huge box of Technics lego, most of it already constructed into elaborate vehicles. "Is it okay if he takes these apart?" I ask. "Because hewilltake them apart." The staff member looks at a colleague. They shrug. "I think it's okay," one of them says. Then there is a crash: I look down and realise that Albie has made the decision for them.Back in the demo room we're shown a level that's never been seen by the press before. Loki, the mischievous brother of Thor and the key antagonist of the game, has discovered a vortex that will take him back to the mythical Norse world of Asgard. He's here to take the Tesseract, the source of immense energy that has spent the last few years dropping in and out of the Marvel movies. "He is ever after only one thing: power," explains Thor in a scene-setting cinematic sequence. "And also helmets with horns. He's really into those."From here, Captain America, Thor and Wolverine must pursue Loki and grab the Tesseract. After a sequence of the characters ascending space via the Bifrost, they're suddenly in Thor's world, which has been rendered into ice by Loki via his Chest of Ancient Winters. There are Frost Giants to battle, models to put together and switches to pull. Zac watches intently but occasionally he turns to me and whispers, "when can I have a go?" He definitely has the makings of a games journalist.Three amigos: Captain America, the Human Torch and WolverineWhatever happened to those heroes?It's typical Lego gaming stuff, but with the massive allure of those Marvel characters – each of which boasts an array of individual powers.Thor can call in lightning and charge himself up, giving access to a powerful laser beam attack. He can also fly and slam enemies with his hammer. The Human Torch can fly and flame on or off at will, shooting fireballs and melting ice barriers. Captain America can throw his shield to smash items, but also has a cover mode, which uses the shield to deflect laser beam and fire attacks. Wolverine has powerful melee attacks, but can also slash broken bricks to reveal new areas and his animal senses detect enemies as well as helpful stuff like hidden climbing walls. Interestingly, he can't be destroyed, so as he's injured, he's gradually reduced to an adamantium skeleton that has to slowly regenerate."One of the problems we had from a design perspective is that all of the characters are really powerful," says game director, Arthur Parsons. "We've had to ensure that while they retain all of their abilities, they're notoverpowered."The Asgard level is built around a series of confrontations with Loki – who, like the Joker and Two-Face in Lego Batman 2, just keeps getting away. At one point he fills the screen with holograms of himself to confuse Thor and his team, and at the end he uses his staff to gain control over the Destroyer, an enchanted armour monster created by Odin to battle a hostile alien race. The only way the heroes can defeat him is by using Captain America's shield to deflect the monster's heat attacks at Loki.The game is structured similarly to Lego Batman 2. Missions are distributed from a single base location – this time the SHIELD heli-carrier, floating above Manhattan. However, almost from the start, players are able to leap down and explore the city, which provides a vast open world, filled with secrets and mini-quests. Apparently, these free-play tasks are all narrated by DeadPool who delights in breaking the fourth wall and talking directly to the gamer, usually mocking them in the process.Asgard as you've never seen it before … although it's unlikely anyone's seen it before.A Grand old timeThis will also be the location of some key campaign set pieces. Zac and I get to play a mission set at Grand Central station, with Spider-Man and the Hulk teaming up to bust their way into the iconic building where Sandman is holed up and causing havoc.There's a lot of pulverising vehicles on the way in, with Hulk picking up abandoned cars and lobbing them aside. Later, when we meet lead animator, Andy Dolan, Albie tries out his selection of Hulk questions. "Can Hulk smash?" he says. And Dolan shows him how the green giant can jump into the air and slam his fists down on the ground causing major earth tremors. Hulk can also clap his hands together sending out a sonic boom to fell enemies. "Can he throw a car when there is someone in it?" asks Albie, warming to the theme. Yes he can. In the free-roaming NYC sections, he can throw a cab and then watch as the annoyed driver clambers out. Hulk can also transform back into Bruce Banner, giving access to more confined areas.As with the Asgard level, this sequence also has its own mid-stage monster battle – this time, the Abomination. The development team thought it was important to feature the key Marvel showdowns, so Hulk v Abomination was always going to happen. But much of the fun is in the unlikely pairings."We wanted partnerships that won't necessarily be expected," says Parsons. "So in the Grand Central level, we have two of the Avengers operating with Spider-Man. The second level of the game is a team up between Captain America and Mr Fantastic – throughout the campaign we keep this 'party of heroes' concept."The question about Spider-Man is of course answered in the affirmative. He is here and it's a wonderful realisation, complete with tingling spider senses and the ability to swing across every location via web strands that disappear off the top of the screen. He can also shoot webs as projectile weapons and use them to pull over larger obstacles.All of the 16 lead characters can also use their weapons with puzzles – Captain America's shield, DeadPool's swords and Hawkeye's arrows can all open locks and mechanisms.  And as usual, certain scenic objects can only be manipulated by certain characters – so if you want to melt a gold object, you'll need the Human Torch – or Ironman if you have the Mark 42 suit …Mr Fantastic – sadly the game does not feature a Mr Mediocre or Mr Fair-to-Middling.Fan-tasticThere are lots of little nods to the fans, as well. The cinematic scenes often feature Damage Control, the specialist unit that comes in and cleans up after major Marvel battles – they'll sweep up in the background as the plot progresses. There is Loki's eight-legged horse; there is the fictitious Roxxon corporation. The visual gags are nice too; my sons love it when Mr Fantastic transforms himself into a teapot; and when Sandman becomes a sand castle, waddling around the screen. It's these touches that kids look out for.Traveller's Tales has become adept at working in its slapstick eccentricities by now, but it also tests each game with children. Parsons usually recruits his nine-year-old daughter as a tester during the development phase. "With every level I just sit her down and say play this, tell me what's good, what isn't," he says. "And kids are so honest; they don't hide anything. But it's a joy to sit together to share it – and to see her reactions when she finds something new."One important aspect is the character unlock feature, which lets players discover hidden heroes and then play as them on any completed mission. Traveller's Tales reckons it will have over 100 unlockable characters in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, and a key aim has been to make each one available as soon as possible after they're discovered."We do a lot of focus testing with kids and their favourite bit is playing as characters who aren't in the main story," says Parsons. "When they unlock a favourite, they just want to play as them straightaway. That will be especially true with the characters we have in this game – everyone is going to want to play as Venom, everyone will want to try Sandman. The cast for the villains is epic and we want to make sure people can try them really quickly."While I chat to Parsons, my own sons are watching Dolan as he calls up a series of character models and goes through their special moves. All animations are hand-keyed in the art package Maya then exported to the game engine, complete with moveable faces, capes, etc. Dolan shows Albie and Zac a range of the facial expressions available to each character and they laugh at every one. It's easy to forget about how these little moments of humanity can amaze and delight children – I'll never forget when Zac first got Sackboy to wave his arms around and look up and down in LittleBigPlanet – he was awe-inspired; he laughed so much he had hiccups all day.Loki – he looks a laugh, doesn't he?Drama's coolBut with Lego Marvel Super Heroes, there is also a desire to get the drama of the comic universe into the game. "As we design levels, we write an emotional timeline of what we want the children to experience or feel," says Parsons. "In this one we've managed to stick a couple of scares in there – not night terror scares – but when you have characters like Venom … in his level, as the player is exploring we flick the lights on and off and you get Venom moving toward you until eventually he appears right at the screen. You have to do it in the right way, but you can have shock moments like that."The script is mostly put together by the staff at Traveller's Tales, but the studio has worked with Lego and with Marvel writer Mark Hoffmeier (Animated Adventures of Spider-Man, Super Hero Squad) to get the tone and references just right. This consultation process extends to the models in the game. Every vehicle or larger character that appears in the series is initially built using Lego bricks by the in-house modelling team: every prototype must abide by Lego's strict 'laws' on how pieces can be connected."Lego wants us to ensure that if someone pauses the screen on something, they have a chance of replicating the model they see," says lead Lego artist, Charles McNair. Marvel must be consulted too, so models can take a while to perfect: The Destroyer took over a week to build, adapt and get signed off. "It's a complex example," says modeller Carl Greatrix. "We had to get all the articulations just right …" I quickly position myself as a safety barrier between my sons and the intricate working Destroyer model that Greatrix is showing us.Behind McNair and Greatrix there are rows of Bisley drawer units filled with carefully segregated Lego pieces. Apparently, around 3,000 individual components are kept in circulation at any one time, with older obsolete pieces regularly removed and newcomers added.Traveller's Tales models don't have to abide by some of the rules of the consumer play sets – they don't have to take durability, playability or ease of construction into consideration; but they have access to exactly the same raw materials as amateur builders. The pieces that get used most are the smaller ones; hinges, headlight bricks – you don't see many of the classic blocks."It's very rare we actually get to use regular bricks," says Greatrix, "especially with the smaller size of vehicles we're going down to; it's nearly always plates and tiles. But if we go to something like Asteroid M, that's almost all slope bricks. There are thousands of parts in that."Indeed, the complexity of all the models and landscapes has increased enormously since the original Lego Star Wars title. Back in 1999, the team at Traveller's Tales was around 16 staff, now it's 120, and there's a separate studio working on handheld conversions. But there is a consistency to the quality here; while some see a production line of near-indistinguishable platform adventures, others welcome the chance to return again and again to these bright, blocky landscapes. Lego Marvel Super Heroes looks to have some beautiful locations and a great handle on the unique capabilities and attractions of every character. It looks like a lot of warmly familiar fun.Back in the car, on the long journey home down the M6, I ask the boys, "did you enjoy that? Did you learn anything?""Hulk can smash!" says Albie."I forgot to ask about Ironman," says Zac.But later they relay a lot of what they were told to their mum, and we talk about the 30 animation sequences that make up each character, the 70 minutes of cinematic sequences – the way Hulk can drop kick enemies. I'm impressed with how much they've remembered and I'm pretty certain they now understand some of the processes of development. We just need to work on those questions.• Lego Marvel Super Heroes is due out this autumn on PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC and 3DS
Google has called on the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to relax its gag order on tech companies targeted in US security investigations.The search giant stepped up its campaign for greater transparency from the US courts Tuesday in the wake of the disclosure of the National Security Agency'stop-secret Prism surveillance program.The legal filing cites the first amendment's guarantee of free speech and follows on from a letter to attorney general Eric Holder asking for permission to disclose the number of requests Google receives under the foreign intelligence securities act (Fisa).Those requests, targeted at people outside the US, are dealt with in secrecy by a dedicated court. Google is seeking permission to publish the total numbers of requests the Fisa court makes and the numbers of user accounts they affect.The search firm already publishes a widely imitated "transparency report" that documents demands from the US government and from other governments worldwide. The report documents criminal requests and national security letters, which the government uses to gather information about US citizens in the US. But Google and its peers are barred from disclosing the number of Fisa requests they receive."Greater transparency is needed, so today we have petitioned the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to allow us to publish aggregate numbers of national security requests, including Fisa disclosures, separately," the company said in a statement.Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo, the other major tech firms named in the Prism documents,have all called for greater disclosureabout government requests for information. They have also strongly denied that they allow the government "direct" access to their servers, denials first reported by The Guardianwhen the story broke."Google's reputation and business has been harmed by the false and misleading reports in the media, and Google's users are concerned by the allegations. Google must respond with more than generalities. Moreover, these matters of significant weight and importance, and transparency is critical to advancing public debate in a thoughtful and democratic manner," Google said in its court filing.Co-founder Larry Page and chief legal officer David Drummond have already called for the government to act. In a blog post the pair said the secrecy surrounding the current system "undermines the freedoms we all cherish".
It's Wednesday.
The world's thinnest smartphone, with a touch screen so sensitive it responds to gloved hands, has been unveiled by rising Chinese manufacturer Huawei in the latest challenge to the iPhone.The Ascend P6 is just over 6mm thick, comes in white, black and baby pink, and in language usually associated with skin creams rather than computer technology, its maker claims the camera's "instant facial beauty support" software reduces wrinkles and blends skin tone.The phone capitalises on the growing popularity of the self portrait or "selfie", examples of which now litter the internet, with celebrities from Justin Bieber to Rihanna as likely to photograph themselves as their friends and family.While smartphone front facing cameras – those on the same side as the screen - have tended to be low resolution, the Ascend P6 has 5 megapixels, compared to 1.2 for the iPhone 5. Its rear camera has 8 megapixels, equivalent to Apple's phone.On sale from July, and with a recommended price of €449 (£385), or £21 a month with a contract, it is cheaper than the latest iPhone, which costs £529 in the UK. The P6 is made with metal and glass and less plastic than previous Huawei models, but the current version lacks the iPhone's ability to run on 4G networks."The keen price is evidence that Huawei is prepared to use pricing as a way of building share in major European markets," said analyst Ben Wood at CCS Insight. "Huawei has made substantial progress in design and quality, but the big unanswered question is whether consumers will accept a product from an almost unknown name in preference to established brands."With Apple and Samsung taking the lion's share of profits to be made from smartphones, operators and retailers are keen to redress the balance of power away from the duopoly. Huawei's launch event in Camden's Roundhouse was attended by Carphone Warehouse chairman Sir Charles Dunstone, who took to the stage to describe Huawei as "the most fantastic partner".Its phones are popular in China, but despite setting the ambitious goal of selling 60m smart handsets in 2012, Huawei managed a less dazzling 32m and failed to rank among the top five vendors, according to research firm IDC.The company has been most successful as a maker of mobile and broadband network equipment., overtaking European and American rivals to become the second largest vendor after Sweden's Ericsson.Its presence throughout BT's copper and fibre lines, and in the 4G equipment being installed by the UK's largest mobile phone company, Everything Everywhere, has raised security concerns in the UK.This month, a parliamentary committee rebuked ministers for failing to monitor the use of Huawei's equipment in UK networks.Blocked from buying companies in the United States, where politicians have discouraged telecoms companies from buying its equipment, Huawei is hoping to the P6 will enhance its own image in Western markets.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPrivacy authorities issue Google a 'please explain' on Glass | ZDNetJosh Taylor:In April, Australian Privacy Commissioner Timothy Pilgrim requested a briefing with Google on the device, and today he, and nine of his colleagues from Canada, New Zealand, Israel, Mexico, and Switzerland, among others, have written to Page asking for detailed information on Google Glass, stating that their knowledge on it comes "from media reports, which contain a great deal of speculation".The commissioners state in the letter that Google has not approached them to discuss the associated ethical issues with Google Glass while the product is in early testing stages with developers.They have asked Google eight questions around the associated privacy issues, including asking Google to explain how Glass complies with data protection laws, what the privacy safeguards are, what information Google collects through Glass, who that information is shared with, and whether Google has undertaken a privacy risk assessment.The suspicion is that Google itself doesn't understand all the ethical issues yet: that's partly what the early tests are for. It's a reminder that outside the early-adopter bubble, Glass' privacy implications will be on the agenda for politicians as well as the public.Facebook's Video Ads Now Likely Delayed Until Fall &gt;&gt; Advertising AgeCotton Delo:As of late last year, Facebook was prepping video ads for their debut in the first half of 2013, but the launch was pushed back to the summer. Now it's unofficially been pushed back until mid-October, according to a source familiar with the product. The given reason is that there are new features Facebook wants to release concurrently with video ads, and they require more software development.Facebook needs to tread very carefully with this one to avoid a big user backlash, even if its sales teams are champing at the bit as AdAge suggests. I'm intrigued to see how video ads are handled on mobile, to avoid users hurtling through their data limits.Radical iOS 7 Design Is Threat To Some Existing Apps &gt;&gt; ReadWriteBrian S. Hall:iOS 7 is a truly audacious redesign of Apple's chief operating system. I have been using the beta version since last week and it's abundantly clear that Apple is determinedly focused on ensuring that iOS--the software underpinnings of the iPhone and iPad--remains the simplest, purest OS on the planet.  It's also obvious that the new iOS 7 design and enhanced functionality will kill off many non-Apple apps, including some good ones.Weep for the flashlight-app makers. The claim that "iTunes Radio should choke off all but the very best most-entrenched streaming music competitors" is debatable too - or, at least, there are plenty of other reasons why the not-so-best competitors will fall by the wayside.Kazam Is Another European Startup Hoping Against Hope To Inch In To The Smartphone Hardware Market &gt;&gt; TechCrunchNatasha Lomas (hat tip to @modelportfolio2003):Details of how exactly Kazam plans to assault the Samsung and Apple smartphone duopoly were not forthcoming when I asked. Atkins declined to answer the bulk of my questions -- including such specifics as whether Kazam's planned smartphones will run Android and be skinned with a  custom UI or keep the experience familiarly stock. Instead, he trotted out a repeated PR mantra: "Today we are just announcing that the Kazam brand is here, for the rest you will have to wait and see."Remember the days when the UK had its own smartphone manufacturer, Sendo? Thatdidn't end so well. Now Kazam, launched by two former HTC executives, is having another crack at the market, with plans to launch devices later this year. But for now, it's all brand and no (public) hardware.The Humble Bundle with Android 6The latest games bundle for Android devices:Pay what you want for the underwater fantasy action-adventure game Aquaria; the chromatic minimalist puzzler Fractal: Make Blooms Not War; the retro zombie survival game Organ Trail: Director's Cut; and the nail-biting stealth strategy platformer Stealth Bastard Deluxe. You'll also receive a bonus game: the rhythmic audio-visual game Pulse: Volume One. If you pay more than the average, you'll also get the intense tactical combat sim Frozen Synapse and the classic mystery point-and-click adventure Broken Sword: Shadow of the Templars - Director's Cut!Many games developers criticise Android for its users' perceived unwillingness to pay for content. Yet with 13 days to go, more than 68k people have stumped up just under $320k for the latest Humble Bundle. There's life beyond the Google Play store...Premium Smartphone Market: Why the Apple vs. Samsung Duopoly is Misleading &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh (hat tip to @HotSoup):The chart above shows the ratio of premium ($400+) smartphone shipments from other vendors to Apple's and Samsung's shipments. While the share of "Others" in the premium smartphone market doubled from 7% in May 2012, to 15% in May 2013, the pattern with respect to Apple &amp; Samsung is quite interesting. In May 2012, premium smartphone shipments from "Others" were just 10% of Apple's shipments and about 35% of Samsung's shipments. By May 2013, the shipments from "Others" had grown to nearly 40% of Apple's shipments and remained at 32% of Samsung's shipments.A smart look at the data, but do you agree with the conclusion that "the $400+, premium smartphone market may begin to lose its relevance in a year"?Musical Identity &gt;&gt; The Echo NestFrom the music technology company's new Musical Identity blog:Can your music taste predict your taste in other forms of entertainment (books, movies, games, etc)? This post focuses on some (hopefully) amusing, interesting examples of what our Taste Profiling technology can uncover about the relationship between one's taste in music and one's taste in movies.BREAKING: Fans of romantic comedies also like Céline Dion. But there are some interesting insights here, and implications for how the likes of Amazon, Apple and Google may be able to learn from our preferences in one area to recommend things in others.Rihanna Passes Justin Bieber as Most Viewed Artist on YouTube &gt;&gt; The Hollywood ReporterWilliam Gruger:Some time early Tuesday morning, June 18, Rihanna passed Justin Bieber as the most-viewed artist on YouTube. The 77 videos on Rihanna's official VEVO channel now have a combined 3.784 billion views in total, surpassing the total view counts of the 79 videos on Bieber's official VEVO channel by roughly two million views.It's all about the subscribers, apparently: Rihanna has 8.73m while Justin has 4.9m. Still, Bieber remains Twitter king with 40.6m followers. Perhaps he should start tweeting more YouTube links at them.One year later, the Nexus 7 has gone from the best to worst tablet I've ever owned &gt;&gt; Android and MeDustin Earley:I don't remember when it first started happening, but most say it was when Android 4.2 began hitting devices. The new features and changes in Jelly Bean, 4.2, were certainly welcome additions, but my Nexus' new found love of life in the slow-lane was not. I have not spent a full year using the Nexus 7 as a daily driver, only the last six months. So at first, I didn't notice just how bad things had gotten. I thought maybe it was an illusion from using so many high-end Android phones. Until I started asking around.Commenters suggest (a) SSD hitting the end of its read-write life (b) Google Currents sucking up resource (c) too little free disk space (d) he's been mistreating it.Why can't Facebook help Emma Watson with her naked photo problem? &gt;&gt; Graham CluleySo, if I'm seeing these messages, and readers of this blog keep seeing these messages, why isn't Facebook's security team seeing these messages?Or is it that they *are* seeing the messages, but they either:a) don't care?b) aren't capable of doing anything effective to stop them?Whatever the explanation, it's disturbing to continue to see spams and scams spreading so effectively across the world's most popular social network.There aren't any nekkid pics. The app pretending there are will take a lot of liberties, though.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Internet service providers have signed up to a fundamental change in their approach that will involve working more closely with the police to seek out and block "absolutely abhorrent" images of child abuse, the culture secretary, Maria Miller, said on Tuesday.Leading companies have pledged £1m to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which will intensify its work with the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop) to identify illegal images of child abuse before they are widely distributed online.Miller was speaking after a summit with some of the world's largest internet service providers (ISPs), which were summoned by the culture secretary because of concerns in government that they are failing to take adequate steps to crack down on images of child abuse.Industry sources expressed irritation with the government's criticism as they noted that Ceop's budget has been cut by 10% this year. One source, who described the meeting as fractious, said: ."The Home Office opened with some encouraging noises about international efforts but generally speaking the politicians there fundamentally (or wilfully) misunderstand the technical and legal aspects to the subject. Little discussion was given to the measures put forward by industry and any discussion of practical steps was closed down. We'll meet again in a month."Another source said that the government only invited Ceop after protests from the industry. The source said: "It's very dangerous for the government to put all its eggs in the IWF basket as Ceop does a lot of important work on the behaviour and tracking down of paedophiles."But the culture secretary hailed the agreement, which will see the IWF working directly with the police to seek out illegal images rather than waiting for a complaint before acting. The government estimates that there are 1 million unique users of images of child abuse online, but only 40,000 reports of illegal images are made each year to the IWF, the Cambridge-based charity founded in 1996 by the internet industry that collates warnings about illegal sites.Britain's main ISPs – Virgin Media, BSkyB, BT and TalkTalk – have agreed to provide £1m to help the IWF in its work with Ceop, which has been incorporated into the National Crime Agency.Miller told The World at One on Radio 4: "What has been agreed today is a fundamental change in the way that the industry will approach child abuse images and removing them from public view. It is important that we have made this change, that the IWF will be proactive not reactive for the first time, so it can actively seek out the sorts of images that people find absolutely abhorrent."It does mean that more of those images can be removed."Miller added in a statement: "Until now, action has only been taken by the IWF when a child sexual abuse image is reported. Now, for the first time, the IWF has been asked to work alongside Ceop to search for illegal and abusive images and block them. This will mean more images of child sexual abuse will be tracked down and acted against."The abuse of children is absolutely abhorrent – and that child is further violated every single time an image is circulated and viewed. The IWF and Ceop already do important and valuable work. This agreement will mean these organisations will no longer be limited to reacting to reports received. They will now have the remit and the resources to take the fight to the criminals perpetrating these vile acts."The summit also addressed the problem of "peer-to-peer" communication, in which child abusers distribute material by email to avoid detection. Miller said that work would continue to try to crack down on such distribution.In one of the first steps after the summit, the industry has agreed to introduce "splash" pages by the end of the month. This will mean that if someone seeks to access a page of illegal images that has been blocked, a warning message will appear telling the user they have tried to access indecent or illegal content. At the moment an error message appears when users try to access such images.Miller denied that the government was not taking the issue seriously after Jim Gamble resigned as chief executive of Ceop in 2010, following its incorporation into the National Crime Agency.The culture secretary said: "We take it very seriously indeed. That is why Ceop is now part of the National Crime Agency and that is why we have 50% more staff working within Ceop. It is absolutely vital that their work continues and can reflect the scale of the problem."In a statement, BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media said of the extra £1m they have pledged over the next four years: "The companies will work together with government, IWF and Ceop to establish how best these funds can be spent to tackle the availability of online child abuse content. ISPs have a zero-tolerance approach to this material. This funding will help to target those individuals that create and distribute the content."Miller will arrange another meeting after the industry reports back to her within a month. She praised the industry for taking steps already to offer greater choice of parental controls for new customers.The companies that attended the summit were Yahoo, Google, Microsoft, Twitter, Facebook, BT, BSkyB, Virgin Media, TalkTalk, Vodafone, O2, EE and Three. Officers from Ceop and officials from the IWF also attended.A Virgin Media spokesperson said: "We welcome the opportunity to restate our zero tolerance of child abuse material and efforts to combat this has our full support. Virgin Media and the industry created the IWF for this very purpose and it has successfully removed thousands of abusive images over the past decade. We have today committed to increase its funding going forward."Ceop also deserves credit for its work in tracking down and prosecuting the creators and distributors of this material. It is crucial this global problem is tackled at source so everyone must now work together to ensure the IWF and Ceop are empowered with sufficient resources and the clear legal framework they need to expand their activities. This effort will have our full commitment."Peter Davies, the Ceop chief executive, said: "The Ceop centre has today contributed to the meeting with government officials and industry representatives, exploring opportunities to inform everyone's understanding of the threat posed to children online."With offending linked to indecent images of children (IIOC) and online child sexual exploitation so high in the public's mind, it is essential that we all work together to provide a positive, consistent and structured approach to prevent ISP platforms and/or services being used for these purposes. Ceop has worked with many service providers over the last seven years and has a strong reputation for not merely dealing with high volumes of referrals from the public, but carrying out cutting-edge proactive investigations."While we have excellent partnerships and co-operation with most service providers, we must acknowledge there is scope for a change of pace and that more can always be done. We will continue to offer our knowledge and expertise to support a collaborative approach to make the internet as safe an environment as possible. This will include helping the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) to develop their ideas. We will be providing more information on the threats to children when we launch our upcoming thematic assessment on child sexual exploitation and abuse."
The Swedish co-founder of the Pirate Bay file-sharing website can be extradited to Denmark to face hacking charges, a Swedish court has ruled.Gottfrid Svartholm Warg is accused of involvement in one of Denmark's biggest hacking attacks – on databases holding driving licence records, official email messages and millions of social security numbers. The attacks on the databases, all run by a Danish subsidiary of the US technology company CSC, took place between April and August last year. A 20-year-old Danish man, alleged to be Warg's accomplice, is being held in custody in Denmark, having pleaded not guilty.The decision by the Nacka district court comes as Warg, 28, who remains in custody in Sweden, awaits the verdict expected this week in a trial in Sweden in which he was accused of hacking into the IT systems of the Logica services company and stealing ID details of 9,000 Swedes. He allegedly attempted to transfer 5.7m Swedish kronor (£560,000) to various accounts.He can appeal against the extradition decision, which will also be dependent on the verdict and any sentence in the Logica trial.Warg and the other three Pirate Bay co-founders werefound guilty in 2009 of assisting the distribution of illegal content online. They were all handed jail terms and a collective fine of $2m (£1.3m), increased at their appeal to $6.5m. Warg left the country before serving his sentence butwas deported from Cambodia last year.His case falls under a Nordic arrest warrant, which means there is no legal review of evidence in the case.That distinguishes it from the case of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who has justified sheltering in the Ecuadorean embassy in London for a year to avoid extradition to Sweden to face sex assault and rape accusations, which he denies, by arguing that he would face onward extradition to the US to face potential charges relating to the WikiLeaks releases.
Yahoo has joined the increasing number of technology companies publishing details of how many requests US law enforcement agencies have made for data on their users.The company gave more details of its dealings with US authorities as it sought to reassure customers in the wake of the scandal surrounding the National Security Agency's Prism surveillance programme.Ablogpost co-signed by Yahoo's chief executive, Marissa Mayer, and general counsel, Ron Bellcovers the same period as Apple's disclosure earlier in the week: 1 December 2012 to 31 May 2013."During that time period, we received between 12,000 and 13,000 requests, inclusive of criminal, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), and other requests," they wrote. "The most common of these requests concerned fraud, homicides, kidnappings, and other criminal investigations."Mayer and Bell stated that they were legally unable to publish details of request numbers under the FISA. "We strongly urge the federal government to reconsider its stance on this issue," they wrote, before outlining plans for more transparency about the data Yahoo shares with law enforcement agencies."Democracy demands accountability. Recognising the important role that Yahoo! can play in ensuring accountability, we will issue later this summer our first global law enforcement transparency report, which will cover the first half of the year. We will refresh this report with current statistics twice a year."Yahoo's disclosure of US requests between 1 December 2012 and 31 May 2013 can be compared directly with that of Apple, which said on Monday that itreceived between 4,000 and 5,000 requestsfrom federal, state and local authorities in that time period.Facebook and Microsoft's disclosurescovered a different period: the second half of 2012. Facebook said it received between 9,000 and 10,000 requests in that six-month period, while Microsoft said it received between 6,000 and 7,000.All the companies are fighting hard to regain any trust lost with their users since the Guardian broke the news of theNSA's Prism programme. Their initial public responses focused ondenying all knowledge of any programmegiving the NSA direct access to their servers.In recent days, their strategy has shifted to espousing transparency by publishing their US request figures, while seeking to stress that they push back against requests they see as inappropriate.When Facebook's published its requests data, the general counsel, Ted Ullyot, wrote: "We aggressively protect our users' data when confronted with such requests: we frequently reject such requests outright, or require the government to substantially scale down its requests, or simply give the government much less data than it has requested".Apple's statement said: "Regardless of the circumstances, our legal team conducts an evaluation of each request and, only if appropriate, we retrieve and deliver the narrowest possible set of information to the authorities. In fact, from time to time when we see inconsistencies or inaccuracies in a request, we will refuse to fulfill it."Yahoo's statement falls into that pattern too. "As always, we will continually evaluate whether further actions can be taken to protect the privacy of our users and our ability to defend it," write Mayer and Bell. "We appreciate – and do not take for granted – the trust you place in us."
