2.00pmETSummaryNow that the panel with Apple executives is over, we&apos;re going to wrap up after a long morning dissecting corporate tax minimization maneuvers.There was some controversy heading into this, as voiced by Rand Paul in the first part of today&apos;s hearings: why &quot;drag&quot; a company so successful as Apple before the investigations subcommittee to question its tax strategies, which all accept as legal? Hasn&apos;t Apple done enough?Senator Carl Levin, chair of the subcommittee,is retiring at the end of his term. That may explain why he was willing to tread a fair line, but one which nevertheless might invite some backlash. His goal was to use Apple - a company so prominent that it compels livebloggers to watch hours of early subcommittee hearings about it - to show the strategies that the largest U.S.-headquartered multinational corporations can use to exploit a loophole-ridden corporate tax code to the point where somehow, they&apos;re barely paying any taxes.All of the senators agreed that the corporate tax code is in desperate need of fixing.But some of the senators, notably Paul and Ron Johnson, noticed few to no problems here: fewer taxes on corporations if beneficial to economic growth, &quot;everyone&quot; has an ownership stake in Apple one way or another. Apple deserves an apology.By the end of the second panel with Apple executives, it looked as though the committee had lost its focus and just wanted to bounce some ideas off of Cook: what would be a good corporate tax rate? What do you think about Simpson-Bowles? What can we do to help protect our intellectual property owners in foreign markets?Control worked back to Levin by the end, who closed things with a charge. Basically, he just wanted Apple to admit that it, like other MNCs, set up subsidiaries overseas and transferred assets there there to avoid paying taxes in the United States. That&apos;s all. And what he got in return was legalese.Thank you for joining us.1.37pmETThe second panel is over.1.15pmETAs the &quot;bullying&quot; hearing shifts pretty quickly into rich folks on both sides on the questioning complaining about how long it takes to do their taxes,Senator Levin tries refocus things.If Apple says it can&apos;t bring its profits home from the Irish subsidiaries, why can it bring them back from South America? Bullock, the tax chief, says it&apos;s because of the different cost-sharing agreements.The question is whether transfer of intellectual property (the &quot;crown jewels&quot;) is really an &quot;arms-length agreement&quot; between two separate parties. Are the parties really &quot;separate,&quot; if Apple owns and controls the foreign parties?Levin is asking Cook why he says he &quot;can&apos;t&quot; bring those $100 billion properties home? Applecan, but of course it would require more tax payments, which is the whole point of these things.Cook seems to like it better when Republican senators are complimenting him on dodging taxes.The Apple suits keep trying to move everything back to the original agreement made in Ireland in 1980, calling everything since then a natural continuation of it. Levin wants to ask about the specific agreement, made between Apple employees in 2008, that &quot;shifted&quot; the &quot;crown jewels&quot; overseas.&quot;Don&apos;t kid us&quot; about the implications this makes on U.S. revenues, Levin says.This is a great line of questioning from Levin, and the first time all day that Cook and co. look uncomfortable.Sen Carl Levin wraps up his case against Apple: "Folks, it's not right."&mdash; Adrian Weckler (@adrianweckler)May 21, 2013Updatedat 1.37pm ET1.11pmETWhile SenatorRob Portmanasks Apple&apos;s tax chief how much tax compliance costs the company in administrative costs (&quot;A lot&quot;), let&apos;s watch McCain ask about why he has to update his apps all the time.12.57pmETSenatorKelly Ayotteasks Cook what a good corporate tax rate would be. (Remember when people thought this hearing would be a crucifixion of Apple, instead of asking them for advice?) Cook suggests mid-20s, according to studies he&apos;s seen.Updatedat 12.57pm ET12.50pmETSenator Ron Johnson again is asking about who owns Apple - it&apos;s largely mutual funds, pension funds, etc. He&apos;s getting around to the same point he made earlier, that &quot;everyone&quot; benefits from Apple not paying taxes. This does assume that &quot;everyone&quot; has a sizable investment portfolio, or at least one that&apos;s more beneficial than expanded public services would be.Updatedat 12.53pm ET12.37pmETThe second panel is restarting after a break.Senator McCaskill is up. She asks about the relationship with the Irish government.Cook explains, again, that this arrangement was set up in 1980, and since then the company has built up a valuable operation there. McCaskill, like Levin earlier, wants to talk aboutnow. How does the U.S. keep other countries from &quot;undercutting us&quot; like Ireland did in the 80s? Cook offers the usual corporate tax code simplification/base-broadening talk.McCaskill asks about how Apple applies a cost-benefit analysis in deciding if it should relocate to another country. Cook goes on an adorable patriotic tangent about how much he loves America. &quot;We are an American company!&quot; Hmm.Updatedat 12.42pm ET12.15pmETThe second panel ends (for now) with McCain asking &quot;why the hell&quot; he keeps having to update all his apps.Updatedat 12.34pm ET12.14pmETCook: &quot;I don&apos;t see it as unfair. I&apos;m not an unfair person.&quot;12.12pmETCook:&quot;I personally don&apos;t understand the difference between a tax presence and a tax residence.&quot; (He probably does, is the thing.)12.11pmETMcCain: Why does AOI exist? 4,000 employees is impressive, but not compared to the size of Apple&apos;s workforce.Cook: Well, in the 1980s, Apple was looking for a place to distribute its products abroad...McCain: But what about today?Cook says that the company&apos;s long relationship with the Irish government has allowed it to develop employees overseas with great experience and knowledge of what they do there. (Perhaps realizing that this sounds laughably silly, he reiterates that AOI is just a holding company, doesn&apos;t matter.)12.07pmETSenator McCain asks Tim Cook if he feel he has been bullied.Cook is delighted to be here.You don&apos;t feel you had to be &quot;dragged here?&quot;&quot;I didn&apos;t get dragged here, sir,&quot; Cook responds, giggling.Updatedat 12.08pm ET12.06pmETLevin asks about if the subsidiaries own Apple&apos;s intellectual property. &quot;They do in part,&quot; Bullock answers.But do AOI and AOE file tax returns?In the United States, they do not. But Apple Inc. does!&quot;We&apos;ve already been through that,&quot; Levin says.And Levin&apos;s time is up.12.00pmETWatching Bullock is tense. Regarding the subsidiary AOI, he says: &quot;It... does... not... have a... tax residence... which doesn&apos;t mean it doesn&apos;t pay taxes!&quot; He could use a drink of water.Updatedat 12.04pm ET11.58amETSenator Levin is ready for questions. He asks Apple tax chiefPhillip Bullockwhere the Irish subsidiaries are &quot;functionally&quot; controlled. After a long pause and some strange faces, Bullock believes that the central management control is in the United States.Cook doesn&apos;t know the &quot;legal definition&quot; of where companies are centrally managed and controlled but &quot;practically&quot; agrees that the subsidiaries are.Bullock doesn&apos;t believe that &quot;centrally managed and controlled&quot; is an actual term in U.S. tax law.11.56amETApple CEO Tim Cook testifies before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations about "offshore profit shifting and the US tax code." (Photograph: Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images)11.49amETWhat a chest-thumpingly patriotic speech from all-smiles Tim Cook. Now it&apos;s time for the CFO,Peter Oppenheimer, to get into the weeds of the subsidiaries.Oppenheimer talks of a time not long ago, when it was possible there would be a &quot;world without Apple.&quot; He talks about the streamlining of international operations that helped turn the company around. (There were some inventions along the way, if we recall.)Updatedat 11.52am ET11.41amETCook: &quot;We estimate that the App Store has developed over 300,000 jobs in the U.S ... None of that activity was there five years ago.&quot;We keep the &quot;design and development&quot; of Apple products in the United States.Perhaps coincidentally, perhaps not, he responds to McCain, noting that Appledoescomply with &quot;the spirit of the law.&quot;He adds that U.S. tax law has not kept up with &quot;the digital age.&quot; Good for him, no?Updatedat 11.45am ET11.39amETTim Cook's panel beginsThe first panel of tax experts is dismissed, the second is brought in.Apple CEO Tim Cook is delivering his statement.Apple is proud to be an American company he says, exuberantly. He is now delivering corporate pablum about the excitement of innovation and so on.11.36amETThe grinning man second from the right. Check out that grin.Tim Cook seems to be enjoying @senrandpaulargument that shudn't vilify#applefor legally maxing profitstwitter.com/AshleyCodianni…&mdash; Ashley Codianni (@AshleyCodianni)May 21, 2013Our Dan Roberts, in the room, adds: &quot;Apple team (lots of pinstripes and ties for the Valley) nodding along and smiling as Rand Paul says they would be neglecting their duty to shareholders if they didn&apos;t seek ways to minimise their tax exposure.&quot;Updatedat 11.42am ET11.34amETSenatorClaire McCaskillhas no questions, but just wants to say that she loves Apple. &quot;I love Apple. I love Apple!&quot;11.33amETMcCain, who does *not* get along with Rand Paul,expresses that he finds it &quot;offensive&quot; for Levin to be accused of trying to &quot;bully&quot; a company.Cue the gossip press.11.30amETPoor old Mr. Apple, just trying to mind his own business.Actual Rand Paul quote: "Who are we when we want to punish Mr. Apple? Who are we punishing? We are punishing ourselves."&mdash; michaelscherer (@michaelscherer)May 21, 201311.24amETRand Paulis up again. This should be fun. (Fun?)He asks Professor Harvey if he makes use of any tax deductions.&quot;Obviously I do,&quot; Harvey says, grinning.Paul asks if he thinks he&apos;s a bad person for doing that. Harvey does not. Well, there&apos;s that.Paul On tax reform: &quot;Just do it.&quot; Stop talking about &quot;evil Apple.&quot; Stop vilifying them - they should be getting an &quot;award&quot; today.&quot;I&apos;m very frustrated by these proceedings... They&apos;re just doing what every company does.&quot; Bring me a company that tries to maximize their tax burden, he says.This does simplify the issues under discussion a bit.Rand Paul kind of missing the point of hearings about policy.&mdash; Tim Fernholz (@TimFernholz)May 21, 2013Rand Paul, defending Apple. Photograph: Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 11.35am ET11.19amETResponding to McCain, Shay strongly reiterates that the real problem is on the &quot;imbalance&quot; between the level of Apple R&amp;D done in the United States and the tax revenue the government collects from it.McCain says Apple has violated &quot;the spirit of the law&quot; if not the &quot;letter of the law.&quot;He agrees that much of the problem lies with Congress, however, and calls for comprehensive corporate tax reform.McCain asks about how successfully a repatriation deal, for companies to bring home earnings under a lower rate, could be done. Harvey sees such a tax holiday as a bad idea, as the last time it was done in 2004, companies used it to distribute dividends and pay down debt - not expand domestically. Shay concurs, calling such holidays a temporary &quot;windfall&quot; for companies that does little long-term help.Updatedat 11.22am ET11.07amETSenator Tom Carperis asking questions. Carper hails from Delaware, America&apos;s own tiny tax haven on-the-shore.Carper is using this as an occasion to ask about the tax recommendations in the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction plan. Shay says the plan&apos;s broad recommendation to eliminatealltax expenditures as part of tax reform is a pretty, well... undeveloped suggestion?This is &quot;difficult stuff,&quot; and doing tax reform in &quot;broad brush strokes&quot; is not a good idea. In the meantime, there are smaller steps against income-shifting that the government can take to reclaim tax revenue.Updatedat 11.12am ET10.58amETHarvey says it would be a good question for Congress to ask, &quot;how should technology income be allocated?&quot; as a means of focusing the issue.Senator Ron Johnsonis asking who benefits from Apple&apos;s arrangement. Who are the shareholders? Harvey, trying to say this without being a jerk: &quot;The people who own shares of the company.&quot;What Johnson&apos;s trying to get around to is that many of Apple&apos;s shareholders are American so everything is fine.Johnson suggests only taxing income on a pass-through basis, eliminating the corporate tax.Updatedat 11.06am ET10.48amETLevin is asking about ASI (one of the subsidiaries) being located in a foreign jurisdiction but effectively being controlled by Cupertino&apos;s headquarters. Does that make sense? (He is trying to get the bow-tied professor all outraged, which doesn&apos;t appear likely.)Shay says we need to rethink our rules on the &quot;cross-border context&quot; to get in the minds of MNCs.It gets even more elegantly vague:"We now have a digital economy, we have different ways of earning income that no longer have the kind of physical nexus to a country"- Shay&mdash; Tim Fernholz (@TimFernholz)May 21, 2013Shay says he doesn&apos;t see this as an &quot;Apple-bashing day,&quot; more just an opportunity to &quot;see where we are.&quot; How the development of the corporate tax code got to the point where we are today, where Apple can legally set up such a structure.Updatedat 10.55am ET10.45amETIt&apos;s time for a few questions.10.39amETHarvard Law tax professor Stephen Shay is now speaking.He says Apple subsidiaries&apos; lack of tax residence produces what tax planners call &quot;ocean income.&quot;Here are some recommendations from his submitted testimony:In the context of current law, changes may be made that would limit the scope for profit shifting. Most promising is a “minimum tax” imposed on the U.S. shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation in respect of low-tax foreign income earned by the controlled foreign corporation. In design, it actually would be a deemed distribution, as under current Subpart F, but the remaining U.S. tax would be collected when the earnings are distributed or the stock is sold. This approach would effectively take away the advantage of tax havens.This should be accompanied by taking away the advantage of tax havens for foreign companies that invest in the United States. The United States should protect its source tax base by measures that may include imposing withholding tax on and/or restricting deductions for deductible payments of income paid to or treated as beneficially owned by related persons not “effectively taxed” on the income. In doing this, the United States would take away a substantial advantage that foreign-owned companies have in structuring investments in the United States.Adopting a balanced approach is necessary to assure a level playing field. I have described elsewhere an approach that if taken by the United States would provide an incentive for other countries to adopt complementary rules. Moreover, the United States should strongly support and lead efforts at the OECD to combat base erosion and profit shifting. I acknowledge that the ideas described above need development into specific proposals, but this may be done in a reasonable time frame and will have value in relation to the principal international tax reform proposals.Updatedat 10.45am ET10.24amETTax professorRichard Harveyis now giving his statement.&quot;This is going to be a little bit of an Apple-bashing day,&quot; he suspects, but he notes that what Apple has done is within the bounds of international tax law - which &quot;raises its own issues.&quot;He says he nearly &quot;fell off my chair&quot; when he heard Apple say it doesn&apos;t use tax gimmicks. Although it should be up to the committee, not him, to decide whether they should be labeled gimmicks. What he&apos;s most interested is in why Apple does this and how the system can be changed.He relates &quot;check-the-box&quot; regulations to his children&apos;s interest in magic, where companies can max taxable earnings go &quot;poof.&quot; From his submitted testimony:Although shifting income out of the US and locating it in a tax haven like Ireland are key steps in Apple’s international tax planning, Apple must also avoid the so-called “Subpart F” rules. These rules were originally designed to tax passive income earned by foreign subsidiaries of US MNCs and therefore discourage the shifting of income out of the US. However, the rules have been substantially “gutted” through adoption of (i) the check-the-box regulations, (ii) the CFC look-through rule, (iii) the contract manufacturing exemption, and to a lesser extent (iv) the same-country exception.He recommends:• Tightening &quot;Subpart F&quot; rules.• Increase required transparency for MNCs to get a &quot;true picture&quot; of their tax-planning.He has other ideas about either (a) drastically overhauling U.S. corporate tax low to lower the nominal rate or (b) achieving global &quot;consensus&quot; on handling MNCs. But he doesn&apos;t see either of those as realistic anytime soon.Updatedat 10.35am ET10.17amETLevin is ticked at Paul&apos;s statement, and getting rather angry.Sen Carl Levin D-MI tells Paul, 'you are free to apologize if you wish' to Apple&mdash; Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree)May 21, 201310.13amETSenator Rand Paul is up, and he is angry... at his fellow senators.He is &quot;offended&quot; by this hearing &quot;to bully one of America&apos;s greatest success stories. &quot;If anyone should be on trial here, it is Congress.&quot;The committee &quot;should apologize to Apple.&quot;presidential hopeful Rand Paul accuses Congress of bullying Apple - one of America's greatest success story forced to sit through show trial&mdash; Dan Roberts (@RobertsDan)May 21, 2013He says it&apos;s the government&apos;s fault for creating such a &quot;byzantine&quot; corporate tax system.Rand Paul: "Tell me a politician up here that doesn't try to minimize their taxes."&mdash; Kevin W. Glass (@KevinWGlass)May 21, 2013Updatedat 10.16am ET10.08amETYou can readall of the witnesses&apos; prepared testimonieshere.10.04amETSenatorJohn McCainis up now.McCain labels Apple the country&apos;s biggest tax avoider. (It&apos;s a very large company, so.) Most of Apple&apos;s profits, he says, are held by the Irish subsidiaries.McCain: Apple&apos;s tax strategy has given &quot;new meaning&quot; to its old slogan, &quot;Think Different.&quot;He notes that 95% of Apple&apos;s R&amp;D takes place in the United States.Updatedat 10.11am ET9.35amETThe hearing is beginning.Chairman Carl Levin is giving his opening statement.He&apos;s discussing the decline of corporate tax revenue as a share of total revenue the government brings in each year due to the use of offshore tax havens.&quot;Despite the immense impact of these offshore tax havens&quot; on the federal deficit, &quot;few Americans&quot; see their impact. The point of the hearings is to show &quot;the damage it does to our fiscal and economic health.&quot;&quot;Apple is a success story... I carry an iPhone in my pocket,&quot; he says. &quot;What may not be known&quot; is its complex use of tax havens. &quot;More and more intellectual property is the dominant source of value in the economy. It is also highly mobile.&quot;&quot;Apple&apos;s tax avoidance strategy comes in two parts.&quot; First, offshoring intellectual property. Second, making sure that once this is offshore, it remains free from U.S. taxes.He is now outlining the subsidiary arrangementsdescribed by investigators yesterday.Apple subsidiaries exploit the difference between U.S. and Irish law to designate itself a tax resident &quot;nowhere.&quot; Levin argues that since the Irish subsidiaries are &quot;functionally&quot; controlled by stateside headquarters, they should be subject to U.S. tax law.Apple&apos;s primary method of offshoring intellectual property is through cost-sharing agreements. &quot;I use the term &apos;cost-sharing&apos; with some skepticism,&quot; he says. All of the money being shared belongs to apple, and all of the signatories were Apple employees. &quot;The intellectual property... was generated in the United States,&quot; but the profits go to Ireland.He now mentions Apple&apos;s &quot;quiet&quot; arrangement with Ireland to pay &quot;almost no income tax.&quot;The difference between ASI&apos;s costs and earnings, he explains, was close to $70 billion, money that U.S. taxpayers see no chunk of.Looking ahead to Apple&apos;s prepared testimony, Levin notes: &quot;Apple executives want to focus on the taxes it has paid, but the real issue is the billions that Apple has not paid.&quot;Updatedat 10.00am ET9.28amETIt should be a lively subcommittee hearing room, from early indications.Protestor at Apple tax hearing threatening to smash up computer in protest. Press bench hoping she doesn't head here.twitter.com/RobertsDan/sta…&mdash; Dan Roberts (@RobertsDan)May 21, 20138.59amETGood morning, this is Jim Newell in Washington. We&apos;re here for this morning&apos;s exciting new Apple public unveiling! Except no iPhones or iPads or dingdongs or anything will be unveiled, sadly. It will be Apple CEO Tim Cook appearing at a hearing before the Senate permanent subcommittee on investigations, about the company&apos;s very special tax practices.Congressional investigators released findings on Monday showing that Appleuses a &quot;highly questionable&quot; tax minimization strategyof impressive complexity. Several subsidiaries set up by the company, according to investigators, have few or no employees. Located in Ireland, these subsidiaries allowed the company to exist effectively &quot;nowhere&quot; in certain cases.As the Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushe wrote yesterday:During its investigations, the subcommittee found that Apple considers three key subsidiaries, all based in Ireland, to have no tax jurisdiction at all. One of those Irish affiliates, Apple Sales International (ASI), reported sales income of $74bn over four years but paid hardly any tax. In 2011 ASI had pre-tax earnings of $22bn but paid just $10m in tax, a rate of 0.05%.Apple denies many of the subcommittee&apos;s sweeping allegations, and its strategy heading into this morning&apos;s hearing appears to be one of an ally to those questioning the insanity of the corporate tax code. Thecompany&apos;s prepared testimonysays that Apple &quot;welcomes an objective examination of the US corporate tax system, which has not kept pace with the advent of the digital age and the rapidly changing global economy.&quot;One might expect, however, that senators will badger Cook and other Apple executives, for the cameras.The hearing begins at 9.30am.Updatedat 9.19am ET
Nowadays, when my phone rings, my wrist buzzes. When someone texts me, I don't look at my phone to find out what they said; I look at my watch.Why? I've got a Pebble - the "smartwatch" launched on Kickstarter last year which hit its $100,000 target withintwo hoursand had raised $10.2m from nearly 69,000 backers by the time it closed in May 2012 after a month. (I was one of those backers, with my own money.) So far, according to the site, it's delivered 85,000 of its watches, each costing $150 (£98). Yes, it's this year's buzzword,wearable computing, but you don't have to genuflect to Google or splash out $1,000 to get it. Plus it's unobtrusive.Pebble describes it as an "E-paper watch for iPhone and Android". The "e-paper" bit might get some thinking you're going to be reading books on it. You're definitely not (the screen's only 1.26in - 3.2cm - diagonally). But it is great fun.So what do you then get for your money? It's a watch, to start with. The face is 144x168 pixels, a large black/white e-paper display. I chose the black body and strap (you can get it in black, white, cherry red or grey). Open the box, and you're instructed to go togetpebble.com. That's a neat touch - no manual at all. The whole initial setup is done through its web page and then app.Open that page on your smartphone, and it directs you to the iPhone or Android app store, where you download a free app which connects via Bluetooth. Through that, you can send software updates (such as new watchfaces) and, more usefully, back-and-forth notifications when someone calls or texts. (You can also set it to notify you when you get an email. Don't do this unless you never get email.)The watchface is scratch-resistant (not -proof) and has an anti-glare coat; I find it very readable in all lights, except when it's dark. Then you have the options of an automatic backlight (adjusted to light levels), or being able to flick your wrist to activate the backlight. The strap feels like rubber; it's wide (to go with the watch) but not uncomfortable.Charging is via a USB lead terminating in a magnetic attachment to a pair of contacts on the left-hand side of the watch; I assume a micro-USB slot would have taken up too much internal space and created waterproofing problems (it iswaterproof, at least for swimming). So don't lose that charger; you'll be needing it every four or five days (in my limited experience, though the makers claim up to seven.. probably if you have Bluetooth off) and it's unique.One bad thing: the interface doesn't show the battery level (even in the phone app), which can leave you in the lurch without warning. The charge level only shows when you're charging, and even then only in the menu, as opposed to standard watch, display.Pebble watch: note the control buttons on the side.The controls are pleasingly simple. There's a large rectangular button on the left-hand side which takes you back up a level of control; press it enough times and you'll reach the time display, which is the default.On the right are three buttons (one large, one small, one large) which function as "up, choose, down" for scrolling through menus. Pebble doesn't try to do a lot of things. You turn on the Bluetooth, connect it to your phone, and that's mostly it. You can control the music playback on your phone via the right-hand buttons (it shows the artist, album and track name, though not album art; the buttons will advance a track, play/pause, skip back). However, that's really a party piece; unless you're on the other side of the room, it's simpler just to pull out your phone or, on headphones with a mic, click the control button, than to press the two buttons required to change the music. And yes, running Bluetooth will use some phone battery - perhaps 5% over a normal day. Turn it off, and the Pebble still works as a watch.Next you're expecting a touchscreen with icons and apps, aren't you? No such thing. Pebble's designers have wisely held back from overegging the interaction pudding. The screen isn't touch-sensitive, and you won't be squinting and trying to operate tiny physical or onscreen buttons. (Looking at you,Sony Smartwatch.)Presently, the on-watch functions are simple: you can set alarms; choose different watchfaces (which you download via the phone app); decide how you want the phone's backlight to come on; and whether you want notifications from your phone on. (You probably do, else it's just a watch). On-watch apps haven't happened yet. But there are fortnightly software updates. It's probably coming.NotificationIt's the notifications that make this stand out. A little bit of configuration on your phone and you can get incoming calls and texts displayed (and emails - only recommended if you never get email). This is the great thing about Pebble: you can figure out whether to ignore a call by looking at the number (if it's in your address book, it'll show up; you can also reject calls from the phone) and you won't miss texts even if your phone is on silent. It's also a lot less intrusive to look at your watch during a meeting than to take out your phone.Pebble says you can add calendar alerts, Facebook Messages, tweets, and weather alerts to the notifications; I do wonder what sort of weather alert (short of a tornado) you'd want to know about, but in principle it's putting everything just where you want it.I find that I can read entire text messages on it without trouble, though spotting the name of a caller is harder (perhaps because it feels more urgent to decide).But phone calls and texts are just the start. Pebble last week released an SDK that will let developers push notifications from third-party apps; think of apps that you'd like to give you updates, but which you don't want to have to keep monitoring your phone for, and you've found a use for the Pebble. It's working on apps for bicyclists, golfers (err…), runners (it syncs withRunkeeper), and whoever else they can think of. (Theforums are pretty busywith people suggesting stuff.)Do I like it? No, I really love it. My wife gives me pitying looks when I try to describe its benefits, but a couple of weeks in the fun hasn't worn off. And the idea that it could connect with more apps (train times? Concert ticket availability? Just think of things you'd like to be quietly notified about) is enticing. If it shipped with those apps and capabilities preinstalled, it would be an instant five-star product.One galling point: HM Revenue &amp; Customs, eager to generate tax revenue from somewhere (since it can't seem to get big companies to pay), slaps an import tax of £25.06 on each one. That brings the total price for the device to around £125. Crazy? A bit. But I'm convinced thatwearable technologyis the future, or at least a significant component of it. And at this price, it's worth it.Speeds and feedsSpecifications:• Load apps using Bluetooth• 144 x 168 pixel display black and white e-paper• Bluetooth 2.1+ EDR and 4.0 (Low Energy)• Four buttons• Vibrating motor (for alerts)• Three-axis accelerometer with gesture detectionCompatibility:iPhone 3GS, 4, 4S, 5 or any iPod Touch with iOS 5 or iOS 6. (iOS 5 and iPhone 3GS have restricted feature sets). Android devices running OS 2.3 and up, including Android 4.0. No support at present for Blackberry, Windows Phone, or Palm phones.Price:$150. Customs and shipping charges will apply outside the US.getpebble.com&gt;&gt;
Having made headlines with its$1.1bn acquisition of Tumblr, Yahoo has also revamped its Flickr photo-sharing service, boosting its free storage to 1TB for every user and revamping its website and Android app."We hope you'll agree that we have made huge strides to make Flickr awesome again," wrote chief executive Marissa Mayer ina post on Yahoo's new corporate Tumblr blog, in a reference to a popular internet petition in July 2012 asking the former Googler to "please make Flickr awesome again" following her appointment.The big change is the storage increase, which is intended to ensure that the vast majority of Flickr's users never have to worry about running out of space.Aprominent slider bar on Flickr's sitebreaks the figure down, explaining that one terabyte equals 537,731 photos shot with 6.5-megapixel cameras, and 218,453 for 16-megapixel shots."The team has ramped up extraordinarily in the last few months. It's exciting that we're investing in it. We wanted to create something that is not only beautiful, but bigger and better than anything else," says Jennifer Davies, head of social and community properties, EMEA product marketing for Yahoo, in an interview with The Guardian."Other people are talking about gigabytes of storage, but here we are talking about terabytes. 'Limitless' is very difficult to say from a legal perspective, but we hope people using Flickr will never have to worry about storage."The redesigned Flickr website is certainly a departure from the previous version, with its endlessly vertically-scrolling feed of photos from contacts, all on a black background. The sidebar, meanwhile, includes an ad, access to Flickr's Groups and Explore features, the latest post from its blog, and suggestions for "People you may know"."If you used Flickr before, you'll know there was a lot of white space and a lot of text. We really wanted to take a step back and put the photograph at the centre," says Davies.A clear influence on Flickr's website redesign has been its iPhone app, which was relaunched in December 2012 with a similarly clean, image-centric interface – yes, the idea of a photography app that isn't image-centric sounds strange, but that shows you how much the previous app needed the change.It's the latest example of mobile app user interfaces influencing web design, right down to the share arrow on Flickr photos, which is familiar from iOS."The iPhone app was our first challenge: it was really important for us to get that out as soon as possible last year, and everything else is going from there," says Davies.Includingthe new Flickr Android app, which sports a similar design to the iPhone version. Davies says the little details in both apps are important too, such as fine control over privacy settings, including location.It's clear that Yahoo sees an opportunity to position Flickr as a more privacy-friendly alternative to services like Facebook, which is hugely popular for photo-sharing, but has regularly been accused of making its privacy settings less user-friendly than they should be."We allow the users to be as particular as they'd like when it comes to the geotags and privacy settings," says Davies. "It's the other side of the things we think are really important when talking about people's pictures: their ability to manage with whom they share what, and to bring these settings to the forefront rather than making them difficult to find."Flickr's new Android appThe iPhone app's relaunch gave Flickr a boost – admittedly after a long period of neglect. In January,Mayer told investorsthat the app's launch the month before had generated "25% more photos uploaded, viewed and shared on a daily basis".In April,she addedthat "photo uploads on our Flickr mobile apps have increased over 50% quarter-over-quarter". The company will be hoping that rolling the new design out to Android and web will continue that growth, particularly as Yahoo repositions itself as a more mobile-centred company across its services."Mail, Sports, Finance, Answers, the homepage… What you'll see is an increased focus not only on improving the user experience of the core website, but also bringing that experience to multiple devices, whether it's iOS, Android or tablet," says Davies. "It's really important for us to be where the users are."Wait, though. Tablet? For now, the new apps are for iPhone and Android smartphones only, although the new website works pretty well on a tablet. Judging by Davies' comment when asked, a native Flickr tablet app is on Yahoo's to-do list. "There's not a tablet app yet, although keep posted," she says.From the outside, it looks like one of Mayer's achievements so far in her tenure as CEO has been to get different divisions within Yahoo working together more. Witness the recently-launched Yahoo Weather app, which pulls in Flickr photos for the user's location.That's a small example, but now Yahoo is buying Tumblr, which surely has some interesting potential for links with Flickr. "I can't comment on Tumblr, although I have lots of cool ideas about what we could do with them," says Davies, before talking more generally."We are working much more as a network together to understand how different properties can interplay with other properties. The Weather app is a good example of that, and if you go to a lot of our media pages – UK News for example – in the header you'll see a new sub-section 'Your Pictures' where we invite people to upload through Flickr," she says.Davies says control is still important here for Flickr users: they upload photos to a specific Flickr group called Yahoo Your Pictures in the knowledge that they may then be used elsewhere."For us it's very important to have attribution back to the original owner of the picture, and always have a link going back to their photo pages so people know who the artist is," says Davies.Before Mayer took over at Yahoo, there was a tech industry narrative that saw Flickr as a limping Dodo, not quite dead but on the way to extinction thanks to a combination of Facebook, Instagram and Yahoo's own neglect.In 2013, the comeback is on. Flickr currently has more than 90m monthly active users, but just as importantly, the service looks reinvigorated.Its mobile-first approach has made it relevant again, while that terabyte of storage makes it a viable candidate for anyone wanting to store their digital photos all in one place in the cloud – with the caveat that applies to every such service, that terms can change and services can shut down in the future.In short, the Flickr comeback is on. Successful in the longer term? It's too early to tell. Awesome again? It's getting there.
The first live footage we see is a forest. Well, this is Call of Duty –of courseit's a forest. A week before the big Xbox reveal, Infinity Ward is showing off Ghosts to a roomful of journalists in LA.Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing, has been onstage giving it the corporate spiel. "We could have played it safe and simply made Modern Warfare 4, which is what a lot of people were expecting," he says with admirable understatement. Then he tells us that, before he got on stage, he Googled Modern Warfare 4, just out of interest: "122m search results for a sequel that doesn't exist," he laughs. "That's a lot of built-in interest."So, what's the deal Eric? Why the new brand? "We didn't want to do the easy thing," is his immediate explanation. "We wanted to push forward, and we wanted to use the opportunity presented to us by the next generation consoles to usher in the next generation of Call of Duty. We wanted to eliminate the restrictions that would have come with a straightforward sequel."Yes, this is the next generation Call of Duty, targeted at the coming Xbox and PlayStation machines. It's built around an entirely new engine, which ramps up every facet of the visual experience. The poly count is through the roof, the textures are super high resolution. The coders have added fluid dynamics, interactive smoke and a new AI system.We're introduced to a cavalcade of improvements. There's a better lean system, which lets you look out over battlefield from cover; the animation is more intuitive and reactive – when your character runs at a wall, he'll just leap over, maintaining momentum. The team has also added a slide mechanic which lets you slip straight out of line of fire, or into an offensive position. It looks like the sliding in Bulletstorm – and indeed, much of this sounds familiar. But here, the screen is alive with detail and activity."Our goal is to make everything around you more life-like and more immersive," says Infinity Ward exec producer, Mark Rubin when he comes on stage. And, well, that has always been the aim of Triple A visuals. How does this move things along?The hills are aliveAfter a brief behind-the-scenes video from the development studio, we're into a live demo, showing a jungle location. It is a richly organic scene: hundreds of different types of flora surround the player; vines hang from trees; branches part in your wake – you can even make out detail on individual leaves. The air is fecund with mist and insects; we pass a shattered helicopter buried in the undergrowth, and move on toward a water fall, in which a quivering rainbow is suspended.Lead Animator Zach Volker talks about the use of volumetric lighting and self-casting shadows: "specular mapping on particle effects, environmental tessellation and a drastic increase in the sheer volume of objects create a near-photorealistic world," he says. And yeah, it's beautiful, a clear generational leap beyond the current games machines and into the territory of upper-end PCs – not obviously further though. Not yet.The overall message, as you'd expect I guess, is detail: texture detail and geometry detail. We see some of the character models, the eerily life-like faces employing high-res textures, sub-surface skin shaders, multiple lights and self-casting shadows. We see the new weapon models, with every detail modelled down to the texture on the grips and the screws."All weapons use dual spec metal shaders for enhanced realism," says Volker – I'm not sure how many people in the audience know what that means, but it's the sort of thing you hear at the beginning of a new console generation. He also talks about how the main visual representations of the player character in a first-person shooter are the arms and hands, so the team has bloated the detail here: fine hairs, bruising, cuts, the dirt beneath finger nails …Oh yes, the plotWait, the setting, we're forgetting about the setting. What is Ghosts about? This is the … difficult part. At the time of the demo, a week before the Xbox reveal, there aren't many details to play with.During the brief video at the start of the presentation, Rubin says this: "The story opens with a mass event, America is crippled, the military forces are devastated, the government is in disarray, and as the player you're actually the underdog, fighting back against these superior forces."Immediately I was thinking, so, Modern Warfare 3, then? Mixed with a little Black Ops 2? But the game is definitely taking place in a whole new fictional universe, so this isn't the North Koreans. And it isn't just set in America – there will be missions all over the world.We also know the Ghosts are formed from the remnants of various US special forces outfits. They're an elite fighting force, the Spartans of a post-apocalyptic USA, and they've adopted every technique useful for modern urban guerrilla combat. In this world, they are near-mythical."The idea of the Ghosts team is that these guys are mysterious," Volker tells me later. "We don't know who they are, we don't know where they came from, we don't know anything about them. But the public sees them as this legendary force that is out doing great things behind enemy lines. They're really a symbol of hope for the American people. Their backs are against the wall, they're fighting for their lives – they see the Ghost team as a possible salvation."The player is a Ghost then? Not quite, not right away. "So when the player and his brother start, you're young, around 18-ish, and this is the world you've grown up in – you don't know any different," continues Volker. "The Ghost team is your idol, it's what you've always wanted to be when you grew up. That's what we wanted to build – the idea that, 'what if the best of the best that we have to offer is a force that you look at from the outside.'"Hollywood effectI don't know. It sounds a bit like the movie Red Dawn, which is sort of where Homefront evolved from. I try to get more detail, but the doors close on the conversation. Clearly, Infinity Ward wants to take narrative seriously, but they don't want to talk about it right now. Except… the studio has bought in Stephen Gaghan, the Oscar-winning writer of Traffic and director of Syriana as a script consultant."We wanted to create a cast of characters you felt more emotionally attached to," says Rubin. Indeed, Infinity Ward is also employing a wealth of CG talent from Hollywood: "They've had a dramatic effect on the look of the game, they've bought with them a lot of new tech philosophies," he continues. And we're back to visuals.There are two key technical additions Infinity Ward wants to show us with this demo – and they hint at what we can expect from next-gen console titles in general.First up, the new engine employs 'Sub D', or subdivision surfaces, a graphical effect which – as the name suggests – subdivides polygons as the camera draws closer to an object, creating almost perfectly curved surfaces. The concept was perfected by Pixar for use in its movies and can be seen working to great effect in the studio's award-winning short Geri's Game. But here, the computationally expensive effect is working in real-time.During his live demo, Rubin shows this off by looking through the sight of his gun; and true enough, the lens seems totally round. "The engine determines on its own how many polygons it needs to create a perfect smooth surface," he says. "And it changes depending on how close you are."The second big term is displacement mapping, another costly effect that's coming in from CGI, a more demanding cousin to bump and normal mapping. This time it's a technique that involves elevating points on a texture surface in order to create a more three dimensional model, which can even cast shadows and occlude models behind it. So instead of a flat texture of, say, a rock face, displacement mapping picks out geometric points in the map and adds geometric data, making authentic outcrops and fissures.In the forest demo, Rubin shows us this effect on the rocks that line a river edge – they're raised and uneven, as though modeled by artists. "But the artists didn't create all these rocks," he says. "This is all done on the fly – the engine is determining what that geometry should look like." It's subtle, but this is lovely stuff for a console game.Dogs of warYet, amid all this talk of increased particle counts and volumetric lighting effects, what caught the imagination of most attendees is the dog. You may have caught a glimpse of a canine companion in the Ghosts teaser trailer launched a week ago. Well, this is a key new feature.In Ghosts, your squad will have a dog AI along for the ride. The model is based on high-resolution scans of an actual SEAL team German shepherd, replicated down to scars on its nose and the tattoo inside its ear. It is, says Rubin, a fully active member of the team, able to sniff out explosives as well as attack enemies."It was all about the gameplay," says Volker when I ask about this unexpected addition. "We've experimented with dogs in our games in the past, but then one of our designers just said, hey, what if we made him an AI character – on a par with your friendlies. We thought we could do some really cool stuff with that."Eventually, we moved on to talking with different special forces consultants, dog handlers, asking them about what a dog does in the military. The perception is, it'll just chase people down and bite their heads off, but what they really do is reconnaissance: they seek out explosive ordinance and also use their nose to alert friendlies to human contacts outside of visible sight. We took some liberties, we pushed it more toward the Hollywood side because from a gameplay perspective it has to be fun. But we maintained believability."This could be an intriguing addition. Lots of games have used canine companions – Shinobi, Dead to Rights, Fallout – but we've not really seen them in a military context. What will be interesting is if you have to start really learning to read the animal, understanding when there's danger nearby from its actions and noises rather than from an HUD. This is what increased modelling detail and visual realism should be about: an increased demand on the player's visual perception and intelligence. We'll see.As for multiplayer, not surprisingly, there were few details at the demo event. Rubin did mention that the studio is introducing more dynamic maps. "We have everything from earthquakes and floods to player driven actions, explosive traps, things that change the flow of the map," he says."All of this creates a more dynamic experience whether it's a large map-changing event or a gameplay mechanic that you have to work with to win the game." Again, we've already seen this slipping into Call of Duty tittles, as well as other shooters like Gears of War 3 with its gigantic sandstorms, but it's all about scale and detail now.Oh, two more things. Volker hinted that dogs will play a part in multiplayer, either as player companions or even as playable avatars. There will also be an advanced customisation option with players able to change the faces, bodies, helmets and outfits of their characters.In a conversation later, Volker said to me there will be some crossover between assets and gear in single and multiplayer – stuff you pick up in the former, will maybe be available in the latter. A slight but welcome evolution of the transferable XP we've seen in most recent shooters.Hidden depthsBack to the demo and we're finally shown another excerpt of in-game footage. This time it's a live mission rather than a scene walkabout. We're with a squad of divers, deep under water, heading out to intercept an enemy ship. The seascape detail is as a rich as the jungle: light beams stream in from far above, coral reefs glow beneath and schools of fish zig-zag past (apparently using crowd AI to bloom away from the soldiers as they pass).Suddenly we're intercepted by some sort of submersible pod, from which enemy divers emerge instigating a brief subaquatic fire fight. Then we're on though the skeleton of a sunken craft and a ruined lighthouse, and suddenly, the ship looms above. The player then launches an RC torpedo, controlling it toward the vessel. There's a huge explosion and after the shockwave, vast chunks of wreckage start dropping through the murky brine. There's a sequence where the player is trapped under rubble, but is freed, only to look up and see dozens of enemy divers heading in. It's time for another shoot out. With guns. Underwater.This is Call of Duty Ghosts. A new world, new engine, new characters, much of it still a mystery. What's clear is that this is no bizarre left-lurching revolution for the series. Hirshberg can rattle on all he likes about taking chances but this is clearly an Infinity Ward CoD title, from the linear design (Volker tells me some stages will be more open, but this is still an A-to-B blaster at heart) to the emphasis on apocalyptic scenarios and near-futuristic hardware."We get to be the studio that brings Call of Duty into the next generation," says Rubin early on, "We have a unique opportunity to re-invent the series." And perhaps the really explosive new stuff is waiting to be discovered. This is after all, is a demo running on what Activision very deliberately refers to as 'next-generation specifications' – a powerful PC in other words. There could be console-specific features we're not seeing here just yet.But you know, Call of Duty – like Killzone: Shadow Fall – was never going to be the place to come for stark staring innovation; and Ghosts – like Killzone: Shadow Fall – does look truly beautiful at times.The canine aspect is compelling, the environments buzz with life, we're promised 60-frames-per-second gameplay, low latency controls … and there is bound to be something we can really look forward to in multiplayer.For now, this is a glimpse at what Triple A next-gen games will look like in the coming months, provided by a developer that is often wrongly overlooked when we think of technical expertise. Some feel that Call of Duty has been fading of late; this is the originator of the brand picking up a megaphone and yelling about the future.Yet, although there are 40 million CoD fans out there listening, it will be interesting to discover how loud this voice really is when other next-gen Xbox titles are around trying to drown it out.Keith Stuart attended a press trip to LA, with expenses and accommodation paid for by Activision.
The world's gaming press is descending on Redmond, Washington, on Tuesday, as Microsoft gears up to reveal the successor to its hugely successful Xbox 360 machine. After months of speculation, and following the announcement of the PlayStation 4 in February, tech pundits are desperate to see what the latest next-generation console will look like. Although it's the entertainment services under the hood that will matter in the long run.One thing is almost certain, judged on technical specifications alone, the next Xbox is set to be very similar to Sony's PS4, featuring an eight-core processor, 8GB of memory and a Blu-ray drive – exactly the same set up as its rival. However, Microsoft's machine is set to boast Kinect 2.0, an updated version of the 20m-selling motion-control peripheral that's likely to be so advanced it can track up to four players at once and allow owners to sign in to their profiles using facial recognition.The new Xbox – whether it's called Infinity, Fusion, 720 or an as-yet unguessed monicker – is also likely to feature the most advanced online entertainment functionality. Microsoft is expected to announce a range of video-on-demand deals with major TV channels, and may even ensure that its machine is capable of playing and recording live TV, placing it into direct competition with firms such as Sky and Virgin Media.When official Xbox spokesman Major Nelson announced the launch event last month, he wrote, "we'll mark the beginning of a new generation of games, TV and entertainment" – hinting that games will only be a part of the equation.Little is known about which games will be announced during the event on Tuesday, although it's known that Activision will be showing off Call of Duty: Ghosts – the first next-generation instalment in the hugely successful shooter series. A whole range of recognisable franchises, including Fable, Forza Horizon and Halo, are expected to be premiered, as well as promising multi-platform titles such as the cyberpunk thriller Watch Dogs from Ubisoft and Destiny, the latest sci-fi opus from Halo creator, Bungie.Whatever Microsoft shows on Tuesday, the next-gen battle is well and truly on. Sony has already tried to"troll" the Xbox launch event by releasing a teasing YouTube video of its PlayStation 4 console, which provides blurred glimpses of the hardware. The two companies have fought savagely for the past eight years, and their consoles finished the current generation more-or-less neck and neck, with around 77m unit sales each. And with Nintendo seemingly stalling due to poor sales of its Wii U console, the market is a two-horse race once again.Both companies realise, however, that there's huge competition from smartphone and tablet formats, which have eaten away at the gaming market. Hence, both PS4 and Xbox 720 are likely to feature integration with handsets and mobile computers, allowing players to continue their games while on the move. The message behind the next Xbox is likely to be, if you can't beat the cable providers, satellite networks, smartphone makers and tablet manufacturers, then join them.Whatever Microsoft tells us about its machine later on Tuesday, it won't be just about games – it wants to dominate our living rooms with a complete entertainment solution. So with Google, Apple, Sky and Virgin as potential rivals, Xbox's old nemesis PlayStation is set to be the least of its worries.
Apple uses a "highly questionable" web of offshore entities to avoid paying billions in US income taxes, a Senate committee alleged on Monday.The complex arrangement includes three subsidiaries, based ostensibly in Ireland, which appear not to be designated as tax resident anywhere, the committee said. A source on the committee called them "iCompanies – I for imaginary, invisible".The commitee said that the arrangement, described by one senator as "the epitome" of tax-avoidance schemes, allowed Apple to pay only very small amounts of tax on much of its overseas profits, thanks to the Irish companies that exist "nowhere" for tax purposes.Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple, will answer the accusations at a hearing convened by the bipartisan permanent subcommittee on investigation in Washington on Tuesday. Apple vehemently denied the charges ahead of the meeting.During its investigations, the subcommittee found that Apple considers three key subsidiaries, all based in Ireland, to have no tax jurisdiction at all. One of those Irish affiliates, Apple Sales International (ASI), reported sales income of $74bn over four years but paid hardly any tax. In 2011 ASI had pre-tax earnings of $22bn but paid just $10m in tax, a rate of 0.05%."Apple wasn't satisfied with shifting its profits to a low-tax offshore tax haven," said senator Carl Levin, the subcommittee's Democratic chairman."Apple sought the Holy Grail of tax avoidance. It has created offshore entities holding tens of billions of dollars, while claiming to be tax resident nowhere. We intend to highlight that gimmick and other Apple offshore tax avoidance tactics so that American working families who pay their share of taxes understand how offshore tax loopholes raise their tax burden, add to the federal deficit and ought to be closed."Senator John McCain, the subcommittee's ranking Republican member, said Apple's "creation of companies that don't exist anywhere for tax purposes" was "the epitome of tax creativity".McCain said his constituents were "mad as hell" to learn that Apple was paying tax rates that were sometimes lower than 1%. "I've never seen anything like this."Levin said the repuercussons would be significant: "There are going to be some shockwaves, I believe, going through Europe when countries in Europe see Ireland not even implementing their own tax rate but working out a deal with Apple for a 2% rate instead of a 12% tax rate which Ireland is supposed to have."Apple released Tim Cook's statement to the committee before the meeting. In it, he robustly defended the company, denying charges that the company uses tax gimmicks and pointing out that the company has created 600,000 jobs in the US and paid $6bn in taxes to the US Treasury in 2012. Cook also defends the Irish subsidiaries, which he says now employ more than 4,000 people."Apple complies fully with both the laws and spirit of the laws. And Apple pays all its required taxes, both in this country and abroad," the statement read."Apple welcomes an objective examination of the US corporate tax system, which has not kept pace with the advent of the digital age and the rapidly changing global economy. The company supports comprehensive tax reform as a necessary step to promote growth and enable American multinational companies to remain competitive with their foreign counterparts in both domestic and international markets," Cook said.He characterised Apple's relationship with the Irish subsidiaries as "cost-sharing agreements" and said the subsidiaries shared risks as well as rewards. He said the arrangement was regularly audited by the Internal Revenue Service in the US.The senators dismissed his argument, calling the practice a loophole that needed to be closed. "This is not an agreement between independent parties. These tax agreements they talk about are people all working for Apple sitting down and signing a piece of paper which shifts profits to a tax haven, that's what it is all about," said Levin.Cook called for an overhaul of US corporate tax laws that should be "revenue neutral" for corporations. But critics charge his solutions are likely to exacerbate the issue."This is one of the most profitable companies in the world, and it has been acting like a back-alley thief trying to pick the pocket of American taxpayers," said Frank Clemente, campaign manager of pressure group Americans for Tax Fairness. He said a free repatriation would be "another mugging of the American people".The committee will report more details of its findings at Tuesday's hearing. The news comes as Apple, Google, Starbucks and others face mounting criticism of their tax avoidance schemes in the UK.Last week Margaret Hodge, the chair of the public accounts committee in the UK parliament, rounded the head of Google in northern Europe, Mark Brittin, during a hearing on the search firm's tax arrangements. "You are a company that says you 'do no evil'. And I think that you do do evil." She said the group's approach to tax in the UK was "devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical".Eric Schmidt, the Google chairman, told the Observer at the weekend:"Given the intensity of the debate, not just in the UK but also in America and elsewhere, international tax law could almost certainly benefit from reform."
Whenever government surveillance is debated, someone inevitably pooh-poohs the subject as cause for alarm: after all, people overshare so much sensitive personal information with services like Facebook that there's hardly anything to be gleaned from state surveillance that isn't already there for the taking on "social media."I don't question the assertion that people overshare on social networks – that is, people share information in ways that they later come to regret. The consequences of oversharing range widely, and we hear of any or all of losing a job; being outed to your family or co-workers for your sexual orientation; having embarrassing youthful episodes of intoxication and/or ill-considered opinion forever tied to your name in the eyes of potential lovers, friends, and employers; and alienating friends and family who don't approve of some aspect of your life, associations, or hobbies.If you live in a dictatorship, the problems are much worse, of course: dictators have used intercepted social media sessions to compile enemies lists, exploring the social ties between activists as a means of determining whom to arrest, whom to disappear, whom to torture, and, according to some human rights activists, whom to murder.So oversharing is a problem. Does that mean government surveillance isn't a problem?Quite the contrary. As surveillance becomes the first and last line in modern governance, policing and espionage, it puts the state in a terminally conflicted position over one of the key public health problems of the modern age: privacy.Many modern public health pathologies – obesity, substance abuse, smoking – share a common trait: the people affected by them are failing to manage something whose cause and effect are separated by a huge amount of time and space. If every drag on a cigarette brought up a tumour, it would be much harder to start smoking and much easier to quit.If every slice of pizza turned into an instantaneous roll of cellulite, it would be much easier to moderate one's eating. As my GP explained to me when I quit cigarettes, "not getting cancer in 30 years" is a difficult goal to focus on when you want a cigarettenow(I quit 10 years ago by keeping in mind that I was spending a laptop a year on cigarettes, and the money was going to the worst companies on earth, firms that literally invented using junk science as a lobbying tactic – I buy a laptop every year now and never feel guilty about it).Getting better at something without feedback is very hard. Imagine practising penalty kicks by kicking the ball and then turning around before you saw where it landed; a year or two later someone would visit you at home and tell you where your kicks ended up. This is the kind of feedback loop we contend with when it comes to our privacy disclosures.You make a million small and large disclosures on different services, with different limits on your sharing preferences, and many, many years later, you lose your job. Or your marriage. Or your family. Or maybe your life, if you're unlucky enough to have your Facebook scraped by a despot who has you in his dominion.Some sharing is definitely in order. Careful, mindful sharing holds enormous benefit for us individually and a society. Sharing is what makes us into a society. We need to be good at it, though – not merely prolific, but skilled. Skill in sharing includes a hard-won, difficult-to-inculcate appreciation of consequences and the ability to weigh them against the benefits.When a sizable fraction of society has a problem with an activity that has this cause/effect gap, it's customary for the state to intervene through things like public education, labelling rules, help hotlines, and sometimes direct regulation of the system. I'm sceptical of this last as a way of solving the privacy crisis, but I'd be happy to see the other stuff tried well and in earnest – not just the tabloid OMGFACEBOOKISFULLOFPAEDOES noise we usually get.And here's where the problem with the state's addiction to surveillance kicks in. Governments have woken up to the fact that social media is full of material that might be useful for identifying and prosecuting miscreants, not to mention spying on political activists and "potential terrorists" and people applying for work visas and well, just about everybody.Pushes like the (dead for now) Communications Data Bill (UK), CISPA (USA) and C-30 (Canada) all sought to recruit the entire internet industry to act as adjuncts to the state's surveillance apparatus, requiring them to retain titanic databases of online activity for government fishing expeditions. And while all three attempts failed, they're just the latest, and certainly not the last – after all, universal internet surveillance was back in the Queen's speech.That's a crisis. If online oversharing is a public health problem, then the state's decision to harness it for its own purposes means that huge, powerful forces within government will come to depend on oversharing. It will be vital to their jobs – their pay-packets will literally depend on your inability to gauge the appropriateness of your online disclosure.They will be on the same side as the companies that profit from oversharing, because they will, effectively, be just another firm that benefits from oversharing.It's as though Scotland Yard decreed that obesity was critical to its ability to catch slow-moving, easily winded suspects. It's as though the NHS announced it would cope with the expense of an aging population by encouraging chain-smoking. The dangers of oversharing are hard enough to manage when it's just the private sector that benefits from them.When the state announces that a public health problem is integral to its governance strategy, the problem turns into an unscalable, permanent mountain of smoking rubbish that will smoulder for generations.doctorow@craphound.com
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntel's data economy initiative aims to help people capture the value of personal data &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewIntel is a $53bn-a-year company that enjoys a near monopoly on the computer chips that go into PCs. But when it comes to the data underlying big companies like Facebook and Google, it says it wants to "return power to the people."Intel Labs, the company's R&amp;D arm, is launching an initiative around what it calls the "data economy"—how consumers might capture more of the value of their personal information, like digital records of their their location or work history. To make this possible, Intel is funding hackathons to urge developers to explore novel uses of personal data. It has also paid for a rebellious-sounding website calledWe the Data, featuring raised fists and stories comparing Facebook to Exxon Mobil."To destabilise a company, make what it charges for into a commodity."Credit Suisse says wearable tech "the next big thing" &gt;&gt; ForbesDan Munro:At a health conference last year the CIO of a teaching hospital shared a provocative statistic that his organization had uncovered in their ROI [return on investment] analysis of a large iPad purchase. At the time, the hospital was debating the merits of such a large financial commitment – so they tasked the CIO to do a crude ROI analysis to justify the sizable expense. Was the ROI six months – or maybe a year? The (unscientific) results were jaw dropping. Using some crude calculations around workflow and time-motion analysis the CIO calculated the ROI for an iPad in their hospital would be nine days. That's right – nine days.But you can see that with wearables, such as internet-connected glasses, it could be even faster. Voice-operated means fewer hygiene problems. It's hard to leave behind at a bedside. It could hold and display patient notes confidentially. Hugely exciting.Apple's Cook faces Senate grilling over company taxes on Tuesday &gt;&gt; WSJ.comA day before Mr. Cook's appearance, the company revealed the testimony it submitted to Congress. Apple urged Congress to lower corporate-tax rates and reduce the tax on bringing back cash earned overseas, according to testimony that was also posted on its website Monday.The testimony, which Apple submitted in recent days, also defends the operations of Apple's Irish subsidiaries. It says that the subsidiaries, which employ around 4,000 people, distribute dividends that aren't taxable under US law.You canread the testimony(PDF), including the remarks that"Apple does not move its intellectual property into offshore tax havens and use it to sell products back into the US in order to avoid US tax; it does not use revolving loans from foreign subsidiaries to fund its domestic operations; it does not hold money on a Caribbean island; and it does not have a bank account in the Cayman Islands."Can't think which search company beginning with "G" and ending with "e" it's referring to. Some examination is surely coming of its Irish arrangements, though.UK record labels launch unprecedented anti-Torrent campaign &gt;&gt; RT NewsThe third and biggest wave of sanctions aimed against Torrent and music file-sharing websites is sweeping the internet, with 25 online addresses set to be blocked by the British Recorded Music Industry trade body.The websites targeted by the campaign include the biggest torrent pages and file-hosting search engines, like ExtraTorrent, Torrentz, TorrentReactor.Welcome to Google Island &gt;&gt; Wired.comMat Honan, on his customary awesome form:"Hello."The soft, froggy voice startled me. I turned around to face an approaching figure. It was Larry Page, naked, save for a pair of eyeglasses."Welcome to Google Island. I hope my nudity doesn't bother you. We're completely committed to openness here. Search history. Health data. Your genetic blueprint. One way to express this is by removing clothes to foster experimentation. It's somethingI learned at Burning Man," he said. "Here, drink this. You're slightly dehydrated, and your blood sugar is low. This is a blend of water, electrolytes, and glucose."I was taken aback. "How did you…" I began, but he was already answering me before I could finish my question.(Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Dell replays Windows 8 blame card as PC sales slide - ComputerworldDell last week again blamed Windows 8 for contributing to a decline in PC sales revenue during the quarter that ended 3 May."Windows 8 has been, from our standpoint, not necessarily the catalyst to drive accelerated growth that we had hoped it would be," said Brian Gladden, Dell's chief financial officer, in a call last week with Wall Street analysts todiscuss the quarter's financials.Those results were shocking - profit down 79% to $130m on revenues down 2% to $14bn. That's a 1% margin - the same, as it happens, as HTC in smartphones. But for very different reasons. (Thanks  @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Jolla prices first Sailfish OS smartphone at €399 for a 2013 launch &gt;&gt; The VergeJolla has just unveiled its first smartphone, which will go on sale this year for €399 (roughly $510). Running the company's MeeGo-derived Sailfish OS, it features a 4.5-inch display, a dual-core processor, an 8-megapixel camera, LTE (in selected markets), removable back covers, 16GB of onboard storage, and a microSD slot. According to Jolla, the handset will be "compliant" with Android apps, although it's not sure how many apps will be supported, nor is it clear where users will download the apps from.Nor is it clear how it will sell in any volume at that price. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Smartphones continue to drive mobile phone sector in southeast Asia &gt;&gt; Celllular News15.8m "smartphones" sold:smartphone take-up rates vary across the countries from 30% in Indonesia to more than twofold in Philippines (146%), Thailand (140%) and Vietnam (118%)."Growth in this region is primarily driven by affordable smartphones which averaged in the price range of US$100-$200," said [GfK director Gerard] Tan. "However, the rise of local brands in countries such as Philippines and Indonesia has resulted in the growing market share of those in the US$50-$100 price segment - the budget price range which bridges the transition from basic mobile phones to smartphones."Within the smartphone segment, two specific features that are increasingly popular with buyers and often the deciding factor of which model to purchase are the display sizes and operating system.Screens 4.5in and above are 20% and rising of sales; Android is 70% of smartphone sales. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Billions: How exactly do Apple and Google count app downloads? &gt;&gt; The Next WebMatthew Panzarino:you can consider this the canonical answer to that question.Both Apple and Google tabulate unique downloads of apps per user account. This means that they count only one download of an app no matter how many devices that you install that app on after you purchase it. Neither company counts updates in its app download numbers. These are purely single downloads from their stores.So their app download figures are directly comparable.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday – XBOX DAY!!!
HM Revenue and Customs is investigating fresh lines of inquiry into Google's tax affairs after interviewing a former executive at the company who gave anonymous evidence to parliament, the Guardian can disclose.Barney Jones, 34, who worked for the internet company between 2002 and 2006, met officials in Whitehall on Monday and handed over thousands of electronic documents, he said. He was the primary source of allegations that led to the company being described as "evil" by Margaret Hodge, the chair of the public accounts committee, and to being accused of misleading the committee – a claim Google denied.The meeting with tax officials took place while, 100 metres away in Downing Street, David Cameron met Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, but did not raise the company's affairs as they discussed future avoidance schemes, Number 10 said.The prime minister is coming under increasing pressure from the heads of some of Britain's largest multinational corporations who have urged Cameronto stop "moralising" and rein in his rhetoric on tax avoidanceahead of a G8 summit next month.The documents handed over to HMRC allegedly show how Google's London sales staff would negotiate and sign contracts with British customers, and cash was paid into a UK bank account, but the deals were technically booked through its Dublin office to minimise its liabilities here.A devout Christian and father of four, Jones, who marketed Google's services to prospective clients, said that tax officials had interviewed him and taken interest in his evidence."I have handed over everything to HMRC and I am looking forward to finding out what they make of it. I really loved working for Google. The company has got a strong tradition of being self-critical to make sure that they are consistent with their ideals. I see my allegations as simply being part of that process," he said.The row revolves around Google's use of its European headquarters in Dublin to minimise its tax bill in Britain. By booking all UK sales through Ireland, it handed HMRC only about £10m in corporation tax over the period 2006-11. It is able to record the revenues in Ireland because the UK company is deemed to drum up new business, with sales staff in Dublin executing all deals.Jones said he attended meetings where Google's London sales staff closed deals. He has contracts, invoices and correspondence between Google and its customers in Britain, seen by the Guardian.Cameron used the quarterly meeting of his business advisory group to urge big firms to back his push for international action to crack down on the use of tax havens. But he did not directly raise MPs' fury about the sums Google pays in the UK with Schmidt – who is a member of the high-level panel – or hold any separate talks with him.The California-based firm was last week branded devious, calculating and unethical over efforts to shelter its multibillion-pound profits from UK taxes, during a hearing before the Commons committee. Jones provided the committee with much of the evidence raised at the committee.Cameron's decision not to question Schmidt has raised further criticisms from his coalition partners. Lord Oakeshott, a former Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman, said that Schmidt should be grilled by HMRC on his tax returns, not idolised in Downing Street. "Inviting Google to a meeting to attack tax dodging is like inviting Mugabe to discuss democracy," he said.Chief executives of companies such as Burberry, Tesco, Vodafone, BAE Systems, Prudential and GSK were keen to take a final opportunity to lobby the prime minister in advance of the meeting of political leaders in Northern Ireland.The head of the Confederation of British Industry, Sir Roger Carr, who was at the meeting as well, was among those who have taken issue with Cameron's attacks on the ethics of big business tax engineering.During a speech yesterday at a London event organised by Oxford University's Said Business School, Carr said: "It is only in recent times that tax has become an issue on the public agenda – Starbucks, Google, Amazon – businesses that the general public know and believe they understand; businesses with a brand that become a perfect political football, the facts difficult to digest; public passions easy to inflame."In what appeared to be pointed criticism of increasingly firm rhetoric from Cameron on multinational tax engineering, Carr insisted tax avoidance "cannot be about morality – there are no absolutes".
6.14pmETSummaryYahoo&apos;spress conference has wrapped and anew Flickrhas been unveiled.While Yahoo&apos;s big news of the day was its $1.1bn purchase of microblogging site Tumblr, the briefing focused on the revamped photo sharing service Flickr.Flickr users had been critical of Yahoo since it acquired the site in 2005, ire whichYahoo CEO Marissa Mayeracknowledged. Now, Flickr will offer users 1 terabyte of storage (more than 537,700 photos) and has created a photo-centric display.Regarding theTumblracquisition, Mayer said the site is strong in areas such as fashion and art, which Yahoo is not.6.10pmETSome final analysis fromThe Guardian&apos;s Adam Gabbatt,who is at the press briefing.And it&apos;s over. Marissa Mayer and co depart the stage to Jay Z as lots of Yahoo and Flickr staff mill about smiling.Yahoo and Flickr seem most impressed with their terabyte of storage, with lots of applause from their PR team whenever it was mentioned.Along with the announcement this evening Flickr have launched a big ad campaign, and eleven billboards on Times Square have got their new &quot;spectaculr&quot;, &quot;wherevr&quot;, &quot;biggr&quot; jargon streaming across them. Mayer also said free t-shirts are to be handed out.5.54pmETPornOne of the most popular questions of the day is how Yahoo will handle Tumblr&apos;s &quot;adult content.&quot; Specifically, Tumblr&apos;s plethora of porn.Mayer said they will work on creating filters like NSFW (Not safe for work), but that Yahoo doesn&apos;t plan on restricting content.5.49pmETTheFlickr help forumshave an answer about the pro accounts: they&apos;re disappearing.We’re also introducing two new paid account types: Ad Free and Doublr.With these changes comes the news that we will no longer be offering Pro accounts on Flickr.More on thedifference between the accountshere. Basically,ad-free Flickr will now cost $50 a year.Updatedat 5.49pm ET5.48pmETA reporter has asked about how Flickr differs fromInstagram. An executive noted that the pictures don&apos;t have to be cropped and that user images are posted with their full resolution.Quartz&apos;s Zach Sewardjust asked about the conversations Yahoo had with Tumblr CEO David Karp ahead of the acquisition. Mayer said he was initially reluctant to sell the company but they had evolving conversations about creating a partnership and the two are now new friends.Mayer said that Tumblr is strong in verticals that Yahoo is not, specifically art and fashion, which are attractive to &quot;millenials.&quot;5.42pmETMayer just acknowledged thatFlickr&quot;languished,&quot; in recent years and noted the petition Flickr users wrote to her when she took overto make the service awesome again.Dearmarissamayer.comnow reads: &quot;Thank you for making Flickr awesome again.&quot;She and other Yahoo exectutives are now accepting questions from the press.5.39pmETHe means#yhoo:Flickr is going to be "wherevr" and "biggr" and generally opposed to conventional spelling#yahootwitter.com/AdamGabbatt/st…&mdash; Adam Gabbatt (@AdamGabbatt)May 20, 20135.37pmETFlickr&apos;spassionate fan base has been very critical ofYahoo&apos;spast handling of the photo-sharing site, following its acquisition of the service in 2005. It will be interesting to see how they receive these changes.Numerous bloggers used the Flickr acquistion as an example of what Yahoo&apos;s Tumblr purchase could mean for the also-beloved platform.Laurie Voss, co-founder of awe.sm, wrote a post &quot;To the people complaining that &apos;Yahoo will ruin Tumblr like it ruined Flickr.&apos;”But that’s in retrospect. In 2005, it wasn’t at all clear what to do. Everyone in the industry was still feeling the burn of gigantic, unprofitable acquisitions prior to the great crash of 2001, so paying money for an barely-profitable site like Flickr still seemed like madness, even within Yahoo. So Yahoo focused on making it profitable — and succeeded, which is no mean feat.Could Flickr have done better staying independent?Absolutely no way.And the way you can tell that for sure is that they let Yahoo acquire them. It’s not like Yahoo in 2005 had a great reputation; the only reason you’d do it is if you were out of money and out of options. In 2005, nobody was going to give Flickr the hundreds of millions of dollars in fresh capital they needed and hope for the best: it was exit or die.5.36pmETHeather Champ, one of Flickr&apos;s early employeeswho left in 2010– she was responsible for the Flickr community guidelines – weighs in on the redesign:Flickr declares war on white space.&mdash; Heather Champ (@hchamp)May 20, 20135.32pmETThis is a huge shift for Flickr, which traditionally offered limited storage space for users of its free accounts and unlimited space to those who signed up for a paid account. Where&apos;s the incentive for people to pay for a Flickr account now?5.26pmETFlickr updatesMayer just handed the stage over to Adam Cahan, Yahoo&apos;s senior vice president of mobile and emerging products, to talk about updates to photo sharing serviceFlickr.Cahan said the company estimates 880 billion photographs will be taken in 2014.He unveiled a new Flickr design that intends to put a greater emphasis on photographs instead of distracting things like &quot;words&quot; and &quot;blue links.&quot;It is a page full of photographs, and nothing else. Yahoo is improving the Flick mobile application, which will look similar to the webpage.Finally, to fulfill its &quot;biggr&quot; goal – yes, they did shorten all the words in the presentation like this – Flickr is offering 1 terabyte of storage to users. This is equivalent to 537,731 photos, according to Yahoo&apos;s calculations5.17pmETMayor BloombergThe stream, it&apos;s working! AndNew York Mayor Michael Bloombergis speaking about jobs.Marrisa Mayer is now on stage talking about the Tumblr acquisition, as expected. She is reiterating that the blogging service will operate independently and everything else mentioned intoday&apos;s morning press release– which is good, because the stream is actually continuing to duck in and out.Updatedat 5.18pm ET5.15pmETMultiple people are having difficulty accessingYahoo&apos;s live stream of the press event, including me.perhaps yahoo should buy livestream or u stream next so it can have a stable broadcast.&mdash; Dan Seifert (@dcseifert)May 20, 2013Luckily, our very ownAdam Gabbattis at the event. His report:The Yahoo event is being held at &quot;R Lounge&quot;, a pretty small room above the Renaissance hotel.There are about 100 cream seats laid out for reporters. Before Marissa Mayer took to the stage we had lots of young persons&apos; music being pumped out, like Fun. Which was great.Not all the seats are taken. There are a lot of people standing though. And reading over my shoulder as I type.We&apos;ve been promised free champagne after this, btw.5.01pmETThe Guardian&apos;sAdam Gabbattis atYahoo&apos;s press briefingin New York. He&apos;ll betweeting live updatesand sending in dispatches during the event.Yahoo Tumblr announcement being held in a rather small room in Times Squarevine.co/v/b91z3bIqjpZ&mdash; Adam Gabbatt (@AdamGabbatt)May 20, 20134.54pmETThe Guardian’sHeidi Mooreon what Yahoo’s pricey acquisition of Manhattan-based Tumblrmeans for New York’s burgeoning tech scene:The rich price Yahoo paid for the five-year-old company acts as a kind of validation of the promise of New York&apos;s smaller and younger tech scene, Waxler suggested. &quot;People are blown away that a New York company is getting that valuation.&quot; While tech acquisitions are common, the eye-opener is Tumblr&apos;s high price.The $1.1bn price tag for Tumblr isn&apos;t remarkable for a California-based company – where Instagram sold for $1.1bn to Facebook and Groupon and Zynga had gigantic initial public offerings – but it&apos;s the largest memorable deal for a New York tech company. It&apos;s particularly surprising to many considering Tumblr&apos;s modest $13m in revenue and sizable $25m loss last year.Now that Tumblr has hit it big, it has blazed a path for other New York tech companies whose worth can now be measured – or, as the case may be, wildly overstated. Roger Kay, a tech investor and the founder of Endpoint Technologies Associates, called them &quot;budding entrepreneurial companies just waiting for their fairy godmothers.&quot;4.42pmETYahoo buys TumblrHours after confirming itsacquisition of the Tumblr blogging platform, Yahoo is holding a press event in New York at which CEO Marissa Mayer will talk publicly about the $1.1bn deal.In a statement earlier today, Mayer promised &quot;not to screw it up”, while Tumblr&apos;s 26-year-old founder David Karp rounded off an announcement to staff with &quot;fuck yeah&quot;.Yahoo hopes that Tumblr&apos;s 300 million monthly unique visitors and youthful profile will help turn around its ailing image.In her statement, Meyer said:On many levels, Tumblr and Yahoo couldn&apos;t be more different, but, at the same time, they couldn&apos;t be more complementary. Yahoo is the internet&apos;s original media network. Tumblr is the internet&apos;s fastest-growing media frenzy.Bloomberg reportedthat Yahoo would also be announcing updates to the photo service Flickr. Which could be interesting, given Tumblr users&apos; habit of posting pictures without credit and Flickr&apos;s rights-obsessed photo-fans.
Barely had the ink dried on Yahoo's announcement of its$1.1bn acquisition of Tumblr– "we won't screw it up," the acquirer promised – than the New York tech world erupted in gossip and speculation about which company among them would be next to find an equally rich and self-deprecating corporate suitor."That's all people are talking about at Internet Week – what's going to be the hot new acquisition?" said Caroline Waxler, the festival director of Internet Week New York. Internet Week is a series of panels and parties centered on the New York tech scene.The rich price Yahoo paid for the five-year-old company acts as a kind of validation of the promise of New York's smaller and younger tech scene, Waxler suggested. "People are blown away that a New York company is getting that valuation." While tech acquisitions are common, the eye-opener is Tumblr's high price.The $1.1bn price tag for Tumblr isn't remarkable for a California-based company – where Instagram sold for $1.1bn to Facebook and Groupon and Zynga had gigantic initial public offerings – but it's the largest memorable deal for a New York tech company. It's particularly surprising to many considering Tumblr's modest $13m in revenue and sizable $25m loss last year.Now that Tumblr has hit it big, it has blazed a path for other New York tech companies whose worth can now be measured – or, as the case may be, wildly overstated. Roger Kay, a tech investor and the founder of Endpoint Technologies Associates, called them "budding entrepreneurial companies just waiting for their fairy godmothers."While many will talk of a bubble, the truth is that the staple exit strategy of past bubbles – an initial public offering, or first-time listing on a stock exchange – is not as easily available to young companies now. With IPOs harder to complete, these companies seek acquisitions instead to pay back the money invested in them by venture capitalists and "angel" investors.Kay, who invests in half a dozen companies, said the Tumblr news was a boost to tech investors. "It was encouraging to some of my properties that are looking for money," he said. "I can think of a couple that would be happy to try to get acquired."Roger Ehrenberg, a venture capitalist with IA ventures who sat on the board of TweetDeck, said other New York companies could be in line for a large acquisition, even though not all of them have names as immediately familiar as Tumblr's. "I'd say AppNexus is likely the next $1bn-pluc NYC company," he said, including either an initial public offering or a sale.AppNexus runs technology for advertising campaigns and has raised about $140m in financing so far from a group of companies and venture capital firms including Microsoft, Venrock and Marc Andreessen. While AppNexus is headquartered in New York, it also has seven offices globally, including in Hertzliya, Israel; Hamburg, Germany, London and Paris. Ehrenberg's firm is not an investor.Another New York favorite, according to Ehrenberg, is Etsy, which he said "is growing very rapidly and has big exit potential as well." Etsy is a web site for sellers of vintage or handmade jewelry and accessories; it also a social function that allows buyers and sellers to "friend" each other. The company has raised about $51m in financing since its founding in 2005 and booked $525m in sales in 2011according to the most recent count.Waxler said after listening to the talk at Internet Week, she believes news and animal-picture site BuzzFeed will be the next big acquisition from among the city's ranks of startups, or a location-services company like Yext. Local techies have been speculating on food-ordering site Seamless – which just today merged with GrubHub for an undisclosed amount.It may be the Seamless deal, in fact, that provides the biggest validation of New York's way of doing business. Many of the city's professional residents, too busy to cook or shop, depend heavily on ordering from home.
Yahoo promised "not to screw it up" as it formally announced its acquisition of the Tumblr blogging platform for $1.1bn ahead of the US stock market opening on Monday.The relaxed wording of the memo for one of the internet giant's biggest acquisitions was echoed in the memo sent by David Karp, Tumblr's 26-year-old founder, to his staff, in which he said "We're not turning purple" – Yahoo's corporate colour – and rounded it off "Fuck yeah."The deal, which is expected to complete in the second half of the year, is almost all cash, is equal in value to Yahoo's money in hand at the end of its first quarter in March – but it has substantial extra assets in short-term securities, shares in the Chinese site Alibaba, and other equities which it can liquidate.It is understood that Karp, who will remain Tumblr's chief executive, will be tied into the company for at least four years for his payment of about $220m to vest.Explaining the deal, Yahoo said that Tumblr has more than 300 million monthly unique visitors and 120,000 signups every day, 900 posts a second and 24bn minutes spent on the site every month. On mobile, more than half of its visitors are using the Tumblr mobile app, for an average of seven sessions a day."The combination of Tumblr+Yahoo! is expected to grow Yahoo!'s audience by 50% to more than a billion monthly visitors, and to grow traffic by approximately 20%," the company said.Yahoo plans to use its personalisation and search technologies to tie Tumblr users more tightly into its network – thus dragging their attention away from rival social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest and Google+. "The two companies will also work together to create advertising opportunities that are seamless and enhance the user experience," it said."Tumblr is redefining creative expression online," the Yahoo chief executive, Marissa Mayer, said in a statement. "On many levels, Tumblr and Yahoo couldn't be more different, but, at the same time, they couldn't be more complementary. Yahoo is the internet's original media network. Tumblr is the internet's fastest-growing media frenzy. Both companies are homes for brands – established and emerging. And, fundamentally, Tumblr and Yahoo are both all about users, design, and finding surprise and inspiration amidst the everyday."In a conference call with Wall Street investors, Mayer said the acquisition would grow Yahoo's audience by 50% to more than 1bn people and increase its total traffic by 20%.She said the company would not place ads on Tumblr bloggers' sites without their permission, or plaster the hip blogging site with Yahoo corporate branding – a cautious move designed to appease its most sceptical users."On Tumblr, there's a number of different places we think we can monetise that are meaningful and add to the user experience," said Mayer, confirming that ads will be introduced to the dashboard page where users can follow other Tumblr posts."Our hopes here are that this significantly contributes to our growth story in terms of traffic and users. It is an exceptional company and an exceptional team," she added.Meyer brushed aside one question about concerns over the amount of pornography on the Tumblr site, saying Yahoo needed "good tools for targeting" and removing less "brand-safe" material. "We really think the richness and breadth of the content – even though it may not be as brand safe as on our site – is really exciting and that will help us reach more users."The chasm between the two companies is best expressed by the fact that Karp, 26, is only eight years older than Yahoo itself, which was founded in 1995."David Karp is one of the nicest, most empathetic people I've ever met," Mayer said. "He's also one of the most perceptive, capable entrepreneurs I've ever worked with. David's respect for Tumblr's community of creators is awesome. I'm absolutely delighted to have him join our team."Announcing the dealon Tumblr's staff blog, Karp said: "Before touching on how awesome this is, let me try to allay any concerns: We're not turning purple. Our headquarters isn't moving. Our team isn't changing. Our roadmap isn't changing."And our mission – to empower creators to make their best work and get it in front of the audience they deserve – certainly isn't changing."Karp told staff at its New York headquarters that the deal means Tumblr gets "better faster" and signed off: "Fuck yeah, David".The deal will see Karp become the latest high-school dropout turned multimillionaire, following in the footsteps of web wunderkinds including Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder, and Sean Parker, the Napster creator. Karp reportedly owned about 20% of Tumblr stock, valuing his stake at $220m after Monday's deal.The native New Yorker, whose parents separated when he was 17, taught himself computer code before founding Tumblr in 2007, when Zuckerberg's Facebook was three years into its global expansion.
Gygan, a giant radio-controlled robot, which more than half a century ago entranced the world byflashing its car headlamp-like eyes, turning its head stiffly from left to right, and shuffling forwards at the terrifying speed of 10 feet a minute, is to be auctioned after decades hidden in a private collection.The eight-foot-tall creature, weighing 1,000lbs, was launched at a trade fair in Milan in 1957, the same year as the first satellite, Sputnik, was launched into space. Its designer, Piero Fiorito, an engineer from Turin, puzzlingly insisted it looked like "a proud Englishman".Gygan, launched decades before the first home computer, was regarded as sophisticated for its day, capable of responding to spoken or light ray commands. It could pick up objects, and at its equally successful appearance at a fair at Olympia in London, it danced jerkily with a model – who clearly hadn't seen the crushed base of the tin can it had just picked up.One journal for amateur model-makers, Radio Control Models and Electronics,complained that "no data is offered on radio control circuits or servos in use"but deduced that Gygan contained Meccano and at least 20 electrical relays. Fiorito claimed it had 300,000 components, but the journal rather sniffily described its construction as "comparatively simple". It will be auctioned at Christie's South Kensington in September, with an estimate of up to £8,000.
Marissa Mayer: she's got style. First she buys Tumblr - which, OK, is one of those Big Corporate Acquisitions that gets everyone het up (if they're on Tumblr) or analysing the cash flow (if they're on Wall Street).But Mayer? She took to Twitter, and to Tumblr, and - as was observed - may have become the first person to announce an acquisition with an animated GIF.To wit:We also liked the fact that she took to Twitter (where shehas a mere 330,000 followers- come on, Marissa, try harder) in order toannounce the acquisition of Tumblron her own Tumblr (natch), the faintly puzzlingly titledmarissamayr.tumblr.com.The obvious question: what happened to the "e" in her surname? "Hmm - marissamayer is also me but because of Tumblr/Flickr I thought I should be marissamayr.tumblr.com", she explained. (It's true that there's ahttp://marissamayer.tumblr.com/, but it's empty so far.)Oh, and the other thing? Mayer deleted the Google+ link in her Twitter bio and replaced it with a Tumblr one (natch). Oh my, it's an exodus.And then it gets even better: she put up asecond post on her Tumblrtitled "great workplace dilemmas of our time" - referring neatly both to her own reputation for having instituted a "no more working from home" rule, and Tumblr's for its "the internet is for porn" approach.Let's hope she doesn't gettoodistracted posting to remember to actually run the company.
"Rule-breaking is creative," Alistair Aitcheson says in his presentation to the audience at GameHorizon. "Laughter trumps fairness." It's this theory of schadenfreude he has come to the conference to discuss: how pitting us against each other can strengthen friendships, and bring players of games closer.Aitcheson is a one-man indie studio, a first class mathematics graduate who has spent the past three years running his business as an entirely one-man enterprise. Mainly focusing on iOS games, he launched Greedy Bankers onto the App Store in February 2011. The game gets you to group gems into squares and rectangles to maximise your use of space and revenue. You tap them to cash them in. It's a simple, fun idea that sold well.But talking at GameHorizon in Newcastle last week, Aitcheson explained that when he added multiplayer mode to the iPad exclusive version – and encouraged players to cheat and steal from each other – he started to see the potential of the iPad as a social linchpin. The stealing mechanic became a big deal in his game design. Stealing is incentivised – when you invade other players' space, the other player matters; they become important as part of the game. On several occasions, Aitcheson has seen this descend into a playful wrestling match between friends.What he had stumbled upon was the fact that so-called "social games" are only meaningful if they are designed purely to bring people together. The idea that players "might get in each others' way" was the key to his thinking: instead of seeing this as a downside, Aitcheson used it as a reason to bring people closer to each other, to have people want to touch each other, get used to each other, and talk to each other.So Aitcheson decided to take this idea further on the iPad. Slamjet Stadium is a shared screen multiplayer game with a futuristic deathball theme. It received a gold award from Pocket Gamer and was "new and noteworthy" on the Apple store in 61 countries. Another simple idea: grab a character with your finger, launch it to hit the ball into the opposing team's goal. He took it to lots of live events for testing – GameCity, the pub, places where people would gather to socialise anyway. To leverage the social atmosphere, the game was made even simpler to get into – there were no puzzle mechanics to learn, and it was designed for more varied movement across the pad.Shaping Aitcheson's beliefs about what Slamjet Stadium should be was his opinion that something has been lost by video games' recent lack of local interaction. Today we think of multiplayer as online multiplayer, and often DRM and always-connected games have fought off local multiplayer modes. The days of Goldeneye 64 splitscreen have been eclipsed by so-called "Facebook" games, where the word 'social' has been co-opted to mean a way in which you guilt and bait your friends into participating in a monetising ploy. Platforms have been closed by large corporations looking to make games exclusive to their brand, and people as a consequence have been digitally separated from each other into lonely bedrooms.Aitcheson wanted to encourage people to play together again. He emphasised physical multiplayer – sharing a tablet screen. Physical disconnection, he said, was OK for matching people together in skill-based games such as Street Fighter IV, however the social aspect is really important. Touchscreens are big interactive canvases; they offer us a bright, enjoyable future in terms of being together, being... well, social.He is not the only one who thinks this way. GameOven's Fingle and Anna Anthropy's Chicanery (which has been ported to iPad by Bennett Foddy) both look at using the surface space of the iPad to encourage friends to be tactile with each other in a playful manner.Fingle: deep groans can't help but raise a smileIn Fingle, two players must affix their fingers to spots on the iPad that constantly move, forcing players to have their fingers intertwine and touch. It is rhythmic and tactile, and though the music makes the experience slightly ironic (a deep voice groans congratulations whilst the soundtrack is reminiscent of cheesy 70s porn) it's hard not to grin at yourself.In Chicanery, each player puts their finger on a corner of the screen and has to hold it for as long as they can. If they let go, their character gets their head chopped off – so the real game is trying to push or laugh or even goad each other into letting go. This creates an infinite space in which to play, house rules can be instituted, and anarchy ensues. The real game design here is in making a rule that opens up a space where there is a lack of rules – sort of like the video game equivalent of an unsupervised roller disco: the only rule is that you use the space to make something happen.Chicanery: opening up a space where there are no rulesSleeping Beast Games's iOS title, Spaceteam, also comes to mind as an anarchic influence as Aitcheson moves on with his talk. He refers to it as "a co-operative party game for two to four players who shout technobabble at each other until their ship explodes". The game doesn't so much ask players to use physical space to annoy each other; instead, it's their voices as they shout instructions to flip the "Clip-jawed Fluxtrunions" on another player's screen. And instead of physical boisterousness, flat-out ecstatic yelling takes place. Unlike Aitcheson's game, Spaceteam maximises on the fundamental inability of a player to comprehend four instructions being bellowed at once. Once I tried yelling my instructions in a much higher, squeakier voice than my team-mates – and they were much more likely to be obeyed. It took some experimentation, but I annoyed them into submission.All these games explore personal space, which is something other video games have largely either forgotten about or have abandoned until now. Players are part of the play-space, and though these examples share more of their origins in boardgames than most other video games, the portability and ease of these iPad titles in particular bring a whole new dimension to group dynamics. They can be played anywhere, and used to create shared stories and memories, and encourage interpersonal bonding. Real-world creativity is encouraged in environments not usually reserved for the light fantastic.To construct these games, Aitcheson explained, you just need to register how many points a player scores. The relic of controllers is not an issue – you get freedom of movement around the board without having to heft around clunky peripherals. With Slamjet Stadium, there is no referee. Creative cheating is encouraged, like in Chicanery: Alistair decided, for example, not to award points for own goals, and gave you an opportunity to block goals, but it was too complex an idea and decided to give the players free rein instead. It helped to keep the flow up. Leaving the player to make up their own rules extends the play – and invites the construction of on-the-fly rules between players. The game becomes self-policing. To extend that idea further, the loading screen on Slamjet Stadium says "It's not cheating if you don't get caught". Through schadenfreude, gloating and the making of underdogs, expression in players is encouraged.The process of designn that Slamjet Stadium went through was shaped in particular by Aitcheson's experience with his previous game. In the multiplayer version of Greedy Bankers, you could effectively bully your way to victory by focusing on the centre line where bricks cross. However, to open up the space, Slamjet Stadium allows many routes of access across the screen through the use of a ball. There is never a point where both players are focusing on only one thing: the game becomes a flurry of taps and shoves, and movement happens not only on screen but off screen too.Balance is important to games. But make it deliberately unfair in a social setting and there are a lot more moments of anger, laughter, volume and excitement. Real-world creativity counters game-world imbalance. In Slamjet, Aitcheson says, there is a button in the centre that if you hit on time then it's a free goal – it's a completely unfair mechanic but it changes pacing and becomes more frantic, creating memorable moments where play switches. It's a place where, when the switch happens, you spill your pint over the person next to you, yell at the ceiling, and attempt to kick the other person under the table.The current proliferation and easy distribution of tablets makes them stand out as a platform for truly social video games – there are no special controllers, and no bulky extra kit is needed such as with boardgames. Perhaps through designers like Aitcheson, iPad games will become the primary way in which laughter will overcome the rigid complex rule systems video games are so known for, and open up a space that has long been the preserve of faceless multiplayer. As he says, "laughter trumps fairness". Perhaps in future, laughter may also come to eclipse the long-embedded stern, serious experience we get playing Call of Duty with internet strangers.
David Cameron has refused to say whether he will question Google's chairman over allegations that the internet giant is exploiting tax loopholes at a meeting on Monday that will discuss tightening up international tax rules.The prime minister's spokesman also refused to be drawn on whether Eric Schmidt, who is attending the meeting of Cameron's business advisory committee, will be asked for his opinion on how best to close existing tax loopholes as they discuss the government's agenda of tackling "aggressive avoidance".The meeting follows a damaging week for Google after it was accused by whistleblowers and the public accounts select committee of using and abusing tax incentives to avoid paying hundreds of millions in tax.Asked whether Cameron was going to raise Google's tax affairs, the spokesman said: "We don't talk about individuals' or individual companies' tax affairs. What the PM will be doing at the meeting today will be explaining the tax and tax transparency part of the G8 agenda which he has been discussing with other G8 leaders and he will discuss again at the European council.""Companies have to pay the tax that is due. It is right that the government meets with, and consults with, a wide range of businesses. He will be raising his very active agenda today," he added.Asked why Cameron felt able to comment on Jimmy Carr's tax affairs when the comedian was accused of aggressive tax avoidance of millions of pounds but not able to speak out on allegations that Google has shielded billions from the taxpayer, the spokesman said: "What is very important to do is to set out in detail the work the UK is doing in partnership with other countries to take forward the reform of global tax rules. As part of that you saw the PM writing to overseas territories and crown dependencies only yesterday," he said.Schmidt has said he welcomes promises by international leaders to crack down on tax loopholes exploited by the search firm and other multinational internet businesses that take billions of pounds of sales from the UK through overseas companies, which HM Revenue &amp; Customs cannot tax."Given the intensity of the debate, not just in the UK but also in America and elsewhere, international tax law could almost certainly benefit from reform,"he conceded in the Observer. He said an action plan from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, due to be presented to the G20 in July, was now "hotly awaited".OECD officials have already signalled that the plan will include "updated solutions to the issues related to jurisdiction to tax, in particular in the areas of digital goods and services".Schmidt's latest remarks on tax represent a marked softening in tone. In December he dismissed critics, saying: "We pay lots of taxes; we pay them in the legally prescribed ways. I am very proud of the structure that we set up. We did it based on the incentives that the governments offered us to operate."The meeting comes after a dreadful week for Google during which its northern Europe boss, Matt Brittin, was recalled to appear beforeangry MPs on the public accounts committeeto clarify testimony on the group's tax arrangements he gave to parliament six months ago.Google did £3.2bn of business with UK advertisers and media buyers last year but told HMRC these transactions were technically "closed" in Ireland, and therefore not liable for UK tax. Brittin told MPs he stood by earlier evidence that his 1,300 employees in the UK – more than half of whom work in marketing – did not close sales.The MPs were armed with evidence from several whistleblowers, former Google UK workers who told the politicians they believed they were negotiating and closing sales in the UK.One of those whistleblowers, who worked for Google between 2002 and 2006, has spoken out publicly for the first time. "When I was at Google, our job was to find advertisers, to close the deals [and] to get them to sign bits of paper saying they were committing to spending in the UK," Barney Jones told the Sunday Times. "If that is not closing the deal, I don't know what is."The prime minister has already signalled he wants to use Britain's presidency of the G8 to tackle "aggressive tax avoidance" by multinationals. "Some forms of avoidance have become so aggressive that I think it is right to say these are ethical issues," he told the World Economic Forum in January, urging multinationals to "wake up and smell the coffee".
Name:Tumblr.Age:Six.Appearance:Photos of animals and snacks, often captioned, sometimescombined.What is it?It's a multimedia blogging platform.Meaning?Meaning a Tumblr page is a big blank canvas. Users can post pictures, songs, links, videos or even the good old-fashioned written word. A page can be a platform for anything and&nbsp;everything its users find online and want to share. Or they can dedicate their blog to documenting a single, and often very silly, phenomenon.Such as?Lesbians who look like Justin Bieber;Nick Clegg looking sad;Clients from Hell.Not exactly a very serious place, is it?It can be. It was taken fairly seriously in 2011, for example, when Barack Obama usedhis Tumblr pageto help&nbsp;launch his re-election campaign. It also hosts&nbsp;many widely read and respected blogs on&nbsp;politics, fashion, food and just about everything else, and with 110m blogs and counting, and 217 million&nbsp;global users in the past month alone, the&nbsp;site is worth a very serious amount of money.&nbsp;How serious?$1.1bn. Or £720m. At leastthat's what web giant Yahoo is paying for it.They're spending $1.1bn on a load of lesbian Nick Cleggs from hell?Pretty much. Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer will announce the move in a press conference streamed live today.And who's the money going to?A sizeable chunk&nbsp;of it will go to Tumblrcreator David Karp, who set up the site at the age of 21 in the&nbsp;bedroom&nbsp;of his mother's apartment in New&nbsp;York.How does he feel about selling it?Probably pretty&nbsp;chuffed, considering the site had no proven&nbsp;business model. There were rumours that Tumblr could only afford to carry on a few&nbsp;months more.But Yahoo are confident about the purchase?Clearly. Then again, they were confident when they bought web hostsGeocitiesback in 1999, for&nbsp;$3.57bn. It was the third most visited site on the internet at the time. Now it's gone.What happened?People moved on to other things. Like Tumblr.Do say:"Tumblr's here to stay."Don't say:"Look at my funny pictures, ye Mighty, and despair!"
David Karp has become the latest high school dropout turned twentysomething multimillionaire after selling his internet creation, Tumblr, to Yahoo for $1.1bn.The 26-year-old New Yorker founded the microblogging site in 2007 from the back bedroom of his mother's modest Manhattan apartment – and for years rebuffed the solicitations of Silicon Valley's biggest technology giants.But now Karp could be worth as much as $220m after the all-cash deal, which will see the self-taught computer coder added to another company's payroll for the first time.Only a year agoKarp told the Guardianhe was uninterested in joining the elite group of "rich people in the world", insisting: "There are very few people who have the privilege of getting to invent things that billions of people use."He added in January 2012: "The joke now is what's the first tech company that we acquire. I hear AOL's going pretty cheap."Six months following that exchange, ex-Google executive Marissa Mayer took over at Yahoo and the allure of being "gobbled up by a big media company" quickly looked more attractive.Rail thin with floppy brown hair and invariably wearing a check shirt, Karp looks every bit the web wunderkind. But a combination of smart business moves and internet savvy has seen his blogging platform – famous for its beguiling range of user-created sites like "Accidental Chinese hipsters" and "White men wearing Google Glass" – turn into one of the hottest properties on the web.Karp's parents, the television composer Michael Karp and teacher Barbara Ackerman, reportedly separated when he was 17. That same year he flew to Japan, determined to become an entrepreneur despite his youth."I was so silly – I tried to be very formal and put on a deep voice to clients over the phone so I didn't have to meet them and give away how young I was," he said last year. "I lied about my age. I lied about the size of my team. I lied about my experience. I was so terribly embarassed about it for so long. I should have just owned up."The experience was to be a rite of passage for Karp, who returned to the US and formed the consultanc company, Davidville, that would later become Tumblr.Like his fellow twentysomething internet billionaire, Mark Zuckerberg, Karp lives a frugal life with few possessions in his refurbished Brooklyn apartment where he lives with his girlfriend, Rachel Eakley, a trained chef."I don't have any books. I don't have many clothes,"Karp told Forbesin an interview earlier this year. "I'm always so surprised when people fill their homes up with stuff."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's30 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day.Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:Beethoven's 9th Symphony (Free)This excellent classical music app is a partnership between Touch Press and Deutsche Grammophon, building on the former's The Orchestra app from a few months back. The app contains four recordings of Beethoven's 9th Symphony, with synchronised scores, video interviews and the ability to switch between recordings at will. You get two minutes for free, with an in-app purchase unlocking the rest.iPhone / iPadHangouts (Free)Google moved to unify its Android messaging apps last week with Hangouts, offering instant messaging, photo-sharing, emoji and video calls in one package. But it's also available on iOS with the same features, as well as on computers.iPhone / iPadAmazon Cloud Drive Photos (Free)Amazon is trying to make its Cloud Drive online storage service more useful for specific tasks – mobile photography in this case. The app saves the snaps you take on your iPhone or iPod touch to the Cloud Drive, and provides access to all the images stored there – with Facebook and Twitter sharing built in.iPhoneJustin's World – Goldilocks and the Three Bears (£2.99)CBeebies star Justin Fletcher – quite possibly the biggest name in children's entertainment in the UK – is getting into apps with his Justin's World brand. This first app tells the Goldilocks fairytale, with Fletcher himself dressing up as all the main characters to host a mixture of video and mini-games for pre-schoolers. Find outmore on his plans in this interview.iPhone / iPadJacob Jones and the Bigfoot Mystery : Episode 1 (£1.99)There is justifiably bags of buzz around this, a beautifully-crafted puzzle game with impressive papercraft visuals. While the production values stand out from the App Store crowd, it's the quality of the puzzles that make it a keeper, offering genuine depth. The storyline also keeps you engrossed as you play through them.iPhone / iPadHaunting Melissa (Free)Films as apps? A few production companies are testing the idea, with Haunting Melissa the latest example. Promising "a terrifying tale with twists and frights that you won't soon forget", it's exclusive to iOS for now, and with The Ring and Mulholland Drive on its producer's CV, well worth a look. You can pay for individual chapters or a season's pass via in-app purchase in SD or HD quality.iPhone / iPadTunetrace (Free)Created by a team of researchers at Queen Mary, University of London, this app turns real pen-and-paper drawings into music, scanning them in then sending twinkly lights around the image to create sounds. A novelty? The serious aim here is to get children interested in coding: "Using this app you can easily explore the ideas behind computer programming by adding more to the drawing to change the tune," suggests Professor Peter McOwan.iPhone / iPadStar Trek Rivals (Free)Following in Marvel's footsteps, now Star Trek has its own card-battling app for smartphones and tablets. Featuring characters and ships from both Star Trek and the Star Trek Into Darkness film, this offers more than 100 cards to collect and use to challenge other players in turn-based fights. In-app purchases of its Latinum currency fund the action.iPhone / iPadBloomsbury Pirate Activity/Bloomsbury Princess Activity(£2.99)Two apps rather than one, but these can be safely treated as a pair. They're both by book publisher Bloomsbury, with a mixture of virtual stickers, dress-up games and puzzles for children. One features pirates, and the other princesses.iPadFrozen Synapse (£4.99)If you like a real challenge with your iOS games, then Frozen Synapse is a fiver well spent this week. It's a turn-based strategy game originally released for computers, as you guide your squad through a succession of levels. 55 missions to play by yourself plus five multiplayer modes make this a treat.iPadSago Mini Sound Box (Free)In March 2013, popular children's apps maker Toca Boca bought one of its peers, Zinc Roe, and rebranded it as Sago Sago. Now the studio has released its first app since the changes: a marvellous collection of interactive sound-objects for toddlers, "from wind chimes to barking puppies".iPhone / iPadAsk Keith Lemon (£1.49)And if the inclusion of this enrages you, consider this: Ask Keith Lemon is currently the third Top Paid app in the UK App Store, ahead of Minecraft, Angry Birds Star Wars and countless other big names. The opportunity to "have Keith Lemon as your personal assistant" is clearly popular. An in-app purchase upgrades it to "Ruderer Mode" with salty language.iPhone / iPadRugby Nations '13 (£2.99)Excited about the upcoming British Lions tour? Rugby Nations '13 will swell your rugby joy still further. It includes 20 teams to play as, spiffing graphics and commentary from TV's Bill Leslie, with the gameplay doing as good a job as any title at the difficult task of rendering rugby playable in digital form.iPhone / iPadThe Jungle Book (£2.99)This is the latest children's storybook-app from Irish startup StoryToys, which turns the famous tale of Mowgli, Baloo and Bagheera into a virtual pop-up book for iOS devices. Animation, voice narration and a series of accessible mini-games make it a treat for kids.iPhone / iPadGillray's Steak and Gin (Free)Steak! Gin! That's all you need to know about this iPad app. Well, if you do want to know more, this is an app from London steakhouse restaurant Gillray's designed to be used by anyone with a penchant for, yes, steak and gin. It'll tell you how to cook steak, tell you the history of gin, and suggest cocktails.iPadBattlelines:Borodino 1812 (£1.99)More history here, although not quite as much gin. Osprey Publishing and Aimer Media's book-app focuses on the battle of Borodino as Napoleon led his forces into battle against Imperial Russia. Expect bird's-eye maps, illustrations and plenty of text explaining what happened and why.iPhone / iPadTurbo Racing League (Free)Developer PikPok's latest game is based on the upcoming DreamWorks Animation film Turbo. It's basically Mario Kart with snails. Well, there's a bit more to it than that, but this free-to-play game gets you to customise then race a colourful terrestrial-gastropod.iPhone / iPadBamboo Loop (Free)The latest fresh startup to enter the mobile messaging game is... Wacom! Yes, the graphics tablets people. This social app is designed to work with its Bamboo Stylus Mini stylus, but is also "finger-friendly". It focuses on creating "cards" and customising them with scribbles and other tools, sending them to friends or sharing to Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and/or Instagram.iPhonePaper Titans (£0.69)Blitz Games Studios' 3D puzzle game has a real originality about it, with papercraft levels and characters. You have to solve 45 levels by moving the characters around by tapping and swiping, figuring out how to use each one's special ability. It looks lovely, and plays well too.iPhone / iPadBeatrobo (Free)Beatrobo is a social streaming-music service with added robot avatars. The idea being that you listen to music from YouTube and SoundCloud in rooms with your friends – but with an asynchronous model that means you don't have to all be online at once. The robots give it a colourful twist.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The day Sven Olaf Kamphuis parked his huge orange Mercedes van with its German numberplates outside Bar Javis, in the Catalan town of Granollers, the owner's son snapped a picture with his mobile phone."Not a lot happens in this street," Maria Cruz, the bar's owner, explained. "And it was so huge, with all those funny antennas and solar panels poking out of the roof, that it blocked the light to the bar."Even stranger was the 35-year-old Dutch man who parked it in this narrow street after renting a small attic flat with windows made of glass blocks in the poorer end of this nondescript town 15 miles from Barcelona.Even on hot early summer days, Kamphuis wore a woollen hat. And he spoke no Spanish, answering "yes, yes" in English to everything people from this friendly neighbourhood said to him.Sven's vanKamphuis, 35, is one of the most controversial characters in the murky world of spam and hacking – deemed the internet's public enemy number one by some, though others believe his reputation has been blown out of proportion by the grandstanding of his foes.Capable of rigging up sophisticated computer systems anywhere, including the back of a van, he allegedly masterminded a flurry of March internet attacks that the security company CloudFlare claimed "almost broke the internet", plunging the world into digital darkness. When Spanish and Dutch police arrested him they found the flat occupied by a tangle of cables and computer gear. A copy of the science fiction writer Neal Stephenson's Quicksilver lay on the unmade bed.Kamphuis displayed a Napoleonic sense of grandeur. "He claimed he had diplomatic status," said the Spanish police officer who led the operation, but asked not to be named. "He said he was the telecommunications minister and foreign minister of a place called the Cyberbunker Republic. He didn't seem to be joking.""The request to arrest him came from the Netherlands," said the police officer, who heads the cybercrime unit in Barcelona. "But Britain, the United States and Germany were all affected by the massive denial of service attacks that he launched."The van was fitted out as a mobile office from which he could launch his attacks. Amongst other things we found the IP addresses of his targets and that is part of the evidence we are sending to the Netherlands."Kamphuis has yet to be tried, but Spanish police believe they know his modus operandi. "He brought together hackers from around the world to launch the attacks. It is obviously not all over yet, because the Dutch have been under attack again in recent days – presumably as revenge by his friends."Some of them have networks of zombie computers, having spread viruses that let them control others people's computers. They all agree to launch the attack and they do millions of requests to the server at the same time."The result was what the New York Times called an attack of previously "unknown magnitudes", producing a 300bn-bits-per-second data stream that targeted the British and Swiss-based anti-spam operator Spamhaus and its allies. This had reportedly blacklisted his CB3ROB/Cyberbunker company, which claims its servers are housed in anold Nato nuclear bunkernear Rotterdam, for hosting hundreds of spam and malware websites. Kamphuis happily claimed to be punishing Spamhaus for "abusing their influence"."Nobody ever deputised Spamhaus to determine what goes and does not go on the internet," he told theNew York Timesin an angry message. He later denied involvement. "We want to be absolutely clear that the DDoS [distributed denial of service] attacks are not and have not ever been orchestrated within CB3ROB/CyberBunker, nor are they conducted under the supervision of Sven," he wrote on hisFacebook page.But the huge number of spammers he hosts has led even hacktivists sympathetic to his pro-Pirate party, Anonymous and Julian Assange's stanceto question his real activities.Several other mysteries remain. If this was one of the most successful spammers in history, why was he living in a squalid flat and a camper van?"If you get paid a few cents for each spammed email and you send out million emails every day, then you can make a lot of money," said the Spanish police chief.Kamphuis certainly did not behave like a criminal on the run. "He seemed too relaxed to be a crook," said Cruz. "And he certainly didn't hide away. He had even written his name on the letterbox.""He wasn't really trying to hide," agrees the Spanish police chief. "I think he thought that we wouldn't track the attacks to him or that we would leave him alone because he was not attacking Spanish targets."His attacks werewidely reportedto have slowed the entire internet down, butinternet speed trackers such as Internet Traffic Report barely registered a blip.Some point to publicity-seeking grandstanding by CloudFlare, an internet security company called in to protect Spamhaus. It claimed this was "the DDoS [attack]that almost broke the internet"."The record-breaking attacks were initially directed at Spamhaus infrastructure such as websites, mailservers and nameservers. Then, over the course of the following two weeks, the attacks escalated to targeting Spamhaus's supporting networks and services including various internet exchanges," Spamhaus's British founder Clive Linford said onhis blog, describing the attacks that started in the middle of March. "While the DDoS caused disruptions to our organisation and its hosts and partners, the flow of the Spamhaus anti-spam data that protects over 1.7bn mailboxes worldwide was never interrupted."Kamphuis was last week taken to the Netherlands – a country that recently announced plans to let police hack into computers located abroad, installing spyware, reading emails and deleting files. He is being held in jail while investigators decide what charges to bring.A spokesman for the Dutch public prosecutor's office said he would appear before a court in Rotterdam again this week to have bail conditions reviewed after the "unprecedented heavy attacks" on Spamhaus and its partners in the US, Netherlands and Great Britain.
Despite the breadth and diversity of life online, there are relatively few opportunities to make the kind of acquisitions that make the industry stop and take stock.Yahoo's $1.1bn deal to buy Tumblris one of those moments: a bold acquisition that says chief executive Marissa Meyer means business.Comparisons to Yahoo's 1999 $3.6bn acquisition of Geocities are too simplistic. In internet years, 1999 is more like two centuries ago and Yahoo is in a completely different place, led by a woman with all the zeal of a convert. Repeatedly passed over for promotion during her previous (another internet lifetime) 13 years at Google, she has an opportunity to do something impressive with Yahoo, which seemed in terminal decline. One venture capital executive told me that during the tenure of Carol Bartz, Mayer's predecessor once removed, the investors were expecting Yahoo to ditch all but essential staff, focus on core revenue-building products and then rinse the company hard for maximum profit until it ran into the ground.Meyer is already the longest-serving Yahoo CEO after Bartz and co-founder Jerry Yang. In the 300 days since she took over, Yahoo's share price has steady improved, until it's now at a level comparable with January 2008, when Microsoft made its unexpected offer to buy it. Compare that with the floundering, directionless company that horrified many investors then by repeatedly rejecting Microsoft's $50bn offer, which led to the erosion both in share price and the consensus that Yahoo was irreversibly set to decline.Yahoo was easy to write off in the tech community because it lacks the cool factor and developer kudos of Facebook and Google. But Yahoo's power has always been in its more mainstream (though ageing) user base and its powerful display advertising business. Herein lies the key to its Tumblr acquisition. Though the fit with this hipster lite-blogging, photo-heavy platform could seem a little awkward, it makes sense in the context of Yahoo's ad strategy.Tumblr founder David Karp has always said its advertising model is based on Twitter's "the tweet is the ad" principle. That is, that being embedded in a customised, personal flow of information, being relevant to an influential and proactive community is the most valuable and meaningful way of presenting display advertising right now. That makes Tumblr, integrated with Yahoo's enormous expertise in display advertising, a diverse and demographically important platform for Yahoo that is mobile-heavy and social-focused.The timing is interesting too; Tumblr has been trying native ads akin to promoted tweets for the past year, giving its advertising proposition some legs and diffusing the concern about the juxtaposition of ads with edgier content.The challenge will be for Yahoo – which has pointed to a typical "hands-off" approach – to integrate enough to make a meaningful, complementary ad platform, but allowing Tumblr to keep its edge. Tumblr's market proposition is powerful – young, cool (arguably a little less than a year ago, but still), informed, experimental – just the type of audience who won't hesitate to up sticks when something better comes along. Can Yahoo invest in and encourage the best of that? That's a big challenge for a company so optimised for performance, when actually a little creative chaos is vital.
One day videogames will be an Olympic event. The games that will be played probably don't exist yet, but their predecessors do – and prime among them is Blizzard Entertainment's Starcraft II.This strategy game is one of the major factors behind the rising global popularity of competitive videogaming, better known as eSports, and is built on the foundations of a bona-fide phenomenon.The original Starcraft was released in 1998 on PC and became one of the biggest-ever crazes in South Korea, the impetus and focus for a competitive industry. There had been gaming tournaments and the like beforehand, but by the early millennium, Starcraft and its expansion Brood War had professional teams playing in televised leagues and tournaments viewed by millions – at what was perhaps the game's peak, the 2005 Pro League Final filled a 120,000-seater stadium in Busan.The game's developers Blizzard did not – could not – have predicted this. But Starcraft II was developed from the start to capitalise on it, intended as nothing less than the first global eSport; arguably something it has achieved, with ever-growing audiences given a recent fillip by the expansion Heart of the Swarm. Professional teams competing in a year-round calendar of worldwide tournaments, with livestreaming increasing audiences and advertising revenue like never before.The Starcraft scene naturally has its own jargon. A foreigner is anyone who's not South Korean.Cheese is a cheap strategy. The very greatest players are bonjwa. Personalities are referred to by their in-game IDs rather than name. And then there's BM – bad manners, and one of the many things Greg "Idra" Fields is famous for.Fields specialised in Terran during his Brood War days, but was one of the most dominant Zergs in Starcraft II.Fields is polite, extremely articulate, and until a fortnight ago was one of the highest-profile and highest-paid professional gamers in the world. This is not wholly unrelated to the fact that he's also responsible for some of the most outrageous outbursts in eSports, and not the cool kind of outrageous.He once opined that a nice chap called David Kim, for being one of Starcraft II's balance designers, should be raped with a tire-iron. In March, he wished cancer on an opponent while livestreaming – which was, of course, seen and spread by everyone watching. Alexander Garfield, the CEO of Fields' team Evil Geniuses, assured fans there would be no repeat.Shortly afterwards, following a frustrating showing in the early rounds of Blizzard's new Starcraft II World Championship Series, Fields visited the forums atTeam Liquid, the biggest community hub for the game, and went for certain fans. "You're all a bunch of fucks," he wrote in a thread concerning team EG. "It just so happens I get paid to treat you as such. It's fucking awesome."This happened on 7 May, and the remarks rapidly spread online. It was a moment that posed eSports, and particularly Team EG, an uncomfortable question.Sean "Day [9]" Plottis a major Starcraft II personality and caster – as well as a former North American Brood War champion. "Right when Idra left the Polt game and then shortly thereafter made that post, I was having a conversation with a friend, and I said there's a 99% chance he gets kicked for this. No chance he doesn't get kicked for this. But it was still so crazy to me that the next day it did happen."Sean ' Day [9]' Plott: ‘I think all the deep analysis for what it means for eSports comes down  to 'well you can't be a jerk, no matter where you're working.'' Photograph: Zhang JingnaOn 9 May Team EG announced it hadfiredone of its biggest faces."I've known Idra for a long time personally," says Gamespot'sRod "Slasher" Breslau, an eSports reporter. "But this was the right call. He went direct to the fans and badmouthed them as a whole. It's a decision EG had to make." Two days after being fired, Fields announced his retirementin an interview.The end of his pro-gaming career came where it had began. In sixth grade he'd heard about Starcraft from a friend, and after playing casually for a few years found a new focus."I was 15 or 16 and stumbled across websites like Team Liquid, and that's how I realised the competitive side even existed. I figured I wasn't much of a gamer, but the fact I kept coming back to this thing [meant it] might be worth investing more time into and getting serious about."Fields wasn't an instant success, but one tournament win changed everything. "The Korean team eSTRO announced a North American tournament with prize money, but also part of it was you'd be evaluated to come over and get a spot in the team house in Korea and become a pro-gamer. I won that, and they chose me from all the top-placing players to come over and join the team."The life of a professional gamer in South Korea, the Starcraft Mecca, is one of grinding practice."I've never experienced a boot camp," says Fields. "But I'd imagine it's the same thing except you exchange physical labour for playing Starcraft. It's very, very intense. Especially back in the Brood War team houses, you basically just play for 12 hours a day with one or two days off a month – we had six to seven hours scheduled sleeping time, so not even the recommended eight hours or whatever. An hour for each meal, everyone had chores, and the rest was practice.""I wouldn't say it was enjoyable, because I don't think doing anything that much could be 'fun' fun. But it felt good to do. I felt like I was working hard towards something I cared about, and that was satisfying."The improvement in his play meant Fields started winning plenty of foreign tournaments, but the release of Starcraft II and the fresh start it offered was too tempting – he was one of the first Brood War pros to switch. "It was clearly the future."Fields in his South Korean days, rocking the Harry Potter look.The change in game came with a host of others. Fields changed his preferred race, abandoning Terran in favour of Zerg, and by the end of 2010 had signed for the US team Evil Geniuses on one of the nascent sport's biggest contracts. Though he stayed in Korea for another six months or so, come 2011 he was back in America."I ended up coming back to the US because, as part of the scene, we knew tournaments like the North American Star League and IGN Pro League were about to open up and at the time their plans were to host North American-only competition. And the competition at the time was kind of a joke for me, I could have beaten any of them very comfortably."Big talk but, in patches at least, he made good on it – over two hotstreaks in this period, Fields won five major tournaments as well as regular top-four finishes. "During the second run, the IEM, MLG, Asus competitions, I think that was me playing at my best."Fields has always been admired for his 'macro' play, the art of crushing an opponent over time by building a greater economy, and on his stream you can hear the keys being hit hundreds of times every minute – the pressure behind every clack sounds even."Idra's the sort of athlete who, if you opened up a playbook, and there was the recommended fundamental playstyle … he does that, but refined to such an incredible degree that it almost feels like he's cheating," says Sean Plott."You won't see those big flairy risks taken by him, it's just clean and elegant. Like a master chef with a simple menu. In his kitchen, every single order of food is on time and perfect, never misses one, never messes one up. It's not a creative menu but that doesn't matter."In 2012, Fields suffered a dip in form. But his profile remained high because, while tournament wins and placements are crucial to pro-gaming careers, just as important is streaming – which means, for the most part, broadcasting live practice sessions with commentary. Every time Fields streams, he instantly attracts an audience of thousands, at times hitting tens of thousands; not just because he's brilliant at the game, but because he's a born analyst.Watching is an almost irresistible tug on the voyeur inside every viewer, and the chat is an interface with the public that's as up-close and personal as online gets. Meaning that, as well as fans, pro-gamers constantly have to deal with trolls and mendacious yahoos."Players now do have to deal with more of that side and it's harder," says Breslau. "But there is a level of professionalism where if these guys want to be paid the big bucks – and Idra says himself he was top two or top three in the world in terms of salary – they have to act in a certain manner."The world of eSports has at least one root in an amateur culture that prizes abuse, which is why insults that take the breath away are more common than you might expect. Text chat has never been very good at tone, and when what you say is not what you mean, it's easy to cross the line between tasteless and grossly offensive."The biggest response is that I'm silly to expect people not to take me literally," says Fields. "But I feel that sarcasm and exaggeration and hyperbole – these are established aspects of language and communication. I think if I say that I want someone to get cancer, it's pretty clear that I don't actually want them to get cancer in real life. But a lot of people seem to disagree with that, so maybe I'm the one who needs to reconsider.""I did understand EG's decision because I generated a lot of negative attention for them," continues Fields. "The way my persona works, the way I get attention from the publicisin a lot of negative ways and that will always be walking a bit of a tightrope. My only problem was there was never any escalation, I'd only ever been fined $500 way back for an unrelated incident, so I didn't realise things were getting worse."Alexander Garfield, CEO of Team Evil Geniuses, has signed many of the biggest names in eSports  across various titles.I asked EG's CEO Alex Garfield about that. "We're not the kind of company that likes to force people to do things. I as a person am not like that. We have the right to fine players, and Greg was fined quite a few more times and for more money than he says, but ultimately fines are only one part of motivating players to behave professionally. The bottom line is that you can only tell someone 'this will never happen again' so many times."Talking to Garfield also suggests other sides to this story; his words carry the careful weight of a man who, after years of supporting a controversial star turn, finally had to cut him loose. The professionalism teams like EG are bringing to eSports is what makes players like Idra high earners and is also what did for him.It is an ignominious end, nevertheless, to a great pro-gaming career – and a sad one. During our interview, Fields takes great pains to clarify the distinctions between who he was insulting in that forum post."Not the fans and genuine supporters of eSports, but the ones who are just there for the drama mongering. And in a way I did, and still do, get paid to treat them like shit because that's what they find entertaining, that's what they tune in to watch and get off on."There is the young man's conviction – and this is a vein running right through the Starcraft community – that being right is more important than anything else. And that I am right.In the end, that's why Fields is fascinating. Not just because he's a human angle on a new and little-understood industry, but also because he's a human, angled; somewhat inexplicable, a living contradiction. An exceptional and disciplined intelligence, capable of such childish outbursts it's almost comical. Almost.Fields is embarking on a careercommentating and streaming, and doesn't see a return to competitive action. "There was an aspect of burnout to my decision. I don't see myself redeveloping that longing to play."Perhaps it is the pro-gamer's fishbowl; an always-on life with live feedback, replayed and dissected daily. "I would almost say he's hardened," finishes Plott. "And in some ways doesn't care as much as he used to."At several points, Fields talks about his persona; a self-creation. Yet his actions often suggest much less craft. The ultimate goal of a pro-gamer's life is to win in the white heat of tournament competition, and of the many hopefuls few enough make it. Perhaps to be one of them, even for a short time, burns a little piece of you in return. Greg Fields is 23.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check outprevious Best Android apps posts).Diner Dash (Free)Billed as "the world's #1 hit time management game", Diner Dash has been hugely popular on computers and iOS devices alike down the years. Now it's on Android too courtesy of publisher PlayFirst. The game involves seating, serving and saying tara to diners as efficiently as possible to collect tips. It's a freemium game, so in-app purchases are used for boosts and upgrades.Hangouts (Free)Google moved to unify its Android messaging apps last week with Hangouts, offering instant messaging, photo-sharing, emoji and video calls in one package. It's also available for computers and iOS.Soundhalo (Free)Soundhalo is an app for live music concerts, selling audio and video files of performances by artists, starting with two London gigs earlier in May by Alt-J. It's pitched as a way to buy the gig you've just seen as you walk out of the venue, but the bigger market is likely to be people who didn't attend.Whisper (Free)Whisper has been popular on iOS: an "anonymous social network that lets you share confessions, express yourself and meet new people". New anonymous people, obviously. The idea being an app where you can post your genuine, unshareable-with-friends thoughts, for a wider audience.Sonic The Hedgehog (£2.35)Sega is certainly cashing in on its fleet-footed blue hedgehog: the original Sonic game follows two episodes of Sonic 4, Sonic CD and Sonic Jump onto Android. The famous Mega Drive game has been accurately ported across, with extra Tails &amp; Knuckles, a remastered soundtrack and a new Time Attack mode.DK Quiz (Free)This is the work of book publisher DK: a trivia app covering music, film, food, sports and numerous other topics. You can play alone or challenge friends Draw Something-style, with virtual coins (earned or bought via IAP) helping you unlock different question packs.Lego Star Wars: The Yoda Chronicles (Free)Several friends have practically foamed at the mouth upon being informed of the release of this game. It's the latest offshoot from Lego Star Wars, which sees you battling through eight levels as either Yoda or Count Dooku.View from the Train (Free)Launched by Scottish Natural Heritage, this tourism app showcases the sights to be seen when travelling by train in Scotland. That means four-minute audio chapters narrated by broadcasters Fiona MacDonald and Mark Stephen, complemented by photographs, interviews and other information.Kingdom Rush (£1.30)There are lots of tower defence games on Android, it's fair to say – including a number of top-quality titles. Kingdom Rush should be able to hold its own in the crowd though: it was excellent on iOS. The game has a fantasy setting, all orcs, elves and wizards. You'll be protecting your kingdom against more than 50 enemies, with all manner of upgrades and abilities to fuel your strategy.The Jungle Book (£2.99)This is the latest children's storybook-app from Irish startup StoryToys, which turns the famous tale of Mowgli, Baloo and Bagheera into a virtual pop-up book for Android devices. Animation, voice narration and a series of accessible mini-games make it a treat for kids.Turbo Racing League (Free)Developer PikPok's latest Android game is based on the upcoming DreamWorks Animation film Turbo. It's basically Mario Kart with snails. Well, there's a bit more to it than that, but this free-to-play game gets you to customise then race a colourful terrestrial-gastropod. In the US, there's the additional incentive of a $1m contest to be the best player.Moshcam (Free)It's a good week for Android-owning live music fans, with Moshcam joining Soundhalo on the Google Play store. This offers videos of gigs by the likes of Slash, PJ Harvey, Hot Chip, Alabama Shakes and Blondie among others, with interviews in the mix too.Karateka Classic (£0.65)One for retro gamers, this: a 1984 karate game by Jordan Mechner, who went on to create the Prince of Persia games. This is a port of the Apple II version of Karateka, which sees you going head-to-head (well, also foot-to-midriff) with a succession of enemies in a side-scrolling adventure.Kidpix: Save Your Kid's Art (Free)Parents! Is your fridge over-festooned with marvellous, clearly-advanced and hinting-at-glory artworks by your kids? Kidpix is one of the apps hoping to help you store these paintings and scribbles. The idea: you take photos of children's artwork, add virtual frames and then save/share it.The Butter Battle Book - Dr. Seuss (£2.61)This is the latest Dr Seuss book-app for Android, but it's fascinating for parents as well as children thanks to its theme. It's about the Yooks and the Zooks, who've fallen out over which way to eat their bread (butter side up or down?) and are in an arm's race to develop ever-more-silly weapons to use against one another. As allegories for the Cold War (but with rhymes) go, it's one of the best.Jelly Racing (Free)This is an inventive take on the racing genre: a "turn-based strategic racing game" with jellies instead of cars. There are tournaments to take on Facebook friends and strangers alike, as well as a fun Party Play mode for several people to play on a single device.Wubbzy's Mash-Em Fun (£1.28)Children's TV character Wubbzy (he's on Nick Jr.) has been the star of a succession of apps in recent months. This new one sees you bashing robot chickens with a mallet, with two modes to suit children of different ages and abilities.Hooves Reloaded: Horse Racing (Free)The apps world tends to have long, spiralling tails, so there's definitely space for a multiplayer horseracing strategy game where you manage stables and run horses against those of friends. Breeding and betting is also built in.Fire &amp; Forget Final Assault (£1.55)Another well-known old gaming brand pops up on Android: Fire &amp; Forget, with racing and shooting in equal measures, a post-apocalyptic theme and 10 levels to drive (and shoot) your way through.Trek Episode Guide (Free)This is unofficial but interesting: a guide to every Star Trek TV episode and movie, offering plot descriptions and images. A good companion when digging into the Star Trek back catalogue around the release of the newest movie.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 18 May 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Metro: Last Light(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)12 (1)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)PC (1)43 (5)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (26)Wii (7)VITA (5)344 (–)Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Infinity (3+)3DS (100)15 (2)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (34)PC (4)Wii U (1)276 (3)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (46)PC (1)117 (9)The Walking Dead(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (42)PC (3)28 (4)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (35)Wii U (3)59 (7)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)2910 (6)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (35)PC (6)811 (12)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (42)PC (7)2512 (10)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)813 (8)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins (7+)3DS (100)414 (15)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (18)Wii (17)DS (14)4515 (14)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (99)716 (17)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (26)PC (19)7217 (20)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (32)4918 (19)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (28)PC (0)1819 (–)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (25)PS3 (11)2920 (13)Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)4.UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Sony's cards are on the table, now it's Microsoft's turn to show its hand. After the controversial introduction of the PlayStation 4 in February, Tuesday will see the unveiling of the next Xbox machine, which still doesn't have a name – although Infinity is a frontrunner once again. Taking place at the Microsoft HQ in Redmond, the event will be live-streamed across the globe, and should actuallyshow usthe new console – unlike Sony's rather coy non-reveal.The industry has changed almost beyond recognition since the announcement of the Xbox 360 way back in May 2005. But somehow the console has managed to stay abreast of trends, introducing Achievements and gamer scores, perfecting the online gaming experience, and opening up its online infrastructure for an array of video-on-demand services. It has sold over 76m units worldwide, attracting over 46m users to its Xbox Live service.So what's the plan for the 720, or Durango, or Infinity, or whatever it's called? Here are the five things we want to know. Feel free to add your own questions and concerns int he comments section.The specsWell, unless there's a huge upset, we have a pretty good idea of what to expect here. Rumours coming out of the development sector for several months suggest an eight-core X86 CPU operating at 1.6Ghz, a custom GPU (possibly based on the Radeon HD 8770 or HD 7790, depending on your preferredsourceofspeculation), a 500GB HD and a Blu-ray drive. It doesn't take a super geek to work out that this is a very similar set-up to the Playstation 4, so it's all down to the nitty gritty of the architecture – the type of RAM used, the teraflops output, any memory squirreled away for OS use, that sort of thing. Oh, there have been rumours of a second GPU dedicated to multimedia functionality – ie video streaming. That would fit with the emerging idea that Microsoft wants to push this thing as a one-size-fits-all living room entertainment behemoth. Damn, I wish theywouldcall it the Xbox Behemoth. Anyway, what we want to know is: are these specs correct, and if so, what does this AMD-fuelled architecture have that PS4 doesn't?Kinect 2.0Ever since the leak of thatsuspiciously amateurish Xbox 720 documentback in May 2012, we've been conditioned to expect the return of Kinect, Microsoft's, let's say divisive, motion control peripheral. Kinect 2.0, we're led to believe, will be built in to the new console, offering much more accurate cameras – thereby allowing for facial recognition and tracking of up to four players at once. There will also be improved voice recognition for when you just can't be bothered to press buttons. Does this excite you? Well, maybe not – Kinect never really got the pulses racing on Xbox 360, despite shifting more than 20m units. The tracking tech never really worked well enough, and you needed masses of space to use the thing. If these problems have been solved, then this could be interesting, although it seems we can rule out a joint implementation with Microsoft'sIllumiroom'augmented viewing' concept, which baths your viewing area in images matching the onscreen action; that's still some way off apparently.The connected servicesHowever much of a PlayStation fan you are, you have to concede that Xbox 360 got online just right. Sure, you had to pay a subscription, but Live worked beautifully and left Sony scrabbling to catch up (Trophies, anyone?). Alongside a wonderful online gaming system, the console also offered an array of video-on-demand services, and it's likely these will be a key focus for the follow-up, too. When Xbox blogger Major Nelson announced the next-gen Xbox event back in April he stated, "On Tuesday May 21st, we'll mark the beginning of a new generation of games,TV and entertainment." In short, we can expect content partnership deals with major TV and movie corps, and maybe other entertainment features set to place the console in competition with the likes of Virgin and Sky (for example, the ability to record and store TV programmes). As for Xbox Live itself, will we get a more social lobby system, allowing for easier match-ups between friends? Can we count on cross-platform gaming against smartphone and tablet owners? And will there be a new take on Achievements?And the biggest question of all: will the next Xbox require a constant internet connection? This would, of course, offer security benefits, but won't be... popular (greatest understatement of the year nominee 2013). Polygonreckonspublishers will get to decide if their games require a constant connection, whereasArs Technica suggeststhat offline fun will be available to those watching TV, Blu-ray movie discs or indulging in single-player campaigns. Hmm, what could possibly go wrong? That Polygon story also mentions the possibility of a record option, allowing gamers to easily share their game footage. Sort of like the PS4 "share" function. Gawd, are thereanyoriginal ideas left in the world?The gamesXbox veterans are in for a thrilling time tomorrow. Rumours suggest Project Gotham Racing 5, Forza Motorports 5, Halo 5 and Fable 4. As for new – ahem – "IP", we're expecting one or maybe even two projects from Rare, and the first-person Roman hack-'em-upRysefrom Crytek, may be headed this way. Elsewhere, there are whispers that Titan the first project from Respawn Entertainment (founded by ex-Infinity Ward heads Jason West and Vince Zampella) could be an Xbox 720 exclusive. Likely to steal the show, though, will be the debut of Activision's Call of Duty Ghosts – the next-generation instalment in its moderately successful shooter series. My question though: what is Microsoft doing about supporting smaller studios? Xbox Live Indie Games was a huge disappointment. Let's try that again, eh?Launch date?Microsoft analyst Paul Thurot hasguessed atan early November launch, with two price points: $499 for an outright purchase of the console, or a $299 option which gets you the machine but commits you to an Xbox Live subscription, possibly for two years. Microsoft has experimented with this sort of price model before, and it may be a smart way of keeping hardware costs within the budgets of gamers who would probably stump up for the online gaming service anyway. Sony hasn't given a PS4 ETA yet, beyond vaguely mumbling about Winter 2013, so can Microsoft hit the shelves first? And if so, how important will that be? The Sega Saturn just pipped the original PlayStation into Japanese stores, while Dreamcast beat PS2 to sale – neither flourished as a result. But the big gap between the Xbox 360 and PS3 certainly did help Microsoft's machine.But just imagine ifbothcome out in November. It'll be carnage out there...
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.EA Has No Games in Development For Nintendo's Wii U | KotakuLess than two years after vowing to deliver on an "unprecedented partnership" with Nintendo, gaming giant EA is quiet on the Wii U front."We have no games in development for the Wii U currently," company spokesperson Jeff Brown told Kotaku yesterday. He did not rule out the chances of EA developing for the Wii U again. EA publishes many of gaming's biggest franchises, including Madden, The Sims, and Battlefield.This is not a good sign for Nintendo, of course. EA may not be the gigantic force it once was when its lack of patronage effectively killed the Dreamcast, but the denial of regular big-hitters like Fifa and Battlefield is going to hurt.Activision's market share climbed to almost 20% in 2012 | GamesIndustry InternationalActivision's market share of the boxed video game sales market climbed from 15.7 per cent in 2011 to 19.5 per cent for 2012.That's according to data collected by Ubisoft, based on figures from NPD, GfK Chart Track and Nielsen, showing that Activision, Ubisoft, Take 2 and Microsoft were the only publishers to increase their market share.The data also provides the best selling game brands. Can you guess the top five? It's Call of Duty, Mario, Fifa, Wii Fit and Assassin's Creed.More people playing video games than ever before | Xbox WireMajor Nelson:On the latest episode of my weekly podcast, Aaron Greenberg (IEB Chief Of Staff) drops by to share some interesting data around the video game industry. How much time are people spending gaming? How does console gaming compare to PC's and mobile? Find out the answers to that and more!Microsoft reckons that consoles still make up 42% of the global consumer spend on games. People are forking out around $27bn on console titles, compared to $10bn on smartphone/tablet and $12bn on PC.Smash Bros, Mario, Mario Kart in Upcoming Nintendo Direct | IGNNintendo has confirmed that Mario, Mario Kart and Smash Bros. will appear in a Nintendo Direct before E3. The news comes via Nintendo of America's Twitter account, which wrote "#IwataSays We will discuss new Smash Bros., 3D Mario game, Mario Kart and other Wii U titles in our #NintendoDirectNA before the start of E3."Surprise!Mind games: why NeuroGaming is the future | VG247How far are we from fully controlling games with our mind? VG247′s Dave Cook speaks with neuro-technology expert Zack Lynch to discuss why sensory tools like Oculus and Google Glass are the future of gaming.This is an interesting round-up of current thinking in 'neuro-gaming' and sensory mechanics. I get virtual reality, but do you really want to touch, feel and smell game worlds? I don't want to smell Call of Duty.The Banner Saga: Factions | TIGSourceIf you like tactical games and free PvP, then you might get as addicted to the Banner Saga: Factions as I have (Factions' Steam page).  It's much like playing a timed chess game with a greater depth of variety in terms of strategy, which is provided the fantasy elements of the game and its unique battle mechanics.This is just a quick heads-up for this truly beautiful looking tactical RPG.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Apple's mobile devices such as the iPhone and iPad have been cleared for use on the US Pentagon's networks, joining Samsung and BlackBerry in the potentially huge – and tightly regulated – US military market.That opens the door to a three-way fight between the companies for contracts worth millions of dollars and whose prestige could have benefits far beyond the defence department's networks.On 2 May BlackBerry's Z10 smartphone and PlayBook tablet running its new BB10 software passed the Pentagon's requirements. Samsung's "Knox" version of Android, which it says will be available on its new S4 smartphone later this year, has also been approved this month.Any device that is used will be tightly controlled using "mobile device management" software that restricts what apps can be used and installed, and limited in which networks it can connect to.With the Pentagon looking to buy as many as 8m devices for a global network, all three companies now have high-profile approval that they can use to push for broader enterprise adoption.For Apple, which for years before the iPhone had little penetration in corporate markets, preferring instead to focus on consumers, the nod from the most rigorous tester is a dramatic shift in its business standing. "It's a big deal," Brian White, an analyst at New York-based Topeka Capital Markets, told Bloomberg News. "Apple has had a big push into the enterprise and government. This is definitely a positive step in that initiative."Samsung has developed "Knox", a hardened version of Android, specifically to win defence and enterprise contracts as it aims to cement its dominance of the smartphone market, where it is the largest player by volume. "The department approved the Knox STIG [Security Technical Implementation Guide] before the product is even available commercially, which we see as a positive example of close government/industry partnership delivering the latest technology to meet DoD needs," Pentagon spokesman Lt Col Damien Pickart told the Guardian.BlackBerry's position as the prime supplier to defence organisations is under threat from its two rivals. Having carved out a niche in which its handsets were the only ones allowed to connect to US military networks, providing a lucrative niche, it is under increasing pressure from Apple and Samsung in this field. Scott Totzke, senior vice-president for BlackBerry security at the Ontario-based company, told Bloomberg: "Technical certifications are an important but only first, 'threshold' step in meeting the needs of truly secure mobile computing for government. Security, reliability and the ability to perform in crisis situations when you depend on mobility are all import hallmarks of the BlackBerry solution."Presently the Pentagon has more than 600,000 mobile devices being used on its networks, including 470,000 BlackBerry handsets, 41,000 iPhones and iPads, and 8,700 Android-based smartphones. Many of the latter have been used principally for testing, and do not connect to its military networks.
Marissa Mayer, the former Google executive who is now in charge of Yahoo, is poised to create yet another nothing-to-riches tale in the web industry with the $1.1bn (£720m) acquisition of the blogging site Tumblr.Mayer called Yahoo's board together on Sunday  afternoon to discuss the firm's latest attempt to regain its former glamour and reports indicated the board had given its approval. Tumblr was founded in 2007 by David Karp, then 21, in a bedroom in his mother's apartment in New York. Within a fortnight it had 75,000 users; by January 2012, there were 42m blogs on the site; today, there are about 110m, and the investors who have poured $125m into the company include Sir Richard Branson.With a press conference due on Monday in New York's Times Square, just a couple of miles from Tumblr's headquarters, nobody expects Mayer will turn up empty-handed.According to the Wall Street Journal on Sunday evening, the Yahoo board have agreed to pay $1.1bn for Tumblr and will let it continue to operate as an independent business.Yahoo declined to comment before the announcement, but pointed out that it would be streamed live. That is something the company has previously only done (in audio) for its quarterly financial results. For Yahoo, capturing the white-hot blogging site could catapult it back into the top flight of contenders in a web world that has become hugely more complicated since it was set up in March 1995 – before Google and nearly a decade before Facebook.Tumblr's attraction is how easily it allows users to create their own web presence: they can go from zero to blogging in less than a minute, posting pictures and text effortlessly. Unlike Facebook, it is anonymous, yet has a powerful search engine for finding "similar" content, which is often reshared. As the network grows, that internal sharing grows and grows.The web measurement companyQuantcast saysTumblr has had 217m global users in the past month, and was the US's 24th most popular site, with about 75m American users. This gives Tumblr a user base on a par with Yahoo's own.But for Tumblr, Yahoo could bring the ability to attract advertising it has been sorely missing. It also looks like something of a shotgun marriage. Tumblr has only a few months of cash left, according to industry gossip, and has been shopping itself around for a while. It pulled in $13m of advertising in 2012, but is spending far more than that.Tumblr hoped to hit a $100m revenue target for 2013 but that now seems unlikely, making the purchase a potential lifesaver for investors.Unlike Facebook, Tumblr has been slow to pull in advertisers. Speaking to the Guardian in January 2012, Karpexpressed disdain for how other sites use ads. Of the Google-owned YouTube, he said: "They take your creative works – your film that you poured hours and hours of energy into – and they put ads on top of it. They make it as gross an experience to watch your film as possible. I'm sure it will contribute to Google's bottom line; I'm not sure it will inspire any creators."Mayer was appointed 10 months ago as Yahoo's chief executive in a move that looked both audaciously clever, and a last throw of the dice. She was at the time one of the longest-serving staff at Google, having been there 13 years, but had apparently been bypassed for the high-profile jobs. Yahoo, meanwhile, had seen its revenues slump and a revolving-door procession of CEOs.The big fear for Yahoo is that Tumblr will turn out to be an updated version of Geocities, the third most visited site on the internet when Yahoo bought it in January 1999. Though it became famous for users' garish choice of page colours, Geocities was also a resource many loved. But the company arguably never got back the $3.57bn it paid – entirely in stock, at $36 per share. In 2009, Geocities was shut down, and the entire site simply wiped from the internet. For Mayer and Karp, and millions of Tumblr users, the hope must be that history won't repeat itself.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMac malware signed with Apple ID infects activist's laptop &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaStealthy Mac OS X spyware that was digitally signed with a valid Apple Developer ID has been detected on the laptop of an Angolan activist attending a human rights conference, researchers said.The backdoor, which is programmed to take screenshots and send them to remote servers under the control of the attackers, wasspread using a spear phishing email, according to privacy activist Jacob Appelbaum. Spear phishing is a term for highly targeted emails that address the receiver by name and usually appear to come from someone the receiver knows.Jacob Applebaum (@ioerror on Twitter) is the person who spotted all this; he says the target's life is "likely in danger" - just in case you thought this was some trivial bit of hacking.Contactless 'charging errors' at Marks and Spencer &gt;&gt; BBC NewsSome Marks and Spencer customers have told the BBC of cases where the chain's contactless payment terminals have taken money from cards other than the ones intended for payment.Card are supposed to be within about 4cm of the front of the contactless terminal to work.But some customers say payments have been taken from cards while in purses and wallets at much greater distances.The customers can't be certain that they never brought their wallets within that required 4cm or so. But it does point to a potential business making wallets with fine wire mesh weave to stop the cards being read by accident.Galaxy S4: 10M in 4 weeks. iPhone 5: 5M in 3 days. &gt;&gt; Fortune TechPhilip Elmer DeWitt:It's been years since Samsung reported any unit sales numbers at all for its mobile phones, so the tech press took notice Thursday when the South Korean manufacturing giant decided it had something to brag about.Samsung Electronics co-CEO Shin Jong-kyun told reporters at an industry forum in Seoul that he is confident shipments of the Galaxy S4 will top 10m next week - four weeks after the device went on sale in 60 countries, including Korea, China, India and the US."That would make the mobile device the fastest-selling selling smartphone in Samsung's history," theKorea Timesreported - a line echoed in theU.S. press.That kind of coverage must drive Tim Cook crazy.Because when Apple (AAPL) reported last September that it sold 5m iPhone 5 units in three days, analysts expressed"disappointment"and Business Insider ran this headline:IPHONE 5 OPENING WEEKEND SALES COME IN WORSE THAN EXPECTEDAnd what was its headline Friday?Samsung's S4 Starts Strong: 10 Million Units In Less Than A MonthSamsung responds to Galaxy S4 BBC Watchdog investigation &gt;&gt; Trusted ReviewsDespite advertising 16GB of internal storage, the Samsung Galaxy S4 only offers roughly 9GB of user available storagehighlighted by the BBC Watchdog exposé. The Samsung flagship does offer microSD card expansion options, but early purchasers have complained about the memory discrepancy."We appreciate this issue being raised and we will improve our communications," said a Samsung spokesperson to CNET UK. "We are reviewing the possibility to secure more memory space through further software optimisation."The interesting thing about this isn't that there's a difference between the stated storage and what you get, but that buyers are actually complaining about it. One wonders how much Samsung will be able to claw back through that "optimisation". And how much memory Google's "pure" S4 (sold via Google) has. (Thanks @Avro for the link.)Google's open video proposal closes door on software freedom &gt;&gt; InfoWorldSimon Phipps, president of the Open Source Initiative, on Google's VP8 licensing proposal:You'll need to provide your personal information to Google to get this license, and section 9 makes clear the company may well use it at some point to contact you and even use your name in its publicity, according to section 15.That restriction is probably tolerable for a corporation that can execute the agreement once for all products and staff, but for an open source project it's a big problem. Open source communities may not have a legal entity able to sign on behalf of the community, either because there's no actual legal entity or because the community of developers has too loose a relationship with any legal entity to be counted as the equivalent employees. By requiring individual, nontransferrable registration, Google is erecting a barrier that at the very least will provoke suspicion from open source projects.Google Lock-In Lock-Out &gt;&gt; OUseful.InfoOpen University professor Tony Hirst:As John Naughton feels obliged to remind folk every now and again, the web is not the internet. Because we all know that for many people, Facebook apparently is. Or Google is.And as anyone following my tweets over the last year or two will know, I've started finding Google more and more irksome.It's not just that the one or two people I know who use Google Plus (Google+?) are now all but lost to me as sources of neat ideas because I don't do Gooplus and it doesn't do RSS…Keep reading. It's quite a list of points with a killer endline.Asha to Asha &gt;&gt; StratecheryBen Thompson:Asha… has worse specifications than a cheap Android phone, and a much worse app selection. Thus it has been largely ignored by a tech press thatconsiders little morethan features and price.However, finding a market is about finding a new axis of differentiation. In the case of low-end smartphones, are there things that matter beyond price and performance?Consider again where Asha will be sold: India, Africa, Latin America – all have markets where mobile phones are the primary form of computing, as well as areas without consistent electricity. In such markets, nothing matters more than battery life.And Asha has that in spades. In fact, the Asha range has sold more phones in the past three quarters than Windows Phone. (Also, bonus point for the title of the post.)Why did Google launch Google Play Music All Access? &gt;&gt; Venture HarbourMarcus Taylor:When I go to Google in search of music, it's fair to say that the results I'm served are exceptionally poor.In this instance, the results that Google serve me do not match my search intent. I want to download Incubus' album – but instead Google is pointing me in the direction of illegal download sites, music videos, and a streaming platform.To paraphrase Google's mission statement, they want to offer me the most relevant result in as few clicks as possible – and at the moment there are no legal and relevant results within 3-4 clicks away. Surely Google can do better?So here is where I think we're heading. Please note that these are photo-shopped images, and not actual screenshots.His suggestion is that Google Play Music All Access results will be pushed to the top of music search results - as happens with lots of other Google properties. One has to wonder about the antitrust implications.London in 1927 &gt;&gt; VimeoIncredible colour footage of 1920s London shot by an early British pioneer of film named Claude Friese-Greene, who made a series of travelogues using the colour process his father William - a noted cinematographer - was experimenting with. It's like a beautifully dusty old postcard you'd find in a junk store, but moving..Everything Apple needs to introduce at WWDC to appease the internet &gt;&gt; carpeaquaJustin Williams:With WWDC just a few weeks away, I thought it'd be beneficial to the Internet at large to compile a working list of everything that is expected of Apple during their Keynote and subsequent "State of the Union" addresses in order to appease the Internet.He left off "$100 mini iPhone in five colours". What sort of appeasement is this?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hey, Monday, when did you get here?
Google's chairman, Eric Schmidt, has said he welcomes promises by international leaders to crack down on tax loopholes exploited by the search firm and other multinational internet businesses that take billions of pounds of sales from the UK through overseas companies, which HM Revenue &amp; Customs cannot tax."Given the intensity of the debate, not just in the UK but also in America and elsewhere, international tax law could almost certainly benefit from reform,"he concededin the Observer. He said an action plan from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, due to be presented to the G20 in July, was now "hotly awaited".OECD officials have already signalled that the plan will include "updated solutions to the issues related to jurisdiction to tax, in particular in the areas of digital goods and services".An OECD positioning paper published in February said: "Developments brought about by the digital economy are putting increasing pressure on … well-established [tax] principles. In an era where non-resident taxpayers can derive substantial profits from transactions with customers located in another country, questions are being raised as to whether the current rules ensure a fair allocation of taxing rights on business profits, especially where the profits from such transactions go untaxed anywhere."Schmidt's latest remarks on tax represent a marked softening in tone. In December he dismissed critics, saying: "We pay lots of taxes; we pay them in the legally prescribed ways. I am very proud of the structure that we set up. We did it based on the incentives that the governments offered us to operate."But the Google boss now appears to accept that many of those "tax incentives" are in truth loopholes that have opened up as technological innovation has allowed companies to operate in ways unimaginable by those who drafted international tax rules.Schmidt said he also supported moves by David Cameron to use Britain's presidency of the G8 to tackle tax. "The UK government has the perfect opportunity to take the lead in shaping this complex debate at the G8 summit next month. We hope [it] seizes the initiative and makes meaningful tax reform one of the top items on the agenda."On Monday Schmidt will meet the prime minister, along with other multinational business leaders who sit on his business advisory group. One pressing issue for all is likely to be growing calls for big business tax reform. Bosses of BAE Systems, Tata Group, GSK, Vodafone and John Lewis will all be keen to give Cameron their perspective before the G8 meeting in Northern Ireland next month.The prime minister has already signalled he wants to use Britain's presidency of the G8 to tackle "aggressive tax avoidance" by multinationals. "Some forms of avoidance have become so aggressive that I think it is right to say these are ethical issues," he told the World Economic Forum in January, urging multinationals to "wake up and smell the coffee".The meeting comes aftera dreadful week for Googleduring which its northern Europe boss, Matt Brittin, was recalled to appear before angry MPs on the public accounts committee to clarify testimony on the group's tax arrangements he gave to parliament six months ago.Google did £3.2bn of business with UK advertisers and media buyers last year but told HMRC these transactions were technically "closed" in Ireland, and therefore not liable for UK tax. Brittin told MPs he stood by earlier evidence that his 1,300 employees in the UK – more than half of whom work in marketing – did not close sales.The MPs were armed with evidence from several whistleblowers, former Google UK workers who told the politicians they believed they were negotiating and closing sales in the UK.One of those whistleblowers, who worked for Google between 2002 and 2006, has spoken out publicly for the first time. "When I was at Google, our job was to find advertisers, to close the deals [and] to get them to sign bits of paper saying they were committing to spending in the UK," Barney Jones told the Sunday Times. "If that is not closing the deal, I don't know what is."He told the newspaper he planned to hand more than 100,000 emails and other internal Google documents to HMRC tax inspectors. Lawyers from the search firm are not expected to try to block him from doing so."Google has pulled the wool over the eyes of HMRC and the British population," said Jones. "[It] has prided itself on being a socially responsible company and to pay your tax is the most fundamental responsibility. This is a betrayal of everything that Google stands for."The search firm is known for its motto, "Don't be evil", which was enshrined in the group's $23bnstock market flotation prospectusin 2004. It said: "Don't be evil. We believe strongly that in the long term, we will be better served – as shareholders and in all other ways – by a company that does good things for the world even if we forgo some short term gains. This is an important aspect of our culture."But the words of the motto were turned against the group last week when – unimpressed by Brittin's evidence – Margaret Hodge, chair of the public accounts committee, rounded on him. "You are a company that says you 'do no evil'. And I think that you do do evil." She said the group's approach to tax in the UK was "devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical".Google held on to its "Don't be evil" motto since it was first sent down in a list often guiding principlesdrawn up by founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin in the earlier years. Along with "you can make money without doing evil" and "democracy on the web works" on the list is "you can be serious without a suit".Earlier this month Schmidt admitted he had initially considered the "Don't be evil" motto "the stupidest rule ever". However, in an interview with National Public Radio in the US, he added that he later discovered it did in fact provided a helpful check on sharp practices."So what happens is, I'm sitting in this meeting, and we're having this debate about an advertising product. And one of the engineers pounds his fists on the table and says, that's evil. And then the whole conversation stops, everyone goes into conniptions, and eventually we stopped the project. So it did work."Not everyone agrees. In 2010, Welsh rock band Manic Street Preachers included a final track on their Postcards from a Young Man album,Don't be evil, a bitter take on online corporate culture.
Price from £21,745MPG up to 74.3Top speed up to 112mphIt's almost a year since the mother of all traffic jams entered the record books – Beijing's 60-mile, 12-day monster. It spawned its own micro economy with food sellers and laundry workers plying the lines of trapped drivers, while the rich abandoned their cars and paid others to sit in their static vehicles.The jam put into context the paltry three-hour tailback I was stuck in over the bank holiday. We lay on the grass embankment and chatted to our new neighbours about the Ohio kidnappings, the Padstow boat tragedy – and about the sheer waste of resources a&nbsp;standstill jam causes.Even when flowing sweetly, Britain's roads are voracious. According toRoadclock.com, on any average day, more than 350,000 tonnes of carbon are emitted, 85,000 tyres will be replaced and 100m litres of fuel will be consumed – netting £1,000 per second in duty for the tax man. Start factoring in congestion, rush-hour snarl ups, weekend gridlock, marital friction ("Why on earth did you comethisway?") and you start to feel the nauseating strain a jam puts on us.Which is why, in some small way, I was glad the car I was stuck in wasToyota's Auris Hybrid– an eco car that does almost 75 miles to a gallon with just a nostril caressing whiff of emissions – 85g/km. The ethically pure Auris is as clean as Jay Rayner's dinner plate…The notion of a green car will, of course, always be oxymoronic. Like false truths, turkey ham or Arsenal trophies, some pairings seem poles apart. But manufacturers are working hard at pulling the opposing ends together. And with its Auris hybrid, Toyota is doing better than most. Thanks to aerodynamic improvements, weight saving, engine readjustments and technological cunning, this Toyota has beaten off the likes of Volkswagen's Golf Bluemotion and BMW's i3 electric supermini to claim the title ofGreen Car of the Year 2013.Hybrids, electrics and alternatively fuelled cars have all been hailed as the solution to our motoring ails, but they tend to be over expensive, over complicated and, frankly, over-rated. They're ordinary cars that have been forced into a new template in a vain attempt to capture the green pound. They feel heavy, fragile and unreliable. But they're getting there, and this new Auris is another step forward.With its 1,798cc, four-cylinder petrol engine plus two electric motor generators, this flagship model is fun, responsive, clever, laughingly easy to control and strikingly good looking. It's a hybrid car I'd happily own. Not because it feels like the latest and best of the current crop, but because it feels like the first of the next.Over the years, Toyota has built some stultifying cars. But with the likes of the GT86 and now this, the Japanese giant seems determined to regain its place in the world. The new Auris will continue to be made in the UK, at the Burnaston factory in Derbyshire, where the outgoing model is already a top seller for Toyota – one rolls off the production line every 66 seconds.Toyota Auris Hybrid interior – responsive, clever, and easy to controlCompact yet roomy, classy yet affordable, drivable yet green…  the Auris is perfect for anyone wanting to occupy slightly less space on our crowded roads.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Suddenly a robotised, automated economic reality is moving off the science fiction pages and into daily life. The growing use of unmanned battlefield drones is encouraging the growth of pilotless&nbsp;commercial aircraft&nbsp;– the first ever flew in British airspace last month. Google's driverless car is completing ever more trials ever more successfully: the world's major car companies are all hot in pursuit, working on their own prototypes of their own versions. The automated checkouts at supermarkets are becoming as familiar as bank cash machines. From staff-free ticket offices to students who can learn online, it seems there is no corner of economic life in which people are not being replaced by machines.This is the "Great Reset" – a cull of broadly middle-class jobs with middle-class incomes that is apparent across the west, but with little current sign of what industries and activities will replace them.The world has lost millions of jobs before – on the land or in the old horse-powered economy – but they were soon replaced by jobs in the car industry or the new service industries. What worries many economists and computer scientists is that today's technologies are going to remove people from economic activity completely. Some argue that a dystopian world is emerging in which good jobs and full-time employment will become the preserve of an educated, computer-literate elite. For example Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Google are plainly riding the new wave, but they are not mass employers like Tesco, Ford or General Motors.&nbsp;Moshe Vardi, a computer scientist at Rice University, asks if we are ready for a world in which half the adult population does not work. The Great Reset – the economy resetting itself, after a major technological shock, to deliver jobs for all – may never happen.The omens are all around. The US economy has never generated so few jobs in an upturn since records began. In Britain, the Resolution Foundation charts the ongoing squeeze on low and middle incomes, and observes brutally that already Britain has the second highest proportion of low-paid jobs in the developed world. The formal unemployment numbers, now ominously rising five years since the crisis began, do not capture the full extent to which the economy is not delivering good work.Plainly some of the explanation is that the economy is still reeling from the effect of the financial crisis and the accompanying vast overhang of private debt. But economies have an embedded resilience. Output will return to the levels of 2008, probably some time next year. There will be an economic "recovery". But this raises the question: what happens afterwards?Think through the implications of the driverless car. These will be vehicles whose complex sensors allow them to communicate with one another, so that they know one another's intended route. One of the reasons Google is investing so much is that whoever owns the communications system for driverless cars will own the 21st century's equivalent of the telephone network or money clearing system: this will be a licence to print money. The benefits are endless. Roads will both be able to carry more traffic and be safer. Personalised door-to-door transport will become hugely pleasurable: your car will deliver you to your home or place of work and then park itself without you. Road accidents will plummet. Energy efficiency will be transformed. Insurance rates, even the need for insurance, will plunge. Personalised transport, ordered by your mobile phone, will gradually replace mass transport networks.But the implications for employment are awesome. Thomas Frey, senior futurologist at the DaVinci Institute, lists taxi-, bus- and truck-driving as soon-to-be-extinct occupations – along with traffic police, all forms of home delivery and waste disposal, jobs at petrol stations, car washes and parking lots. The cars themselves will be made by robots in automated car factories. The only new jobs will be in the design and marketing of the cars, and in writing the computer software that will allow them to navigate their journeys, along with the apps for our mobile phones that will help us to use them better.Professor Larry Summers, former US treasury secretary, thinks that the challenge of the decades ahead is not debt or competition from China but the  dramatic transformations that technology is bringing about. Summers believes that the transition to the automated economy that robotisation implies has only just begun. The invention of 3D printing, in which every home or office will be equipped with an in-house printer that can spew out the goods we want – from shoes to pills – anticipates a world of what Summers calls automated "doers". They will do everything for us, eliminating the need for much work. The only jobs will be in writing the software and building the "doers", creating a bifurcation of the labour market that is already discernible.At least Summers sees some underlying economic dynamism. For techno-pessimists such as economist Professor Tyler Cowen the future is even darker. It is not only that automation and robotisation are coming, but that there are no new worthwhile transformational technologies for them to automate. All the obvious human needs – to move, to have power, to communicate – have been solved through cars, planes, mobile phones and computers. According to Cowen, we have come to the end of the great "general purpose technologies" (technologies that transform an entire economy, such as the steam engine, electricity, the car and so on) that changed the world. There are no new transformative technologies to carry us forward, while the old activities are being robotised and automated. This is the "Great Stagnation".That is a very lopsided view of the future with little recognition of the opportunities. The growth of transformative technologies is not tailing off: as scientific knowledge explodes and crosses new boundaries, they will accelerate. The 21st century will witness more technological and scientific advance than in the last 500 years. The pace of change is certainly accelerating – business models today already become obsolescent in less than 20 years, and that figure is going to fall further. But human demands are infinite. Notwithstanding robotisation and automation, I identify four broad areas in which there will be vast job opportunities.The first is in micro-production. There is going to be a huge growth in micro-brewers, micro-bakers, micro-film-makers, micro-energy producers, micro-tailors, micro-software houses and so on who will deploy the internet and micro-production techniques to produce goods at prices as if they were mass-produced, but customised for individual tastes.The second is in human wellbeing. There will be vast growth in advising, coaching, caring, mentoring, doctoring, nursing, teaching and generally enhancing capabilities. Medical provision will explode, with replacement organs, skin and limbs opening up new specialisms and industries. Taste, sight and hearing will be vastly enhanced. Ageing will be deferred, with old-age advisers offering advice on how to live well in one's hundreds. Geneticists will open up a live-well economy. Instantaneous language translation will break down language barriers.The third is in addressing the globe's "wicked issues" . There will be new forms of nutrition and carbon-efficient energy, along with economising with water, to meet the demands of a world population of 9 billion in 2050. Space exploration will become crucial to find new minerals and energy sources. New forms of mining will allow exploration of the Earth's crust. The oceans will be farmed.And fourthly, digital and big data management will foster whole new industries – personalised journalism, social media, cyber-security, information selection, software, computer science and digital clutter removal.Doubtless the futurologists can come up with more: the truth is, nobody knows. What we do know is that two-thirds of what we consume today was not invented 25 years ago. It will be the same again in a generation's time. What is different is the pace of change, obsolescence and renewal – and new dangers of extraordinary inequality not just in wages, but in working possibilities. Firms and individuals will be on their mettle to open up, innovate and constantly reinvent themselves. If there is to be a successful Great Reset, Britain will need the open innovation structures, financing mechanisms and social support institutions to capitalise on the opportunities quickly, rather than be overwhelmed by the risks.This is what threatens our future,  our living standards, and this is what we should be arguing about &nbsp;– not the European Union, despite the efforts of Ukip and the Conservative party. Those whom the gods wish to destroy they first make mad.
The original Metro 2033 was a sleeper hit, earning praise for its sharp blend of tense, post-apocalyptic terror and superb action long after its release. No surprise though, as the Metro games are far deeper than even hardened players might expect from a first-person shooter.Based on the novels of Russian author Dmitry Glukhovsky, Metro: Last Light follows Artyom, a young man trying to survive in the ruins of Moscow's subway system, a network serving as humanity's refuge after a nuclear war.The world Glukhovsky created is presented in fine form here, visually through a claustrophobic web of crumbling tunnels and a ruined surface populated by mutated abominations, and narratively with a story that examines fascism and communism, prejudice and the pursuit of power.As a result, the gameplay almost becomes a slave to the story but despite this, Last Light is a delight. The survival horror and FPS elements complement each other as well here as they did in the original, with the urge to blast every flickering shadow tempered only by the scarcity of resources.A superb effort, written and presented with a skill that proves games can be both as complex and rewarding as any other art form.
Persona 4 Arena'sbrand of 2D fighting is, at first glance, a far cry from its brilliant RPG forebear. Once players spend time with this intricately balanced and beautifully animated beat-'em-up though, they will discover it is every bit as deep and involving as its predecessor.Arenasees lead Yu Narukami drawn into another mystery in the parallel Midnight Channel world. This time, it involves being forced to fight his friends while finding out exactly why. The battle system is remarkably complex, demanding mastery of blocks, attack breaks, counters and more, plus awareness of power and health gauges. While far from entry-level,Arenawill appeal greatly to fans of the originalPersona 4and lovers of top-tier Japanese fighting games.
Nintendo has created something of a stealth franchise with theMario vs Donkey Kongseries – this is, almost unbelievably, the fifth entry.Minis on the Moveshifts attention away from puzzle-platforming to the path-building brainteaser.Essentially an inverted tower-defence game, clearing each stage means guiding toy versions of Mario and friends past such perils as spike pits and wandering enemies. Early levels are deceptively simple until a steady trickle of new gameplay mechanics, including rotating squares and sliding panels, increase difficulty considerably.Persistence will mostly win out, though fiddly and unresponsive tile-swapping sections will test the patience of even the most devoted Mario fans. A charming, largely enjoyable puzzler, well suited to the portable form.
Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt has defended his company's financial affairs after a Commons committee branded the internet giant devious and unethical for sheltering its multibillion-pound profits from UK taxes.Writing in the Observer, Schmidt said his company's accounts were complicated but complied with international taxation treaties that allowed it to pay most of its tax in the United States.Schmidt said that he understood why Google's apparent sidestepping on UK taxation had generated controversy and called for a reform of international tax law."At a time when families are having to tighten their belts and funding for vital public services is under pressure, corporate taxation is rightly a hot topic," Schmidt wrote. "And as a company that has always aspired to do the right thing, we understand why Google is at the centre of that debate."His remarks follow Google's mauling at the hands of the Commons Public Accounts Committee on Thursday. Members reacted in disbelief after it emerged that they paid just £3.4m of tax on £3.2bn of sales taken from UK customers last year as their sales were technically "closed" in low-tax Ireland.Schmidt insisted that corporation tax should be paid on a company's profits rather than its revenues and said because his was a multinational corporation whose engineers were chiefly based in the United States, Google's taxes should be channelled there. This, he said, obeyed rules laid out by politicians."We pay more taxes in the US than in any other country – around $2bn in corporate income taxes to the US government in 2012," he wrote. "It's the same for UK-based technology or pharmaceutical companies, which pay the majority of their corporation tax in the UK, as that is where most of the activity that generates their profits takes place."Schmidt said that the debate over international taxation showed it could benefit from reform. He added that because Google was able to generated large revenues, it was also able to plough money back into the UK economy."While profit has become something of a dirty word, it's important to remember that many corporations reinvest their profits in research and product development, which in turn tends to lead to job creation, further economic growth and, ultimately, more tax. For example, Google has just announced plans to invest more than £1bn innew officesin London's King's Cross. It's been estimated that this investment will generate some £80m a year in new employment taxes and £50m in stamp duty. This is in addition to the significant amounts we already pay in UK tax through corporate, local and employment taxes."Schmidt's comments came as Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, said he believed some multinationals, including Google were not fulfilling their social responsibilites.Miliband told the Observer: "Now, what is the politicians' responsibility: change the law. But it is also to talk about the kind of society we want to create and what the responsibilities of a company like Google are."I don't think they are living up to their responsibilities at the moment and I will be very clear about that on Wednesday."It is part of a culture of irresponsibility. If everyone approached their tax affairs as some of these companies have approached their tax affairs we wouldn't have a health service, we wouldn't have an education system."
Our imagination is stretched to the utmost," wroteRichard Feynman, the greatest physicist of his day, "not, as in fiction, to imagine things which are not really there, but just to comprehend those things thatarethere." Which is another way of saying that physics is weird. And particle physics – or quantum mechanics, to give it its posh title – is weird to the power of n, where n is a very large integer.Consider some of the things that particle physicists believe. They accept without batting an eyelid, for example, thatone particular subatomic particle, the neutrino, can pass right through the Earth without stopping. They believe that a subatomic particle can be in two different states at the same time. And that two particles can be "entangled" in such a way that they can co-ordinate their properties regardless of the distance in space and time that separates them (an idea that even Einstein found "spooky"). And that whenever we look at subatomic particles they are altered by the act of inspection so that, in a sense, we can never see them as they are.For a long time, the world looked upon quantum physicists with a kind of bemused affection. Sure, they might be wacky, butboy, were they smart!And western governments stumped up large quantities of dosh to enable them to build the experimental kit they needed for their investigations. A huge underground doughnut was excavated in the suburbs of Geneva, for example, and filled with unconscionable amounts of heavy machinery in the hope that it would enable the quark-hunters to find the Higgs boson, or at any rate its shadowy tracks.All of this was in furtherance of the purest of pure science – curiosity-driven research. The idea that this stuff might have any practical application seemed, well, preposterous to most of us. But here and there, there were people who thought otherwise (among them, as it happens, Richard Feynman). In particular, these visionaries wondered about the potential of harnessing the strange properties of subatomic particles for computational purposes. After all, if a particle can be in two different states at the same time (in contrast to a humdrum digital bit, which can only be a one or a zero), then maybe we could use that for speeded-up computing. And so on.Thus was born theidea of the "quantum computer". At its heart is the idea of aquantum bitor qubit. The bits that conventional computers use are implemented by transistors that can either be on (1) or off (0). Qubits, in contrast, can be both on and off at the same time, which implies that they could be used to carry out two or more calculations simultaneously. In principle, therefore, quantum computers should run much faster than conventional, silicon-based ones, at least in calculations where parallel processing is helpful.For as long as I have been paying attention to this stuff, the academic literature has beenfull of arguments about quantum computing. Some people thought that while it might be possible in theory, in practice it would prove impracticable. But while these disputes raged,a Canadian company called D-Wave– whose backers includeAmazon boss Jeff Bezos and the "investment arm" of the CIA(I am not making this up) – was quietly getting on with building and marketing a quantum computer. In 2011, D-Wave sold its first machine – a 128-qubit computer – to military contractor Lockheed Martin. Andlast week it was announcedthat D-Wave had sold a more powerful machine to a consortium led by Google and Nasa and a number of leading US universities.What's interesting about this is not so much its confirmation that the technologymay indeed be a practical proposition, though that's significant in itself. More important is that it signals the possibility that we might be heading for a major step change in processing power.In one experiment, for example, it was found that the D-Wave machine was 3,600 times faster than a conventional computer in certain kinds of applications. Given that the increases in processing power enabled by Moore's law (which applies only to silicon and says that computing power doubles roughly every two years) are already causing us to revise our assumptions about what computers can and cannot do, we may have some more revisions to do. All of which goes to prove the truth of the adage: pure research is just research that hasn't yet been applied.
Michael Acton-Smith on what Moshi does nextLondon-based Mind Candy was stalling five years ago, but took a punt on an idea for a social networking game site for children.By 2013, the children's game network had become ubiquitous at every supermarket checkout and at every toy store - a runaway brand extension success.Founder Michael Acton-Smith insists that revenues are holding up, but admits the company has struggled with the speed at which children are switching to tablets and mobiles, and has yet to release its tablet app.On the eve of Moshi's fifth birthday, Jemima Kiss asks Acton-Smith how he plans to keep the Moshi magic alive.
We're off to see my mum. "Navigate to Dorchester-on-Thames," I&nbsp;command, to test out the state-of-the-art, voice-activated satnav. "Navigate to the nearest mountain pass – is that correct?" the car says. What? No! Dorchester-on-Thames. I&nbsp;try again. "Navigate to the nearest government office?" Maybe Mum's village is too small. Let's try Oxford – surely Mazda's heard of that. "Navigate to the nearest opera – is that correct?"Now, it's possible I'm doing something wrong, that I've got it set to points of interest instead of towns. But even so, there's something very stupid about it. I mean, who, while driving along, will suddenly decide they fancy taking in an opera – it doesn't matter which is the closest – and make a detour on the off-chance there's something on? Likewise mountain pass and government office (unless you're contemplating suicide or terrorism, respectively).Later, when I ask to be taken to the village of Ewelme, the car says,&nbsp;"Navigate to the nearest school – is that correct?" No! Because if it was to collect my children, I would know where their school was. But just the nearest school? Well, if this Mazda was an ice-cream van, it might just be acceptable. But it's not. So maybe it's a car for an opportunistic drug dealer or – lordy – something dodgier still.Mazda may disagree. They'd say the new mid-size family car is much improved over the previous model – lighter, roomier, more economical, prettier, and serious competition for not just Mondeos and Insignias, but also more prestigious German rivals. They'd be right. It's hard to find fault with (though equally hard to fall in love with). The numbers – money, performance, consumption, emissions – are excellent, the sort to make a fleet manager a little bit excited. It is handsome, too, in an unremarkable kind of way.The diesel is refined to the point&nbsp;that you hardly notice it's a&nbsp;diesel, yet&nbsp;it responds almost pleasingly to&nbsp;right-foot pressure. Driving, though not thrilling, is certainly no&nbsp;chore: it's almost lithe&nbsp;and feels smaller than it is, except inside, where it's well-equipped and comfortable, with room for Mum to&nbsp;stretch out her legs in the back. Plus a cavernous boot, to&nbsp;stash drugs.OK, I give in: we'll go to the nearest school, which, the car says after a quick calculation, is 15 miles away and will take half an hour. Wrong, Mum says from the back. There's one just up the road, in Ewelme as it happens.A famous medieval one, founded in 1437… Yeah, all right, Mum, this is a car review, not a bloody history lesson.Mazda6 2.2D Saloon Sport Nav AutoPrice£27,295Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption58.9mpgCO2 emissions127g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating4/10
Private health firms, including Bupa, could pay £140 to identify potentially millions of patients and then access their health records, detailing intimate medical histories, under a new national arrangement in the NHS, the Guardian can reveal.The records, which include sensitive information about hospital visits, such as a mother's  history of still births, patients' psychiatric treatment and critical care stays, allow individuals to be identified by use of postcode, gender and age as well as their socioeconomic status.On Monday the government slipped out the newsthat private insurer Bupa was approved to access England's "sensitive or identifiable" patient data, housed centrally by the Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC). It is now among four private firms that have passed the government's vetting procedures.The charging structure for "bespoke patient-level extracts" was revealed when HSCIC put up a"cost calculator"to work out how much prospective customers would pay for sensitive hospital data. The "indicative fee" for a full set of 20 years' inpatient data was about £8,000 including £140 to make the records identifiable.On the information centre's website, the Data Access Advisory Group says it "considers applications for sensitive or identifiable data". Once they have been approved, organisations have to apply to extract identifiable NHS data.The prime ministerhas argued that companies such as Britain's key life sciences firms should be able to benefitfrom the NHS's vast collection of patient data. But critics argue that this amounts to putting the NHS "up for sale".Campaigners say the health service is aping commercial practice – pointing out that only last week the country's largest mobile phone operatorannounced it was selling the internet habits of its 27m customers.Phil Booth, coordinator at patient pressure group medConfidential, said: "People are rightly concerned when details of their mobile use or online habits are sold on; now we learn that the NHS is selling masses of highly sensitive medical information to private companies. Like millions of other patients, I'm certain I never gave my consent for that."The Guardian has established that private companies are already attempting to access patient records which can identify individuals.In July a private research firm Civil Eyes was granted access to sensitive "consultant code" data. However, in the same monthDr Foster, which produces a guide to good hospitals, was refused permission to obtain patient mental-health data which included date of birth, gender, marital status and NHS number.Labour called for the practice to be "suspended immediately pending a full investigation". Shadow health secretary Andy Burnham said: "Patients will be appalled to learn that the government appears to be auctioning off their personal information to the highest bidder."We warned David Cameron 18 months ago that greater safeguards were needed on the use of data in the NHS. He failed to provide them and, in his drive to commercialise the NHS, he has allowed this unacceptable situation to arise. Ministers need to tell us whether they knew about this practice and whether it was given their approval".The HSCIC said that it "only provides identifiable data when there is a lawful basis to do so, eg, with patient consent. The data we provide is normally anonymised. We do charge a fee to cover administrative costs of operating an extract/data linkage request. We are committed to ensuring information about our services are presented in a transparent and accessible way and will continue to develop our website to ensure further clarity in this area."Dr Katrina Herren, medical director of Bupa Health Funding UK, said: "Bupa uses NHS clinical data to support the NHS with services like population health management, and also for benchmarking purposes."The government publishes very clear rules on how we can use the data, and we adhere to the highest standards of information governance when handling confidential information."• This article was amended on 21 May 2013 to restore a sentence, lost during the editing process, which made clear that once organisations have been approved, they must apply to see identifiable data. The headline was also amended to reflect this.
What's the most dystopic future you can imagine resulting from Google Glass? That facial recognition technology will allow a Glass-wearer to walk past you and instantly know who you are and what you do? That Glass-holes might walk into a train station and instantaneously see Google pushpins tracking any celebrity travelers, the recently divorced or children from wealthy families? Or that data stored ona pair of Google Glassesyou've used will be uploaded to a secret government or credit-card company database?Be provisionally consoled: Congress is making an attempt, at least, to get your back, as the president would say. The congressional bipartisan privacy caucushas sent a letter to Google, asking the company questions about privacy safeguards that will – or won't – be built into its new product.Google has given privacy advocates cause for grave concern. As the congressional letter points out, the company recently agreed to pay $7m (only) to settle charges with 38 states for the collection of data from unprotected Wi-Fi networks without permission, as its street-view map-mobile drove around.Past efforts by the congressional privacy caucushave met with ridicule. Its work can look like stodgy Washington sending the hottest tech companies plodding questions about what these newfangled devices do. In fact that's what the caucus' work is – but it's the Lord's workPrevious letters sent by the privacy caucus, which is co-chaired by Democrat Ed Markey of Massachusetts and Republican Joe Barton of Texas, have uncovered important features of the government's domestic spying program. Last year,cellphone carriers reported to the caucusthat in 2011 they had received 1.3 million demands from law enforcement for subscriber information. The phone companies handed over locations, numbers dialed and other data, with nary a warrant in play. "I never expected it to be this massive," Markey said at the time.It would be good to have answers to all the questions the caucus has for Google. How does the company plan to prevent its product from collecting data without user/non-user consent? How does the facial recognition technology work, and can users/non-users opt out? Is any information off-limits?Congress has given Google a month to reply.
The memory of Facebook's painful stock market debut a year ago today is at last beginning to fade. Not for investors who bought at the opening price of $38 – their shares are still trading 30% below that – but by other measures the world's largest social network has made seemingly unstoppable progress.In October, founder Mark Zuckerberg announced in a status update on his Facebook page that the site had reached 1 billion monthly active users. The business will make $6.6bn this year, up from $5.1bn in 2012, according to research firm eMarketer. And the crucial transition from desk and laptop computers to mobile appears to be going to plan; after Google, Facebook is now the second-biggest mobile advertising publisher.So was it simply sour grapes that led Rupert Murdoch to suggest yesterday that Facebook could follow Myspace into social oblivion? The media mogul bought Myspace in 2005 for $580m, but its users melted away as Facebook's popularity grew, forcing a selloff at the bargain price of $35m six years later."Look out Facebook!" Murdoch tweeted. "Hours spent participating per member dropping seriously. First really bad sign as seen by crappy MySpace years ago."Murdoch may have an axe to grind, but his opinion chimes with anecdotal evidence that younger internet users are being lured away by a new generation of sharing software created specifically for mobile devices – apps such as Snapchat, which sends photos that self-delete after a few seconds, or messaging service WhatsApp, or photo-sharing site Instagram, which has 100 million monthly users and was bought by Facebook just 18 months after launch."It seems that Facebook is coming to a plateau," said Marco Nardone, a former trader at Credit Suisse bank whose student social site unii.com launched this month. "There is a feeling that larger social networks like Facebook and Twitter are now too big. The clear trend is towards more niche social networks or apps."Measuring movements in Facebook's vast membership is tricky. As the smartphone becomes ubiquitous, users are switching their Facebook time to apps.In the US the Facebook website has 142 million unique visitors a month, down more than 10 million in a year, according to research firm Nielsen. But the company's figures also show the Facebook app had 99 million unique users from Android and Apple smartphones in March, a rise of 37 million on a year ago.What Nielsen does not know is the size of the overlap between app users and website visitors, which means it cannot give an overall traffic number.Despite previously doing so, Facebook did not break out how many US-only usersit has when it reported its last set of financial results. It did share the fact that overall traffic in the US and Canada grew in the last year, from 183 million to 195 million users a month. But even Facebook's own numbers are not cast iron. Read the small print in the stock exchange filings, and the company admits that 7.2% of its monthly active members – about 78 million – may actually be duplicate accounts, or spammers, or pages set up for pets.Murdoch's assertion that time spent on Facebook is falling is difficult to pin down. The average time people spend on Facebook's website, as opposed to its app, has fallen from just over seven hours a month last year to six hours 44 minutes this March, according to Nielsen. Time spent using the app in the US was six hours 50 minutes in March, but there are no numbers for a year ago to compare that with.Zuckerberg himself said Facebook now accounts for 23% of the time people spendon apps. The next-biggest apps are Instagram and Google Maps, far below at 3% each. In the UK overall, monthly users are up from 33m in January to 34m in March."The quality of metrics out there is terrible, but if you decide to spend money on the web, Facebook is the least bad place to spend it," said Brian Wieser, at investment adviser at Pivotal Research Group. He does not believe the site will perish."There is a world of difference between Myspace and Facebook," he said. "Myspace went for aggressive commercialisation at a very early stage. Facebook has been much more patient. The depth and scale of usage dwarfs what Myspace ever had. Whereas Myspace was essentially closed to the web, Facebook has taken the opposite tack."Credit: Guardian graphicsThere have been hiccups. Facebook Home, the app intended to turn Android smartphones into a "Facebook phone" by feeding photos, messages – and of course advertising – straight to the home screen, took a month to reach 1m downloads. This is slow going for a major brand; Instagram's Android app hit the million mark within 24 hours of launching.But Facebook's strategy of allowing other apps to use its platform to share content and advertise on it, as Snapchat does, should help to ensure longevity. It has become a repository of our social memories, a library of images and videos. Those who spent time over the years uploading photos and updating their status will not want to delete those records."There are other services popping up that teens are more excited about," says Clark Fredricksen at eMarketer. "But Facebook has become a necessity among all age groups akin to email. It's integral to the fabric of the broader web. The problem is that the fabric of the web isn't necessarily cool."Facebook timeline18 May 2012Facebook floats on Nasdaq at $38 a share19 May 2012Mark Zuckerberg marries Priscilla ChanJune 2012Facebook's first mobile-only ad product, sponsored stories, is served to advertisers. Advertisers pay to highlight something a Facebook user has taken on the social network4 September 2012Facebook shares close at record low of $17.556 September– Facebook seals purchase of photo-sharing Instagram for $1bnMid-September– Facebook Ad Exchange opens – advertisers track users' web browsing and then target them with ads when they log in to Facebook4 OctoberFacebook reaches 1bn monthly active users16 January2013Launch of Graph Search, making users' photos, status updates and information searchable unless they choose to make them private7 MarchNews feed redesigned, with larger ads4 AprilFacebook Home app that takes over Android home screens, is launched alongside the HTC 'Facebook phone'13 April– General Motors returns to Facebook as an advertiser following public split14 MayAT&amp;T reportedly ready to abandon the HTC Facebook phone after cutting its price from $99 to 99 cents
Now reaching the end of its Kickstarter appeal, Atomhawk'sThe Realm, is a visually stunning adventure game, set in a future England now re-taken by nature. A young girl named Sarina sets out from her village to find a cure for her sick mother, encountering and befriending a gigantic stone golem on the way. Originally conceived as an experimental side-project, the beautiful artwork soon started generating interest online – encouraging the development team to consider an official release.The thing is, Atomhawk isn't really a development house; it is a specialist art studio, providing assets to a range of Triple A titles from the likes of Sega, Ubisoft and Disney. The company was founded by a group of industry veterans who have all been through the ups and considerable downs of this volatile business; it would have been easy to leave development behind. But somehow they couldn't.The Realm is now just days away from funding – or, god forbid, failure. Here, studio director Cumron Ashtiani talks about the fear and potential of Kickstarting a project, and the pleasure of making a full game again.So The Realm was originally meant as a portfolio project? How did it come about?As an art studio, it is easy to fall into being "art guns for hire" and that could lead to us losing touch with our own desires to create. In my experience, people can become jaded if they find themselves letting go of the majority of their ideas, in return for commercial success. Don't get me wrong, weloveworking on all the amazing projects that we get to collaborate on, but sometimes it's nice to make something for ourselves.The Realm is different. We decided that we would set ourselves an internal project of our own design. We embarked on an experiment to see if we could generate a universe, back-story and characters from scratch just as I did when I was an in-house art director at numerous game development studios. The project was designed to teach the team the art of IP creation.Let's quickly talk about your past. You were at Midway's UK office when it closed – can you tell us about that experience?It was very harsh at the time. In my case, it was the third time I'd been through a studio closure and I just couldn't believe it was happening again – and my wife was expecting our first baby at any time. What was especially tough was that we were not paid our notice or severance and so we were all left broke and in need of work.However, nearly 4 years on I have a very different opinion of what happened. Midway closing was a blessing as it liberated a load of very talented guys who may have otherwise been too scared to move on. Nearly all of the team moved on to better jobs at more successful developers, or moved into other industries, and a large portion of us went on to found new companies. Between Atomhawk, CCP and Pitbull Studios, that all founded from the ashes of Midway, we now employ nearly 60 people. Midway was only 78 in its final days and a lot of that team now work at companies like Sumo, Ubisoft and Rare. So Midway's closure actually went on to generate more jobs in the North East by creating three new successful companies.When did you start considering making The Realm into a full game?The idea to make it into an adventure game was born out of a partnership between Atomhawk and a former colleague, Tom Szirtes (Lantern Interactive's Director). We previously worked together, many years ago, on the horror-survival game The Thing and have been friends ever since. We were having a few beers at GDC in San Francisco last year and I showed what we had been working on. He was very excited and suggested we make it into a game. The next thing I know he's quit his day job at Orange and was working away on the Realm... the guy's a mad man but for all the right reasons.What is it about the project that's inspired people? I mean, it looks beautiful of course, but what else?I'm so pleased that people have been inspired by its beauty, there are not many games out there that create a believable, non-abstract world and at the same time don't go down the dark and apocalyptic route. I really liked Journey and Enslaved for that reason and this has resonated.I think it also has appeal because it captures that sense of mystery, fantasy and adventure that people remember from great stories they read or watched as children. We deliberately wanted to create a universe that raises a ton of questions and sets your mind wondering. The idea was to mix the Western, high quality art of Pixar with the epic scale, fantastical stories and odd characters found in Miyazaki's work. And this has also gone down well.What has inspired you to move away from traditional games industry influences and forms?I've always made horror games, war games, violent games... but I became a dad a couple of years back and having a daughter just made me realise that while the games I had been making were great, I can't share those with her. We all wanted to make an 'oldskool' adventure game that relies on a great story, great puzzles and great art and audio, something everyone can enjoy at all ages.But then, the fantasy genre is rather over-populated. Titles like Skyrim, Dragon's Dogma, etc, all seem to be essentially inhabiting the same spaces...Skyrim and Dragons Dogma are big budget action RPGs – we have little in common with them. We are doing something different with our blend of Ico-inspired co-dependency gameplay and point-and-click style emphasis on story, puzzles and stunning environments. The Realm should offer something to gamers tired of the same old stuff.Why Kickstarter? It seems after the honeymoon period last year, developers are finding it hard to get funding in this way…There was an inevitable boom at the start as people discovered crowd funding and jumped to try it. Like all new frontiers, there was a lot of scope for big gains. However, the people that went first had to find that secret key to success themselves – we're now able to look at what they did and learn from it. I do think that the public are suffering a little from fatigue but it's still a very good way to find funding if you are prepared to put the preparation work in.One big problem is that Kickstarter in particular is still very US-focused and US backers tend not to look at projects outside of their locale. That is what we really need: the British public's support.So what if The Realm is a huge success – do you think you'll return to development on a fulltime basis?Atomhawk has no intention of becoming a game developer again, we're quite happy doing what we do – that is why we have partnered with old friends. We're truly embracing the movie industry model that we've been used to from working with our film clients: it's about bringing a team of experts in their field together to make a project happen, rather than feeling we need to build a development studio.Atomhawk will provide the art, Tom and Lantern will handle development, Richard Jacques on audio and Andrew Curtis will lead the project's design. Just like how a team comes together to make a movie. Which means less risk but also better talent as it can take a very long time to hire people of that calibre as employees.Do you think this is generally a good time to be an indie developer? It seems elements such as digital distribution and crowd funding have opened up opportunities but at the same time, there is the huge problem of discovery…You've hit the nail on the head in your question really. The market place is a lot more open and accessible which is great, but at the same time the competition is fierce and the market is crowded. You have to create something really special to stand out, plus spend a lot of time making sure people know about it.Do you have a key piece of advice for developers thinking of using crowd-funding?Make sure you set up your social media networks and start to gain followers and build a community before you launch. For a project like the Realm, we average £20 per backer and so we need around 9500 backers. Reaching that many people in  four weeks is hard and so anything you can do in advance to generate more awareness really helps. Have a Facebook page, Twitter account, etc, and start collecting supporters early as they then help spread the word on launch.The other big one is make sure you get set up for US payments. Running a UK only Kickstarter means that people have to pay by credit card. Fine here in Britain, but a lot of Americans don't have one or have one that is not compatible with UK payment systems. If you get set up for a US bank account then you can use Amazon payments and that is really easy for US backers. We've also only just discovered in our own campaign that a lot of Germans also prefer to pay in USD and use Amazon payments and so for an adventure game like ours, this has made it harder than it needed to be. Getting the US bank account take six-eight weeks and so that needs to be started early!What has this process taught you about contemporary game development in the 'indie' space?Indie development is "seat of your pants" and that comes with some great positives but also some negatives. The positives are that you can explore ideas that are beyond the normal safe threshold of most publisher business models. You can also retain more control over your games and connect directly with the players. This means that rather than working in isolation for three years on a AAA console game without even knowing if people will actually like it' we can test things out and see what resonates with the player.The downsides are that as the budgets are smaller, you have to really get creative to make that money go further. Indie dev also comes with a degree of personal risk as often you have to invest your own money and time which could be painful if the project fails. It's all about calling in favours whenever you can and generally being cheeky!The Realm is due for release on PC and Mac. Visitthe Kickstarter pagefor more information.
When Kevin Poulsen, a former hacker who now edits at Wired magazine, came up with the idea two years ago of creating an open-source drop box for leaked documents along the lines of WikiLeaks, he could not have imagined that its launch would coincide with one of the most aggressive US government assaults on press freedom in a generation.Deaddropunveiled itself to the world on Thursday, three days afterAssociated Press revealedthat it had been subjected to a "massive and unprecedented intrusion" into its news gathering by the Justice Department. Leak investigators had obtained phone records of more than 20 telephone lines used by AP journalists, without the news agency being informed of the violation.For Poulsen, this week's coincidental confluence of events underlines the potential value and importance of the DeadDrop project. "With the risks now so high – not just from the US government but also the Chinese government that is hacking newsrooms in the West – it's crucial that news outlets find a secure route for sources to come to them."But this week's AP saga has also underscored the perils involved for anyone brave enough to try and leak information. As a further reminder of the dangers, Bradley Manning will go on trial next month facing possible life in military custody with no chance of parole for having been the source of the huge WikiLeaks trove of US state secrets.The Manning trial has a further relevance to the launch of DeadDrop, Poulsen believes. In a pre-trial hearing in February,Manning disclosedthat before making contact with WikiLeaks he had attempted to hand his enormous mountain of digital documents to the Washington Post, New York Times and Politico but failed to find a way into any of those organisations."This is the important lesson here. There was no natural route for Manning to gain entry, and it was a simple idea from WikiLeaks of creating a web forum where documents could be securely uploaded that led to their huge scoops."DeadDrop relies on code that was written by the open data campaigner Aaron Swartz and completed just a month before he committed suicide in January. It will be open for any person or institution to use and develop. Poulsen expects that some people will spin off their own versions – or "fork the code" as it's known in the business – while a canonical top copy will be maintained that can be constantly updated and improved.The first major use of the code has been pioneered by the New Yorker, Wired's sister magazine within Condé Nast, which has posted its version on its website under the titleStrongbox. Nicholas Thompson, editor ofnewyorker.com, hopes that the new anonymous information sharing service will help redress the imbalance in what he calls the "data arms race"."Technology for surveillance and data capture by companies monitoring our behaviour has developed at such a pace that data privacy has failed to keep up. It's an arms race between data capture and data privacy, and data capture is winning."The drop box is already a leap ahead of the technology used by WikiLeaks in that it allows for a two-way communication between source and journalist, and not just a one-way handing over of information. Sources are able to upload documents anonymously through the Tor network onto servers that will be kept separate from the New Yorker's main computer system. Leakers are then given a unique code name that allows New Yorker reporters or editors to contact them through messages left on Strongbox.Early reviews of the service have generally been favourable.Jonathan Stray of the Overview Project praisesthe use of the Tor network as the "gold standard for anonymous online communication".But Stray warns potential leakers against being lulled into a false sense of safety: "I think we need to understand it is far from a complete solution to the problem of source security."Strongbox may be secure, but if journalist and source are tempted to step outside its boundaries and communicate in other ways – by phone or email, for instance – they will leave behind a trail that can be traced. "Whether or not this is a problem depends on who you are trying to keep secrets from – as the recent secret DOJ subpoena of AP phone records shows," Stray writes.That danger was neatly illustrated by Bradley Manning. He was undone not through any breach in the secure channels through which he uploaded information to WikiLeaks, but because he engaged in a web-chat with the former hacker Adrian Lamo who then shopped him to the authorities.Paradoxically, the transcript of those web chats were first published by Wired, having been brought to the magazine by Kevin Poulsen.So far, experimentation with the creation of drop boxes to facilitate anonymous digital leaking has failed to reach the dizzy heights that WikiLeaks attained in 2010. Since 2011, WikiLeaks and its founder Julian Assange have been so beleaguered by legal and financial problems that they have closed their secure uploading channel altogether; the only way currently to pass information to the organisation is through direct contact with one of its small inner coterie.An attempt by WikiLeaks defector Daniel Domscheit-Berg to create a spin-off called OpenLeaks has failed to make much impression. Similarly disappointing results have been experienced by mainstream news organisations attempting to take on the mantle of WikiLeaks.The Wall Street Journal came under heavy criticism for the technical glitches contained in its anonymous drop box,SafeHouse, launched in 2011 that analysts said could have put leakers at risk of detection. The service is still available on wsj.com, but the Journal declined to comment about it suggesting it has been less than an unqualified success.The New York Times also considered setting up a leakers' drop box in 2011, but decided not to go ahead. A spokeswoman said: "As with any potential reporting tool, we'll likely revisit the idea in the future as our reporting needs evolve."Jay Rosen, media critic at New York university, said the patchy record of such innovations told their own story. "It's obvious the difficulties are greater than we thought. Since WikiLeaks, the authorities have become much more aggressive in prosecuting, and we're still a long way from offering confidence in this system."
There's this observation I keep boring other journalists with at the moment. When I went to my first E3 in 2000, magazines were still the dominant format for games coverage. Sure, there were websites emerging, but they were rather limited in scope, and the internet was not yet set up to allow much in the way of multimedia presentation. There were no miniature film crews running about the place with cameras and microphones; there was no Twitter, no 24-hour news agenda. Writers wandered the vast exhibition spaces, playing games, chatting with developers; then we would get home and a few days later file 3000 words on the entire event. It was… fun.Everything is different now. Websites like GameSpot and IGN have taken over, pumping out an endless daily quota of news stories, reviews and previews, all looking to satisfy the vast appetites of a global audience. E3 is a panic zone of instant response; journalists litter the hallways bashing barely considered observations onto laptops, then tweeting the results. And every hotel within 30 miles of the LA convention centre is filled with video editors frantically cutting footage into digestible ten-minute reports. Their audiences want to know about games now – right NOW – not in a week's time when the journalist has had chance to think about what he or she has seen. This is an industry of immediate consumption, and news is a commodity that deteriorates at lightning speed.But forget the issue of turnaround for a second. The biggest thing is video. Five years ago, most of the major game sites were limiting themselves largely to trailers and developer interviews, all spliced in with nuggets of b-roll games footage. But since then the medium has exploded. YouTube has revolutionised video journalism, allowing the fast, easy global distribution – and crucially monetisation – of content; and most sites have also developed their own powerful video platforms, allowing them to explore new avenues of content creation. Look at a gaming website today and it's the video content, not the written word, that leaps out of the front page. While the web continually batters print journalism, video threatens words altogether."We have a greater focus on video creation than ever before and we are increasingly using video to complement our written coverage," says Alex Simmons, the UK editor-in-chief at IGN. "We can now cover the same stories as video in a different way that appeals to a broader audience… Our IGN News videos are increasingly influenced by broadcast news channels, as we aim to bring our audience the news at it happens with rapid turnaround."For a while, this evolution of games reporting worried me. As a veteran print journalist, I saw not only my own career in jeopardy, but a whole way of thinking about games – and game reporting. After all, the need to respond instantly and continuously to the news agenda has – for many industry observers – tainted broadcast journalism. Nick Davies' book Flat Earth News is a damning indictment of this culture in which depiction is valued over observation and interpretation.But the thing is, this isn't really what's happening, or at least, it's not the only way that video is being used and presented – not at IGN, nor anywhere else. "Most of the large sites have dedicated video resources," says Pat Garratt, editor of VG247, which has made video an integral part of its offering over the last year. "People are now getting more creative in the way they're approaching video content, trying to find different angles on games in order to make their content work on YouTube. You're looking for something to go viral, really."Indeed, increasingly, video is allowing journalists some space to think about and discuss games in interesting ways. Last year, games writer and video maker Matt Lees joined VideoGamer with a remit to create content that challenged the accepted norms of the format. His lengthyvideo analysis of Bioshock Infinitewas one of the most thoughtful and perceptive interrogations of the game I saw."That video was a strange one," he says. "In many ways the structure was identical to a lengthy written article. I planned each point out well in advance, and ordered them in a way that would maintain good pacing and a sensible argument. I've always rolled my eyes at lengthy op-ed pieces, but really this was just that in video form. The difference between written pieces and video is YouTube Analytics: 40 percent of people who watched it stayed with the video right up until the end, with the audience retention only dropping below 50 percent at the eight-minute mark. Knowing exactly when people are wandering off gives you much better feedback for the quality of pacing in your work, which is something that long-form written work often lacks."What I found fascinating in the aftermath was how few opinion round-ups I read even contained a mention of video as a medium. I wouldn't call it a stigma, but there's a definite sense from those within the industry that intelligent analysis is still the reserve of traditional written pieces. Most sites don't use video in an intelligent way because they've become obsessed with churning out regular content. And most professionally created gaming videos don't rock the boat or ask tough questions, they just provide something that you can briefly gawp at. It's a throwback to the passive TV generation; a relic of broadcasting that deserves to be obsolete."But the use of video as a more expressive mediumisgrowing. Gamespot's Escape From Mount Stupid, Polygon's Human Angle and OXM's sublime Breakdowns were name checked by several of the people I spoke to while writing this feature. All of these series' take time to study the culture of games and game development, and all seek to place newsworthy titles and incidents in a wider context – Breakdown'slook at industry sexismis a masterpiece. Partly, this rise of long form content is about improvements in streaming technology and faster broadband, but it is also about the maturation of the medium. There is a growing understanding that games are of cultural importance and can be considered and explored in the same way as movies and music. As game spaces become more intricate and authentic, they open themselves to new forms of investigation – hence the lovelyPlayStation Access videoof reporter Nathan Ditum cycling around LA discovering the real-life locations behind key Grand Theft Auto settings.And with this growing sense of confidence we're seeing some really engrossing and mature documentary-style pieces appearing. In February, GameSpot UK's video editor Danny O'Dwyer live streamed about Depression Quest, an interactive fiction game which seeks to help participants understand the condition. There was such a huge response to the piece that O'Dwyer madehis own emotionally wrenching videointerviewing people who felt that playing games had helped with their own depression. "I felt like being in my position I had a responsibility to highlight the issue," he explains. "So I got sign off for the project instantly and was interviewing folks within a week. From those interviews the narrative of the video emerged. We have a really creative atmosphere here, so if we have an idea, our Director of Video Chris Beaumont encourages us to dive right in and see what happens. I believe it's known as 'fail fast'. Thankfully those interviews turned out really well. Clare's in particular. Such an interesting woman, I could edit an entire documentary about her from that one interview alone."Importantly, video journalism is also beginning to understand and mimic the format of games. When Inside Xbox was dropped by Microsoft last year, co-presenter Dan Maher went on to set up his own production company, Explosive Alan, with the idea of doing games video in new ways. Recently, his team developedThank You For Playing, an interactive video game show that works almost like an RPG, using linear content as locations within an explorable environment. The technology had to be built from scratch by one coder working from a Bangkok apartment, and has proved a technical nightmare to produce – but the result is a genuinelyrelevantand intuitive way of exploring games. It allows viewers to really explore the content, to provide their own parallels."If any audience is going to instinctively understand an attempt to add a layer of interaction to a traditionally passive experience, it's gamers," says Maher. "We were very keen for whatever we produced to avoid being directly comparable with anything else, and figured the most effective way of doing that wasn't just to devise great content – I hate that word, but it's a convenient catch-all – but to present it in a way that nobody had seen or thought of before. Judging by the response we've received to date, we've succeeded on both counts - and that is tremendous relief. We certainly didn't want the presentation to be perceived as a gimmick, or as something designed to distract from sub-standard videos."While interrogating Dan about his new video though, the subject inevitably strayed to Inside Xbox, which was hugely influential in its approach to game video – bringing in charm and great dollops of sardonic wit to its coverage. But Maher says that a major element in its success was the show's inclusiveness – the way it took ideas and input from viewers. "It's easy for a corporation to assume that they know what the audience wants or, worse, don't actually care in favour of delivering 'the message'," he says. "My favourite mags, sites and, er, Teletext pages were always the ones that had a deep community element - I very rarely got involved personally, but I loved the idea that I could if I wanted."And here's the irony. Video is actually doing what old school game magazines used to do so brilliantly: it is creating a sense of community. Through video, sites are able to immediately react to ongoing industry discussions, and they can do it in an amenable and accessible way. "Being light on our feet means some of our best ideas come out of nowhere," says O'Dwyer. "When Sony live-streamed their PlayStation 4 announcement myself and my colleague Martin Gaston decided to grab the regular stream and commentate over the entire show in the style of Terry Wogan doing the Eurovision. We had a few drinks, played press conference bingo with the viewers and basically just messed about. In the end around 65,000 viewers had tuned in over the two hours."A whole range of funny and engaging shows have moved into this area. The likes ofMechagamezilla,Chuckie DregsandJontronare talking about games in the same way as we discuss them with our friends - but with even more sex jokes. "Writing for video can completely change the way you think about the game you've just played," says Scott White, co-presenter of the wonderfulBitsocket. "Writing a review for a website, there's so much more detail you feel the need to pack in, mostly due to the lack of images and space available. Writing a review to be recorded in front of a camera means pouring more of your personality into it. It becomes a discussion between you and the viewer, and when it's pitched just right, that rapport can build a wee fanbase and help establish your 'voice' in further videos. It's also a far better way to get more than one person's opinion across, and we've found that we love doing joint reviews just for those reasons."For White, Bitsocket and its contemporaries have the advantage in that they can bring across a sense of personality more easily than the big sites. But the major players are catching up, and devising their own ways of engaging with audiences in more personal ways. IGN, for example, is embracing the concept of user-generated content. "We are championing our All Stars initiative," says Simmons. "This encourages and rewards readers who contribute expertly generated content on their favourite games, which we then showcase alongside content of our own. We've also pioneered the IGN Live format – a global initiative that streams the biggest exclusive content reveals and major events in gaming, allowing users to voice their opinions with our editors and an audience of fellow enthusiasts around the world as they happen."And of course, this is vital because YouTube hasn't just made video distribution more convenient for established news sites, it has also given rise to a new generation of superstar gamers. The likes of Syndicate and Yogscast are now drawing huge global audiences of dedicated gamers – and they represent merely the tip of a gigantic iceberg that may well sink the traditional media if it doesn't keep up.Is that traditional media concerned? "There's always going to be a place for the expert voice," argues Simmons. "In the same way as people turn to the BBC for in-depth coverage after reading about breaking news on Twitter, traditional media and online stars will always co-exist." But then, it's up to the major sites to create content that really, trulyisin-depth. At the moment, that's more about having better access to content than the YouTube amateurs, but the power ratio is changing. Most publishers now have community representatives who work closely with YouTube stars. When EA held its Battlefield 4 event in Stockholm recently, it didn't just invite journalists from established media sites, it also had a large contingent of bloggers and YouTube presenters. This is becoming the norm rather than the exception. The outsiders are breaking in – but they're still outside enough to occasionally bite the hand that feeds them.And for Lees, making good videos is about maintaining a little distance from the game publishers. Industry giants will always seek to control the dialogue, mostly through the distribution of their own trailers, footage and developer interviews – all designed to be slotted conveniently into news channels. That stuff has to be employed with caution. "Many of these YouTube superstars have talent, but it feels like a lot of their success is derived from our industry's failings," he says. "We talk about games that are being promoted, they talk about games that people actually play. Most media outlets try to tick all of the boxes, while these guys are unashamedly niche - they do what they want, and that's it."There's a huge amount we can learn from what these guys are doing, but the measures that need to be taken are frightening if you're running a bigger business. The only way we can compete with talent like this is by giving ourselves an equal footing: They exist outside of the industry, but we have to actively distance ourselves from it."These issues are only going to become more complex in the next generation era. The PlayStation 4 'Share' function will put videocasting tools into the hands of every gamer, ratcheting up the pressure on the mainstream sites. Meanwhile, the rise of live streaming is opening new avenues to both amateur and professional reporters. Amid all this, there is a growing dichotomy between video reports put together with publisher-approved content, and more investigative or satirical pieces exploring and criticising the industry. Sooner or later, a line will be drawn in the sand: Nintendo'srecent decision to claim ad revenue on user-generated content showing Nintendo game footagereveals that the big publishers are ready to tighten their grip on the medium – if not yet the message. But what happens whenthathappens – when sites start coming into conflict with major companies over fair use of gameplay footage? Written games journalism has recently been through a major period of doubt and self-assessment over its relationships with publishers; it looks like video content may well soon get its turn in the spotlight of media ethics.But I realise that, as an old-timer who once stalked the showfloor of E3 with a notebook and pen rather than a camera and video editing suite, I am of a passing generation. Video reportage isn't just growing because it's convenient to watch, it's growing because it can portray and analyse games in new and innovative ways.Games are, after all, a visual medium, and they are inclusive. Video journalism taps into these qualities. When I started out in this industry, all I wanted was to be like Julian Rignall, Gary Penn or Stuart Campbell, great writers who managed, through the printed medium, to exert personality and personal affinity with readers; they made their magazines into clubs. It's the video makers who are doing that now, who are filling that space between viewer and reporter. That is a space in which great entertainment and great journalism occur. And that is why I am wrong to feel nostalgia for the E3 of 2000.Here's the thing. The games media industry is different now, but it is not better and it is certainly no worse. The voices have changed, but they are good, interesting and passionate voices. We need to listen – and to watch. People like Matt and Danny and Scott are forging ahead. I have to face that – and somehow (God, I don't know how), I have to keep up.
1. Grumpy catReading this on mobile? Click here to viewArizona's Grumpy Cat has the face of a moody old sort who can't get his usual seat in Wetherspoons. "We uploaded one picture of her and people said it was Photoshopped, so we put up a video," says Brian Bundesen, brother of Tabby, Grumpy Cat's owner. "It was posted to Reddit and it went from there." In six months, Grumpy Cat (real name Tardar Sauce) has gone from internet meme to IRL celebrity: trademarking her name, advertising cat food, travelling around in a limo and going toSXSW. Fans including celebrities Andrew WK and Ian Somerhalder queued for hours to meet her at one recent public appearance, but still her expression said: "The Vampire Diaries guy? Really? No."2. Standing catReading this on mobile? Click here to viewRocky's French owners, Daisy and Yann, filmed him standing up on his hind legs one day in November 2009 because he "does it all the time". It's weird, not to mention unnerving, especially as they claim that they had no idea what their cat was looking at, and didn't train him to stand up. Who knows where Rocky is now? He could be plotting to take over the world, or getting an acting agent. Perhaps he's a cat burglar. What we do know is that after the video – which was soundtracked by a song called Cats On Mars from the anime series Cowboy Bebop – went viral, Daisy got annoyed at people stealing it and got YouTube to pull down any copyright violations. She's probably training a two-legged feline army right now.3.Colonel MeowReading this on mobile? Click here to viewA long-haired Persian from Los Angeles, Colonel Meow has the face your boss makes when you turn up to work 90 minutes late and are sweating out last night's booze; the face your parents made when you came back from your gap year with a dolphin tattoo on your ankle; the face your neighbour pulled when your mate threw up in their garden during their barbecue. He's the scariest cat since Scar from The Lion King, with more attitude than Dr Evil's Mr Bigglesworth. He tweets, drinks, swears, calls his owners his "slave beasts", and does interviews and photo shoots. Who has time for this shit? Seriously, a Scotch-drinking cat with a celebrity news blog? Aren't we meant to be going through a recession?4. I Can Haz Cheezburger?Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewEveryone everywhere has, at some point, been emailed a snap of wide-eyed kitties with hilar Caps Lock captions. I Can Haz Cheezburger?, which started with one snap of a British shorthair, now has not one but millions of pictures of cats, all committing grammar crimes that makes the Facebook friends you used to go to school with look like Lynne Truss. The Cheezburger office, run by Ben Huh (not a cat, but a man) has its own reality TV show, LOLwork, and the blog has put out two books. Basically, it's so internet that if you tried to explain it to your gran, she'd think you were on meow meow. Don't give a cat a cheeseburger, though: they are lactose intolerant.5. MaruReading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe second most famous Scottish Fold cat on the internet (the first is Taylor Swift's infinitely more boring cat Meredith) isMaru, who lives in Japan and just loves boxes. Like any vlogger, Maru knows the key to traffic is content, which is why there are 256 videos of his work, viewed over 200m times on YouTube. Fans agree his early "jumping into boxes" work was his best and the "getting into a kitchen drawer, then getting back out" episode was so tense, that they're considering the stunt for an ageing Bruce Willis in the next Die Hard. The hardest-working cat on the internet, Maru's released two books, a DVD and starred in Japanese commercials since 2007.6. Lil BubReading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe runt of a litter, found in a shed in Bloomington, Indiana,Lil Bub's is a true Whiskas-to-Sheba tale. When owner Mike Bridavsky started posting snaps of her with the musicians at his recording studio on Facebook two years ago, the world fell for Bub's big weird eyes, deformed lower jaw, sticky outy tongue, and stubby legs. These days, Lil Bub is more recognisable than some members of One Direction (sorry Louis). In new Vice film Lil Bub &amp; Friendz, Bridavsky, who seems to be getting mad pussay thanks to his internet-famous pussy, says: "She's like the Nirvana of internet cats. Only Nirvana never sold tote bags." Like, totally.7. HenriReading this on mobile? Click here to viewHenri, Le Chat Noir, is the Ryan Gosling of internet cats: you can project any emotion on to his lazily sexy face. A cat from Seattle, Henri stars in his own philosophically reflective films, narrated in French. His struggle is real, though: despite owner Will Braden posting clips online since 2007, fame only arrived in 2011 when his videos were featured on BuzzFeed. As Henri said, "The indignity is almost too much to bear." Another big (hair) baller in the merchandising business, Henri makes $1,000 a week on his website, advertises cat food, released his first book last month, and won the Golden Kitty at the Internet Cat Video Awards last year. This is a cat who has achieved more than most graduates.8. Nyan catReading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe first internet cat to really turn his fame into hard cash, Nyan Cat has an iPhone game, a clothing line, a pop-up shop in New York and a line of cuddly toys. To paraphrase Jay-Z, Nyan Cat's not a businesscat, he's a business, cat! Let him handle his business, damn! Or something. That said, Nyan Cat is not actually a cat; he's a cat-faced, Pop-Tart-bodied Gif that flies through space trailing a rainbow, repeating "nyan" (Japanese cat for "meow") to the soundtrack of a Japanese pop song. Like most cat videos on the internet, Nyan Cat was created by someone who was supposed to be working – Christopher Torres, from Texas, in April 2011 – and since then has been watched over 96m times.9. Keyboard catReading this on mobile? Click here to viewHe's the "Elvis of internet cats", according to his agent Ben Lashes (sorry about your three years at  uni to get a degree, everyone, but, yes, this meme has an agent), and Keyboard Cat does have a lot in common with The King; he was fat, and he's also now dead. Fatso the cat was first captured on VHS camcorder in 1984, but never lived to see his success. He died in 1987, and his electric organ-playing skills didn't make it to YouTube until 20 years later. His legacy lives on but, sadly, so do the legal battles; he's recently been at the centre of a copyright case (yeah, sorry to break it to you, but Fatso only played the keyboard, someone else composed the music).10. eHarmony cat ladyReading this on mobile? Click here to viewThere's no actual cat in this video, but the fake eHarmony video-dating profile has been watched 25m times since it went viral in 2011. In the video, a nice lady called Debbie tells the camera: "I love cats, I really love cats, I want to hug all of them and that's crazy because I can't hug every cat! I love every kind of cat. I love cats! I am a cat lover. I love them and I want them and I want them in a basket and in little bowties." She's a bit like the colleague who shows you the picture of their cat for 20 seconds too long, but sadly, Debbie's not real; she's Cara Hartmann, an LA actor, and she doesn't want to hug every cat. Just the one she has, who doesn't wear a bowtie.
