Google's Street View camera cars have captured much more than house fronts since they began touring city streets in 2007. Indeed, searching out these roadside aberrations has become a favourite pastime for those with too much time on their hands. And it looks like Street View's recent expansion into Germany has, ahem, delivered what may well be the most bizarre image yet.The scene lacks nothing in drama. A woman, lying down, her head cradled in what we can only assume is a modern-day Samaritan's lap, while a man – possibly a fan ofThe Lion King– holds her newborn child aloft. Onlookers, well, look on. One gestures frantically while yelling down his mobile. You can almost hear him: 'Sie hat ein Baby!'With Christmas fast approaching, it might be a modern-day Nativity scene, were it not for the graffiti and lack of lowing cattle. What it undoubtedly marks is a new high for the web giant's accidental vogue of capturing remarkable events while mapping our streets in a friendly, non-invasive way.Or could it be that all is not as it seems. Is the scene maybe too dramatic? Could the whole thing be an internet hoax?A lack of reports of a kerbside birth on Hubertusallee in the Berlin suburb of Wilmersdorf is the first indication that this may be a piece of theatre.In fact, Germans have responded to the arrival of Street View with a series of such "interventions" – evidence, we think, of a rather well-developed, if time-intensive, sense of humour.•This article was updated on 30 November 2010 to reflect the printed version.
The bankers have gone from St&nbsp;Stephen's Green. In the basement of the building that looks out over the park in the heart of Dublin, where the bank directors had, of all things, a squash court, a new media company – Simply Zesty – is moving in. "It's a bit of a work in progress," says one of the staff, apologising for the displaced carpets while the huge room is refitted.The change is more than symbolic. The banks are destroyed in Ireland, crucified by the nonsensical loans they handed out to builders and property buyers in the past decade. Now it's up to those who have come through the crisis to create something of value – even if, as in the case of Simply Zesty (or WhatClinic.com, a website that helps you find the nearest and/or best dentist, plastic surgeon or IVF treatment), that product is entirely virtual.With funding from banks drying up, and a limited pool of Irish venture capitalists and investors, it might look like a tough time for startups. But Dublin's hardy entrepreneurs are convinced that the financial implosion will have little impact on their businesses; in fact, it is already helping them by pushing down the price of office space, built with loans that will never be repaid. And the banks never lent them money anyway."I go to investors and tell them there's a 90% chance that I'll lose all their money," says Caelen King, chief executive of WhatClinic.com. "But if it works, they'll get it back 20 times. What bank is going to lend to you on that basis?"Some of them might like those odds now. The signs of the bubble and its aftermath are all around, from giant, gleaming, unoccupied hotels to concrete shells of unfinished buildings attended by motionless cranes. Government cuts to public sector pay and jobs will make life hard for many already struggling with giant home loans; the emergency services tell tales of people who have jumped into rivers in despair at their mortgage debts. The government estimates that 100,000 skilled workers will emigrate by 2014 – and that most of those will go in the next 12 months.But for the technology entrepreneurs, that's simply not relevant. They're chasing something for more interesting: success. And a number of them are finding it. Bitbuzz, which started in 2003 and provides wireless internet in conference centres, hotels and public spaces, has overtaken the telecoms incumbent Eircom in its sector and seen off competition from BT's OpenZone; now it has its eyes on the UK mainland. "The number of times we've had people tell us they'll put us out of business in six months," says Shane Deasy, its co-founder. "But it's a lot harder [to do] than that."Polldaddy – now the biggest online polling and survey application – is another success story, staying firmly in its Sligo base despite selling out to the US blogging-platform giant Automattic in 2008. "With this industry, if you're not in San Francisco or New York or London you may as well be in Sligo, where it's ridiculously cheap for office space and everything else," says project lead David Lenehan. "Automattic was the right company at the right time. And Lehman Brothers was collapsing at that point, so it seemed a good thing to do."The elephant in the room when talking to any Irish business is Ireland's famously low corporation tax, which, at 12.5%, is less than half the average rate found across the rest of Europe. It survived the IMF's examination last week, though it is unclear whether it will be raised next year; unsurprisingly, nobody in the tech industry would favour that.Corporation tax raised about €3.9bn (£3.2bn) in 2009, about 10% of Irish government revenue. If it were to rise, would all the major foreign companies that presently use it as part of a tax avoidance system – such as Google and Facebook – remain in the country?By using Ireland as its European and non-US base, and adding in some clever exploitation of tax loopholes, Google has in effect reduced its corporate tax bill to 2.4%, saving $3.1bn (£2bn) in the past three years. It would have paid 35% in the US. The process is entirely legal and Google is far from alone in exploiting it: more than 400 multinationals now established in Ireland.Google, along with Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Microsoft, all suggested last week that raising corporation tax would encourage them to leave Ireland. Natives believe that would only happen if taxes rose to punitive rates. And many think that the tax loopholes that have allowed dodges such as the "Double Irish" and the "Dutch Sandwich" to reduce tax bills by billions should be closed. Entrepreneur Louis Ravenet, who runs games company 2Paperdolls, and has paid millions in tax himself after cashing out from previous ventures, is blunt: "[The government] should close loopholes that are abusive," he says simply. "A company like Google, which is worth $200bn, should pay their bills."But the biggest accusation levelled against the big tech companies is that they do not add substantially to Ireland's economy or its skills base. Google has lots of developers in London, yet hardly any in Dublin. It's the same for almost every similar company, although Facebook does have a "developer support centre", and IBM a research and development centre.Even when the "Celtic Tiger" was in its pomp, Ireland was not in the forefront of the internet revolution: around two-thirds of its 4.6m population had an internet connection this year, and by July this year it only had 1.5 million Facebook users (a useful metric for engaged internet use). That represents 35% of its population, which lags behind the UK (42% are Facebook users) and US (40%).The result of all this is that Ireland has only a small pool of technology expertise, in which those with  know-how find that opportunities look as good as ever. Joe Drumgoole, the chief executive of cloud-computing management specialists CloudSplit, says he had to make eight engineers redundant during the slump in November 2008 at his previous startup. "But they all had jobs by Christmas, and that's typical. I don't know a single organisation in Ireland today that can fill all its slots for technical people."Recruiting more senior staff can also be problematic, says WhatClinic.com's King. "In California there would be a whole group of healthcare companies to recruit from, but we don't have that critical mass of skills. And at some stage you're going to need to recruit a CFO [chief financial officer] or CTO [chief technology officer] who's probably bought a house, got a kid, and got a €250,000 overhang on their mortgage. They can't risk missing a payment even for one month."Part of that fear lies in Ireland's laws, which say that mortgage debt follows you even if you declare yourself bankrupt – meaning that for swathes of Ireland's middle class, there is nothing in prospect but working to service a mortgage to a bank that may be a historical footnote by the time it is paid off. "We sold our house in 2007 because we were getting scared [by the property crash]," says King, who has three children. "We bought it 10 years before, and we got out with a profit of €10,000. Now I tell people that I've been working for the past 15 years and I've got nothing to show for it, and they say: 'That's nothing. Wait until I tell you my story.'" Those may be the people who decide to emigrate soon, leaving the unrepayable debts to someone – anyone – else to deal with.Whichever party comes to power after the January election  will need a successful technology sector, because the forecasts for reducing Ireland's deficit to 3% of GDP depend on vigorous growth – something economists find frankly unlikely amid swingeing budget cuts. But technology-led exports at least offer some hope, which is why many of Ireland's most active entrepreneurs have been backed at some point by Enterprise Ireland (EI), the government's influential development agency.Despite the cuts, the agency's budget is due to remain largely intact for 2011. It spent €343m on investments and commercialisation of research in 2009, putting an average of €280,000 into 73 Ireland-based startups."The future will be based on indigenous companies exporting out of Ireland, so it's important that we do continue to proactively invest in internet companies," says Tom Cusack of EI. "[In the] internet and games area we've seen huge growth."EI announced an €85m fund for hi-tech firms earlier this month, will launch a €20m seed fund for startups in December, and intends to expand later-stage funding to invest in 110 startups in 2011. That's good news for brand new firms, which can get going with as little as €50,000. A new priority is to get overseas startups to relocate to Ireland; the agency has a 10% target by 2011.EI is not afraid of being seen as mercenary about the opportunities of adversity. "The availability of resources, the costs of property and employees, have gone down and individuals are now thinking this is an opportunity to start the idea they've always had," says Cusack. "You should never waste a good recession."
On Christmas Day, 1990, in a lab at Cern in Geneva, Switzerland, Tim Berners-Lee finished building the tools to create the world wide web. This act, 20 years ago, set the agenda for far-reaching transformations in the political sphere, in economies everywhere, in social interaction, even in concepts of our own identity. And Berners-Lee succeeded in doing so for one reason: he released the technology for free.This simple decision, taken by a computer scientist used to working in environments that promoted openness and transparency, eclipses any hype about subsequent Twitter revolutions, Facebook campaigns or political protests ascribed to the platform since. The invention of the web is comparable to Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in 1450.Like the printing press, the web has already been credited with ushering in an age of enlightenment; it is hailed, too, as the most powerful harbinger of social change the world has ever seen. But this isn't the first time such claims have been made. Tom Standage, author ofThe Victorian Internet, has argued that the telegraph, in the 19th century, inspired rampant technophilia. "The telegraph was the first technology to be seized upon as a panacea," he has written. "It was soon being hailed as a means to solve the world's problems."It failed to do so, of course – but we have been pinning the same hope on other new technologies ever since."So is the web over-hyped? In the 90s, when it still was in its swaddling clothes, revolution meant building a website brandishing the word "REVOLUTION!" in flashing red Comic Sans capital letters on a bright yellow background. Unfortunately, e-radicalism required a degree of technological capability. And political protests online were derivative, often no more effective than a giant billboard that people might drive by on the way to work or the shops. But everythingdidchange in 2003 with the advent of a new crop of publishing platforms, blogs and social networks, that net pundits described as an entirely new phenomenon.Stripping the hype away, this version of the web gives a new crop of cyber-revolutionaries access to a printing press, a radio station, a cable TV channel and more. Rather than virtual pamphleteering, they are developing technologies that take seed in grassroots communities. The power, as 20-year-old blogger and political activist Jody McIntyre puts it, is with the people.In particular, there has been an explosion of technologies to circumvent censorship in countries where panic-stricken regimes have tried to stem dissident information. For example, Walid al-Saqaf developed an encryption technology called alkasir when the Yemeni government closed down his news aggregation site,YemenPortal.net. As the son of a campaigning journalist who died in mysterious circumstances, al-Saqaf felt that it was important that he use both his journalism and IT skills to get around the blockade, "because I felt it would have been a betrayal to my own profession to simply manipulate what people see"."Information freedom is essential if you're really going to live a dignified life," he argues.The Chinese government is the most infamous of web censors, but there is evidence that even its Great Firewall is collapsing at its foundations. The country's most popular blogger isHan Han, a 28-year-old author (and professional rally car driver) who posts treatises openly critical of the government, but because he speaks in the youth vernacular and enjoys such a tremendous following, his personal politics are generally overlooked by the powers that be.As Han told me: "Although the internet is controlled, when compared with traditional media, it better reflects reality."Other political activists I spoke with are using the web's hyper-connectivity and plug-and-play capabilities to crowdsource action. Kenyan-born Ory Okolloh helped create the websiteUshahidiin the aftermath of her country's disputed presidential election in 2007; it collected eyewitness reports of violence sent in by email and text-message and placed them on a Google map, and the open-source software has since been released freely and used elsewhere for similar projects. Tom Steinberg is the founder and director ofmySociety, a company that builds digital tools to provide a direct pipeline between individuals, local communities and local government.Despite traditional media's fears that they are fast becoming obsolete, there is great respect among the modern cyber-radicals for the scale of attention that newspapers and TV can bring. "If I was running an election campaign and I had £10,000, I would still spend it all on TV ads, leaflets and posters," Steinberg says. "The internet is good at all sorts of things, but shoving your message down the throats of people who don't care — which is what it takes to win a campaign – it's not particularly great at." But on the web, he says, "you can make things that say, 'Go on, just have a go.'"In some instances, the political impulse is almost an afterthought. Christopher Poole is the American creator of4chan, an image-centric bulletin board that he set up to discuss Japanese anime – but now its users,  or some of them at least, are making use of the anonymity that the site affords them to campaigning ends.By contrast, Peter Sunde is the co-founder of thePirate Bay, a site that allows for the peer-to-peer sharing of computer files of any kind, but one that was set up with an explicitly political purpose. Sunde now has a jail sentence hanging over him.What today's crop of cyber-radicals demonstrate is that power does reside in the hands of the people, thanks to the foundations laid by Tim Berners-Lee 20 years ago. And a new generation of social activists are exploiting the technological tools available to them for their own agendas.CHRISTOPHER "MOOT" POOLE – 4CHANChristopher Poole, aka Moot, creator of 4chan.org. Photograph: Helayne SeidmanCreated the site4chanin his New York City bedroom at the age of 15 in 2003, subsequently posting on the site using the pseudonym "moot". He intended the site to be a place to discuss Japanese comics and anime, but it soon morphed into something far bigger. TheWall Street Journalrevealed moot's real-world identity in 2008.What is 4chan?4chan is an image-centric bulletin board. It's based on a Japanese site called Futaba. Their code was publicly available so I downloaded a copy of their source code and translated the text from Japanese to English from an online resource. It's me, a handful of volunteer moderators and a part-time developer. For a site that has more than 10&nbsp;million users and 700 million page impressions, most people are shocked to discover that it's not a company, it's not an operation, it's our hobby.How has it evolved?All of its growth has been organic. We've never advertised the site; it's been word-of-mouth. Now our traffic is about 12 million unique visitors per month. Part of the way it spread is because the images that are posted lend themselves naturally to be shared via IM [instant messaging], chat or email. People see a funny or provocative image, send it to their friends, and their friends come to 4chan. The community has a very distinct culture and language, and it's responsible for creating and propagating internet memes like lolcats [amusing pictures of cats] andRickrolling[a prank involving the video for the 1987 Rick Astley song "Never Gonna Give You Up"]. As that started to trickle out into the mainstream… all of a sudden, it's not just something spread as word-of-mouth by 18- to 25-year-old video game nerds; it's hit mainstream consciousness.The site is distinctive because users can post material anonymously, and some users have also organised themselves as a collective, using the name "Anonymous". What does that actually mean?As recently as six years ago, people were used to forums where you could lurk, you could view, but in order to post and participate, you had to register. Because you didn't need to register on 4chan, people started to appreciate it, and realise how radically different it was. We began to see anonymity not just as an aspect or feature, but as a thing, as a principle, as an idea that we are one, we are a collective, we are Anonymous. People then came to the site who not only saw Anonymous as a principle, but started to exploit anonymity as a new platform where they could be rebellious and no one knew who they were."Anonymous" started a protest movement against the practices of the Church of Scientology two years ago. Were you complicit in their activities?I didn't start 4chan as an outlet for dissenting voices and freedom of speech. At first the community was so tame. But as it became less tame, I felt there was something there worth protecting. The rise of social networking is an assault on the free, the open, the anonymous web. I started to appreciate that 4chan is one of the last bastions of freedom online. Anonymity – including anonymous posting – is something to be protected. 4chan is very privileged to be one of the last places for this type of discourse, for this type of interaction. That's important. That's why I've decided to be hands-off and to protect it as a place, and to deliver  a platform.Why?Anonymity allows you to express and view opinions, images you wouldn't necessarily be comfortable with elsewhere. That doesn't necessarily mean you have to be negative. It's not about, "You can't say fuck on Facebook&nbsp;but you can on 4chan." Services where you have a persistent, registered identity such as Twitter and Facebook – in many cases it's your real identity – limit what users want to say and read. But you can on 4chan. It is an&nbsp;outlet. I was invited to speak at Facebook to provide an alternative and opposite perspective to theirs. Mark Zuckerberg's point of view is that anonymity and monikers and pseudo-identity represents cowardice. He said that if you have nothing to hide, what's the big deal? Why would you be concerned about putting all this stuff on your profile? Well, I'm not a zealot and people like what Facebook is doing. But there is a place for both. They both&nbsp;offer powerful utilities for different needs.&nbsp;The world still needs a Google,&nbsp;and Facebook. But it also needs&nbsp;the anonymous, ephemeral, open 4chan.Are there any rules?There is a set of codified rules and we&nbsp;do enforce them: don't break the&nbsp;law or post anything illegal.  Past that, the users are left to their  own devices.ORY OKOLLOH - USHAHIDIOry Okolloh, founder of Ushahidi. Photograph: Brian Harkin/Getty ImagesKenyan activist, lawyer and blogger, and co-founder ofUshahidi, a crowdsourcing technology. She is 33 and now lives in Johannesburg, South Africa.What is Ushahidi?It is a non-profit technology company that specialises in developing free and open-source software for crowdsourcing and interactive mapping. We build tools for democratising information and increasing transparency – we're lowering the barriers for individuals to share their stories. It started out as an ad hoc group of technologists and bloggers hammering out software in a couple of days, trying to figure out a way to gather more and better information about the post-election violence in Kenya in January 2008. Since then, the platform has gone open-source, and it's free so it's now being used by organisations big and small all over the world.How did digital technologies best meet your needs, rather than the traditional avenues of publication and dissemination?Digital technologies offer the ability to get up and running in a low-cost way, and the possibility of reaching a much wider audience.What is it about the web that makes it such an effective platform?Its accessibility and the low barriers to publication of information – plus the ability to be who you are.What can't the web do to change our attitudes and behaviour?The web can't change our behaviour – it can influence us, but it's individuals who change.Where will the web have its greatest effect over the next 10 years?No question: Africa.JODY McINTYRE – LIFE ON WHEELSJody Mcintyre, activist and Life on Wheels blogger. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverA 20-year old British blogger and author of the siteLife on Wheels, Jody was born disabled and campaigns worldwide for justice in Palestine.Where does Life on Wheels come from?The site was born out of anger and frustration – as with the birth of every revolutionary movement. Essentially, I was going to college every morning and bus drivers wouldn't let me on the bus because I was in a wheelchair. So in response to these feelings, I began writing the blog, detailing my experiences.Why use the web?If you're not given a platform by others, you'll make your own. If your form of resistance is writing, then you will find any means necessary to get that writing out into the public consciousness, even if you have to write it on a piece of paper and pin it up on walls around London – [but] the way I saw it, everyone I knew was going on the internet.What is it about digital tools that make them effective in galvanising people?I don't think the internet is some kind of grand solution that will solve all our problems, but it helps because of its capacity to reach people across the world. A lot of revolutionaries talk about the necessity of encouraging revolution and resistance in any context around the world. If we're writing on the internet, the hope that someone in Kashmir or Palestine or Iraq can read what you're writing is a good one. With the web, people in power can't edit or co-opt what we've said. I can publish whatever I want to say. They can't censor our voices any longer. You can say whatever you like about Julian Assange and Wikileaks, but you can't change the video or the images that a million people saw in one day of American soldiers eager to kill Iraqi civilians. People see those images and know the truth is in front of their eyes.What are its shortcomings?We need to realise that most people in the world don't have access to the net. The internet is just the first step. The movement we want to build, the revolutionary movement for equality for all people, can only happen through direct action, and direct action on the streets. The internet can play a role in our political education, raising our political consciousness, but as long as people remember that this is a way to plan action, to organise ourselves, to connect people, but not the solution, then we'll be OK.HAN HAN – BLOGGERHan Han a professional rally driver, bestselling author, singer, creator of a literary magazine and China's most popular blogger. Photograph: Ym Yik/epa/CorbisThe 28-year-old Chinese professional rally driver, bestselling author, singer, creator of a literary magazine and China's most popularblogger– indeed, possibly the most popular blogger in the world.What are your greatest criticisms of the Chinese government and the current political climate there?The Chinese Communist party puts keeping their political position first above everything. Of course, this is the wish of many political parties around the world. For the Chinese government, the reality is that regardless of whether the people are satisfied or unsatisfied, the party's position will always be secure. However, they are sometimes nervous, sometimes arrogant and this attitude has caused many tragedies.What impact do you hope your web activity will have on the political system?Although China has many idealistic journalists and media figures, the media are still controlled and censored. Although the internet is controlled, when compared with traditional media it better reflects reality. Rather extreme views or false information may sometimes appear on the internet, but it's only because traditional media fail to take the responsibilities they should take. The government might think the internet is really annoying, but I think it actually helps the government.How do you think internet-based social change is different in China?The only difference is English-speaking countries treat the internet as technology, while Chinese-speaking countries treat the internet as medicine.How did you decide the internet was the best mouthpiece for your views? You already had a profile in traditional media, so why not use them?It's faster and more direct. It's almost impossible to publish sensitive articles in traditional media. Even though others might delete your writing online, at least you can publish your opinion completely. I don't write articles to oppose a specific party or government; my articles could criticise any party. I'm a writer. How can I call myself an intellectual if I can't write and publish words as I wish?Why do you feel you can get away with statements against the government that other people wouldn't?The atmosphere is not as terrifying as people in the west may think. Sometime my articles do get censored, but besides those who advocate policy changes and democratic reform, the government actually doesn't often control or censor writers. The writers here have become smarter: they know what to write and what not to write.How have you dealt with resistance from your detractors, in particular the Chinese government?They can only censor my articles, not my thoughts. I can accept this type of censorship. It's a game, and I'm playing by other people's rules. I don't think the government disagrees with the ideas in the articles that were censored; they are afraid of the ideas spreading.What effect do you feel you are having on the political psyche of China's youth?I can't really influence them in any way, but I hope that when the country is one day in their hands they will remember the past and take good care of this nation. In that world there is no capitalism, socialism, communism or feudalism; there is also no westernisation or easternisation. There is only right and wrong, beauty and ugliness, good and evil.Where will the most radical change brought about by the web be felt in 10 years?I'll answer this question in 2013, when we have confirmation that the world still exists. Otherwise my answer now will be rubbish.PETER SUNDE – THE PIRATE BAYPeter Sunde, co-founder of The Pirate Bay. Photograph: Richard Saker for the GuardianThe 32-year old Swedish co-founder of thePirate Bay, the world's leading file-sharing site, allowing users to exchange music, games, videos and more. Found guilty, along with his colleagues, of assisting others in copyright infringement in 2009; lost his appeal last week (after this interview took place) and now faces eight months in jail and a fine shared with his colleagues of £4.1m.What is the Pirate Bay?The Pirate Bay was a project developed as part of an "anti-anti-piracy group" started in Sweden called Piratbyrån. Pirate Bay blew up because other file-sharing sites were being shut down because of legal pressure from Hollywood. Most of the other sites were run by 16-year-old guys, and when you're that age and you get a letter from a Hollywood attorney saying they're going to sue you for all the money in the world, you shut down your site. We wanted to make a statement and take on the fight. The internet is based on the idea that everyone can share whatever they want. If you start having gatekeepers you have a consumer-and-producer relationship. We didn't like the idea that corporations would take the internet and turn it into cable TV.What philosophy lay behind your attitude?We were influenced by Public Enemy and the KLF. And by traditional French philosophers, rather than by any US west coast libertarians.What makes you think that the free sharing of files online can be right?I grew up with computers. I got my first computer when I was nine, and everything I learned about computers was from copies. I wouldn't be able to program if it wasn't for illegally copying my first programming language compiler.How did your attitude develop?I started reading academic papers about file sharing that said it is good for the community; it's good for the artist. The only people who lose are the record companies and the studios. Copyright is based on the notion that there are certain companies who should be able to profit from culture. It's not based on the idea any more that people who create things should be able to benefit, or get money for it. Copyright is boring, so no one really wants to get to know it. It's such a big legal field, so the companies who can profit from it have a free arena to dictate terms. But the internet removed the middleman. I don't understand why&nbsp;that's a bad thing. I see the situation in the same way as discovering a car that runs on water and the oil companies forbidding water to be used in cars.Why is the web important?It means there are no gatekeepers any more. You have the power to influence people as quickly as you can connect with the internet. With Twitter and Facebook you don't even need to create your own publishing platform. You just have to have an idea. In Sweden, after the recent election, a 17-year-old immigrant girl created a Facebook group calling for a demonstration against the [rightwing, nationalist Sweden Democrats] who were voted into office. Ten hours later, 6,000 people showed up and started demonstrating.WALID AL-SAQAF – YEMEN PORTALWalid al-Saqaf, creator of Yemen Portal. Photograph: James Duncan Davidson/TEDThe 37-year old Yemeni activist is the creator ofYemen Portaland of software used to circumvent firewalls.What is Yemen Portal?YemenPortal.net is a news aggregator. More than 90% of the content is in Arabic. It gathers information or news articles released on official news websites and through dissident and independent sites, and puts them together to present a comprehensive view of what's happening in Yemen. This feature has allowed a lot of people to look into dissident content they didn't know&nbsp;about.Why was this necessary?The traditional media in Yemen are very restrictive, and the broadcast media are monopolised by the state: you wake up in the morning in Yemen and turn on the news on TV and you find that all the news is about the president's meetings and the government's meetings.How did the government respond to the fact that an increasing readership was discovering dissident content through Yemen Portal?They simply blocked access to it, to the whole site from within Yemen. So I had three choices: give way and let the government control what did and didn't appear on my site; shut it down altogether; or keep the controversial content and find ways to allow people to access the site. I chose the latter, because I felt it would have been a betrayal to my professsion to manipulate what people see. I developed a piece of software called alkasir. If you were browsing the net and wanted to open your Gmail, your Gmail would go through the regular internet service provider. But when you open a blocked website, it activates itself and changes into the encrypted proxy mode. That's better than anonymising everything because if you do that, you give the impression to the monitors at the ISP that there is a fishy connection.TOM STEINBERG – MYSOCIETYTom Steinberg, founder of mySociety. Photograph: Anna Gordon for the GuardianThe 33-year old founder ofmySociety, which has developed websites in the UK including TheyWorkForYou and WriteToThem, aiming to bring greater transparency to government.What is mySociety?MySociety builds websites that give people simple, tangible benefits in the civic and democratic parts of their lives. We run various democracy and transparency sites in the UK that do things like make it really easy to find out how your politicians voted or, on a more local level, help you report problems to the council, such as potholes and broken streetlights, or get information out of government that you might want via the Freedom of Information Act.How can the web be used as a tool to influence people?The internet enables you to help people to achieve things they might want to get done in their lives and in their communities on a scale that is not possible unless you are using such a cheaply scalable digital technology.How has it transformed the political process?There is no one thing that is "internet politics". There really are two worlds: partisan campaigning to exert power and to beat your opponents into a pulp; and the creation of what you might call empowering platforms using general-purpose tools that let people communicate, act, exert power or achieve goals like requesting information out of the government. These two really different things often get bundled together. There's actually quite a big difference between the way that Barack Obama used what was essentially an extremely good credit card form to raise $500m through his website, taking that money and using it to buy TV adverts and posters to beat the Republicans, versus services like those that we run. We build platforms so that people can achieve potentially smaller things that are not so single-minded in purpose.What it is that you want to change by building these platforms?We get people who've never tried to campaign on anything, they've never written to a politician, but if you make the barrier low enough and give them a reason, you'll push them over the edge.Is the best way to influence the public to give them the tools or the messages?If I was running an election campaign and I had £10,000, I would still spend it all on TV adverts, leaflets and posters. The internet isn't massively good at making people think things they don't currently think. It's very good at helping people to do things when they decide that they want to. I think that TV and adverts on the side of buses will be playing a dominant role in politics for a long time to come. But I'm a great believer that the internet will strengthen the community on your street because it can bring together people who care about an issue who didn't previously have a voice, so that they can then shout loudly enough to make political bodies and organisations pay attention.Are you trying to transform local politics?It would be lovely if measurably more people in the future felt they could realistically be part of the solution if there was some problem in their community, that it's not just something unimaginably over their heads that's dealt with by another class of people that they never meet. I am out to give as many people as I can a better experience of dealing with the democracy they live in and the government that rules over them.
Two disconnected events last week showed how far we still have to go in understanding our new communications environment. In one, an Anglican bishop was suspended for some remarks he made on his Facebook page about the forthcoming wedding of two graduates of St Andrews University. In the other, a 27-year-old accountant had his appeal against a conviction for posting a joke message on Twitter dismissed.First, the bishop. Pete Broadbent is (or was?) the suffragan bishop of Willesden. Aportrait of him on Facebooksuggests that he is a cheery, slightly untidy chap. He is also a political leftie and a republican. Irritated by the sycophantic nonsense in the tabloids that accompanied the announcement of the Windsor-Middleton merger, he logged on to Facebook and gave vent to his feelings. "The Windsors and their predecessors,"he wrote, "don't have a good track record on the permanence of marriage. But their marriage is their business. I don't know them and have no part in celebrating it. I just wish we weren't paying for it."I think we need a party in Calais for all good republicans who can't stand the nauseating tosh that surrounds this event. Never underestimate the capacity of the media to descend into the most fawning nonsense and to rake up trivia and irrelevance until it comes out of their every orifice. I managed to avoid the last disaster in slow motion between Big Ears and the Porcelain Doll and hope to avoid this one too."Stirring stuff, eh? And, given what we subsequently discovered about Big Ears's extramarital activities, quite restrained. But Broadbent's boss, the bishop of London, was not amused and suspended him from his ministry. Which was a stupid and counter-productive thing to do, given that if the Church of England is to have a future, it takes the form of people in their 20s and 30s who use Facebook. And most of them will be a lot less upset about Bishop Broadbent's rant than the wrinklies currently running the C of E franchise.Meanwhile, in another part of the forest,Paul Chamberswas arriving at Robin Hood airport, near Doncaster, expecting to catch a flight to see his girlfriend in Northern Ireland. Finding the place closed because of bad weather, he tweeted thus: "Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together, otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!!" What he didn't realise at the time was that Inspector Knacker of the war on terrorism department would not only see his tweet, but treat it as an indictable offence. Chambers was arrested, charged under our sweeping anti-terrorism laws, convicted and fined. When his employers discovered about these proceedings, he was also fired from his job.Astonished, Chambers appealed, reckoning that a crown court would dismiss his conviction and £1,000 fine without a full hearing. But last week, Judge Jacqueline Davies at Doncaster crown court dismissed Chambers's appeal on every count.She found that his original tweet "contained menace"and that Chambers must have known that it might be taken seriously.At which point you begin to wonder what's going on. One well-known blogger, Martin Weller, has a persuasive answer. What we have now,he argues, is "a conspiracy of sentiment". "All those involved at various stages: politicians, the police, CPS, judges, media are all acting from the same unspoken emotional base. This can be summarised as: they hate you. They hate that you undermine their carefully crafted messages and turn them into jokes. They hate that you are forming new methods of entertainment that they don't understand. They hate that you can organise yourselves without them knowing about it. They hate that power has been democratised. They hate that you get at content for free. They hate it, hate it, hate it. So when the opportunity arises to stamp on one of you snivelling social media types, they grasp it with both hands."Yep. No wonder the guys in Silicon Valley think Britain is quaint. It is.
Price£57,609MPG34.4Top speed150mphIt's accepted that if you're the sort of sadistic motorist who enjoys giving Mother Nature a good thrashing, your first weapon of choice would be a 4x4. If you can't get your hands on a&nbsp;two-tonne off-roader then a&nbsp;Porsche would probably be your next best bet – all but two of its 56 models currently on sale in the UK are in Band G or higher for CO2emissions. The perfect tool for eager nature vandals would, of course, be a Porsche that's also a 4x4.Some of you will be surprised to learn that Porsche, makers of beautifully balanced rear-engined sports cars, even make an off-roader. But the Cayenne has been a feature of our crowded roads since 2002 – a&nbsp;much-improved second-generation of the SUV was unleashed earlier this year. In the first four weeks it was on sale, more than 16,000 orders were received. In fact, the Cayenne is now the biggest-selling model in Porsche's history. How ironic that a lumbering SUV should be a sports-car manufacturer's most popular product.Here's something else that'll surprise you. There's now an eco version of the Cayenne. So, we have a green Porsche that's an SUV… what next? A Porsche driver who isn't a bonus-wielding banker?It's all a sharp turnaround from when the car was first launched. I can still remember the shock of seeing one of the bloated beasts in the flesh. Like the fat-faced love child of a 911 roadster and a&nbsp;bouncy castle, it was one of the ugliest cars I'd ever seen. But its overshot jaw and bulging panels have slowly grown less startling. Today,  like the neighbours' snuffling pug, it has a&nbsp;certain jolie-laide appeal.The latest Cayenne is lighter, more agile and more powerful than the outgoing one, which means that the S Hybrid somehow combines the sporting performance of an eight-cylinder engine with the economy of a six-cylinder and the drive is gutsy and powerful, yet as smooth as Kate Middleton's cheek thanks to a&nbsp;revolutionary eight-speed gearbox.Like all hybrids, the Cayenne has two engines – a&nbsp;3-litre V6 petrol unit which combines forces with a&nbsp;separate electric motor. Heat lost through braking is salvaged and stored in the car's huge batteries, from where it can be called upon to help push the Porsche along in an unexpectedly  mild and serene manner. At a mere 193g of CO2per km and an excellent fuel consumption of 34.4mpg, the Hybrid is by far the cleanest Porsche  in the company's portfolio. It's so clean, in fact, that it's congestion-charge exempt in central London. Again, how ironic that a 4x4 should  be a&nbsp;manufacturer's cleanest  product. At the end of each journey, the onboard computer reveals what percentage of the previous journey was emission free. Over a week, about 47% of my driving was as sweet-smelling as a&nbsp;baby's breath.There's so much for Porsche to sing about, you'd think they'd be giving their two-tone horn a well-deserved blast. But rather than plastering the Hybrid with green badges so passersby are left in no doubt, the only indication is the word "hybrid" in chrome clinging apologetically to the Cayenne's mighty flank. After enduring decades of abuse, it seems, the last thing a Porker driver wants to be seen as is a snivelling eco-convert.IS THIS THE MOST USEFUL NEW CAR WEBSITE?Carbuzz.co.ukis an independent new car comparison website which has just been launched by a 23-year old car enthusiast. It offers aggregated expert reviews, user reviews, statistics, useful videos and images, in order to help consumers looking to purchase a new car and find the best vehicle for their taste, budget and requirements.All cars are rated with a "buzz score" and the site already features about 8,000 reviews. James Hind, founder of Carbuzz, says: "I spotted a gap in the market around a year ago for an independent website…" and hey presto, here it is. And he's done a terrific job. The site is clear, easy to use and incredibly informative without the preachy tone and technical baggage of many other sites. Have a look!carbuzz.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
The world ofRed Dead Redemptionwas always tough, but at least the dead stayed dead. Not any more: the deceased are on the prowl and swell their ranks when they nibble on John Marston's skin. Cue more than seven hours of new single-player adventure as he travels across New Austin and Mexico searching for a cure for the zombie plague, killing just about everything along the way. Not to mention meeting old friends, rescuing survivors, clearing settlements of the undead horde, picking up devastating new weapons and taming all four horses of the Apocalypse. Don't worry that it's utterly ridiculous, because it's also completely brilliant.If that weren't enough, this disc bundles together both the Liars &amp; Cheats and the Legends &amp; Killers multiplayer add-ons, so if you do ever tire of popping zombies in the head, you can play new maps, games and characters online.Undead Nightmareis still recognisablyRDR, albeit with less ammo. Not that you'll ever run out if you get busy with your trusty torch or once you get your hands on the blunderbuss: it uses bits of zombie as shot and there is no shortage of them…The single best thing about this game, however, is that you play it all as John Marston. Which is a very welcome return from the dead.
Today we've launched a new series of fortnightly articles calledUntangling the web. The purpose of the series is to examine how the most revolutionary innovation of our time - the internet - has transformed our world? What does it mean for the modern family? How has it changed our concepts of privacy? Of celebrity? Of love, sex and hate?The first article in the series looks athow a generation of political activists have been transformed by new tools developed on the internet.For the next topic in the series, I'll be looking at how the web has changed how we hate: do we hate people and groups more or less? Is it easier to hate, and does online hatred translate into offline hate crime?Topics likely to be covered are: cyber-bullying, extremism, cyber-balkanization, disinformation.Add your suggestions on these and other online hate-related ideas to the comments, send them toaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk, or tweet@aleksk.But please, don't direct hatred at the author. Thanks.
Five years in the making – racing fans have had a long wait forGran Turismo 5. At the game's launch in Madrid on Wednesday its creator, Kazunori Yamauchi, explained to theObserverthe connection between the long gestation and the rationale that drives him: "There is quite a gap between just completing something and perfecting it…"GT5was not to be merely about the brute simplicities of gaming. Beyond pointing and pushing, more than merely steering a sim, it was to be his team's every ambition incarnate – racing perfection.As light turns to dark at Le Mans' Circuit de la Sarthe and the headlights flicker on (dipped or full beam – wonderful), it feels like it was worth all those years. Full darkness descends and, upon entering the Porsche Curves, fireworks begin to explode from the campsites (as they do in real life); this detail, both beautiful and distracting, is extraordinary.As is a downpour at Monza. Using cockpit view – the first of the genre to really, really work in detail and playability – the racing line disappears in the rain, opponents in a wall of spray in front, while through the rear window a mist of brakelight-tinged red mist obscures everything. Weather and time differentiation have never been done better.GT5offers many such gems to revel in.And so many ways in which to revel. More than 1,000 cars populate the game, 200 of them branded as premium – modelled in painstaking detail, offering a sense of more than just simulated metal and rubber. A palpable love of the subject matter almost turns them into works of art. There are the circuits, innumerable with swathes of variations, Madrid and Rome joining London as unique street venues. The Nürburgring may beGT5's talisman but it has strength in depth here as well.Then there is the physics, with exemplary modelling (in full, impressive, 3D if you have the requisite kit). A real feeling of being in control of a heavy, powerful machine is conveyed, particularly under braking. Cars can be differentiated purely by how much the back end slips out and how they perform turning-in when lunging toward an apex. Attention to detail – with any amount of assists and under-bonnet upgrading and, of course, set-up tweaking – is so extensive thatGT5simply demands to be played with a steering wheel for the full experience.The "experience" lies at the game's core. Levelling-up and unlocking tracks and cars is central to the game and, although enhanced by special events, be warned, as a labour of love the designers will not let you just jump straight into a muscle car; the time they spent will now become yours…And yet in certain ways it seems like the five years weren't quite enough. The front end is still clunky and the AI, although much improved, can verge from too conservative to occasionally wilful at times. While, for an immersive sim, the hollow "bonk" noise engendered by hitting a rival is noticeably unrealistic. Perhaps it can be fixed. The 16-player online experience, a mighty but flawed achievement, was especially marred by a lack of performance classification, making racing in anything other than supercars pointless. It will be added, Yamauchi promised, within days. Equally, the single most jarring omission, the absence of mechanical damage affecting performance – fundamental to any racing sim – is to be incorporated in an upgrade this Wednesday.Yamauchi-san has indeed created an artifice of marvel and wonder. But it seems his quest for perfection must continue – one doubts he would have it any other way. And in the meantimeGran Turismo 5is one hell of a ride.
What Would Emma Pilsbury WearWe're all familiar with the term stalking and its online equivalent cyber stalking but this website offers a less sinister form of celebrity obsession – style stalking. Here, the object of affection is also fictional: the germ-phobic, cardigan-wearing, sunshine virgin of Glee that is Emma Pillsbury. Pillsbury is one of the real stars of the US high-school singathon. Here it's her clothes that take centre stage with the four female bloggers sourcing her outfits both on and off screen. Most of the outfits are only available in the US and, with Channel 4 holding back screening of the second series, you run the risk of spoilers, but that's nothing a bit of time travelling down the archive won't fix.Ex Rent HellEx Rent Hell.As anyone who has visited a car boot sale or charity shop in recent times will tell you, absolutely any movie can be purchased on video these days for pennies. Genuinely. As long as you're not bothered about watching pre-2005 films. This blog does not so much celebrate today's golden period for late adopters but hark back to the period when VHS was king and you had to root around in the ex-rental bins for a bargain. Unearthing 80s films never likely to be available on Blu-ray such as Caveman, Soul Man and Finders Keepers, we get trailers, clips, links and hilarious commentary: fantasy horror Krull for example is described as "enjoyable as a naked donkey ride to hell". There are also regular features on VHS heroes, missing genres and caption contests.Blog roll: GoogleGoogle Logos.Google LogosThe history of Google Doodles from 1998 – when the logo hinted that the founders were at Burning Man festival – to today.9 EyesRude, odd, spectacular and disturbing sights all caught by the Google Street View cameras. (Warning: contains scenes that may offend or upset.)Track This NowTrace news stories by keyword on a UK Google map.Matt CuttsThe head of Google's webspam ruminates on productivity, iPhones and writing a novel in a month.Unofficial Google BlogWhy Germany is blurry, searching tips and news plus the launch of Hotpot and Google goggles.Google SightseeingBizarre tourist spots and wonders of the world as seen from Google Earth.AndroinicaUpdates on the latest Android phone apps, tips and launches.What we learned on the web this weekAngry Birds.Angry Birdsare considering a peace treatyHow to getfrom Swearword &amp; Ethanol to Slender GorgeWhere to findthe best animated movie gifsThe 17th-centuryversion of FacebookSome nerdyDVD moments guaranteed to make you sobAmerica is fullof Cimex lectulariusAll you needto know about working at a fast food restaurant in 1983Being ableto draw and dressing like women doesn't make you specialFormula 1is deadThe most over-usedline in Hollywood• This article was corrected on 29 November 2010. The wrong link was provided for the website Ex Rent Hell. We also incorrectly called the website Ex Rental Hell. Both errors have been amended.
Call Of Duty: Black Ops, Xbox 360, Wii, PS3 &amp; PCWhen Fidel Castro chips in with a complaint about a videogame release, you know the hype bandwagon must be rolling pretty fast. And so it is for the return of the gargantuan Call Of Duty franchise, with a story told in flashback under torture and an eclectic selection of special forces missions from the past 70 years from the second world war via the Bay of Pigs to Vietnam. Immediately striking in its recreation of the brutality and chaos of war, this is miles away from the icy precision of many first-person shooters, regularly making it tempting simply to point your gun in the right-ish direction and hold down the trigger without time either to line up shots or spot enemies. Its moments of strobe light and expletive-laden plot exposition come as a welcome respite from the breathless fever pitch of combat. With a massive and fully featured multiplayer mode to keep you going, if anything can distract Xbox Live from its collective Halo: Reach addiction, this is certainly it.Activision, £39.99-£54.99Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, Xbox 360, Wii, PS3 &amp; PCNeed For Speed: Hot Pursuit.From Criterion, developer of the peerless Burnout games, comes a reinvention of the crusty Need For Speed series, which casts you as both cop and illegal street racer in its adrenaline-stoked driving tour of fictitious Seacrest County. Taking in coastal roads, mountain and desert, your sojourns as both hunter and hunted rely on dangerous driving to earn more boost-enabling nitrous and judicious use of spike strips and electronic countermeasures to disable competitors as you hurtle through oncoming traffic. As you progress, levels change from high-speed foregone conclusions to intricate puzzles, where you need the right mix of luck, shortcuts and belligerence towards fellow drivers. Winning by learning delicious idiosyncrasies or simply upgrading to a better car never fails to feel awesome. Beautifully structured and entertaining, niceties like food and sleep become tertiary concerns.Electronic Arts, £29.99-£49.99Sports Island Freedom, Xbox 369 KinectSports Island Freedom.Owners of Microsoft's technologically astounding Kinect, which you control simply by moving your body, may be discovering that not every game for the new system is quite as adept at making crouching, jumping and flinging your hands in the air feel like fun. Sports Island Freedom's take on 10 sports, from kendo to mogul skiing, benefits from its variety but suffers badly from latency – where your character moves a split second after you do – and dodgy physical detection, where it just fails to spot the movements you make. Tennis is almost unplayable as a result, while beach volleyball, boxing and figure skating have been rendered so simple as to barely require skill. Archery, which Wii and Sony's Move both get very right, just about works, but frequently fails to notice your vain attempts at actually taking a shot, with only paintballing holding more than fleeting interest. Even the menus are a tortuous nightmare; go for the excellent Kinect Sports instead.Konami, £39.99
Context is all. Earlier this year I drove a&nbsp;black Audi A3 up into&nbsp;the hills of theCévennes, that area  of southern France that acts as a kind of bucolic refuge for Frenchmen and Frenchwomen who never really adapted to&nbsp;the  failure of their 1968 dreams. As a consequence, it's a little bit recherché in some of its tastes and outlook. Backward would be a less kind way of putting it.Anyway, when I arrived in the small town of Ganges, I might as well have been driving a Bentley, given the looks the A3 drew from the locals, a curious combination of&nbsp;envy and hostility. It made me want to get out, flash large-denomination euro notes around and scream, "Achetez!" into my mobile phone. It also made me look again at the A3, and see an impressive, handsome car that was only a slight&nbsp;diminution of the excellent A4.Wind forward six months and that's not exactly what I think of the three-door A3 TDI 1.6 I'm negotiating through the cramped streets of north London. For a start, it's red, which is seldom suggestive of automotive heaven, and also it's overshadowed by far too many superior cars, including Bentleys, that, for better or worse, tend to clog up the more fragrant areas of the capital.Suddenly it feels as if I'm driving a slightly upmarket VW Golf. Nothing wrong with that, of course. But let's face it, it's not an Audi, or it shouldn't be. That was what the A3 originally brought to the party. It took all the benefits of the Golf and added some proper style, making something quite distinct in the process.The strange thing is that although the A3 comes with a Bentley-style new grille, this A3 is somehow more Golf-like, at least in the quality of the ride. Actually that's a bit of an insult to a Golf because the A3 is noticeably dull to drive. It lacks responsiveness, especially in lower gears, and it's generally a bit stodgy and unremarkable.But that's the output side of driving, which in the grand or global scheme of things is of diminishing significance. On the input side, this A3 is something else entirely. Thrifty rather than nifty, it's an absolute gem of a hatchback that knocks your average hybrid into a cocked recycling dump, almost single-handedly saves the planet and also does almost 75 miles to the gallon.From that perspective, the A3 suddenly becomes a very attractive prospect. As you'd expect, it's ergonomically well-thought out, with a commendably clear dashboard and straightforward set of controls. It's even got a key-start ignition, and no fiddly design nonsense. It may not turn heads (outside of the Cévennes) but it will change a few minds.Audi A3 TDI 1.6Price£18,085Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.4 secondsAverage consumption74.3 mpgCO2 emissions99g/kmEco rating9/10Bound forBypassing the petrol stationIn a wordPrudent
Pirate Bay's co-founders today lost their appeal against convictions for encouraging illegal filesharing, and have had their collective fine increased by $2m (£1.3m) to $6.5m (£4.1m).A Stockholm court of appeal ruled that Fredrik Neij, Peter Sunde and Carl Lundstrom remain guilty of helping Pirate Bay users illicitly share copyrighted music and film content via their website.The Swedish appeals court today reduced each of their prison sentences from one year to between four and 10 months – but raised the amount they have to pay in damages to the entertainment industry to £4.1m from £2.8m.All four Pirate Bay co-founders werefound guilty in Aprilof assisting the distribution of copyrighted content. The fourth co-founder convicted in April, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, did not appear at the appeals court hearings, citing illness.Following the ruling, Sunde vowed to take the appeal "to the highest court". Posting on Twitter in Swedish,Sunde's messagetranslates as: "It's going to be an appeal to the highest court, so don't worry."Defence lawyers for Neij and Lundstrom said they were not surprised but disappointed by the ruling and confirmed that they would probably appeal to the European supreme court.The court's verdict was wrong,Sunde continued, adding: "They should make a better judgment and read the [evidence files]."It's a good thing you don't get punished for expressing yourself, but a bad thing you get punished for things that don't exist."The four Pirate Bay co-founders were ordered to pay damages to 17 different music and media companies including Sony BMG, Universal, EMI, Warner, MGM and 20th Century Fox, having being found guilty of making 33 specific files accessible for illegal sharing.Neij, 32, must now serve 10 months in prison; Sunde, 32, will serve eight months, and Lundstrom, 50, will serve four. Svartholm, the youngest of the four at 26 years old, will have his case heard at a later date.Charges against the seven-year-old site were brought by the music trade body the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) on behalf of some of the rights owners.The trial began on 16 February, at a time when Pirate Bay boasted more than 22 million users a month.Following their conviction in April all four men, aged between 26 and 50, vowed to fight the ruling, arguing Pirate Bay did not host any copyrighted material itself.But the Stockholm appeals court today dismissed their legal challenge, stating that the site had "facilitated illegal file-sharing in a way that results in criminal liability for those who run the service"."For the three defendants the court of appeal believes it is proven that they participated in these activities in different ways and to varying degrees," the court judgment said.Although Pirate Bay does not itself host copyrighted material, it links to a number of torrents elsewhere on the internet. Early on in the trial prosecutors were forced to drop the charge of "assisting copyright infringement", instead focusing on the lesser charge of "assisting making available copyrighted content".Rick Falkvinge, leader of the Pirate Bay-affiliated Pirate Party, today said it has been a "political trial from the start and it must be resolved politically"."This doesn't mean anything for Pirate Bay and it doesn't mean anything for similar sites," he said. "File sharing is increasing every day and the only thing this means is that more and more people will try to hide what they are doing on the internet."Geoff Taylor, chief executive of UK music sector trade body the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), said the decision confirmed that "far from being a harmless act of digital rebellion, the Pirate Bay is a criminal enterprise to enrich its owners at the expense of musicians and other creators".The BPI called on internet service providers such as BT and TalkTalk to "act responsibly and stop providing unfettered access to this criminal website".
When Gran Turismo 4 came out in 2004, smoking was still legal in pubs in Britain and George W Bush had just won a second term as American president.Gran Turismo 5 has been in production for that whole time. Six years. The Need for Speed series may have sold more overall, but GT is the grand dame of racing franchises. Developer Polyphony Digital and CEO Kazunori Yamauchi, himself a professional racing driver, have cultivated a reputation for pathological attention to detail.Anticipation has therefore been running very high for their first full-sized excursion on the current generation of consoles. 2008's GT5: Prologue was basically just a large demo, and it says a lot about the pull of the franchise that nearly five million people paid for it.Arcade mode is as good a place as any to start, dropping straight into the action, with a two-player split-screen mode, time trials and races, and also the interesting – if difficult to master – drift mode. Driving feels immediately weighty and communicative through even a standard controller, though the experience is considerably improved with a full force feedback wheel.The bulk of gameplay – and what a bulk it is – is in GT mode. You start your career journey with 20,000 credits, and have a choice between going for new vehicles (a predictably vast range of options lies before you, most of it for the moment unaffordable) or browsing the more eclectic second-hand collection. Your 20k isn't much to play with, and the cars you really want cost millions, but there's always the arcade mode if you want immediate access to the good stuff.GT mode is a bit of a slog, actually, especially if you're impatient to "own" something impressive and take it online, but there's a huge number of things to be getting on with. There's the A-spec races, some open series, some requiring specific types of car, which will be familiar to players of the previous GT games. There's the License Tests section, which teaches you slipstreaming, cornering techniques and so on, which is exhaustive and no doubt very useful for budding professional racing drivers, but can be tedious.Much, much more fun are the Special Events. Each event provides you with a car and drops you straight into the action. It's astonishing how flexible Polyphony's engine is: NASCAR feels just as right-on as dirt rallying or go-karting, or mucking about on the Top Gear test track.Astonishingly, this feast is hidden behind a much smaller and more modest button than the one that offers "B-spec" – an eccentric mode in which you pick an AI driver to race for you, in your car, and then watch and attempt to issue instructions. I found it odd that such weight was given to part of a driving game where you to opt out of driving, but I'm sure many will find the tactical considerations rewarding.Online play is being given a real hard-sell, which is surprising because it lacks almost all of the charm and innovation of the single-player game. That's not to say that it isn't accomplished; there are a couple of interesting modes, such as one that randomly selects a set of cars, and you can bring your lovingly customised baby from the GT campaign – but there's no way I could find to match your car to ones of similar power or drivetrain. As if that wasn't irritating enough, the lobby system is clunky and race modes are comparatively limited.Another gripe: while the headline figure promises a thousand-plus vehicles, only the few hundred fully modelled premium cars do justice to the PS3's graphical capabilities; the rest have been imported from the PS2 and given a cursory brush-up. The premium cars are so exquisite, however, that you can understand why the new collision damage mechanics – a first in a Gran Turismo game – feel half-hearted.But it has a sheer appreciation, and love, for cars and driving that is difficult to resist. At times it feels less like playing a game and more like indulging in a hobby. Clearly it's no longer the sole pretender to the title of Best Racing Game; competitors snap at its heels in terms of graphical pyrotechnics, driving feel and immersion, and there are certainly better multiplayer experiences out there. But there's nothing with this much charm. If you want simply to bask in a deep love for cars, then there is still no better franchise.• Game reviewed on PS3
It's the moment every startup hopes for - a good offer for an exciting  exit from a great company. That's exactly what happened toPollDaddy.  Started in 2006 and self-funded by the two co-founders, itsoldtoAutomattic, the company behindWordpress, for an undisclosed sum in  October 2008.So why sell out rather than aiming to be even bigger - to be thegrandpoll daddy?"It was more down to Automattic as a company." said David Lenehan, now  product lead for PollDaddy at Automattic. "We weren't fussed about  selling at the time and had  lots of people that could've approached us that wouldn't have raised our interest. But Automattic then only had 20 staff and an exciting product includingWordpress.com, and our software was used a lot - 30-40% of  our users were using Wordpress."It was an opportunity to become part of something bigger and more  exciting. It was the right offer at the right time - and Lehman Brothers was collapsing at that time, so it seemed a good idea."PollDaddy co-founder and now project lead David Lenehan"Nearly two years ago when we sold we were about to go for a round of  funding and we really needed money to grow at the rate we wanted to, and Automattic were able to provide all of that and not just money but  infrastructure and expertise. At that stage we were just two people."Now with six full-time staff and still based in Sligo on Ireland's west coast (good surf)• What's your pitch?"We provide a suite of tools online for people who want to creates polls, surveys, quizzes and forms. It's really about channels of feedback for users, so if you blog you've got comment but polls are a great way of adding feedback."The idea was just something we came across - I can't really remember where that came from. At the time there were quite a few poll companies doing simple polls for blogs and websites but no real product with any complex feature set, and we thought there was a real opportunity there. A lot of people didn't go into that area because they didn't think it was a big enough market to address, but we got reasonable take up very quickly and then brought out more products like surveys."• How do you make money?"Six months after we started we were making revenue on basically a freemium service, so pro features for bigger customers and deal with bigger users. We have three types of users: free users who don't pay anything, but are bloggers and people on social networks; pro accounts for $200 per year aimed at SMEs; and top tier media companies like Fox and CBC, and RTE and Channel 4. We're cash-flow positive and have been since the beginning. Revenues have doubled since we've started - not crazy growth, but healthy."• Who's your competition?"On the poll side nobody - there's less companies doing polls now than when we started. On the survey side we're probably in the top six, but companies like SurveryMonkey and Zoomerang are much bigger than us - hugely bigger than us."• What's the advantage of being based in Sligo?"One think about Ireland is that though there's only four million people here, everyone knows every Irish person working in every company, so if I wanted to know someone in Facebook or Microsoft, all these Irish  names would be thrown at you. There's pros and stuff to being in London  or San Francisco but ultimately you're building a product for end users  all around the world and that's 99% of the job."It's extremely cheap to set up here. When it comes to fice space or anything like that it's ridiculously cheap. There's good support from Enterprise Ireland and a good network, and we're close to London. The only advantage to being in Dublin would be slightly better networking. But it's like anywhere - if you're not in San Francisco, New York or London you may as well be in Sligo."polldaddy.com
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Blurred window. Photo bysassmasterkmbon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team5 New Ways We're Promoting Windows Phone 7 Apps and Games this Holiday Season"We're heading into one of the biggest shopping weeks of the year and we're on pace to offer roughly 3,000 apps and games by the end of this week. We've also seen a near 80% increase in the number of registered developers since September, with more than 15,000 developers already signaling their intent to bring exciting content to Windows Phone." OK, 3,000 apps (remember when everyone was being nyah-nyah about WP7 having "only" 1,000 apps?) is something. But be wary of that "intent" on the part of developers. Downloading an SDK isn't intent. It's tyre-kicking.Why the iPad Newspaper is Doomed &gt;&gt; Gawker"On the iPad, no one has proven you can make money selling news, even without 100 seasoned (read: expensive) journalists to feed. In fact, Apple's top-selling iPad app chart is consistently dominated by games, which made up six of the top ten this past week. News apps that sell well tend to fall quickly back to Earth; Wired's iPad debut sold 100,000 copies before falling dramatically to below 30,000, where they have remained. That's for a magazine with a print circulation of 750,000."The Daily hopes to attract about 17 times as many iPad buyers as Wired. No wonder: At 99 cents per week, the newspaper will generate only $5.1 million in subscription revenue for every 100,000 subscribers—minus Apple's cut, typically around 30 percent. Murdoch's newsroom expenses alone should easily run north of $7 million."Still, there's always Richard Branson, eh?Sophos: Malware threats greater risk than Stuxnet &gt;&gt; ZDNetKiller quote by Sophos head of technology, Paul Ducklin: "We're fretting ourselves to pieces over a virus that is written to make an unknown effect on unknown specific equipment, in an unknown plant in an unknown location, written by an unknown group"Mobile review: Nokia N8 &gt;&gt; BBC ClickFor a phone, it's a great camera. "Everything seems to take two clicks where on comparable phones at this level it takes one."New Windows zero-day flaw bypasses UAC &gt;&gt; Naked Security"The flaw appears to affect all versions of Windows back to at least Windows XP, including the latest Windows 2008 R2 and Windows 7 systems. On its own, this bug does not allow remote code execution (RCE), but does enable non-administrator accounts to execute code as if they were an administrator." The joys of backward compatibility.What motivates programmers? &gt;&gt; Nick Halstead"I will start with a question, if you have a spare £400 in your development budget do you A) Reward your star programmer with a £400 bonus or B) Buy him a 24 Inch 1920x1200 LCD screen?"Lessons Learned in 10 Years on the Tech Beat &gt;&gt; David PogueIt's amazing to think that it's only 10 years since David Pogue began reviewing in the New York Times. The lessons he sets out here are all absolutely on the button.Y Combinator Funding Application &gt;&gt; Dropbox.comThe original funding application for the rapidly-growing app (find a startup that doesn't use it all over the place if you can). Note the age at which Drew Houston, its founder, began programming.Why blurring sensitive information is a bad idea &gt;&gt; Dheera VenkatramanBlurring photos is one thing; but "many people also resort to blurring sensitive numbers and text. I'll illustrate why that is a BAD idea."Takes a lot of proessing power, and might not be applicable in a template form. But a determined person.. might be able to decode your pixellated cheque details.Autocorrection of the day &gt;&gt; The Daily WhatSomeone is going to write an autocorrected novel. "It was while they were queueing for divorce that she decided to kill her husband."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Joe Drumgoole, chief executive ofCloudSplit, speaks with all the  conviction and restless energy you'd expect from an experienced  entrepreneur.He's also frank about the mistakes the small company made  with the first version of its cloud services analytics tool, admitting  it was "like trying to use a steam engine" and far too complex for  users. That's a common problem for startups but being open about that realisation - and how they fixed it - is a far healthier and more  productive way of dealing with failure, which ultimately is an essential part of the learning process.CloudSplit analyses performance and cost of cloud-based servicesCloudSplit started in August 2009 and has just two staff with a small amount of seed funding. It's one of a handful of startups globally tackling this specialist area of  analysing and optimising efficiencies in the variable costs of things  like bandwidth, servers and storage, along withCloudKickandRightScale. A service tailored 100% aroundAmazon's cloud services for  now, Drumgoole says its relationship with Amazon is good enough that  they'd be told of any changes to the service that would impact what  CloudSplit is working on.So what does the offer look like now?  "The first phase is that users can upload their bill for analysis, the  second is real-time analytics and the third is a proxy on each node of  the end user's application space so we're decoupled from Amazon  completely, and that allows us to track data from other cloud vendors  likeRackSpace," said Drumgoole.CloudSplit has 1,500 registered users so far and the beta of the new system will be out by February.• What's your pitch?"The world is moving to cloud computing - it's in its infancy and at the top of the hype cycle. There are three areas: software as a service, likeSalesforceandGmail; infrastructure as a service like Amazon, which is nuts and bolts to build an application but you still need to add the secret sauce of programming and engineers; and platform as a service, which is a hybrid between the two. You still need to add a programme but they handle the scalability and accessibility of the system in a way that makes things easier."The biggest mover in the infrastructure as a service space space is Amazon. If you start using Amazon as your hosting environment you're moving from capital expenditure to operational expenditure, not buying stuff up front or renting it for years - so you pay as you use it and that has a dramatic effect on your overall spending. In my last company PutPlace we'd planned to spend £1m on a data centre in year two - then Amazon launched and it meant spending nothing on a data centre in year two."When you deal with a huge amount of variability in your spending you have to look at that as a controlling cost, it's the dominating cost of your business. We give you a smart lever that allows you to understand those costs as they grow with your business."CloudSplit.com
Between Rock Band, Guitar Hero, Singstar and Just Dance it would seem there's little room in the market for yet another music game franchise. But for those of us whose taste is of the more, er, urban variety, the arrival of Def Jam Rapstar is something of a revelation.No more feeling left out when someone whips out their plastic guitar at a house party, no more scrolling through endless metal tracks to find anything with Zack De La Rocha on – hip-hop fans have finally got their own way to horrendously embarrass themselves, and it's been a long time coming.By now the basic format of a game like this barely needs explaining – rap in time, score some points. Rap out of time, don't score some points. With only a microphone as an input device however, this simple formula becomes a lot more complex for the game to process. Accurate reading of your timing and annunciation is crucial.Thankfully, developers 4mm have invested a huge amount of time and effort perfecting the voice recognition software – and it works fantastically well. Unlike other karaoke games where pretty much any correctly pitched vocal sounds will count, Rapstar penalises you for even the slightest fluff or miswording. It even compiles a report once you've finished, highlighting in red the words you've had trouble with, and for all of us who've spent the best part of our lives trying to perfect Juicy, this is something of a godsend.As is standard for this sort of title, you can play both on your own in a half-baked career mode, or team up with your friends to battle or collaborate. A social setting is where the game comes into its own however – there's nothing quite like sharing Nuthin' But A G Thang with a friend as Snoop and Dr Dre.The 45 tracks on offer (with DLC extras available at about £2 a pop) offer an excellent cross-section of the genre, meaning everyone from Tinchy Stryder teeny boppers to G-funk geriatrics are well catered for. A smattering of R&amp;B duets are on offer too, meaning those more singing-inclined can take on the role of Ashanti or Mary J to your Ja Rule or Method Man.Beyond the overall polish of the game itself, what makes Rapstar really impressive is the forward thinking nature of its online functionality — the scope of which could be a real game changer for both the music and video games industry.A set of instrumentals by top producers are available to freestyle over — fun in and of itself, but using a webcam these can be then uploaded to the Def Jam Rapstar website where rival MCs can battle, comment on each other's efforts and perhaps even get talent spotted by an A&amp;R.While this may not appeal to the middle-class games reviewer from Tunbridge Wells (I've found very little rhymes with Xbox), the potential here for budding rappers to showcase their talents is really exciting – and not something that's ever really been seen before in a video game.Every Channel AKA wannabe who didn't have the resources to showcase their talents previously now only needs an Xbox, an internet connection and a copy of the game, and I'd be surprised if someone hadn't been signed to a label via Rapstar by next spring, even if its primarily a marketing gimmick. Hey, it could be you. It could be me.No, it definitely won't be me.Still, the game itself isn't without its flaws. The at times absurd and often inconsistent censorship of lyrics can be dissatisfying – while Rapstar won't penalise you for saying the bad words, the blanks on screen can completely take you off guard and ruin your timing. I suppose getting a lower age rating on the game may boost sales but let's face it, if you're rapping a flawless Gin n Juice you probably know what the f-word means.I'd also warn that the sheer difficulty of rapping along to even one of the simpler tracks means Rapstar isn't nearly as accessible as it's guitar-based counterparts. While Mum or Dad could probably handle the easy mode of Beatles Rock Band, they aren't going to get very far with Fix Up Look Sharp.This isn't helped by the fact that customary karaoke bouncing ball which tells you when to spit (ahem) each word is almost entirely redundant – you have to really know these songs to be able to beat them. The game is very forgiving – you can make as many mistakes as you want without any kind of "game over" – but the fact that the hardest setting gives you no lyrics at all shows you what kind of audience 4mm is catering for.Still, for that hardcore audience Rapstar is an absolute must. If you've found yourself mouthing the words to A Milli on the tube, there's a huge amount of fun to be had here. And while it doesn't have the universal appeal of its more mainstream counterparts, the potential of its online feature means it could well become a huge sleeper success.•Game reviewed on XBox 360
EA Sports Active 2 takes a different approach to Kinect's other fitness contender, Your Shape. For a start, it can draw on star endorsements like David Beckham and Victoria Pendleton, although sadly not with in-game footage. There's also a nifty wrist monitor to keep tabs on your heartbeat and a resistance band to improve muscle tone while you exercise. It's a nice idea, but it does push the price up to nearly £80, which can only be justified if it really works as an all-in-one fitness programme. So does it?Well, yes and no. With just over 50 activities on the 360 (15 less than the PS3 version) there's certainly no shortage of variety. And the sportier activities like skateboarding, cycling or basketball hoops are interwoven with more recognisable workout activities like jogging and boxing.Achieving motion control over some of these activities has taken some creative muscle mapping, some of which pay off more successfully than others. Yes, you will look silly trying to ride an imaginary bike but activities like Dodgeball at least show that the Kinect can handle quicker movements, even if the accuracy is hit and miss.As for fitness, you can choose between two trainers (male/female) and then two main training regimes, lasting three week or nine weeks. Both are scheduled daily to help you achieve your desired goals, which might be anything from a set number of calories to developing your upper body. Once in the game, you become the onscreen character, which you can customise to your heart's desire.Personally, I much prefer Your Shape's decision to always show the real you onscreen — beer belly and al.! I also have quibbles with EA's interface, which is littered with unnecessary submenus that Kinect clearly struggles to track through. Although some reveal additional fitness data, it serves no useful purpose and breaks up the workout into a procession of fiddly hand gestures.There's no doubt that EA's bundle looks the part and contains a creative mix of punishing and recreational activities plus a decent online hub to compare and contrast. However, as a Kinect app, capable of something more than conventional interaction, it's an oddly distant experience where you rarely feel the programme is fully attuned to your body. Despite the cardiac monitor, I'd rather lose the £40 and get Ubisoft's Your Shape instead.•Game reviewed on Xbox Kinect
Here's the conference audience: now the Wi-Fi gets tested to destruction. Photo byjuokazon Flickr.Some rights reservedAbout 10 years ago everyone thought that public Wi-Fi would be free. How wrong that turned out to be - but that's turned out to be to the advantage ofBitbuzz, run by Shane Deasy, its managing director, and Alex French, its chief technology officer, who in 2003 started their fast-growing company that offers bespoke Wi-Fi, paid or free, for conferences, and to hotels and other locations. At present roughly 90% of its business comes from Eire, 5% from Northern Ireland and 5% from the British mainland, and it is the market leader in the field.• What's your pitch?"We have 240 locations, and last year we moved 51% of all the bits used in public Wi-Fi in Ireland. What we offer is flexibility – so if someone wants to offer free Wi-Fi, we can manage that, or if they want it to be paid, we can do that too. And we do all the regulatory side as well, such as in the UK complying with the Digital Economy Act, getting the MAC address of the hardware for regulatory provision."• How do you make your money?"It's a commercial model, so it's about getting the right price. We're now an ISP in our own right, because that means that we can fix the faults ourselves."• How are you surviving the downturn?Shane:"Very well. We've doubled in terms of usage in the past year. We grew 80% in the year before that. Eirecomm [Eire's telecoms incumbent, which also offers public Wi-Fi] has thousands of locations but our locations are where the usage is. We're in boardrooms and conference facilities. Because of that we went back to create a new product for the conference sector – it used to be that you'd only get a handful of people wanting to check their email or something if you had a roomful of people. Now you get people liveblogging, other people streaming video, everyone's got something going on. In the past two or three years more people want to participate via Twitter or whatever. Our convention product can deal with 600 users at a time. And that's opening doors in the UK too."Alex:"We've been lucky in that our customers haven't been affected as much as some. Places that have been affected are smaller rural hotels where we are under-represented. We've got 100 hotels as customers. Our sales pitch is 'how can we help you make money, whether it's charging or offering Wi-Fi free?' Because the business just isn't there to fill all Ireland's hotels. So only the best will survive. In some places that means charging more, in some it means charging less."• What's your background?"We were working in 2001/2 as consultants looking at the potential for public Wi-Fi in the UK – we did work onThe Cloudand O2. We wanted something for the hospitality field – the telcos were putting their Wi-Fi things in but it was just a 'take it or leave it' proposition, which wasn't right for hoteliers. They needed flexibility of service for the hospitality services industry."• What makes your business or product unique?Alex:"We built our own product to handle conferences rather than just buying it in. It's a special field, so we stay ahead by building things and innovating according to what our customers want. Providing Wi-Fi at conferences is about careful radio planning if you've got up to 1,000 delegates - you have to be able to site your radio sources so you minimise interference but maximise coverage. You can be talking about bandwidth of 20-30 Mbps for 600 people."You also have to capture details such as the MAC address of the device when it joins the network, for laws such as the DEA in the UK which require you to retain that data."• Who in the tech business inspires you?"Apple - we always look at what they're doing, their devices. Apple is so good at making things easy for the customer to us, which is always the challenge with Wi-Fi. When you consider that we have no control over what people are bringing in to hook up to us, we have to make it simple for them to be able to join the network and do what they want. That's the sort of thing Apple does. They're rarely first into a market and they're rarely cheapest, but they do it simply.• What's your biggest achievement?Shane:"Getting through our first year of business without going bust. But then, competing against and beating BT OpenZone [BT's public Wi-Fi offering] and Eirecomm Ireland. They were putting systems in and not asking for anything. So we were selling quality of service. BT OpenZone could take a longer-term strategic view because it's so much bigger than us. We have to be very careful about where we build them. When we came into the Irish market, BT was our biggest competitor. Now we do more than them. They started to lose focus. BT OpenZone is such a tiny part of of a tiny part of their business they just don't have the focus in the local market. They just have a price list, and that's it, take it or leave it. We work with the customer."• What's your biggest challenge?Shane:"The sort of bandwidth we're providing is probably going to double in a year's time, so we need the infrastructure to be able to deal with it."Alex:"I come from an ISP background, where there's a sense that you get the customer to sign up and they expect a service and it's a long-term relationship. With with public Wi-Fi it's different – people see what's available but don't want a long-term contract with the provider. It's interesting, because it's become part of the internet plumbing, and people don't want a relationship with their plumber. It's not at the cutting edge of Web 2.0, but it's what everything else is built on. It's a dirty business - not cutting peoples' lines dirty, not like that, but you have to do the technical support. We handle all that ourselves, we don't outsource it – you can't – so we're dealing with the cafe owners and the restaurants and the people whose laptop setting won't let them log in."There's unsustainable growth in demand: 3G networks can barely handle demand now, and they won't be able to as it doubles, which is why the networks are capping data allowances per month. So Wi-Fi is going to be more and more important."Shane:"The problem is getting awareness of what we do. We had a long debate about entering the UK market; in Ireland we're the market leader. The challenge is to maintain growth."• What's the most important web tool that you use each day?"Google Mail, Google Calendar,Dropboxfor syncing files."• Name your closest competitors?"BT OpenZone, Eirecomm."• Where do you want the company to be in five years?"Hopefully.. having a good solid business in London focussing on three- and four-star hotels."• Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?"We'd sell to anybody" (laughs). "We're plumbing. We aren't pretty. Then again, Google did look at municipal Wi-Fi, but backed down from it. The number of times we have been told by someone that they're going to put us out of business in six months, well ... There's a lot to it."
We all dream of one day forming an emotional bond with another sentient being and finding respite from the terrible isolation of existence. With Kinectimals, you get to do just that – and your new buddy can never die or leave you. It's perfect.Of course, the real target market for this game isn't sad-sack adults but wide-eyed children, something that's made clear by the Cbeebies-style presentation of the Kinectimal world. Set on the island of Lemuria, a shimmering paradise of fluttering leaves and wide blue skies, you're welcomed by a weird feline bee-fairy called Bumble and taken to choose your big cat cub.Whether you go for lion, cheetah, tiger or one of the other curiously placid predatory mammals, your pet will be undeniably cute, and so fluffy that it's almost a disappointment when you reach out to stroke them and can't feel their pelts. "We're so excited to meet you," says Bumble. "The cubs haven't had anyone to play with since the captain left." (It sounds less ominous than it looks written down.)Actually, the whole thing is almosttooadorable. It doesn't try to charm you into a relationship, it just embraces you full on and licks you in the face. Your cat turns out to be rather characterless, and the playing and petting a bit empty. Kinect is impressive here, almost eerily so as it matches your actions to the cub and has it copy you. ("Jump!" "Spin!" "Play dead!" it demands, almost as though it's the one in charge and not you.)But after a while, there's no getting away from the fact that wafting your empty hands around feels a lot like miming: when you're supposed to be throwing a ball or using a brush, Kinect's controller-free motion control is less satisfying than Move or even Wii.Often, your cat will scarper and leave you playing pretend skittles on your own as you faff about trying to win the points that will unlock new areas of the map and let you buy gifts for your soulless cub. It's self-defeating, because the more Kinectimals tries to be game-like, the less it lets you actually play: EyePet is much simpler and a lot more successful, because it's always focused on the actual pet, leaving you with the choice of how to interact. Kinectimals feels frequently like a clumsy mini-game compendium with a tiger wandering through every few minutes.There's more mileage in a Tamagotchi, and one of them would never ask you to shame yourself by acting out "play dead" on the living room floor.•Game reviewed on Xbox 360
I'm going travelling and I was thinking of buying a cheap (£200 to £250) netbook to work on. I'll be using Microsoft Office and later perhaps Adobe Dreamweaver etc. A good keyboard would be nice, and it would help if it played movies and stuff. The top choices appear to be: Asus Eee PC 1005PE, Samsung N210, and HP Mini 210.James A SchofieldThose are all good netbooks, but they tend to sell in the £300-£320 range, though you can sometimes pick them up for around £280. For that sort of money, I'd go for the silver Toshiba NB305-10F, which is solidly made and has a very good isolated keyboard. Otherwise, most high-end netbooks now seem to have much the same specification: a 10in screen with a resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels, an Intel Atom N450 or similar processor, 1GB of memory, a 250GB hard drive, and Microsoft Windows 7 Starter. There's not much to choose between them, and you'd probably need to visit a computer superstore or department store (eg, John Lewis) to see which one you liked best.If you want to stay within your budget, you could go for the Asus Eee PC 1001PX. This looks like a typical netbook except for the matte screen, but the specification has been dropped to get the street price down to £210-£230 (Amazon.co.uk puts the recommended price at £259). The PC 1001PX has a smaller 160GB hard drive, two USB ports instead of three, and some versions also have lower-quality Intel GMA 500 graphics instead of GMA 3150. It's a good machine, but I wouldn't recommend it for your purposes.Netbooks are based on the idea that they will be used mainly for email, messaging and web-based applications rather than running desktop applications such as Microsoft Office and Dreamweaver. They can handle those up to a point, but can be overwhelmed. Rather than upgrading a netbook to 2GB of memory and Windows Home Premium, it would be better and perhaps cheaper to buy a mini-notebook, where prices start at around £350-£400.Perhaps your best bet is the Dell Inspiron 11z, which looks like a netbook but has a notebook specification. It has a 1.3GHz Intel Celeron 743 ULV (ultra-low voltage) chip, and while I would usually recommend against a single-core processor, it will still run desktop applications much better than an Atom. The 11z also gets you 2GB of memory, Windows 7 Home Premium, and an 11.6in screen displaying 1366 x 768 pixels, all of which are worthwhile improvements over a netbook. The keyboard is also pretty good by netbook standards, and the touchpad is bearable. Maplin is currently selling the 11z for £299.99 (Order Code: A23JY).Dell says the Inspiron 11z is being "transitioned" to (replaced by) theInspiron M101z, which looks much the same. The M101z has two real mouse buttons, replacing the unloved 11z system where you have to use the corners of the touchpad. It also swaps the Intel Celeron 743 for (sadly) another single-core processor, the AMD Athlon II Neo. Prices start at £379, but going to a dual-core Neo pushes it up to £429, which is laptop not netbook territory.Other cheapish mini-laptops with 11.6in screens include theLenovo ThinkPad X100e(which has a very good keyboard), Lenovo IdeaPad U160, Hewlett-Packard DM-1, Acer Aspire 1410 (model 743G16n) and Samsung X125-JA01UK. Most have AMD Neo processors, though hopefully not the old and very slow MV-40 version. If you shop around, you can get either a ThinkPad X100e or an Acer Aspire 1410 for around £350, but this is clearly over your budget.At the moment, the netbook industry is in a period of transition, as Windows XP comes to the end of its life and remaining stocks are jobbed off, and we try to move to more powerful dual-core Atom chips such as the 1.5GHz N550. There are already some N550-based netbooks on sale, such as the Asus Eee PC 1015PN, Acer Aspire One D255 and 533, and the Samsung N350, but the specifications are otherwise much the same: 1GB of memory, 1024 x 600 WSVGA graphics, and Windows 7 Starter. The netbook market looks short of innovation, but perhaps the manufacturers have switched their attention to Android tablets instead.•James A Schofield is Jack's son. He bought a Dell Inspiron 11z and took it to Thailand and Malaysia.
Earlier this month,Rupert Murdoch's News International released figureson the performance of the paywall it put around the Times last July. The message from the release was rosy: the Times had about 200,000 paid users, 100,000 of whom were digital-only customers (meaning that the other 100,000 were print subscribers who'd gotten a free online sub bolted on to their existing offer). What's more, those 200,000 precious paid users were worth more to the Times, because the personal information they surrendered in the payment process made them more valuable to advertisers.Fundamentally, the question News Corp is trying to answer is: "Will the Times make more money with a paywall?" And the figures we've just seen do nothing to answer this question. Rather, the Times seems to think that the new figures prove something else: "People are willing to pay for their news." I don't think that anyone has ever disputed that someone, somewhere, was willing to pay for the Times, though: surely the important question, from a business perspective, is, "Will adding a paywall increase your profits?"If these numbers were supposed to serve as validation for the paywall business model, they fell short of the mark. The coarseness of these figures is such that a multitude of business sins could be hidden within them. To try to get to the bottom of this, I spoke to a News Corp spokesperson who – bizarrely – asked not to be identified by name at the end of our talk (I've never encountered an anonymous official spokesperson before and I was pretty surprised at this request, especially as the figures the spokesperson gave me are "all in the public domain").Here are the questions News Corp will need to answer if it wants to offer up the Times paywall as a success:What sort of purchases are the paid subscribers making?There are multiple retail offerings for the Times: you can buy a monthly subscription for £8.66, which includes iPad access (as well as access via other mobile device apps). You can buy a month's worth of iPad-only access for £9.99 (yes, the Times costs more as an iPad-only offering than it does if you get the iPad and the full web access together – go figure).Then there are the lower-cost options. You can get a month's introductory offer to the Times for a mere £1. You can also get a day pass to the site for £1 (it costs the same to access the site for one day and one month – but the difference is that you don't have to remember to unsubscribe at the end of the day lest you be signed on for indefinite monthly £8.66 payments). You can also get free access to the Times with your TalkTalk mobile phone subscription.The 100,000-odd paid users who pay extra for the Times are a mix of all these numbers, and News Corp won't disclose the nature of the mix, though the anonymous official spokesperson said that they do have these figures – which is good! If you're going to try something like this, you'd be mad not to audit the performance of all your offerings very closely.Here's what the Times will say: about 50,000 of the current paid users are on a monthly subscription of some sort: £8.66, £1, or free with a TalkTalk subscription. They will not disclose how many £1 trial users turn into £8.66 users, or how many sustain their £8.66 subscription into the second or third month. However, the anonymous official spokesperson did say that whichever users are remaining after three months are more than 90% likely to stump up for a fourth month. From this, I think we can safely assume that lotslessthan 90% of paid users stick around for a second month, and of those, less than 90% sustain themselves for a fourth month.But the Times isn't saying.The remaining 50,000, of course, are people who paid £1 for a single day's access. Some number of these converted to monthly subscribers.Some number bought a second article. How many? The Times isn't saying.So, best case: there are 50,000 paid subscribers, all of whom got there by paying £1 for an article, converted immediately to £1 monthly subscriptions and now pay £8.66 every month (or £9.99 in the case of iPad users who want to pay extra for the privilege of not being allowed to access the website).Worst case: 50,000 people tried a day pass and left. 20,000 TalkTalk subscribers got a free subscription with their phone which they may or may not know or care about. 5,000 people use it with an iPad.75,000 people tried a £1 month trial. 40,000 of them signed up for a second month, 30,000 of them for a third, and 25,000 stayed on for a fourth month.I don't know which one is closer to the truth, because the Times isn't saying. But I do know that when there was a positive number – more than 90% renewal at the third month – the figure was readily available, which leaves the distinct impression that all the undisclosed numbers are less than stellar.How much do advertisers value the additional information the Times can supply about paying users?The official spokesperson told me that about 50% of the Times's bottom line comes from advertising, and that the number of unique users visiting the site has fallen from about 20,000,000 a month to 200,000 at present – a drop-off of about 99% (and only half of those are paying separately for online access, which means than less than one half of 1% of the Times readership has been willing to spend £1 or more to access the site).The Times is betting that this drop-off can be overcome with higher advertising rates. So how much more are advertisers willing to spend to reach these logged-in users?The Times isn't saying.While the Times's print edition has a published ratecard (as do many of News Corp's newspapers' online editions, such as the Wall Street Journal, the Sun and the News of the World), its online edition ratecard is confidential (though it wasn't, prior to the paywall). So there's no way to know how much the Times is asking advertisers to pay for placement on the paywalled site.What's more, the Times has opted out of the national, industry-standard circulation audits, making the whole venture into more of a black box. The spokesperson wouldn't rule out opting back into independent circulation audits, but made no promises either.What does it cost to get a subscriber?The Times's paywall was attended by an enormous amount of (justifiable) publicity as it was in itself a newsworthy event. But this free publicity was augmented with an enormous marketing blitz in print, billboard, TV, etc – a campaign that brought in 100,000 customers. How much did this campaign cost? The Times isn't saying.This is important. A well executed and well financed advertising campaign can get a couple of hundred thousand people to tryanything– give me £5,000 to spend reaching every person in Britain and I'll find you 200,000 people who'll spend a pound to rub blue mud in their navels on a trial basis. To be profitable, your marketing costs have to be lower than the income they generate.Finally, there are some miscellaneous questions for which it'd be nice to have answers. For example: the Times gave free subscriptions to 150,000 of its print subscribers, About 100,000 of those subscribers tried the freebie out. How active are those two-thirds who took the plunge? Do they come back daily? Weekly? Monthly? The Times's spokesperson said that they were "very active" but wouldn't say how many had logged in in the past 30 days.So, what are we meant to make of the Times's latest numbers? Well, perhaps the answers to the questions above are extremely flattering to the Times and its digital strategists, and they're withholding them (out of modesty? in order to make a big splash later?). On the other hand, perhaps the Times has spent an enormous amount of money on a plan that chased off 99% of its readers, and money hasn't yet rushed in to fill the vacuum they left behind.Only the Times knows, and they're not saying.
Want to give your game a new lease of life? Just add zombies. It is, seemingly, a bizarre formula for success – over to the psychologists for the full explanation – but the undead have been a popular choice as "bad guy" for several years in any number of successful games and franchises. Now they're popping up so regularly in unexpected titles, it can only be a matter of months before we get Lego Night of the Living Dead.After the assorted Call of Duty bonus levels, the latest to get the flesh-eating spin is Red Dead Redemption. On the face of it, it's a deeply cynical move and clearly profit is a major part of the decision, but this is more than a half-hearted exercise in money-grabbing. Undead Nightmare is a very fine game indeed.The cowboy vs zombies scenario here has already been available as a download. Now though, Rockstar – as it did with the GTA extra missions – has released the game, plus assorted excellent multiplayer content, as a standalone, sensibly-priced expansion pack.While the game's pallet has changed (it's now in standard horror title washed-out shades) and the music has been given a spooky-as-hell makeover, the basic mechanics of Red Dead Redemption – or Grand Theft Horses, as it's become affectionately known – remain intact. Once again you play John Marston, but this time there's no choice to be made between honour or otherwise.There's no doubt who the enemy is from the second your wife and child get infected and turn into flesh-eating zombies. Your task – after hog-tying your family to keep them out of trouble – is to find a cure. The catch is they're not alone: the entire wild west is being overrun by the living dead.That's just the start of it though and it's clear within minutes that the team at Rockstar have had a lot of fun imagining this one into existence, from the undead horses and mythical beasts you can ride (including unicorns and the four horses of the apocalypse) to the new weaponry such as the gleefully messy blunderbuss, which you load with zombie limbs, and holy water. The dead eye shooting function returns – and boy, will you need it.The game may look like Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven, but its philosophy is unforgiving, with painfully limited ammo and a foe that can only be taken down with a headshot. It can be frustrating – you'll do a lot of running away – but with side missions aplenty, stunning voice work, a genuinely funny script, plus those excellent multiplayer games, this is the best console-related £25 spend this year.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Violence. Everybody loves a bit of it, don't they? Punch, kick, rip, smash, gouge and dismember your way through this reboot of the classic beat-'em-up series, and you should have had enough violence to last you 10 bloody years.Gratuitous swearing! That's great too, right? Splatterhouse is jam-packed full of it. You can't go more than two minutes in this game without a "shit" this or a "bitch" that.Do you know what'll go perfectly with all this bad language and excessive violence? Nudity. And why not soundtrack it all with some really loud heavy metal music, made by bands with ridiculously metal names like Goat Whore and Municipal Waste.A lot of people will be turned off by all this shamelessly adolescent nonsense, but there are a large number of shamelessly adolescent gamers out there. They're going to love this game.In a plot that sticks reasonably close to the original games, lead character Rick must rescue his girlfriend from the clutches of evil scientist Dr West. He's assisted by a mysterious talking mask, which transforms him from an average college student weakling into a pumped-up Hulk-esque killing machine. In return, Rick must keep the mask happy by harvesting blood from the many Lovecraftian mutants and monsters populating the linear levels.The combat is carried out with the usual set of kicks, punches, holds and throws you'd expect from a beat-'em-up, a few upgradeable special moves and some brutal weaponry – planks of wood, knives, severed limbs and so on. Attack moves and combos are simple but satisfying to carry out, and the story takes in a number of impressively realised locations.The creators have bent over backwards to please old-school Splatterhouse fans: the three original games are included as unlockable bonuses, and at various points the action switches from 3D to 2D, in sections that work both as a love letter to side-scrolling beat-'em-ups of yore, and as thoroughly enjoyable stages in their own right, smoothly shifting the game's pace to complement the relentless brawling that takes place elsewhere.Throw in some surprisingly nuanced storytelling, some boss battles that can only reasonably be described as mega, and what Namco have produced here is something of a masterpiece of the beat-'em-up genre. Splatterhouse is a vulgar, noisy, shallow, juvenile, gruesome gem of a game that never forgets to be fun, even when going out of its way to be as appalling as possible.• Game reviewed on PS3
The name of 2paperdolls comes via the five-year-old brain of the daughter of its chief executive Louis Ravenet, who surely qualifies for the title of "serial entrepreneur": together with Andrea, his wife, and Steve McLelland, the chief technology officer, he has been creating (and, usually, selling) companies for about 20 years. One of his startups was sold to Microsoft and became what is now known as Microsoft CRM, but his focus now is on games that don't seem to be games - such as the ReCaptcha project created byLuis von Ahn, in which humans filling in a CAPTCHA are also contributing to the computer-aided scanning of old printed books and articles.The company itself is only a few months old, but Ravenet is insistent that Dublin is the place he wants the company to be – "we've looked at all sorts of countries, we've lived in Paris and Amsterdam" – and that it is hiding its expertise in online gaming under a bushel. Among the games Ravenet is developing is one called "Charity Ball", to raise awareness of cystic fibrosis by a combination of teamwork, locatlon-based checkins, vouchers linked to restaurants, and information about the disease.He also thinks that we don't use the best computers in the world – the human brain – quite enough to tackle online problems, relying instead on brute horsepower instead of the subtle capabilities of our neurons...• What's your pitch?"We create social games with the purpose of accomplishing work while people are having fun. Luis von Ahn is our deity – 200m people use ReCaptcha to metatag data every day. Games get used for everything from protein identification to spotting solar flares."• What makes your business or product unique?"We've been working together for 20 years, and we've created and sold a lot of technology companies."• What's your background?"We built the Microsoft CRM – the division that acquired us merged with Great Plains. We were turning providing computer support for customers into a game. That was 2002. We were based in Washington DC when Microsoft bought us, so we went to Redmond, then we made it back over the wall and out after [an earn-out period of] three years. We were used to working in a small group of about 30 people. We've sold stuff to Raytheon, we've done top secret software development work for the Pentagon. We're library experts, so we've built software libraries for the NSA and the Los Angeles Times." [I haven't yet been able to independently verify the claims about Raytheon or the NSA - CA.]"We moved to Europe after spending a year sailing around the world. We were living in Paris. Some of the possibilities in games excited us. Take [the infectious bacterium] MRSA. Hospitals are spending millions trying to get people and especially doctors to scrub properly, but they couldn't get people to wash their hands as often as they needed to. We turned it into a game with a handprint, and all of a sudden we got senior surgeons who wouldn't before taking real care to clean their hands."• Who in the tech business inspires you?Louis:"Luis von Ahn."Steve McLelland:"Rovio [makers of Angry Birds]."Louis:Alsogwap.comand Houthoff Buruma] a Dutch company, which created a game for law firms where itput people into fictional scenarios for mergers and acquisitionsto find out which recruits were the best at it."• What's your biggest achievement?"Realising that instead of having a complete set of specialisms before starting development, that the problem is so new that we can plan it as we go along. So we have developed a platform which incorporates what we have learnt so far. We think that a game might have a three- to six-month lifespan, and then where do we go from here? We developed it to solve that problem. So we can use an idea to teach people in China about the health risks of using communal chopsticks, for example."• What's your biggest challenge?"Pulling the talent together. It takes a special type of individual to buy into a startup that isn't looking to just flip itself to the first buyer that comes along. Look at Facebook and Zynga – they've got individuals who understand that this is a long-term business plan."• What's the most important web tool that you use each day?"Google Docs, Gmail."• Name your closest competitors?"Anything Louis Anh is doing is our closest competitor. He's doing things that are intuitive for people to do. It's the whole Google model, of getting people to tell us what matters and what doesn't, rather than relying on complex algorithms and indexing. Our plan is to start knowledge games so that we can take tasks that are insanely complex for machines and make non-tasks by giving them to humans to do in a way that people enjoy doing. It's the really complex things that you need done, the sensory information, that computers have such problems with. We don't get insight through linear processing [by computers]. We need to step ourside the implied solutions."• What's an example of a "non-game game"?"Google Images has something where you get users to enter more information about an image: first you get an image of a flower and you enter some detail about it – it's a flower – and then some more – it's a tulip – and then some more - it's a Dutch tulip. Google is getting an amazing amount of knowledge through this."• Where do you want the company to be in five years?In Ireland, with 155 employees and 75m users.• Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?Louis:"We've said we aren't going to get acquired."Andrea:"I think it's the void [of a new business] that they find inspiring."• Should the tax loopholes that allow dodges like the double Irish and the Dutch sandwich be closed?Louis:"As someone who has written multimillion tax cheques to government.. they shouldn't touch the corporate tax rate. But I think that where loopholes are abusive, they should be closed. A company like Google which is worth $200bn should pay their bills."(There's also ablogpost on the 2paperdolls site about the financial upheaval:"The prime minister has rightly called this a 'line in the sand' and makes a convincing argument that favorable tax structure is directly responsible for €250m in tax revenues collected this year — revenue completely due to the low-tax's ability to attract major industry layers such as Dell, IBM, Facebook, Zynga, Google, Microsoft, etc.. For this revenue alone, the Irish government is committed to maintaining their low tax status."
I've always appreciated the Gran Turismo series but never *loved* it. Maybe it was my experience in GT2 of spending about 5 hours driving only to win the equivalent of a Fiat Punto.  Burnout and Need for Speed would have handed me about 50 trophies or achievements in the same time. Basically the driving sim series has always felt far too clinical to me. Plus I have no interest in cars. Thousands clearly do love it though as the problems for the recently released GT5 highlight.Kotaku are reportingthat overloaded server problems are not only affecting the multiplayer - as you would expect - but also the single player too.While the "extreme online traffic congestion" lasts, users are being warned that even such basic things as moving through the game's menus can result in delays of "several minutes", as GT5 connects online not just to race against other people, but also "when starting the game and during the various screen displays in GT Mode". In an attempt to "temporarily alleviate" the problem, Sony has cut off all user access to the viewing of logs, and in many cases changes to user profiles and changes to friends lists as well.Disconnecting and playing offline seems to be the only way round it. What about you though? Anyone here bought GT5 yet? How are you finding it?
Ireland is to launch a major new initiative later this year to attract international startup talent in a bid to carve out a role as Europe's Silicon Valley, the Guardian has learned.Despite yesterday announcing theharshest public sector cutsin Irish history, the government also confirmed its budget commitment for its substantial development agencies.Enterprise Ireland, the government-controlled agency which invested €343m (£291m) in startups and commercialisation of research in 2009, will reveal a three-year strategy in December that includes attracting overseas entrepreneurs. By 2013, the agency wants 10% of its client companies to relocate from overseas, tempted by a combination of funding, mentoring, feasibility and access to an international business network.Photo byAndres Ruedaon Flickr.Some rights reserved"You should never waste a good recession," said Tom Cusack, Enterprise Ireland's manager for high potential startups in telecoms and new media. "There's opportunity in adversity. The availability of resources, the costs of property and employees have gone down and individuals are now thinking this is an opportunity to start the idea they've always had. The challenge for any startup is getting that initial funding to get it off the ground."Enterprise Ireland is also planning a newY Combinator-style seed fund to support early stage companies, due to be launched in the next few weeks. The pilot will offer small awards to startups from a total fund of €2m, with a board of experienced entrepreneurs including Ray Nolan, who recently soldHostelWorld.comfor aboout €500m.Defending the role of agency against the backdrop of drastic public spending cuts, Cusack said Ireland's future is based on exports."The future will be based on indigenous companies exporting out of Ireland, so it's important that we do continue to proactively invest in internet companies. Internet and games area we've seen huge growth in and it is important we keep the momentum in that space."Asked whether such heavy government support distorted the market for genuinely viable businesses, Cusack admitted that not all Enterprise Ireland-funded startups might make it without support."It's fair to say some of themwouldbe able to build on their own existing networks, but a lot of people starting a business don't have that," he said. "In some ways it is an unfair advantage but we have to play on that. And they need more hand holding than a UK company might because the domestic market is quickly saturated, so it has to be all about international growth."Ireland has already used a low corporation tax of 12.5% to attract an impressive roster of multinational tech firms, including Google, Microsoft, Apple, Facebook, Intel, HP and Dell.Despite pressure from Europe, Ireland has confirmed that the low tax rate, which it describes as "the cornerstone of its pro-enterprise economy", will stay. With it will remain the controversial 'Double Irish' manoeuvre that, in combination with various accounting devices, allows multinationals to reduce their corporate tax bill to as little as 2.4%.
Sean O'Sullivan is chief executive ofRococo, a nine-strong company which we found on the top floor of an office in Dublin. He's not a newcomer to the startup scene by any means, having already worked previous on mobile products that have been widely adopted.• What's your pitch?"We do proximity software - it makes it easy to connect to other things nearby. It's not the same as location software; it's about 'this thing is near that thing', and knowing when they are. App developers can then create apps that use the proximity to do all sorts of things. We want to tap into the fact that Bluetooth is very widely deployed. There will be around 750m to a billion new devices every year with it built in, including 100% of smartphones."So we're building a social layer for Bluetooth, where it can transmit information about who you are which is tied to your Bluetooth ID and your device ID. Yes, you might have lots of different devices, but then we build it so that your personal ID is tied to all of those Bluetooth device IDs. We call it Local Social – it's just been launched."• How do you make your money?"From licensing our software to phone companies."• How are you surviving the downturn?"The home market is pretty much our first port of call, but it's a very small market. It's very difficult if you're a technology business and have ambitions to live off the local market, because it's only 4 million to 5 million people. Any decent startup here is outward focused, probably on the US first; for us, most Java Bluetooth customers are in the US and Japan."• What's your background?"My last company wasIona Technologies, which competed with businesses like Sun and IBM and HP and others. It was really satisfying to compete with them internationally and win."• What makes your business or product unique?"We have a pedigree in building software that builds on on Bluetooth - we wrote Java software that connects devices via Bluetooth, so that you could link up gaming devices. We licensed that to people who make phones, such as Samsung, Motorola and Sony Ericsson, so it shipped in 180m phones for peer-to-peer Java games. That was very much a business-to-business (B2B) offering. But our vision was that it could be a more general application. We've been going for ten years, but we still feel like a startup."• What's your biggest challenge?"It's not a great time if you're looking for venture capital funding in Ireland. They've all gone off the scene or changed focus. But there are some new players starting to appear. The thing is that the Irish are great sales people, great storytellers, great at building new software. But looking internationally is a necessity from the sales perspective. However you can assemble a team here, and that's great. A modern technology business can be location-independent. Also, customers like coming here. They like the buzz."• Is the collapse of the banks a problem?"No – we never got money from them as a startup. Anybody that you talk to gets money from seed finance. If you put money into your company, then you get a tax break."• Will the downturn lead to a talent drain?"I came out of college in the 1980s when there were threats that the IMF would be coming in and taking over what we did, so this isn't new. From a startup perspective, these are good times: things are relatively modestly priced, and they're available. Take office space – in 2003 the landlord pretty much demanded a letter from my parents before I could rent some space, there was such competition to get it. Now you can pretty much get it for free. The question is whether you can hire good graduates with the right skill set. You can probably get them cheaper now than for the past five years.• Which tech sectors is Dublin strongest in?"It's always been strong in mobile and wireless; and also internet pure-play businesses, such as Hostelworld, which was sold for €400m. There are six or seven other companies building large businesses here, such as Realex, Micksgarage, Cartrawler – which does arbitrage on car reservations. There's also finance software, maybe not so much now, and gaming has recently begun to get heft and depth."
It's bizarre that, until now, Walt Disney's most famous creation has never had the high-profile videogaming vehicle that his status as a cartoon megastar demands. Epic Mickey, however, redresses the balance. Disney Interactive drafted in a giant of the games development world to make it: Warren Spector, the man behind System Shock and Deus Ex.What he came up with is essentially a platform game, but with plenty of clever twists that result in unusual and absorbing gameplay.Mickey has been sucked into Wasteland, a once-sleepy world full of cartoon characters who didn't quite make the grade, but which is now suffering from being eaten away by paint-thinners and invaded by ink-blot monsters. Luckily, Mickey can repaint thinned-out areas, or remove obstacles using his own supply of thinners. This clever mechanic forms the basis of all manner of puzzles, such as painting in gears to get them revolving, then thinning them out once attached platforms reach the correct position; or etching away the covering of a boss-monster's hands until the inner workings shatter. Inkblot enemies can either be dissolved with thinners or bombarded with paint until they join your side. Exploration quests feature prominently, there are plenty of collectibles and each level is followed by a side-scrolling episode in the style of Steamboat Willie.Walt Disney's first cartoon character, Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, lurks behind the scenes as a sort of eminence grise, and Epic Mickey is stuffed full of references to forgotten Disney gems – Spector was let loose in the company's archive and clearly revelled in what he found. Graphically, the game is as good as anything we've seen on the Wii, striking a great balance between cuteness and the odd hint of menace. Epic Mickey is one of those games that will appeal equally to adults and youngsters.Its only drawback is a somewhat unhelpful camera – a typical failing for platform games – although it seems to be at its worst in the earlier stages. Overall, though, Epic Mickey proves satisfyingly original, fun and absorbing – it's a pleasant, and at times interestingly twisted world in which to immerse yourself. At last, Mickey has a suitably credible means of making an impression on the world of video games.• Game reviewed on Nintendo Wii
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Irish bailout protest. Photo byinfomatiqueon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Irish Bailout and our Dublin-based startup &gt;&gt; 2 Paper Dolls"This in no way affects our start up, or the Irish government's resolve — and ability — to maintain its policy of supporting innovative companies. Quite the contrary,  the Irish government, IMF and ECB all view innovation as a key to driving exports within Ireland. The European press has been filled with reports of the major EU countries "opportunistically" calling for bringing the tax levels in Ireland into alignment with the rest of Europe. The prime minister has rightly called this a "line in the sand" and makes a convincing argument that favorable tax structure is directly responsible for 250 million euros in tax revenues collected this year — revenue completely due to the low-tax's ability to attract major industry layers such as Dell, IBM, Facebook, Zynga, Google, Microsoft, etc.. For this revenue alone, the Irish government is committed to maintaining their low tax status."Next 7in media tablet review &gt;&gt; PC Pro"As it happens, the Quick Start Guide is probably the best thing about this tablet. It explains in clear detail how to use the home screen, switch on security settings, set the date and time, and connect to a wireless network. In fact, there's only one statement we'd disagree with: 'Your new tablet is a great new way to experience the web'."Next is getting no love at all for its tablet. Why is it still bothering to sell it?Why Isn't #demo2010 Trending On Twitter? « Student Activism"At around noon London time today #demo2010 peaked at 0.2% of total Twitter traffic, according to this chart — more than triple the volume of any of the current top four." If you can answer this question (and it's not enough to say "@demo2010 is a username and you can't have a Twitter trend that's a username because @dayx is a username but #dayx trended). (Twittersays it's not blocking it.)What Android Is &gt;&gt; Tim Bray's ongoing"First of all, as Dan Morrill memorably explained in On Android Compatibility, 'Android is not a specification, or a distribution in the traditional Linux sense. It's not a collection of replaceable components. Android is a chunk of software that you port to a device.'"Service Level Agreement for TfL data &gt;&gt; The London AssemblyBoris Johnson is asked to deal with this question: "Following the decision by TfL to cut off access to open journey planning data without warning, will you introduce a Service Level Agreement guaranteeing availability and prior notification of any downtime for live open data feeds that are relied upon by London's communities and businesses?"I was just detained by the TSA &gt;&gt; Errata SecurityBruce Schneier often writes about security theatre, but here's Robert Graham on the whole scanning/airports thing: "The reason I took the pictures was to blog on a typical security issue that, in the industry, is called "security theatre". Screening techniques are chosen to make the public feel safe, not to stop terrorists."The 'advanced imaging' machines that see through clothing are a good example."First of all, terrorists can get around them pretty easy, but either putting C4 in a body cavity or surgically implanted."Secondly, terrorists are not deterred by "random selection". The goal of the terrorist is to blow themselves up. Getting caught means not dying, but still has a (lesser) terror effect because people will get scared from the attempt. It's a win-win for them."Nokia hires a new exec to save its brand &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHow do you solve a problem like Nokia? Hire a new marketing bod – now there's a job and a half. Jerri DeVard, good luck to ya.SAP ordered to pay biggest-ever copyright damages award of $1.3bn &gt;&gt; Pinsent Masons LLP"[SAP] claimed, though, that damages should be $41m".Hurt Locker makers sue lawyer who helped 'BitTorrent' defendants &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakThis could get interesting.You say you want a revolution… &gt;&gt; Puffbox.comThe idea of pulling many government sites into one isn't going so smoothly. "The Directgov CEO is walking out. So is the government CIO, explicitly named as the one to lead the development of the shared platform. Not to mention the retiring Director of Digital Engagement. So, to whoever finds this landing on their desk... I wish you good luck. And I assure you, there remains a lot of goodwill 'out here'."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Although Call of Duty and PES figure heavily this week as usual, little else is 'usual' about today's Best Of instalment, heroically edited into 'shape' by Crispy Crumb. Fans of '60s American prose poetry are going to feel right at home. The rest of us may have to read it a few more times, scratch our heads and think, 'did all this happen on Chatterbox, or was it but a fevered dream?'It was both, I think. It was both.Come in.MondayAll across the land people are rolling up their shirtsleeves, putting pens in their mouths, demanding "heads up".  It's a new week.  The most potent of these go-getters bust open Internet Explorer and log on to the Guardian Gamesblog Chatterbox."Mornin' ..."Conversation bucks and wheels. Some make observations on Pro Evolution Soccer; others quack on about Call of Duty: Black Ops. Mid-morning sees some wise, and compellingly deep advice about Demon's Souls from "hardcore gamer" Lazybones. Crispycrumb, BigWorv and Davefalse all concede that, yes: he is the best.[No, they really don't – CrispyCrumb]Pump up the weekend: The Gamesblog has got physical. SerenVikity meets Bloatboy at a Tooting boozer. Bloatboy "cops a feel".  And headbutts her too. Why not?And finally Gamesblog Chatterbox "Blogger of the year 2009", BeardOfBees, returns, announcing he has had a child. He has kidnapped a child. No wait, he is actually a father...The Chatterbox boomingly slaps him on the back.Quote of the day"Mrs Bee's not taking well to the jokes - I got the sprog to calm down after a crying fit last night and brought her back to the bedroom.  Mrs B complimented me on soothing her and I mentioned it was easy, I'd just given her a good firm shake and she'd settled right down ... this stuff does not apparently go down too well."BeardOfBees – the blog's own Gina FordTuesday"I have some homemade Tom Yum for breakfast today." This soupcon of hot and spicy information from WeeCooper led us into Blops-related chat. Call of Duty: Black Ops as it is officially known. Comparisons were drawn with the previous edition. There was talk of patches, some helpful tips and the usual bragging about who shot who.There seems to be something rotten in the state of Konami. Loyal PES sentry and chatterbox Marcellus BigWorv and a few other previously staunch defenders of the PES crown simply aren't enjoying the new edition. Things have changed and perhaps not for the better. FIFA next year?The inner curmudgeon of most bloggers came to the fore when discussing the merits of the dingy boozer over trendy bars populated by bright young things.  Suffice it to say, it's more of a Real Ale kind of crowd on the 'box.The balance between videogames and relationships was last up. Most wives and girlfriends seem wearily resigned to their fate, widows to the lure of the HD screen. The general technique used to deal with this problem is avoidance. Sending wives, children and girlfriends early to bed; allowing 'boxers to spend some quality time with the console. Some odd balls are even getting out of bed early to game. A step too far I think we can agree.Quote of the Day"How are you feeling today? You're usually ill this time of year (Sep - May)."Mendoza pulls Fantomex's leg...  Not too hard though, he'd get injured.WednesdayWednesday dawns with Amipal beaten in the race to open the commenting ("You chaps must have been sitting, waiting, like silent hunters"), and HereComesTreble giving his employers maximum value: "I got into work after seven this morning, but with no one else here I just had a coffee and a mess about on the computer. They better be paying me for this. They probably aren't… Apologies for the wall of text. It was this or something called a 'spread-sheet', and I've always been more of a big-picture guy myself. Also I have no idea what a 'spread-sheet' is."If you'd like to know what the wall of text was, and read a heartrending tale of government conspiracy, montages and visceral imagery, read Wednesday's Chatterbox.Talk revolved around that evening's Chatterbox night out in London (at The George, but which George?), and the England friendly. UnbelievableJeff was unable to attend the former, and seemed nonplussed about the latter: "I have no interest in watching England any more. Lost my support at the WC, going to take more than a few token debuts to get me back onside. If you're reading Fabio, you can start by never, ever picking Gareth Barry again. More pedestrian than the pedestrianisation of Norwich city centre".Our leader BeardofBees was rash enough to change his avatar. A welter of comments followed.Davefalse:"What have you done to your profile picture? I miss the friendly old one you had. This looks a bit angry."HenryPootle:"You've changed man, you've changed"OneDave:"I liked the old avatar, though I appreciate you mixing things up. The new man though, he doesn't seem at ease with the bees like the old one did. He looks as if he is being overwhelmed."A lot of un-publishable discussion followed about the moral implications of a 30 year old man dating an 18 year old girl, and also a healthy debate about workplace bullying.ThursdayHappiness or pleasure, the same or different? What does our gaming mean? What does it matter when English football tastes this lean? Not in a fit way, before a fight, but when starved and something seen, am talking French like, soaked and sautéed, where royalty meets guillotine.  The Lambs of God!My ''Spidey sense'' jumps!  Spidergirl gets a red underline while Spiderman doesn't?!From the background a hum of evil bees is trebled: a redundant black widow Bittorrent client sets guidelines and rules that protocols struggle to grasp.  The screen displays numbers, birthdays, one of 44.  Many torrent files in the past, leaving a mother's womb.  Never forget our days and hours, their presence will be made soon."Phillippe Auclair, an absolute legend, he's a gooner and most probably a loon.  My season ticket mate is friends with him and I have heard he is as dry as a prune. Had a pint with him after watching the cricket and what he knows of football is astonishing.  But I mostly like him because he has an amazing life and yet still sees Tiote as promising. ""They've got a person locator on their website where you can filter your liver remotely."[Ooookay, whose idea was it to let the ghost of Jim Morrison edit Thursday? – Keef]FridayNovember 19th - Lincoln's Gettysburg address. The end of the Cold War. The first ever National Lottery Draw. The historical significance of this day was not lost on what is a well educated, well-versed Gamesblog readership, with a reflective mood and almost reverent tone carried throughout the day. Gaming took a definite back-seat here. I think Shadowmind summed up this feeling best when he said, quite simply, "Thanks for the games, you bastards."  Sort of puts it all into perspective.With its collective finger on the pulse, the Chatterbox soon reverted to type - moaning about stuff. Today's hot-topic was the banking sector. The majority of readers demonstrated a distinct lack of understanding of real-world economics, but Sheep2's novel plan to attract the top banking talent back to The City, came as a welcome dash of sense and insight: "Personally, I'd hang a few of the worst offenders and put the rest on minimum wage until ALL the money is repaid."The state of the economy is a topic never far from the thoughts of the Chatterbox, and in these difficult times it's comforting to know that a couple of hundred like-minded geeks will be there to offer support and advice, even if generally that advice is grotesquely wrong and irresponsible.  TonIttou was the latest member of the family to feel the cold, hard pinch of the recession. "I'm sitting at work in a suit and tie this morning, my whole office is under notice of redundancy."  My advice?  Well I'm no expert, but posting on a computer games blog when you're supposed to be working doesn't exactly scream 'indispensable'. Not to me. I'd say knuckle down. And do let us know how you get on.Most of the rest of Friday's chat went way over my head. This may have been because the chat was fizzing with wit and energy. This may have been because I had been drinking quite heavily. Either way, it was difficult to keep pace.  A few topics that stood out included chilli sauces, internet dating (bit odd), and alcohol – the old demon drink.  The relative immaturity of the Chatterbox always shines through when talk turns to drinking, and today was no different, bloggers outdoing each other with increasingly unbelievable tales of drunken debauchery. Unbelievable Jeff's "5 litres of homebrew Cabernet Sauvignon" confession soured the jovial mood somewhat, it has to be said.  No one likes to see someone hit rock bottom like that, not so publicly.CunningStunt, as is often the case, made a play for the last word on the matter, putting himself forward as our self-styled in-house beer expert, dropping some of that profound wisdom on us: "Some French beer is good.  Others not so much."  Cunning will be giving another of his renowned beer lectures next Friday, this one entitled 'Beer: It's been around longer than you think'.Gaming talk was mostly centred on that new Call of Duty game, whatever it's called (they're all the same). I won't bore you with the details. Seriously, I wont, this isn't the forum for it.  SirGiggidyMMVIII (one of our more cerebral contributors) was quick to realise as much, and was moved to conclude, "I disgust myself."And then everyone just sort of left.Quotes of the Day"From hairy trumpet you chime the weekend, while father time you do castrate, No wrinkly pendulums swing the hour, no ticking clocks, no sands of fate."StilTed having one of his weekly 'episodes'. You can set your watch by him."You mean no boob gropes for the boys?  For shame!"SerenVikity struggles with the Guardian's new Online Code of Conduct.TVThe TripThe Walking DeadAn Idiot AbroadOzThe Increasingly Poor Decisions of Todd MargaretMoviesDue DateThe Hurt LockerEnd gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – Sideways by Dinosaur Jr[I cheated and added it myself! - Keef]Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by Lazybones, RustyJames, Limni, Mollocate, HereComesTreble. It was edited by Crispycrumb."Humanity has advanced, when it has advanced, not because it has been sober, responsible, and cautious, but because it has been playful, rebellious, and immature."Tom Robbins
The shortlist for this year'sjayisgamesCasual Game Design Competitionwas announced last week. Always worth checking out, its field of small casual games produces interesting artistic uses of the medium. One that's already attracted attention is. . . but that was [yesterday], whose author Michael Molinari describes it as a game about "learning to move forward in life".. . . but that was [yesterday] plays confidently with gaming conventions. An arrow tells the player to run forward – an action familiar from a million platform games – but when you do you hit a wall of confused images and fall down. To overcome what turn out to be painful memories you have to turn in the opposite direction and wait for the wall to recede. What makes this so powerful is the contrast with a gamer's normal expectations – . . . but that was [yesterday] is telling us the idea that we can constantly move forward in life, as we do in games, is an illusion. Sometimes we just have to wait to feel better.. . . but that was [yesterday] also deals with bereavement and loss, and asks what we keep with us of people who are gone. Its award shortlisting came in the same week thatKate Bornstein's great bookHello Cruel World: 101 Alternatives to Suicide for Teens, Freaks and Other Outlawswas released as aniPhone app, building on its gamelike structure of tasks. Games can be unsubtle point-collecting tools, but both these creations are nuanced and thoughtful. With research suggesting that many young people nowvalue games more than TV, games such as this will increasingly  be the best way to  reach them.
PlayStations, Xboxes, high-spec PCs and computer games such as Call of Duty: Black Ops – which made £412m in its first five days on sale this month – will be under many Christmas trees this year.But gaming hardware – and the selling of games in physical format – could be made redundant by "cloud gaming", the latest innovation quietly gaining a foothold in the market as higher speed internet connections become standard.Services that allow games to be downloaded are already popular, but cloud gaming takes things further: it works by streaming games without having to buy expensive top-end computers or consoles. The games are run on huge server farms, rather than being rendered on the users' own PCs and so don't need powerful machines with fast graphics cards and quad-core processors that are needed to play sophisticated games offline.In the vanguard are firms such as OnLive, which launched its service in the US in June, giving owners of even the most basic netbooks and ageing computers the chance to play titles such as Batman: Arkham Asylum and Assassin's Creed II.Next month OnLive is launching a "micro-console" for $99 that plugs into a television and an internet connection, allowing users to stream games to their HD TVs rather than a computer.In the UK cloud gaming will be available next year to BT's internet customers after the company signed an exclusive deal with OnLive.Another US start-up, Gaikai is also offering a streaming games service. Its service allows games publishers to create and distribute playable clips of their latest games, making them available via gaming websites, mobile phones and social networking services. At this year's E3 game expo in Los Angeles, Gaikai demonstrated the hugely popular multiplayer game World of Warcraft running through Facebook.Gaikai founder David Perry said: "With one single click you could play Warcraft, which is a 14GB game. I mean, imagine,  one minute you're playing FarmVille and the next you're playing Call of Duty."Cloud gaming is still in its infancy. The big console makers are not yet alarmed. Matt Martin, the editor of the games industry news site Gamesindustry.biz, said: "If you talk to the big TV manufacturers like Panasonic, they don't make any money on selling televisions. The margins are peanuts."But everyone else takes advantage of their technology being in the home to make money. So the TV manufacturers are now talking to OnLive and Gaikai about running these services straight through the televisions. This might get PlayStation and Microsoft Xbox sweating a little bit."However, cloud gaming does require a reliable high speed broadband connection. OnLive requires a persistent connection of about 5mb to allow gamers to play without significant lag. Most UK internet services have an average speed below that. Lag means a gap between pushing a button and an action taking place in the game – no good for shoot 'em up or racing games requiring fast reactions. BT is investing £2.5bn to deliver high speed fibre-optic broadband to two-thirds of the UK by 2015.This timeframe could suit the games industry well. Big publishers such as EA, Activision and Ubisoft are watching the cloud gaming industry with interest but aren't yet ready to get involved."The industry is in a remarkable state of flux right now," said industry insider Rob Crossley. "We don't just have cloud gaming, we have social gaming, indie gaming, we have motion control. There's so much going on that people just aren't ready to think about another disruptive device."
The wait is over. The embattled Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) todaylevied its first financial penaltiesfor serious breaches of the Data Protection Act (DPA).Hertfordshire county council will have to stump up £100,000 for faxing details about child sex abuse cases to the wrong recipients on two occasions. Employment services company A4e was separately fined £60,000 for losing an unencrypted laptop containing sensitive information about 24,000 people.Today the ICO bore the teeth that it was given in April. The incidents – both of which occurred in June, just weeks after the ICO was given extended powers to fine up to £500,000 – now set a barometer for future breaches of privacy.They sit somewhere betweenGoogle's unlawful collectionof so-called "payload" data – deemed unworthy of a monetary penalty, despite deafening calls of encouragement – and HM Revenue &amp; Customs'loss of 25 million peoples' child benefit datain 2007, which the information commissioner retrospectively said would have warranted the maximum fine.Which leads us nicely on to London-based solicitors' firm ACS:Law, from which incriminating details ofthousands of UK internet users leakedin September. The private information – which included the addresses and telephone numbers of people suspected of sharing adult material – emerged online in the aftermath of a coordinated attack on its website.ACS:Law is being investigated by the ICO for its part in the leaking of thousands of people suspected of illicit filesharingIf the commissioner determines that the data exposure was through ACS:Law's security shortcomings, rather than directly as the result of hacking, then it could heavily fine the company. Chris McIntosh, of security encryption firm Stonewood, said the guilty party "should not be too concerned" about being heavily punished, based on today's ruling."After all, the data loss was a one-off event," he said. "It could be argued that the loss was due to the activity of hackers rather than the firm itself, and 'only' 13,400 individuals' data was lost."Bearing this in mind, I don't have high hopes that the maximum fine will be levied. The ICO may see this as beyond its remit, preferring to leave a larger fine to other powers."Bridget Treacy, the head of UK privacy and information law at London-based solicitors' firm Hunton &amp; Williams, said it was hard to predict the outcome of the ACS:Law investigation since there are "other complexities and other parties involved".Conservative MP Rob Halfon revealed in a parliamentary debate on privacy and the internet last month that the ICO conceded to him that it was constrained by UK data protection legislation when it came to taking action against Google, though he did not elucidate on how it was held back."The ICO is hamstrung because it has very limited enforcement powers," Treacy said today. "They are fairly paltry compared to other regulator organisations, the Financial Services Authority for example."Asked what powers would strengten the ICO, Treacy said: "There have long been calls for imprisonment, they would be able to issue greater fines. The use of the [legal] undertaking is quite interesting. Internationally, we see regulators using powers creatively. But all of this is part of an ongoing debate."There will be surprise that a public sector entity has been fined. In this case, Hertfordshire county council's breaches were serious, but there is no escaping the fact that local council taxes will be funding the fine in a time of public sector cut backs," she said.
After over five years in development, Gran Turismo is back today, offering more of the obsessively accurate driving simulation thrills that fans have come to expect from developer Polyphony Digital. Early reviews have beenslightlymixed, ranging from outright acclaim, to guarded approval tinged with disappointment. It looks gorgeous, it's overwhelmingly intricate, there's tons to discover, but some believe the handling and physics engines do not reflect half a decade's tinkering.But while racing fans will be talking about the minutiae of the simulation, tech heads may well be considering another important feature of the game: its support for 3D visuals. While we've already seen several big titles with stereoscopic augmentation (including Call of Duty: Black Ops and Enslaved), GT5 is the in-house giant; it'll be the game that gets demoed in Sony showrooms across the land to show off those rather expensive new Bravia TVs.Indeed, the promotional charge has already begun. Today, Sony announced that it is fitting 3D displays in HMV stores across the country and will be running a Gran Turismo 5 3D driving tournament. Heats are set to run for ten days from Saturday November 27, with the fastest two players in each region attending a grand final at HMV Oxford Circus on 15 December. Sony is also using GT5 to market its latestBravia TVs: buy one in a Sony centre between now and December 5 and you'll also get a copy GT5, a PS3, two pairs of 3D glasses and a 3D transmitter – all for free.Behind all this – and beyond the whole question of cost – the game is an interesting test case for 3D.Apart from the more arcade-style Motorstorm 3D Rift, it's the first driving title to explore the notion of stereoscopic visuals. Early reports suggest the effect is reasonably impressive – and actually useful. When Justin Towell of Games Radar road tested the game in 3Dhe wrote, "While the in-car view was good-looking, I found the 3D effect worked best in bonnet cam. Suddenly, the game came to life. At chicanes, I could judge how much distance there was between the protruding lengths of Armco on both sides, and finally I felt like I could 'see' the racing action [...] despite my reservations, there was a real 'wow' moment as sparks kicked up from the car in front as it grazed the wall and bounced right out at me."The game is also interesting in its formative use of head-tracking. Users with a PlayStation Eye camera, will be able to opt for the in-car option and then look in different directions to get a slightly different view on the action. It's meant to simulate real-life parallax effects, and while the effect is apparently very subtle in the game, it points at where Sony reckons 3D and motion controls are going. Dr Richard Marks at Sony's R&amp;D lab has been experimenting with using head-tracking in first-person shooter games andtold merecently, "Your reactions will be directly perceived by the system, expanding your input capabilities. What you're doing with your body and your face will actually matter. You'll be able to have a very rich communication with the game and with other players."Elsewhere, SCEE Liverpool's studio director Mick Hocking wasrecently interviewed in Develop magazine, and mentioned that the PS3 has 50 3D titles on the way, 20 of those from in-house development teams. He told the publication about how central 3D is to Sony's entertainment vision (hardly surprising as Sony has equipment at almost every stage of the 3D pipeline, from manufacturing 3D cameras for movies, to providing 3D consoles, Blu-ray players and TVs to consumers), but added that advising on the correct use of the technology is vital:3D isn't just about adding depth to a picture – developers need to know how to get the very best out of the technology on PS3 and we'll ensure that they do. The problem is that if 3D is applied to a game without proper understanding of the medium then that can produce low quality results and that can bring the whole tech back a step, its very important that players' first experience of 3D is a good one, so we've got to help to ensure that developers get it right.One of our missions is to help other developers with things like how to optimise their game with 3D, to not only make it technically correct but also to be more inventive with it, how to get the most creatively from it for their particular type of game.Gran Turismo 5 will no dobt become a key element of that instructional process – so even ifwedon't play it on a 3D TV, other developers will.It's the cost that remains a huge issue for most of us, regardless of how well the tech is implemented: the baseline Bravia 3D model – the 40" KDL-40NX713 retails at £1500. But then, GT5 is the perfect showcase in this respect; the title has always appealed to more mature consumers – I know several people who bought a PS2justto play Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec. It's seen by some as a genuine simulation, in the same way, as say, Microsoft Flight Simulator provides a serious tool for wannabe pilots. GT fans don't tend to be teenagers looking for some drifting thrills; they're 30-somethings who may well actually purchase the cars they're sampling in the game (it's no coincidence that Nissan employed Polyphony Digital to create the in-car computer menus for itsGT-Rmodel – the company knows plenty of the car's buyers will have first encountered it on Gran Turismo's virtual test tracks).Gran Turismo has always been as much about technology and obsessive detail as it has about actually jamming your finger on the accelerate button. The games run at 60 frames-per-second, twice the framerate of many titles, providing a super smooth animation quality – they are technical reference points for the state of console development. By aligning its 3D proposition with this series, Sony wants to grab those chin-stroking early adopters, those simulation purists. It is, as they say in the world of marketing, a good fit.After it, will come Killzone 3, Metal Gear Solid: Rising and most intriguingly, Team Ico's long awaited The Last Guardian. I think when these titles are all out next year, we'll know where we are with 3D gaming, we'll understand what it actually offers. As with movies, we should be seeing a shift away from just lobbing stuff at the screen and toward the use of the technology to enhance emotional impact. Weshould, but that doesn't necessarily mean we will.For now though, we have GT5 and 3D: the perfect elitist duo.
With more than 36m downloads under its wing, Angry Birds has quickly become a mobile gaming phenomenon.And now the popular puzzler is set to move into the living room, with versions for the Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii scheduled for a 2011 release.In less than a year, Angry Birds has captured the imagination of millions of smartphone owners. Its simple premise, where birds are catapulted into different structures hiding egg-stealing pigs, brought more than 2m downloads in the first weekend alone.Peter Vesterbacka, the chief executive of Angry Birds maker Rovio, today confirmed that his lo-fi creation is now being developed for the major gaming platforms."The smartphone gaming platform is actually turning out to be the biggest and most played out there. So it's starting to beat the traditional games on consoles and PCs." hetold BBC Newsbeat.A second version for smartphones was also on its way, Vesterbacka said, adding that it would feature the same characters but would not be a sequel. He said: "Let's say that you will see a lot more of the pigs. "The pigs will be a lot more active than just being slingshotted at by birds."The Angry Birds Android app was downloaded more than 1m times in 24 hours after launching on the Google-based system last month. At one point demand for the app was so great that eager gamerscrashed the serversof app store GetJar.An Angry Birds Christmas-themed special is also on the cards for a release next month, following October's spooky Halloween edition. A selection of bird-themed ringtones are also available to download for iPhone and Android devices.Apps for Android-based smartphones were released only last month, with versions for the iPhone, Palm and Nokia devices launched earlier in the year. An app for the iPad was released on the day Apple's tablet computer was available in shops.Microsoft felt the wrath of Angry Birds recently when it used the popular game's unmistakable icon to promote its new mobile operating system, Windows Phone 7. The game's manufacturers took umbrage at the use – for which the technology giant had not asked permission – and said that it hadnot committed to developing for Windows Phone 7 yet.
The chief executive ofInfacta, Rob Martin, seems quite proud of the fact that unlike pretty much every other startup we spoke to, based in Dublin. Instead it's in Sligo, and began in 2001 with an email marketing product called Groupmail – desktop software that can integrate with Outlook and address books and which he says was profitable "pretty much from day one" because it adopted a freemium model. It also producedPollDaddy, one of the most successful online poll systems.Now the business is working on a new product, called Miximo.• What's your pitch?"The focus is on micro-messaging, such as SMS. We think software is too complicated for small businesses, so our focus is on simplicity. This will be a system that can be accessed from mobile devices. So for example last Friday we got our first paying customer for it, based in Sligo, just through word of mouth. People want to be able to connect with members of clubs and their businesses and so on. We're providing the platform for that to be done easily. We got the timing right, with Facebook saying they'd be integrating SMS with Facebook Messages the other week. You can update things by email, Twitter, Facebook, other social media."• What makes you unique?"Nobody's really doing this. There are similar products on the email side such as MailChimp, but nobody's doing SMS really well in our opinion. There's people who are close but not exactly what we're doing. SMS is instant and easy to use and simple. And everybody has a mobile phone. Kids are using mobiles, not email. Our product [developer] groups were focussed on email, but our customers told us they were moving to SMS. So we moved too."• How do you make your money?"We're working on the business model at the moment. There are two ideas – people pay for use when they want to send messages to customers; alternatively we see a massive opportunity for sports clubs and communities with ads – you could have free ad-supported SMS pushed through e-commerce. We're doing the admin for a local rugby club – we just are, it's one of those things - and they all have huge problems with members not paying members' fees on time. This prototypes a method for collecting revenue."• How are you surviving the downturn?"We used to be 80% of revenue from the US, 20% from the rest of the world; now it's 40% from the US, 40% from Europe, 20% from the rest of the world. Ireland is probably only 1%, simply because of the size of the market. Ireland is only just catching up with the net. It's been getting there in the past couple of years, but before that it was a very traditional sales model – you'd be cold-calling people, going round to offices, that sort of thing. Sligo only got broadband about five years ago."The past few years haven't been as good as the previous ones. We took a hard look two years ago at our costs and started cutting out costs that had built up, such as e-commerce fees, hardware and software costs. Most of our experience was on [Microsoft's] .Net but we moved to PHP, which reduced our licensing costs. Miximo can run on MySQL or Windows Server."• Has cloud computing helped cut costs?"We used Amazon S3 at the start of PollDaddy, but we had so many page views that we had to take it off and host it on our own servers instead. It would be nice to be able to calculate your costsbeforeyou go into the cloud." [Startups, there's an opportunity for you...]• What's your background?"I graduated in 1997, and then got involved in localisation [tailoring software for specific locations] – I was chief executive of a localisation company in 2002. Which was a complete disaster. I joined Infacta in 2005; I also did a night degree in business studies."• Who in the tech business inspires you?Matt Mullenweg of Wordpress. And the folks at37Signals. Mullenweg, because he's only 25 or whatever and built this enormous company and customer business and employees who are all around the world, and he keeps them happy.• What's your biggest achievement?"PollDaddy. The company's self-funding. It's the biggest poll application on the internet. It was interesting getting it there."• What's your biggest challenge?"When you're self-funding [not relying on venture or angel capital] then you can have other companies coming in aiming to grab huge market share quickly. It's a challenge being based in Ireland too: there's a lack of kick-ass developers and designers. I think it's a mindset – I'm not sure that people have the right skills coming out of college. We need a mixture of somebody who can take an application and scale it for millions of customers; and top-class designers; and someone who can hack something together quickly. These guys probably exist, but they're going off to create their own startups."Now is a great time to start a startup in Ireland: there are really good people out there, and we have a really loyal employee base. Nobody has ever left."• What's the most important web tool that you use each day?"Skype Chat, andDropbox. Dropbox, so I can sync files between work and home. Skype Chat for internal calls – we've got 11 employees, of whom nine work in Sligo, one in Poland and one in the US."• Name your closest competitors?"In email, MailChimp and Email Monitor. In SMS, perhapsClickatell[a bulk SMS gateway], which is all based on APIs."• Where do you want the company to be in five years?We would have to be the No 1 group communications platform on the web. Well, being No 1 was our goal with PollDaddy.• Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?It's hard to get bigger. Though I guess Facebook are going about it in the right way. I really want to build that company in the environment of Ireland."
Hertfordshire county council was today fined £100,000 for faxing details about child sex abuse cases to the wrong recipients on two occasions.The council committed a "serious breach" of the Data Protection Act in June when it accidentally faxed "highly sensitive" information about child sex abuse cases to a member of the public, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) ruled today.Employment services company A4e was also today fined £60,000 by the ICO for losing an unencrypted laptop in June. The fines are the first issued by the ICO since it was given the power to issue financial penalties of up to £500,000 in April.Thirteen days after the initial data breach, Hertfordshire council sent details of three children in its care, along with the previous convictions of two individuals and domestic violence records to a barristers' firm unconnected with any of the cases. Both breaches were reported to the ICO at the time."It is difficult to imagine information more sensitive than that relating to a child sex abuse case," Christopher Graham, the information commissioner, said. "I am concerned at this breach – not least because the local authority allowed it to happen twice within two weeks."Hertfordshire council today apologised and said that it would ensure the mistakes made did not happen again.The stolen A4e laptop contained sensitive details about income levels, criminal activity and employment status of around 24,000 people in Hull and Leicester. Sheffield-based A4e reported the breach to the ICO at the time.Graham said A4e's breach was less shocking, but added: "[It] warranted nothing less than a monetary penalty as thousands of people's privacy was potentially compromised by the company's failure to take the simple step of encrypting the data."Andrew Dutton, the A4e chief executive, said the breach "occurred as a result of a breach of our security procedures" and that it came at a time when the company was introducing new security measures. "We have apologised for any distress caused to those involved in this one-off incident in Hull and Leicester and we do so again," he added.Commenting on the ICO's first use of its powers to fine offenders for Data Protection Act breaches, Graham said: "These first monetary penalties send a strong message to all organisations handling personal information. Get it wrong and you do substantial harm to individuals and the reputation of your business. You could also be fined up to half a million pounds."Stoke-on-Trent city council escaped a fine earlier this week following the loss of a USB memory stick containing unencrypted sensitive personal information about 40 children in its care.The council escaped a financial penalty due to the incident occurring before the ICO was given the power to levy fines.
Iain MacDonald is chief executive, and Emmet O'Reilly is finance director ofWeedle, which wants to do for finding a plumber what LinkedIn has done for getting in touch with chief executives and Wikipedia has for discovering entirely unexpected facts. MacDonald is pretty rich in his own right: he owned more than 20% of Perlico, an Irish broadband company which was sold for about $100m (€70m) in November 2007 to Vodafone, which would have netted him around €14m.• What's the pitch?"To become a Wikipedia – or perhaps a LinkedIn – of skills all over the world, which will use social networks and recommendations to find people you'll trust to do particular jobs."• Tell us about the company and the proposition."We launched in 2009, and we expanded pretty much straight away to 16 people. We've been in beta test for about nine months but from the start of 2011 we'll be going public with it. We've already got users in 160 countries, with every sort of skill, from lawyers to facepainters."We help find skilled people recommended by friends – whether what you need is an accountant, nanny or childminder. You can go and look on Google for those sorts of things, but how do you know whether those are going to be any good? What Weedle does is let anyone set up a page with their skills. You can then come and search for any skill and find examples of what they've done and then see real life trusted examples of what they've done, and see who in your trusted networks might have recommended them.""Our ambition is to catalogue all the world's human skills. It's similar to LinkedIn, but that's just for white-collar contacts."• How important is Ireland as a market to you?"Ireland's a very small market. The majority of users are in the UK, then in the east coast of the US, and then in Singapore. There's no particular reason why, but when people join and create a skills page then they share it on their networks, which tends to encourage other people to do the same, and we think it has the potential to go viral. We're just trying to improve the user experience now. We started the business with the global market in mind. Our intention is to grow the business out of Ireland and be on a par with FourSquare or Groupon. It's a good place to be."• How is the financial turmoil affecting you?"Zero effect. We operate in an office four miles outside Dublin, our development staff are mathematicians drawn from around Europe who came here to access the latest technology. We've got direct support from Enterprise Ireland but also from the government – we get 25% of every euro we invest in R+D back in tax rebates. And being in the EU means there's no issue with visas and bringing people from eastern Europe."Our funding is all angel funding – there are people in Ireland who have a lot of wealth and are looking to invest it."• Is the property price crash and its effect on the banks affecting you?(laughs) "It means we get a great deal on office space – it's effectively free. And wage demands have come down from a couple of years ago."• Do you think large companies' threats to move out of Ireland if the 12.5% corporation tax is raised are serious?"If it went above 25% [the EU norm] then you would see people move. Sure, 12.5% is low, but it's what the economy needs. Full [corporation tax rate] harmonisation would have an adverse effect, but if it rose to 15.5% for a few years then I don't think there would be any negative effect."We were talking to one of the people from Facebook over here the other day and they said the best thing about Ireland is that the people speak English. So that's why they want to be here."• Do you think economic contraction will see graduates move abroad?"Look, California as a state has been up the swanee for the past decade – its economy is in a real mess. But that hasn't had any effect on the startups there. I don't think the narrow economy here will have an effect on individuals who want to do things in software and technology."One thing that might have an effect would be if personal tax rates went up to punitive levels, such as 60% to 70%, which they were until a few years ago. Now it's 41% at the top rate, though it's more like 50% when you take into account other payments."• Where do you see yourself in five years?"With a user base in every country in the western world, and offices all over the world, but still based in Dublin, I think."
Ideal Binary'sAidan and Kevin Doolan are twins who could have dropped in from a Harry Potter book: non-identical red-haired twins in their 20s who could stand in for theWeasley brothersat a pinch. But they're trying to work magic of a different kind, by writing iPad apps which have animation and behave like interactive popup books. Set up in 2008, the company consists solely of them working from home, though they're considering getting an office now. They've received no funding – they're entirely self-financing. They came along with Barry O'Neill, a former games entrepreneur who has his own venture capital firm, Other Ventures.• What's your pitch?Aidan:"We're developing for the iPad and iPhone/iPod Touch, doing focusing on 3D ebooks, drawing on our background in the games industry. We realised in 2008 that the iPhone has a lot of horsepower, and that we could use it to do sophisticated 3D simulations. In a sentence, trying to revolutionise the digital ebook market by increasing interactivity."• How do you make your money?Aidan:"They're apps – we sell them on the Apple App Store. The first one, Rumpelstiltskin, had 30 pages of text and four interactive "popup" spreads, and was aimed at four- to six-year-olds, and was priced at $1.99 – that made back its development costs in two months. The next one is Rapunzel, which will start at $1.99 and go up to $2.99 and then $3.99."We looked at developing for Android about six or seven months ago. We're monitoring it, but there are still rough edges."Barry O'Neill:"The biggest issue is Google's mismanagement of the Android market. Google has smart people working for it, but they don't understand that Apple had 110m credit card details [from iTunes sale] before it even started the App Store. People aren't going to create a Google Checkout account just to buy something from the Android Marketplace. And that's going to remain an obstacle, except in places like Japan where KDDI has integrated payment into telephone billing."But from any editorial view the Android Marketplace is a blatant copyright abuse. There's just loads of ripoff apps there. Billing is still an issue, and the fragmentation of the OS, the lack of focus, means it's very very hard to make money on the Android platform."Kevin:"Windows Phone is interesting but we would have to use C#, which means a complete rewrite of our software. We might look at it in 2011."• How are you surviving the downturn?Kevin:"Fine – our application has entered the global market – we were the recommended app by Apple in 24 countries. So we don't rely on Ireland for revenue. Because we're small we don't have many outgoings – and office space is certainly cheap now. We're working from home but we're hoping to move into our own office soon."• What's your background?Aidan:I was at Dublin City University.Kevin:I was at Trinity College Dublin. We graduated in 1998 and stated in graphics and animation, and then moved into games development. Then we did some work in mobile, and games, and we developed a platform called USCL that you could target a platform at.• What makes your business or product unique?Kevin:"We're the only ones trying to simulate fun things by extending books – it's a bridge between how they used to be and how they can be. The platform we've built for the simulation could be used for grownup books – we're looking at what could be done with graphic novels now."• Who in the tech business inspires you?Kevin:"It would have to be people in the game industry – probably, and this will sound weird, iD Software, who made Doom and Quake. We learned to create from them. There's a piece byMichael Abrashwho had a column inDr Dobb's Journalthat we learnt from word for word."• What's your biggest challenge?Kevin:"Technically, it's scaling our business. But we're very focused on it."• What's the most important web tool that you use each day?Kevin:"Google! If we have issues that need to be sorted out. And Twitter, and a million tech blogs. We also use SVN for versioning. TheiOS SDKis just amazing."• Name your closest competitorsAidan:"There's lots of ebook companies but none that does anything like this. Actually, we have seen one from a company called Loudcrow, from Canada. We don't know if we all thought of the same idea at once, or if we somehow subtly influenced them. It would be nice if we influenced them."• Where do you want the company to be in five years?Kevin:"If we can make a good success of this and the platform is used as a brand – that's what we'd like, become a global public brand.• Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?Aidan:"Oooh ... being bigger is tough. That would be a lot of ebooks. But if you don't aim at the bullseye then you can't ever hit it. It just means we have to focus on what we want to do."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
IGN haveunveiled the first shotsand details of the upcoming Back to the Future game. Developed by Telltale - who did an excellent reboot of the Monkey Island series last year - the game will be an episodic adventure game that continues on from the classic films. With Christopher Lloyd voicing Doc Brown and co-creator of the movies Bob Gale involved this certainly feels like real BTTF.Co-designer of the game Mike Stemmle gave more details:The story in the game is completely new, set several months after the events of the third movie from Marty's perspective. Of course, this is a story that involves time travel, so who knows where it'll end up? We're working with Bob Gale to make sure we're delivering an authentic experience. There'll be numerous recognizable elements of course – the Hill Valley town center, the clocktower, the DeLorean, Doc's lab, and quite a bit more. And you'll see them in ways you haven't experienced before.The game will be out "soon" on PC and Mac with a PS3 and - yes - iPad version out next year.With the original film of the trilogy a genuine classic - the third had its moments too - I've got high hopes for this one. But what about you? Tempted by Back to the Future?
Photo bySimon Harriyotton Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSkype comes to Verizon prepaid phones &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebThe first time Skype has been available on non-smart Verizon phones. Remember the date.Despite backing from Google, Alan Turing's papers fail to sell at Christie's auction &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebAn 11th-hour $100k gift from Google couldn't secure the famous codebreaker's papers for Bletchley Park. The museum (and nation) was, however, granted something of a reprieve as a £240,000 bid from [unknown] failed to hit the reserve. Private negotiations between the bidder and Bletchley could get underway – we'll keep you informed.iOS 4.3 to launch mid-December with app subscriptions &gt;&gt; Mac StoriesThis one a fruit of the rumour mill, but it flies with the prevailing wind: that Apple and News Corp are to release some sort of iPad-centric offering before year out.On iOS 4.2: Accelerometer, websockets and better HTML5 support &gt;&gt; Mobile Web ProgrammingMPW looks under the hood of Apple's latest software update. It finds "major changes" on HTML5 and open standards support, including: accelerometer and gyroscope support through the DeviceOrientation API; WebSockets API from HTML5; updated HTML5 form support; partial XHR-2 support; print support; new javascript data types; new DOM events; enhanced SVG and canvas support.Tom Watson MP criticises coalition tax u-turn on videogames &gt;&gt; The Independent"When you see a nine per cent downturn in jobs in the UK videogame sector and in the same period of time a 33 per cent growth in jobs in the Canadian sector, something is institutionally wrong with the relationship between government and the industry in allowing that to happen."Indian police arrest 4 members of BitTorrent gang &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakAccording to TorrentFreak, at least one ISP in India actively uses BitTorrent to acquire customers by marketing the site's logo. Remarkable, if true.Q&amp;A is Hard, Let's Go Shopping! &gt;&gt; Stack Overflow BLog"technology moves so rapidly that the best shopping recommendations will be utterly obsolete within a year! What's the point of a bunch of labor intensive questions that provide only temporary benefit to a limited (some might say Too Localized) audience? There isn't any. That's what we concluded, and we explicitly disallowed shopping questions in the Super User FAQ".But there are ways to ask shopping questions on Stack Overflow.. as they explain.Phil Schiller has a Twitter &gt;&gt; 9 to 5 MacApple's senior veep of marketing has a Twitter &lt;em&gt;account&lt;/em&gt;, I think you'll find. No sign of @stevejobs, though surely he can't be far behind.. can he?If after you update to 4.2 your iPod ... &gt;&gt; Apple Support Discussions... and find there aren't any songs showing on it, here's what you do. Always enjoy the commenters saying "None of this happened."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Liffey Walk - aka 'The barrel in a cube' [on R] and the harp [bridge on left]'. Photo by@ANDYwithCAMERAon Flickr.Some rights reservedYou'd struggle to find a more optimistic symbol of Dublin's startup community than Dylan Collins, the charismatic entrepreneur who's graduated through three exits in eight years.Fidgeting around in his seat at the Science Gallery cafe in Trinity College, Collins wants us to know that Dublin has a bigger cluster of online gaming firms than the UK."One of the secrets we seem intent on keeping is that Ireland is now one of the biggest online gaming hubs in the world," he says. "Without any spin whatever we have some of the biggest guys in the world supporting their European activities, legitimising the location. In terms of the companies located here, volume of people and profile of those companies, there's a bigger cluster here than in the UK."The list is certainly impressive. For starters: Blizzard, CrowdStar, Gala, Riot Games, Zynga and Playfish, plus EA has set up a centre in Galway to develop for its Star Wars game and Facebook – the world's biggest gaming platform – which now has its only developer support centre outside Silicon Valley. And then there's the online poker guys, like PocketKings.Collins, like nearly all the entrepreneurs we have met in Dublin this week, brushes aside any idea that the economic crisis might be bad news for the internet startup community. "Zero. It won't have any impact at all, in fact will probably make things a bit better. The internet startup space here was never funded heavily by the state, and because the cost of starting internet companies continues to get lower, it means the impact of any state cuts won't be felt."People losing their jobs might be even more inspired to work for startups, he suggested, where they at least work for themselves or for a small motivated team.Collins himself only graduated from Trinity College in 2002, promptly selling the SMS software startup Phorest – that became exit number one. He ploughed that money into creatingDemonwarein 2003, and sold the 'deepware technology firm' – which enables multiplayer gaming between different consoles – to Activision Blizzard in 2007. Then he founded consumer-focused online games firm Jolt, which sold late last year to games retail chain GameStop. Now he has he time and money to play, he's mentoring a handle of smaller startups and putting time intoGruupy, a group discount sites for gadget fans.One of an impressive flourish of startups that turned out for the Guardian Tech last night, Gruupy has a similar buzz about it asMoodoes in London – a quirky and oddly physical business for something that's a favourite among the community of tech heads.Pouring into a basement bar in one of the forest of sleek new buildings on Dublin's quayside, we have sifted through dozens of pitches and ideas tonight with some clear standout businesses. Here's a taster:Tuneprestois a brilliant and simple automated soundtrack composition tool for online video;britebillbuilds visualisation and integration for online billing (think Mint.com for utilities);Plendioffers image processing for receipts and expenses; andOnePage CRMis a thorough and well organised CRM manager with a superb user interface.There's plenty more to be said, though. Stay tuned...
It might be a little less high-spec'd than an iPad or iPhone but that did not stop Apple's first computer selling for £133,250 at auction in London today.The sale price of the Apple I, with a processor thousands of times slower than an iPad, proved the power of the company's brand even in relation to products more than 30 years old.The computer, one of only 200 such models ever made, was sold at Christie's together with its original packaging and a signed letter from Steve Jobs, current CEO of Apple Inc and one of Apple Computer's co-founders.When the Apple I was launched in 1976, it was the only personal computer to come with a fully assembled motherboard, making it ready to use straight from the box provided the user supplied a case, keyboard, power supply and display. The computer, which was discontinued the following year, sold for $666.66 at the time ($2594 at today's price), allegedly because co-founder Steve Wozniak liked repeating digits.The auctioned Apple I eventually went to Italian businessman and private collector Marco Boglione, who made his offer over the phone. His brother Francesco Boglione, who attended the auction in person, told Associated Press that Marco's purchase was a testament to his love of computers.Steve Wozniak, who agreed to add an autographed letter to the lot, was present at the auction. He described the event as a historic moment for his work, given that it was up for sale alongside technological greats such as an Enigma, the German code-making machine, and also writings of British mathematician Alan Turing, considered one of the founders of modern computing. However, the Turing papers failed to find a buyer.Boglione said his brother's newly purchased Apple I would likely be returned to working condition and eventually join a collection of Apple computers. Many of the patrons had studied the sale catalogue using mobile technology such as Apple's iPads and iPhones. "It is a fitting illustration of how computers have revolutionised the world," said Christie's Julian Wilson.
EMI has sold more than 450,000 Beatles albums via Apple's iTunes store in the seven days since the band's entire back catalogue was made available to download digitally.The music company said 2 million Beatles singles have also been downloaded. An EMI insider hailed it as "a pretty amazing achievement".Despite that success, however, only one song – Hey Jude – had reached the British top 40 on Sunday.Take That's first album since Robbie Williams rejoined the group, Progress, sold just under 520,000 in all formats – digital and CD – to make No 1 this week. It was the quickest-selling album for 13 years, however.The two best-known Beatles greatest hits compilations – the "blue" album and the "red" album – were the only LPs to chart in the UK.There was an expectation that the group would dominate the charts, particularly after The X Factor dedicated its show on Saturday to Beatles numbers.Industry observers have said the back catalogue may have fared better in the charts if they had staggered the digital releases rather than putting the entire Beatles output on iTunes simultaneously.EMI and Apple Corps struck a deal with Apple to finally make Beatles tunes available on iTunes last week.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Photographers in Kuwait are facing a ban on the use of larger digital cameras in public places, according to a local media report.Three government ministries in the Gulf state have outlawed the use of"digital SLR"(single lens reflex) cameras in public for all citizens except accredited journalists, according to theKuwait Times.The Ministry of Information, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance implemented the ban late last week, according to the English-language newspaper. Smaller digital cameras and mobile phones are understood to be exempt from the ban.The government has yet to issue a statement on the reported ban, and the Kuwaiti embassy in London did not respond to a request for comment when contacted today.TheKuwait Times reports: "What most Kuwaiti photographers have come to wonder is how such a decision could be reached by authorities, especially considering digital cameras and cell phone cameras have the same abilities."What most people think of photography as a hobby has become a bit misguided due to the fact that the country has so little exposure to art."Digital SLR cameras may have been targeted as "big black camera[s] tend to worry people", the newspaper said. "Taking a picture of a stranger would seem like much less of an issue if you were using a more discreet camera or even a cell phone."All Kuwait news media must obtain licences from the Ministry of Information, which regulates the publishing industry. A2010 report on press freedomby campaign group Reporters without Borders gave Kuwait the top ranking among all Gulf states in terms of the freedom of its newspapers, despite the convictions of a number of high-profile bloggers in recent years.Mohamed Abdel Qader Al-Jassem, a lawyer and prominent blogger, was jailed in Kuwait City on Monday evening after beingfound guilty of "attacking national unity"and defaming the prime minister.
Spotify is moving closer to a US launch for its music-streaming service, though it could reportedly be prepared to do so without having the four major record labels on board.People familiar with the company's negotiations with Universal, Sony, Warner and EMI – it has been in discussions with EMI for more than a year –told the Financial Times Spotify is consideringlaunching in the US without having all four on board at launch.The company's accounts for 2009, filed only last week, paint a bleak picture with a net loss of £16m on revenues of £11.3m. The company's auditors, Ernst &amp; Young, warned that "material uncertainty" could cast "significant doubt about the group's ability to continue".Spotify has expanded into seven European countries since its 2008 launch, though protracted negotiations with major US record labels have halted its ambition to expand into north America. In October, the music-streaming service said it had around 10 million users – though only about 500,000 of these are paying for the premium offering.But now the European startup is likely to hasten to a US launch as its board grow impatient at the delay. Daniel Ek, Spotify's co-founder and chief executive, has previously said the service would have a US presence by November.A Spotify spokesman said: "2009 saw us focus on establishing a new and innovative music service and bringing it to millions of people across Europe. The groundwork laid in our launch year has been crucial to the significant achievements made in 2010. Further strengthening and expansion of the service remains our top priority."Spotify has risen to prominence across Europe as a legal alternative to free-at-the-point-of-access music. Users can download the Spotify application for free-to-listen-to music punctuated by occasional advertising, similar to commercial radio. It also offers a premium service where users pay for extra features such as a mobile app and offline streaming.This business model, which the company has said is fundamental to its attraction, lies at the heart of its wrangle with US record labels, which have failed to warm to the idea of free streaming. Spotify converts 5% to 7% of its free customers into subscribers, the Guardian understands.The company's report for 2009 shows it made £6.8m from subscriptions and £4.5m in advertising revenues. But Spotify's cost of goods, which includes licencing fees paid to record labels, reached £18m.Mark Mulligan, a music analyst at Forrester Research, estimated that the best case scenario for Spotify would be to convert 10% of its user base to paying customers. He said the company is "making great progress" but really needed to hit the 10% mark "before they can start patting themselves on the back"."Free music itself is never going to work as a business model while there is such a disparity between ad revenues and license fees. But the freemium model has solid merit," Mulligan added."More promising though is the subsidised model whereby music feels free to the customer but is in fact paid for by someone else, such as an ISP or phone company. That is the mass market way to square the circle of people not wanting to pay for music but record labels needing to be paid."Kieron Donoghue, founder of the Spotify-associatedShareMyPlaylists.com, said that the £4.5m advertising revenue for 2009 was "no mean feat" for a startup. The company's proportion of revenue from subscriptions – 60% – was a "huge testimony to the viability of the business model", Donoghue added."By taking their time and making sure they get the US launch right, they have done exactly the right thing. You only get one chance to launch in the US so they must make sure that they have got the right model in place before they do," he said.
